ARGE CONSULTING COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2019 PERIOD ARGE’s Mission To create value by improving management quality. & Vision To be a role model in creating value for its clients and with its contributions to the community. CONTENT CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ........................................................................................................................... 2 THE REPORTING PRINCIPLES .................................................................................................................. 3 ARGE CONSULTING .................................................................................................................................. 6 VALUE CREATION FOR CUSTOMERS ...................................................................................................... 8 VALUE CREATION FOR SOCIETY ........................................................................................................... 10 HUMAN RESOURCE AND HEALTH AND SAFETY .................................................................................. 38 GRI INDEX TABLE ................................................................................................................................... 40 2018 ARGE COP 1 CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ARGE’s main mission is improving management quality in the business, public sector, and NGOs. ARGE believes that society’s well-being can be increased only if management quality of private sector, government, and civil society is improved. The role of a business is to make sustainable improvements in the quality of life in the community. ARGE Consulting, not only helps its clients create value for their own shareholders, customers, and stakeholders, but ARGE is also a catalyst to promote appropriate behaviour for responsible entrepreneurship, thereby increasing the awareness level in the community and helping improve the quality of life. In 2019, we have made contributions on a global scale: (1) ARGE has been instrumental helping Kadıköy Municipality prepare their Integrated Report which is the first Integrated Report published by a municipality in the world. ARGE Consulting, developed a Municipality Integrated Reporting Model© and helped the Kadıköy Municipality utilize this Model as a pioneer to prepare its integrated reporting. The Model integrates the OECD’s better life index approach with the SDGs and the EFQM’s continuous learning model to develop a Municipality Integrated Reporting Model© for municipalities (2) We have been active at IFC’s Corporate Governance Advisory Group, (3) Represented the business world at the OECD to improve the quality of governance throughout the world, as the vice-chair of BIAC Governance Committee. (4) Argüden Governance Academy has designed programs for 4th grade students to build capacity from grassroots of society to create awareness on good governance practices and designed Governance 101 training program for university students. (5) ARGE has expertise in developing methodologies for awards mechanisms where it developed awards for TAİDER (Turkish Family Business Association) and for PERYÖN (HR Professional Association). ARGE has also continued her voluntary activities locally, such as serving on the boards of numerous NGOs; managing and providing guidance for the evaluators of award processes of OSGD and Citibank –Micro Credit; writing and sharing articles to introduce new management ideas and concepts to our society. Also, in 2019, we continued to contribute the Global Compact activities in the country by having a partner as a board member of Global Compact Türkiye. ARGE partners have assumed leadership roles in different NGOs and they spend at least one day of the week for such activities. Two of our partners served on the Board of OSGD, another one served on the board of UN Global Compact Türkiye Network and Corporate Governance Association of Turkey, and yet another was the Chairman of Middle East Quality Association. 2018 ARGE COP Dr.Yılmaz Argüden Chairman 2 THE REPORTING PRINCIPLES We try to improve and share knowledge about good governance with the society including business, civil society and public institutions through our projects and volunteer activities. With this report, we share our corporate social responsibility activities for the period of the year 2019. This year ARGE’s COP has been prepared in accordance with GRI G4 Guidelines. The report has been prepared according to core option principals. The core option provides the background against which an organization communicates the impacts of its economic, environmental, social, and governance performance The main purpose of the report is to show activities realized by ARGE Consulting for developing sustainable practices in public and private institutions and in the society. “Sustainability Topics for the Sectors “report has been used as a guide in determining relevant subjects for reporting. ARGE produces annual reports. The report has not been assured by a third party. UN Global Compact and ARGE Consulting ARGE, has signed the UN Global Compact in 2002 as the first Turkish signatory, becoming a role model for the Turkish business world and has declared to apply the 10 principles concerning human rights, labor, environmental, and anti-corruption. This report also has the feature of Communication on Progress. 2018 ARGE COP 3 DETERMINATION OF MATERIAL ISSUES Identification of material topics for the company is key to prepare a good quality sustainability report. The material topics need to cover the important issues for; the sustainability of the company and economic, social, and environmental impacts on the stakeholders created due to the activities of the institution. Therefore, the first step while preparing of this report is determining the stakeholders for ARGE Consulting. STAKEHOLDERS The stakeholders of ARGE Consulting have been reviewed and analyzed. Based on the review, stakeholder map of ARGE is; ARGE is a management consulting company. ARGE creates its impact through projects with clients, its voluntary activities in national and international NGOs, and through its policy recommendations for the government. 2018 ARGE COP Partners play an important role in shaping and creating this impact through their efforts and know-how transfer in the projects. ARGE supports the awareness raising activities in the business and also in the society. The company takes active role in establishing, leading and 4 improving governance structures of NGOs, and collaborates with the universities to share its know-how. ARGE’s Chairman served as the chair of Global Compact Local Network in Türkiye, as well as the chair of LNAG and board member of UNGC. ARGE has worked with numerous UN agencies such as UNIDO, UNDP, UN Women in awareness raising activities. ARGE has expertise on corporate governance issues and share this expertise with IFC & OECD. MATERIAL ISSUES FOR ARGE CONSULTING Material issues have been determined according to the feedbacks obtained from stakeholders and ARGE’s own view and vision. ARGE has an open and transparent relation based on trust with its stakeholders, as evidenced by the resources and networks she could mobilize. Although a specific stakeholder meeting has not been organized, the stakeholders share their views at during and end of each projects. ARGE reaches a large number of stakeholders’ views through projects with NGOs. Based on these experiences, material issues for ARGE are; HIGH VALUE CREATION FOR CUSTOMERS VALUE CREATION FOR THE SOCIETY SELF DEVELOPMENT AND FOLLOWING THE AGENDA MATERIAL FOR STAKEHOLDERS HUMAN RIGHTS AND SAFETY REPUTATION MEDIUM LOW NATURAL RESOURCE USAGE LOW MEDIUM HIGH 2018 ARGE COP MATERIAL FOR ARGE The report has been prepared in accordance with above materiality table. 5 ARGE CONSULTING • Realizing the growth potential for international business in the Turkish and related markets, ARGE was founded in 1991 to provide advisory services in the areas of business strategy development and implementation, business excellence methodologies, evaluation and development of investment projects, development of organizational infrastructure, change management, and good governance. • ARGE‘s consultants are recruited based on several factors some of which are unconventional for such firms. For example, ARGE prefers employees who are either current members of NGOs or who wish to undertake such social commitments outside of work to ensure that its employees are in tune with the social environment, as well as the business environment. • ARGE has been a pioneer in setting a benchmark for corporate volunteerism by asking consultants to devote a full day of each working week for voluntary work in NGOs. This practice then has become a part of the performance evaluation of ARGE consultants, who are asked to report once every two weeks on how they allocated their time. This practice is in line with ARGE’s use of the Balanced Scorecard methodology to ensure that its strategies are applied throughout the organization. With this methodology, all of the employees’ actions are observed with scorecards and timetables. Also, each ARGE consultant receives up to one month of training per year to keep abreast of the latest developments in his/her field of specialization. ARGE is committed  To add value to the business of its clients,  To provide the right team of experts for each project,  To provide solutions that differentiate its clients in the marketplace, with special emphasis on implementation under local conditions,  To retain its objectivity and independence of its views, and to protect client confidentiality.  ARGE’s strives to achieve a major improvement in its clients’ business outcomes. We believe that there are four main factors that affect business results. These are the business strategy and business excellence methodologies that are necessary for effective implementation of the strategy, human resources, and technology management. Sustainable business results are achieved only when these four 2018 ARGE COP factors are considered as a whole and in a well-balanced way. Our approach is to try and balance all the four factors to suit the requirements of our clients in order to achieve the best, world-class results. 6 ARGE’s Mission To create value by improving management quality. & Vision To be a role model in creating value for its clients and with its contributions to the community. ARGE Values & Principles Our mission is to create value. ARGE continuously strives to add value to the business of its clients. We do our utmost to provide 'the best' solutions in every project we undertake Our most important asset is the trust of our clients. ARGE is committed to keeping the interests of the client above all. Protecting client confidentiality, maintaining the objectivity and independence of our views, and avoiding any conflict of interest are our key principles. We demonstrate the same integrity, business ethics, and diligence in our work, in community services, and in our personal lives. The assurance of our work is the quality of our people. ARGE strives to attract the best people and to create an environment of mutual trust and team spirit to foster continuous development of its people. We expect each member of our team to demonstrate self-respect, respect for others and the environment The assurance of our future is our passion for learning. ARGE supports the development of knowledge, competence, and creative abilities of each team member; and expects them to do so, both on an individual and organizational level. We strive for effective utilization of the ultimate non-renewable resource, time Science and technology are essential in improving the quality of life. ARGE continuously strives to anticipate the ever-changing needs of its clients, and to keep abreast of scientific and technological developments as well as best benchmarks, to meet those needs. Imagination is the key to creativity and leadership. ARGE recognizes that its clients need creative solutions and thus strives to develop implementable solutions that differentiate its clients in the marketplace The key to success is achieving sustainable improvements in competitiveness. ARGE realizes that sustainable improvements can only be achieved through teamwork with clients. We believe that our clients’ success will lead to a better quality of life for the community and humanity. 2018 ARGE COP 7 VALUE CREATION FOR CUSTOMERS Business Impact ARGE Consulting has performed more than 20 projects in 2019 with clients who are role models in their industries. ARGE’s focus is to leverage our management expertise to help our clients and NGOs maximize their impact on the community. We also should add that ARGE sees each project as a new opportunity not only to make business better but also to open new windows, widen directors and managers’ perspectives about environmental and social issues. We draw attention to these issues especially in our interviews and meetings. 2018 ARGE COP 8 ARGE’s BUSINESS MODEL Strategy Business Institution Shaping Sustainability Risk Excellence Building the Future Management Strategy Assessment of Human Structuring Strategy Definition of Risk Development Business Resources Community Development and Risk Effectiveness Management Contribution Assessment Systems Strategy Total Quality Organizational Developing Strategy Risk Implementation Management Structuring Partnership Alignment Management (Balanced (Balanced Strategy Scorecard) Scorecard) Strategic Process Corporate Social LCA Analysis Risk Analysis Alliances Efficiency Governance Governance and Consultancy Post-Merger Value Institutional NGO IIRC Risk Integration Management Development Effectiveness Methodology Management for Family Support Systems Businesses Scenario Planning Reengineering Intellectual Social Support Capital Projects Management Country Strategy EFQM Methodology Support 2018 ARGE COP 9 VALUE CREATION FOR SOCIETY Value creation for the society is one of the core values of ARGE’s governance perspective. ARGE’s Chairman has established “Argüden Governance Academy” in 2014 with the support of ARGE Consulting. Argüden Governance Academy is a non-profit initiative dedicated to improve governance quality in public, non-profit, private, and international organizations to create sustainable value for institutions and society. ARGE supports the Global Compact and integrates the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact in its operations, as the first Turkish signatory ARGE Partner Dr. Erkin Erimez is member of UN Global Compact Türkiye Board. UN Global Compact Principles are accepted as minimum norms at ARGE. The UN Global Compact Principles compose a fundamental part of ARGE’s vision, since ARGE is founded with the vision to strengthen corporate social responsibility. Beyond ARGE’s alignment with the ten UN Global Compact Principles, ARGE’s activities are intended to promote and develop the Corporate Social Responsibility concept and corporate governance principles in companies and NGOs, throughout Türkiye. For this purpose, we have some keys for success; • For Value Creation – Utilize skills and/or systems developed to improve management quality by establishing focus in line with corporate values and mission. • For Impact – Cooperate with NGOs and develop their institutional capabilities for better acceptance and mobilization of larger resources. Projects conducted vis-à-vis NGOs are widely accepted rather than just being individual company actions. • For Sustainability – Apply good governance principles to CSR projects and NGOs. • Being creative and proactive in thinking. • Working with the parties that implement the Global Compact. • Working on a project or with a party if there is a potential to add value. • Improve Recognition of Best Practices. 2018 ARGE COP One of ARGE’s major tools to promote corporate social responsibility is its partnership with several NGOs that are very effective in their areas of operation in Türkiye. As a result of its vast amount of experience in the area of management consulting, ARGE supports the 10 operations of NGOs in the areas of institution building, strategy formation, and total quality management. In this respect, in line with its mission and vision, ARGE aims to promote corporate social responsibility among other organisations and integrate its management consultancy experience within its projects in partnership with its network of clients and other NGOs. Municipality Integrated Reporting model: The Famous Istanbul District, Kadıköy adopts integrated reporting ARGE has been instrumental helping Kadıköy Municipality prepare their Integrated Report which is the first Integrated Report published by a municipality in the world A sustainable and more liveable world depends on good governance of our resources as well as our collective needs and demands. The legitimacy of governments is built on the trust they earn from their citizens. Governments cannot function effectively without it. It is a necessary condition for governments to successfully carry out public policies. Citizens have the most frequent interaction with their governments at the local level. Grassroots of democracy and participation is local. Therefore, good governance of municipalities is critical to gain the trust of citizens which has multiple benefits:  Trust encourages individual behaviour that supports desirable policy outcomes. Citizens who trust their government will have higher trust in programs and policies.  Citizen who trust their governments will be ready to share their needs, requirements, views and innovative ideas in policy development cycle which means improved participation.  Trust also improves compliance with rules and regulations (and reduces enforcement costs). Citizens who trust their government to create policies and programs aligned with the public good are more likely to be willing to put their immediate self-interest aside.  Social capital is built on trust. A government that stands for trust encourages interpersonal trust and reduces the transaction costs of doing business across the economy, raising productivity and competitiveness.  Trust increases confidence in the economy by reducing the perception of risk that inhibits investment and other business decisions that generate wealth and jobs.  A high-trust environment helps governments implement reforms with long-term benefits. For citizens to forsake short-term interest for long-term gains requires trust in the government’s capacity to identify needs and conceive and execute policies that 2018 ARGE COP will deliver the promised results.  Progress on the Sustainable Development Goals that require collaboration of public, private and civil institutions can only be achieved in a high-trust environment. 11 Last year, Argüden Governance Academy[1] has developed and published a citizen-centric Municipality Governance Scorecard© for Istanbul District Municipalities with an intention to improve good governance and sustainability efforts at local level. After the first implementation for the Istanbul district municipalities, the Scorecard has attracted attention from the UN, OECD, the Council of Europe, and the European Union (EU). The findings generated with the Scorecard indicated the importance of integrated thinking between different departments, sectors, and levels if optimum outputs to be produced at local level for both sustainability and well-being. Data-based, participatory, integrated decision-making processes were identified as the focal point for improving local good governance and sustainability actions. These findings led to the agenda of taking the integrated reporting approach to local level. Upon the request of Kadıköy district municipality in Istanbul, ARGE Consulting, developed a Municipality Integrated Reporting Model© and helped the Kadıköy Municipality utilize this Model as a pioneer to prepare its integrated reporting. The Model integrates the OECD’s better life index approach with the SDGs and the EFQM’s continuous learning model to develop a Municipality Integrated Reporting Model© for municipalities. The aim of the Model is to improve; value creation for all stakeholders and inclusive policy making in local level. 2018 ARGE COP 12 The model focuses the key decision criteria as outcome (or impact which is quality of life) as well as measuring outputs. Improving quality of life of citizens needs to be the main goal of a municipality. Integrated thinking helps build trust by improving effectiveness of resource utilization and value creation. The likelihood of success improves when an organization;  Aims to create value for itself and its key stakeholders,  Considers the concerns and priorities of different internal and external stakeholders,  Analyzes the adequacy of existing resources in multiple dimensions and decisionmaking processes to reach its goals,  Determines the needs for new resources and approaches to achieve its targets. Benefits of implementing an integrated thinking approach and preparing an integrated 2018 ARGE COP report for a municipality are the following: 13 Agenda Setting  Determination and prioritization of needs, demands, requirements, and issues through a democratic participatory process  Alignment of short, medium, and long-term policy issues  Alignment of priorities and perspectives of stakeholders’ and municipalities  Supporting evidence-based policy development and problem solving. Issues that need to be dealt with at central government level could be handled in an evidencebased manner to the government. Decision Making  Supports evidence and data-based decision making.  Improves inclusiveness and opens the way for participatory and fair decision making for all  Aligns global, national, and district’s priorities in decisions, developments, and policies  Brings stakeholders’ understanding to common ground by improving understanding of each other’s needs, concerns, and expectations which in turn improves citizen satisfaction. Resource Management  Resource allocation could be made based on impact assessment and science-based analysis.  Allows allocation of resources according to short, mediumand long-term targets.  Improves efficiency and effectiveness of investments and alignment with local concerns Capacity Building  Improves performance and quality of decision making by improving coordination and collective decision making in all levels of municipal structure.  Improves the institutional capacity and builds culture for improved stakeholder engagement and relations.  Reduces citizen complaints by incorporating their concerns into the planning process and provides an open culture to increase transparency and reduce complaints. Monitoring 2018 ARGE COP  Provides a framework for measuring impacts created by outcomes of municipal services. 14  Provides monitoring systems to analyze deviations by data based methodologies.  Maximizes the utilization of effects of positive outcomes produced through municipal actions.  Presents meaningful information in communications with stakeholders.  Improves risk management capability. Citizen Satisfaction  Improves satisfaction through focusing on stakeholders’ short, mediumand longterm needs, requirements, and expectations.  Helps to create value in a fair and inclusive manner.  Guides municipalities to establish close, effective, and efficient relationship with stakeholders.  Improves trust to municipality by presenting concise and clear information that improves accountability. Quality of Life  Supports capacity building in local level (at municipality and community) to improve quality of life by taking in to consideration of ecological, physical, social, and economical factors. This could enable to follow improvements in quality of life throughout years.  Creates opportunity and trust for Private Public Partnerships and encourages effective utilization of resources.  Creates an opportunity to utilize national and international opportunities to improve quality of life in the district.  Participatory and inclusive decision-making processes improves quality of decision making which would also improve satisfaction and quality of life. EFQM2020 MODEL DEVELOPMENT EFQM Model has provided a blueprint for organizations to develop a culture of improvement and innovation. EFQM has decided to update the model based on the changing needs of the society. EFQM has formed an advisory committee to conducting this work in developing new EFQM2020 model. Mr. Hakan Kilitçioğlu who is a partner in ARGE Consulting has been appointed as the member of the advisory committee. The new EFQM 2020 model has shifted from being a simple assessment tool to one that offers a vital framework and methodology to help with the changes, transformation, and disruption that individuals and organizations face every day. 2018 ARGE COP 15 ARGÜDEN GOVERNANCE ACADEMY ACTIVITIES IN 2019 Argüden Governance Academy is a non-profit initiative, established by a donation from ARGE Consulting, which helps to improve the quality of governance in public institutions, nongovernmental organizations, and corporations to create sustainable value for the institutions and society The Academy envisions a world where institutions and society work together to create a more sustainable and inclusive future. The Academy brings together world-class expertise, adopt a holistic view of governance across institutions, and form partnerships to improve quality of life for current and future generations. To achieve its mission, the programs aim to: • Improve awareness of the role of good governance for sustainable and inclusive development by research, dissemination of successful examples and awards; • Create a knowledge platform to enable representatives of government, civil society, and business to be informed about the recent global developments on governance through training programs, seminars, and peer to peer learning; • Conduct research in cooperation with international organizations, universities, public agencies, and non-governmental organizations on various governance related subject areas • Cooperate with other similar initiatives both locally and globally through joint projects to raise the understanding of the key role of good governance in improving quality of life and sustainability of the planet The Academy focuses on four areas; Public Governance; To improve the effectiveness of public service delivery, enhance trust in the public sector and foster civic participation in decision-making through evidence-based policy making, whole-of-government approaches and increased accountability at the local and global level NGO Governance; To increase governance quality in the non-governmental sector and to promote its role in establishing participatory democracy for solving social, economic and environmental problems Corporate Governance; To promote the role of the Boards in managing sustainability issues and to establish social, economic and environmental sustainability as an integral part of the company’s strategy for managing risk, improving performance and contributing to positive 2018 ARGE COP change in their communities 16 Global Governance: Enable governments, NGOs and international organizations to develop and enforce trans-national governance structures to address complex global challenges. Promote collaboration between diverse actors in markets and networks to effectively solve transnational problems. To achieve Academy’s mission, long-term collaborative partnerships and joint initiatives have been developed The Academy partners with local and international organizations and academic institutions to develop cutting-edge knowledge and disseminate governance best practices in public, non-profit, and corporate sectors. The Academy cooperates with a wide range of local and international partners to promote the understanding, implementation and effectiveness of good governance practices within and across public, non-profit and private institutions. Our joint initiatives include workshops, surveys, awareness-building activities and implementation projects. The Academy receives donations from independent organizations, foundations and individual donors, who are committed to our mission of improving governance quality in public, non-profit and private institutions. An Advisory Council has been formed for the Academy. Advisory Council of the Academy comprises well-known names on governance. 2018 ARGE COP 17 The Academy has performed a number of activities in 2019. Since our foundation, we performed operations to expand the culture and climate of good governance in order to improve the quality of life in 2019. With our education, research and communication studies in 2019; • We conducted 37 Education Programs and provided training for 1,637 people. • We delivered our printed publications to 2,896 people through 18 publications, reports and articles. • We contacted 7.273 people face to face in 60 different events that we organized or invited as speakers. As in previous years, we focus to expand the “good governance culture and climate” with our 2018 ARGE COP works in every sector and every field in 2019. With our program for youth in 2019, we conducted studies on education, research and communication for everyone from 7 to 77. We plan the activities of the next year at the end of each working year in order to use our resources effectively, to make good use of the time of our team and volunteers, and to make 18 a maximum impact by planning our work correctly. We strive to adapt to this planning, which is guided by the knowledge and experience of our Board of Directors, in the most efficient way throughout the year. In 2019, we held meetings in which we received the contributions of our board of directors who have experience in the fields we conduct our work. We shared summary information about our activities planned and realized at these meetings. We conveyed our works completed in 2019 to our stakeholders through our activity bulletins. We also prepared special bulletins for our featured works and shared them with the appropriate target audience. In addition, we used our social media accounts more effectively as a method of communication with our stakeholders. Starting our efforts towards digitalization in 2019, we have included a colleague responsible for this area in our team. In 2020, we aim to make more use of digital platforms in our work. PUBLIC GOVERNANCE Municipality Governance Scorecard Project The Municipality Governance Scorecard © we developed in 2018 has been influential, inspiring action by other organizations and paving the way for new projects through collaboration. Organizations such as the Municipality of Kadıköy, the Association for Supporting of Women Candidates (KA.DER), and the Green Future Association (Yeşil Gelecek Derneği) used the Municipality Governance Scorecard Model as a guide in their own development efforts. Inspired by the model, the “Inclusive Municipality Governance Scorecard”, the “Integrated and Inclusive Strategic Plan Preparation Guide for Municipalities”, and the “Green Municipality Scorecard” were developed and presented in many platforms. 2018 ARGE COP This year, we released three publications about public governance: “Guide for Municipalities to Prepare Integrated and Inclusive Strategic Plan” (in collaboration with KA.DER), “Inclusive Municipality Governance Scorecard”, and “Quality of Regulatory Policy Outlook Report” (in collaboration with OECD). We also contributed to the improvement of the quality of 19 governance by participating in and organizing seminars, panels, and various other activities. We were invited to the preparation process of the 2020-2024 Strategic Plan of the Metropolitan Municipality of Istanbul, where we shared our ideas for an integrated strategic plan which encompasses Istanbul and its people. We continue to offer our Municipality Governance Scorecard Model© to the benefit of local governments both in Türkiye and around the world in order to increase the quality of life of the citizens. Our study serves as a guide for municipalities and citizens alike. Thus, after sharing it with the general public, we started organizing workshops throughout the country in order to help municipalities to benefit from this study and implement good governance principles. After our workshops in Istanbul, Adana, and Trabzon, we held another one in Izmir. Our workshop, which was organized in collaboration with Yaşar University, was attended by representatives from local government offices, faculty members, and female mayoral candidates. We completed two projects in collaboration with the Association for Supporting of Women Candidates (KA.DER): “Guide for Municipalities to Prepare Integrated and Inclusive Strategic Plan”, and “Inclusive Municipality Governance Scorecard.” With the Inclusive Municipality Governance Scorecard, our desire is to provide people from all walks of life, especially women and girls, with a higher quality of life. With this guiding study for municipalities, we aimed to contribute to a society where women live as equal and free individuals and are not neglected. For our pilot survey, we studied the municipalities of the Bağcılar and Kadıköy districts of Istanbul. 2018 ARGE COP 20 In order to share our study, we invited representatives from the municipalities of Istanbul to an introductory meeting we organized in collaboration with KA.DER. We were invited to UN’s Public Service Forum in Baku, Azerbaijan about the effects of awareness of gender issues in local governments. We participated in the “Promoting gender responsive public services to achieve the SDGs” workshop and shared our progress in the Inclusive Municipality Governance Scorecard. In order to make municipal strategic plans more inclusive, we also developed “Guide for Municipalities to Prepare Integrated and Inclusive Strategic Plan” with KA.DER. This guide seeks to contribute to the creation of more livable cities and a higher quality of life for disadvantaged and marginalized groups, especially women. It, therefore, also aims to improve the quality of life of the citizens by paving the way to fairer and more equitable social development. We organized a series of workshops in Anatolian provinces in collaboration with KA.DER. At our workshops in the provinces of Istanbul, Adana, Mersin, Izmir, and Kütahya, we presented the Guide to local governments. 2018 ARGE COP 21 Inspired by the Municipality Governance Scorecard Model©, the Green Future Association (Yeşil Gelecek Derneği), which carries out efforts to tackle the crisis of climate change, investigated 37 district municipalities in Istanbul in terms of their climate change impact, energy, air, waste, landmass and water management, environmental awareness and transportation to prepare the Green Municipality Scorecard. The scorecard provides NGOs, municipalities, and mayoral candidates with up-to-date data about the ecological status of municipalities. Thus, it motivates municipalities to review and reconsider the future promises they make regarding the environment. We are delighted to see that our efforts and research aimed for a sustainable future are inspiring other studies that help make the world a better place for future generations. We were invited to Marmara Urban Forum (MARUF) organized by the Marmara Municipalities Union in order to explain the effect of good governance culture in local governments on the quality of life. At the “Good Governance for Sustainable Cities” panel, we emphasized that a participatory, democratic, transparent, and accountable approach that cares about the opinions of citizens and stakeholders is key to having municipalities with a sustainable urban life. The panel was moderated by our Academic Board Member Dr. Erkin Erimez, and our Local Governance Specialist İnan İzci was among the panelists. We continue to explain the culture of good governance in local governments on academic platforms as well. We came together with the students of Istanbul Technical University IGLUS Executive Master’s Degree Program at the Local Good Governance Seminar. We discussed the 2018 ARGE COP Municipality Governance Scorecard© and the subject of Good Governance at the local government level. We also discussed the Municipality Governance Scorecard© at the Şirin Tekeli Academy of Local Governments, which aims to increase the number of women in politics promoting 22 gender equality in their participation in local governments. We assessed the findings of the Municipality Governance Scorecard © in the public governance session of the “Good Governance Talks” we organized at Impact Hub Istanbul. We discussed the ways citizens can use the “good governance lens” while following the activities of local governments. We prepared the annual impact report of the Municipality Governance Scorecard©. Based on our founding philosophy of “what is not measured, cannot be improved”, we came together with our Municipality Governance Scorecard Advisory Board Members Fikret Toksöz, Prof. Dr. Korel Göymen, Prof. Dr. Ersin Kalaycıoğlu, Prof. Dr. Erbay Arıkboğa, and Enver Salihoğlu in order to share and evaluate the impact of the Scorecard so far. We shared our future deployment plans and received valuable insight and guidance from our Scorecard Advisory Board. NGO GOVERNANCE NGOs play an important role in spreading the culture and climate of good governance. Non-governmental organizations (NGOs) help accelerate social progress by contributing to decision-making mechanisms in the public and private sectors, and on a global level. NGOs that designate their mission statements to be the solution for a social issue are among the important organizations in terms of how they reflect the community outlook in the stakeholder engagement processes of public institutions. This is also the reason that they play a key role in the widespread adoption of the “good governance culture” in their respective communities and influence public decision making. Ever since we were founded, we have been developing policy suggestions, providing information and raising awareness in governance issues, organizing good governance certificate programs for NGO leaders, and contributing to individual and social development through our NGO-oriented activities. As is our strategy as the Academy, we form collaborative networks to enable our activities to be spread across different parts of the society. To this end, NGOs are our most important partners in increasing the breadth and depth of our impact. We work with numerous NGOs in our activities for all age groups, building partnerships based on shared knowledge, impact, and resources. In 2019, we completed our GOV101 (Governance101) Training Program which aims to teach university students to adopt the culture of good governance. In the first session of our program, organized in collaboration with Sahibinden.com, TEGV (Educational Volunteers 2018 ARGE COP Foundation of Türkiye), and TOG (Turkish Community Volunteers Foundation), we had an alumni from 12 different universities. In 2020, we aim to reach 200 students via GOV101. 23 With our “Good Governance for Kids” program, we contribute to the education and development of children, who will be the leaders of the future. In collaboration with TEGV (Educational Volunteers Foundation of Türkiye), we came together with 600 children from 20 cities as part of the program in 2019. This year, we also prepared the program content in English to be offered to children all around the world. In 2020, we aim to reach more Anatolian provinces with our “Good Governance for Kids” program as well as reach out from Türkiye to children all around the world with our program in English. Good Governance for Kids We are aiming to improve the quality of life in our society with our 20-week training program for fourth-grade students. With the perspective of good governance, the program features concepts such as financial literacy, secure access to information, environmental awareness, democracy, children’s rights, NGO awareness, and gender equality. The aim of teaching these concepts is to introduce them at an early age in order to contribute to a generation of responsible individuals. In 2019, we reached a total of 1,500 kids in 22 provinces of Türkiye with the Good Governance for Kids program. Additionally, we translated our publications for this program to English, in order to prepare ourselves to build global partnerships to support the education of children with higher awareness. We extend our sincere gratitude to Jotun, our donor for the Good Governance for Kids program, for their generous contributions to the future of our children. Good Governance for Kids ITU Development Foundation İzmir Schools In the 2018-2019 academic year, our Good Governance for Kids program was implemented at ITU Development Foundation Schools (İTÜGVO) in collaboration with İzmir KalDer. With volunteers from İzmir KalDer working as instructors, 59 students graduated from the 2018 ARGE COP program 24 Good Governance for Kids TEGV In 2019, our Good Governance for Kids program was implemented in 20 provinces of Türkiye in collaboration with the Educational Volunteers Foundation of Türkiye (TEGV). The sessions took place at the TEGV branches in Adana, Ankara, Antalya, Bursa, Çorum, Eskişehir, Gaziantep, Giresun, İstanbul, İzmir, Kocaeli, Mardin, Nevşehir, Samsun, Siirt, Şanlıurfa, Tekirdağ, Van and Zonguldak. A total of 45 TEGV volunteers helped run the program as instructors. Responsible Individual Club KidZania Our Good Governance for Kids program reached more children in collaboration with KidZania Türkiye. At KidZania University, one of the modules within KidZania, children try our activities to take a step toward becoming a responsible individual. The Good Governance for Kids activities take place at KidZania University on specific days and holidays such as Resource Saving Day, Volunteering Day, Children’s Rights Day in order to provide experiential learning opportunities. In 2020, we aim to extend this partnership between us and KidZania to carry out activities in other countries as well. Additionally the Chairman of our Trustees, Dr. Yılmaz Argüden shared his suggestions for a better education system in his keynote speech at KidZania’s 2nd Education Summit. Emphasizing the importance of a better education system for a higher quality of life, Dr. Argüden also illustrated his points with examples from our Good Governance for Kids program. 2018 ARGE COP 25 GOV101 Training Program and Governance Youth Network Ever since the Academy was founded, we have been operating with the mission of “spreading good governance to all parts of the society”. To that end, not only do we create content for children and professionals, we also do so for the youth. With our team of young volunteers, we developed a training program aimed at university students: the GOV101 Training Program! With GOV101, we aim to raise the good governance awareness of university students, who are the leaders of today and tomorrow, and to motivate them to action by supporting positive changes in their behavior. To that end, we designed the GOV101 Training Program to be a fun, experiential learning program that is also well-informed by the culture of the youth. At GOV101, which consists of 7 meetings and a total of 14 hours of training, we discussed good governance, illustrated its principles with real-life examples, and enabled the participants to experience the relation between success and good governance. While helping the participants develop their leadership skills with the good governance perspective, we discussed subjects such as strategic management, the cycle of value creation, volunteer management, performance evaluation, integrated thinking, and development based on value creation. The first session of GOV101 Training, which was attended by students at leadership positions in the extracurricular clubs of prominent universities, was held between October 12 and November 28, 2019 in collaboration with TEGV, TOG, and Sahibinden.com. 28 Student Leaders from 12 universities have completed the program and graduated from this first session. 2018 ARGE COP 26 Governance Youth Network In addition to the GOV101 Training Program we will organize each academic semester, we wanted another way to ensure the continuity of our youth-oriented activities. To achieve that, we built the Governance Youth Network composed of the alumni of the training program. As we believe that knowledge increases by sharing, we built the Youth Network to help the members share their experiences in governance. We also aim to conduct training minisessions, seminars and meetings with the Youth Network members. 27 of the alumni of GOV101’s first session became members of the Youth Network, while 22 of them continue to take active responsibility as volunteers and contribute to our activities as our ambassadors in their respective universities, or participants in our meetings. In 2020, we plan that our Youth Network will grow by 150 more alumni. SİVİLANT Good Governance Educator Training As organizations consisting of members of the civil society and their efforts to resolve a social issue, NGOs are major drivers of social change. Therefore, the adoption of the “good governance” perspective by NGO leaders in their activities contributes significantly to the development of the civil society. In order to aid this contribution, we organized the “Educator Training for Good Governance at NGOs” training session in collaboration with SivilAnT and the White Cane Association for the Visually Impaired. At the end of each of the two sessions we held in September, we prepared and gave the participants a training kit that includes all topics and material covered in the training syllabus. This kit serves as an “NGO Handbook” which our participants can always refer to. 2018 ARGE COP 27 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE A higher quality of corporate governance leads to sustainable development. Since the day of our foundation, we have been conducting efforts to increase the quality of governance in the private sector as well. Our journey began with our support in founding the Woman on Board Association, which carries out projects and activities for more equal, inclusive, and fair executive boards. We then continued our journey with activities and collaborations such as the training sessions we held to promote gender equality, the possible value generated by responsible executive boards, and our emphasis and discussion of the important role of the inhouse lawyers for the compliance efforts of the companies with respect to their sustainability projects. In 2019, our Academy has developed its second original research methodology: Sustainability Governance Scorecard©, where we investigated 183 companies from 7 countries and 10 different industries that were included in the Sustainability Indices of relevant stock exchanges, all of which are signatories of the Sustainable Stock Exchanges Initiative. Increasing the quality of corporate governance increases the trust of all stakeholders, especially the public and investors, in companies. When the trust in companies increases, the investments made in the country through these companies also increase. Sustainability Governance Scorecard © As the Academy, we carry out efforts in all sectors and fields for good governance and a sustainable future. To this end, we investigated the sustainability approaches of globally leading companies with the original methodology we have developed. In this study, we examined the sustainability efforts of 183 companies from 10 industries from Germany, the United States, the People’s Republic of China, South Africa, India, the United Kingdom, and Türkiye through the lens of good governance and only by using publicly available data (Annual Financial Reports, Sustainability Reports, the Sustainability and Governance sections on the companies’ websites). In addition to providing a detailed account of the sustainability governance status of globally leading companies, we also motivate continuous learning and accelerate development by highlighting good practices. Good governance is the key for a sustainable future. Thus, the guidance of the sustainability policies of companies by the principles of good governance is of great importance for improving quality of life. Therefore, we analyzed companies based on publicly available data and through a “good governance lens” in our Sustainability Governance Scorecard© project. 2018 ARGE COP We investigated whether the Global Sustainability Leaders have the right processes, people, incentives, and company culture in their sustainability efforts. The Sustainability Governance Scorecard© aims to foster a continuously learning business world for a better world and future. We presented the findings of the Scorecard on many 28 platforms in Türkiye and around the world. For the first laaunch of our project, we were invited to the annual Global Conference organized by the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). Pleased with the great global interest received by our project, we were also invited to the 2020 Global Conference to present our 2020 Scorecard. We came together with the 2018 alumni of our “Good Governance in the Private Sector” Certificate Program and our Advisory Board member Dr. Yaga Ramesh Konda Reddy to dicsuss the Sustainability Governance Scorecard©. The founder and president of the Academy of Corporate Governance in India, Dr. Reddy stated that the SG Scorecard© is an innovative and effective tool to motivate companies to make continuous progress in their sustainability efforts In order to present our model, we were also invited to the Asia Sustainability Reporting Summit organized by CSR Works in Singapore. We participated as speakers at four panels. With a total of 22 panels and 70 speakers at the summit, we discussed the ways in which Sustainability Reports could be improved and adapted to changing global trends, and showed some examples from our SG Scorecard findings. We also talked about the Sustainability Governance Scorecard© at the seminar “The Role of 2018 ARGE COP Investor Relations in the Field of Sustainability” organized by the Turkish Investor Relations Society (TÜYİD) and the “Good Governance Talks” we organized in collaboration with Impact Hub. We explained the approach involved in the project, and shared good practices from companies in various areas of their sustainability efforts 29 GLOBAL GOVERNANCE Ever since our foundation, we have maintained our culture and system of integrated thinking, and we are still making efforts to spread integrated thinking within Türkiye and around the world. At the international conferences, panels, and forums we participate in, we promote the role and importance of good governance in integrated thinking and a sustainable future. We also emphasize the value generated with integrated thinking for the future of individuals and organizations alike. In 2019, we continued our efforts to increase the adoption of the concept of good governance for a sustainable future, and to spread the culture of integrated thinking and the methodology of integrated reporting around the world. We maintained our position as an active promoter and staunch supporter of these concepts both locally and globally. This year, we continued to contribute to the activities of international organizations and voice our opinions on publications. Because of our work, our country and organization have been referred to as exemplars by organizations such as G20, OECD, and IFC. We participated in the World Business Angels Investment Forum and Horasis Global Meeting as speakers. We would like to especially state that, by its vision, our Academy aims to contribute to the world in the field of good governance. Because of this, we greatly value the widespread dissemination of all of our work internationally. We also ensure that our activities in the public and private sectors, and NGOs help strengthen our international partnerships. “You have displayed a holistic approach that motivates decision making authorities to adopt Integrated Thinking which is just what is needed. I celebrate your Academy for this wonderful learning process and exemplary experience in this respect.” Prof. Mervyn KING International Integrated Reporting Council-The IIRC Chair Emeritus 2018 ARGE COP 30 The Municipality Governance Scorecard © was shown as one of the innovative practices by OECD. The unique methodologies developed by the Academy are becoming more widespread via global leaders. The Municipality Governance Scorecard© is shown by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) as an innovative practice in the public sector. Our Sustainability Governance Scorecard Model © took its place among the examples of good practices at G20 Tokyo 2018 ARGE COP 31 As a primary reference and the central point of the spread of the good governance culture and climate, we examine international publications through the lens of governance and present our opinions. In 2019, we issued our opinion on the International Finance Corporation’s “SME Governance Guidebook” which includes corporate governance suggestions for the internal operations of small and medium sized enterprises (SMEs). We shared our innovative approach in the Sustainability Governance Scorecard© with global leaders at the Global Conference of the International Integrated Reporting Council. With the Sustainability Governance Scorecard©, we are helping companies adopt the culture of integrated thinking. In order to share our approach, we were invited to the International Integrated Reporting Council’s annual conference. Following the meeting where we shared our approach in the Sustainability Governance Scorecard Model with global leaders, we were also invited to the 2020 conference to present our research and findings in 2019. . We were invited to the World Business Angels Investment Forum 2019 in Istanbul, which was held to discuss the needs and demands of startup companies, and to bring startups and 2018 ARGE COP globally active angel investors together. The Forum was attended by over 1000 participants from 80 countries, with our Chair of the Board of Trustees Dr. Yılmaz Argüden among the speakers. In his speech, Dr. Argüden shared his suggestions for a sustainable future with the investors and startup companies. 32 Governance and sustainability play major roles in shaping the future, and the leaders of the public and business world are the most effective entities to implement and ensure sustainability. We were invited to the Horasis Global Meeting, which was held in order to offer public and corporate leaders a platform to develop partnerships and mutual impact. With the Chair of our Trustees Dr. Yılmaz Argüden participating as a speaker, we shared our suggestions for a sustainable future at the conference. UN GLOBAL COMPACT ACTIVITIES IN 2019 Dr Erkin Erimez has been elected as a Board Member of UN Global Compact Türkiye. UN Global Compact Vice Chair Paul Pollman attended general assembly of the network where he discussed the challenges the world facing and shared his ideas for improvements. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSOCIATION OF TURKİYE 2018 ARGE COP Dr Erkin Erimez has been elected as a Board Member of Corporate Governance Association of Turkiye. 33 He was the tutor of “Board Performance Evaluation Training Program”. PUBLICATIONS KEYS TO GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC LEADERSHIP FOR QUALITY IF LIFE Dr. Yılmaz ARGÜDEN Good governance is the key to sustainability of our organizations and success of humanity in improving quality of life for all citizens of our world. Governance is much more than just the structure, processes, and rules of decision making and controls. Good governance is a culture and a climate of Consistency (predictability), Responsibility, Accountability, Fairness, Transparency, and Effectiveness that is Deployed (subsidiarity1) throughout the organization (the ‘CRAFTED’ principles of governance.) With both meanings of the word subsidiarity: (i) As a principle of social doctrine that all social bodies exist for the sake of the individual and therefore social institutions should not take over what individuals can do by themselves, and (ii) In political systems, the principle of devolving decisions to the lowest practical level, empowerment. Good governance starts with the individual and is applicable in all types of organizations, starting from the family and extending throughout the community, company, nongovernmental organizations, governments at all levels, all the way to global institutions. This book elaborates the keys to good governance. What is interesting is that these principles, despite different forms of application, are common regardless of the size, complexity, and jurisdiction of an organization. Furthermore, it requires an understanding of “regarding the others, as you regard yourself” to become prevalent. This understanding transcends the individual’s interests and requires considering not only interests of others that we share our planet with, but also interests of future generations. Good governance is the key to effective utilization of our limited resources and not only improves the quality of life, but also ensures sustainability of life on our planet. 2018 ARGE COP The essence of good governance is ensuring trustworthy relations between the institution and its stakeholders. Trust is the foundation of sustainable development. Good governance is the key to establish common expectations, to devise effective policies and processes in order 34 to achieve desired performance levels in a sustainable fashion. Governance involves the rights and processes of decision making and exercising controls in an organization to achieve mutual goals. In short, governance is about performance. In the new millennium, societies demonstrate, and experience highly creative and efficient forms of governance and they learn lessons from them. In this context, a new type of citizenship consciousness emerges. This new citizenship consciousness symbolizes a new identity that acknowledges its own problems, demands higher standards but at the same time plays an active role in the formation and realization of these standards, that creates solutions from within and that forms the necessary structures for this purpose: in short, this new identity has a determination to shape its own future. To establish these structures, consistency is necessary at a global scale. Global consistency requires a convergence on implementing common values in all aspects of life. The solution has to start at grassroots: if transformation and change can be inspired at all levels of society, the process to shape the future begins. The role of those who do not take part in the process will be limited in a future shaped by others. Thus, for sustainability of our institutions we need to consider new ways of involving all stakeholders in governance mechanisms. The basic element of any community or organization, is the individual. Therefore, the domain of governance starts from the individual and extends all the way to all of humanity, global governance. Good governance takes place at four levels in societal life: 1) Individual, 2) Corporate, 3) NGO, and 4) Public Sector, which in turn has three layers: i) Local, ii) National, and iii) Global. At all these levels, if the stakeholders are driven by common values of having an open mind for continuous learning (curiosity); an open heart for sharing (responsibility); a quest for effective utilization of resources for value creation; and accountability, consistency, transparency, and fairness for building trust, then the fundamentals are in place for establishing the rules of engagement for good governance, paving the path for shaping their own future. This book argues that good governance is key to sustainable development of quality of life, the values and behaviors that drive good governance are similar for all types of institutions, and if we are to shape our own future, we need to start from the individual and our education systems. It is my sincere wish that this book will be useful in the development of good governance culture, throughout the world and contribute to the establishment of trustworthy relationships between all types of organizations and their stakeholders, thereby ensuring effective, sustainable, and equitable resource utilization to improve the quality of life throughout the globe. http://www.amazon.com/Keys-Governance-Strategic-Leadership-Quality/dp/0230278140 2018 ARGE COP 35 The Handbook of Board Governance Since the adoption of Sustainable Development Goals by United Nations and the issues discussed at the Climate Summit COP 21, many countries have been committed to support these Goals. With this approach, Board of Directors need to engage in embedding these responsibilities to the corporations. In the chapter that Dr. Argüden committed for ‘The Handbook of Board Governance’, he shared his experiences on the Responsible Boards for a Sustainable Future. The chapter with best practices examples, insights and Sustainability Checklist for Boards to ask themselves, provides a guideline on Good Governance for all executives. RESPONSIBLE BOARDS – ACTION PLAN FOR SUSTAINABLE FUTURE – Dr. Yılmaz Argüden A sustainable global economy is one that combines long-term profitability with ethical behavior, social justice, and environmental care. Companies can play a fundamental role in creating a sustainable future by embracing this challenge as an opportunity for innovation and long-term value creation. This paper discusses steps that companies can take to craft the sustainability vision, build sustainable boards, and integrate sustainability into the organization. 2018 ARGE COP 36 “The Handbook of Board Governance” 2016 “Good Governance for Sustainable Development” 2016 “Keys to Governance” 2011 “Boardroom Secrets” 2009 “Benchmarking” 2009 “Data Mining” 2008 “ARGE Corporate Governance Model”2007 “Management of Voluntary Organisations”2006 “Intellectual Capital”2005 “Change Management”2004 “Strategic View” 2003 “Reputation Management”2003 “Corporate Social Responsibility”2002 “Value Management”2001 “Balanced Scorecard”2000 2018 ARGE COP 37 HUMAN RESOURCE AND HEALTH AND SAFETY ARGE’s policy is to attract the best people and to create an environment of mutual trust and team spirit to foster continuous development of its people. We expect each member of our team to demonstrate self-respect, respect for others and the environment. ARGE supports the development of knowledge, competence, and creative abilities of each team member; and expects them to do so, both on an individual and organizational level. We strive for effective utilization of the ultimate non-renewable resource, time. ARGE believes in leading by example. We demonstrate our corporate social responsibility, by encouraging all our consultants to devote a full day of each week for voluntary work in NGOs to improve the quality of life in our community with a local, national, and global perspective. ARGE fulfils its legal requirements on health and safety issues. 2018 ARGE COP 38 NATURAL RESOURCE USAGE ARGE is trying to minimize its natural resource usage in the organization. ARGE moved to a new building in 2013. This building has been rebuilt according sustainable building concept to minimize energy consumption. Water efficiency is also a concern in rebuilding process. A video conference facility has been installed to minimize the travelling requirements and make online meetings with customers. However, it is not easy to reach an optimum level of resource consumption due to needs and expectations of customers. 2018 ARGE COP 39 GRI INDEX TABLE GENERAL STANDART DISCLOSURES STANDARTS REFERENCES STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 Page 2 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Page 6 G4-4 Page 6 7 G4-5 Page 6 G4-6 Page 6 G4-7 Page 6 G4-8 Page 6 7 G4-9 Page 6 7 G4-10 Page 6 7 G4-11 Page 6 7 G4-12 Page 6 7 G4-13 Page 6 7 G4-14 Page 6 7 G4-15 Page 8 30 G4-16 Page 8 – 30 IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 Page 3, Page 6 7 G4-18 Page 3 5 G4-19 Page 4 5 G4-20 Page 4 5 G4-21 Page 4 5 G4-22 n.a G4-23 n.a STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 Page 4 G4-25 Page 4 5 G4-26 Page 11 33 G4-27 Page 11 33 REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Page 3 G4-29 Page 3 G4-30 Page 3 G4-31 Page 34 G4-32 Page 33 34 G4-33 Page 3 GOVERNANCE G4-34 Page 6 – 7 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 2018 ARGE COP G4-56 Page 6 – 7 40 GENERAL SPESIFIC DISCLOSURES STANDARTS REFERENCES ECONOMIC G4-DMA Page 4 5 G4-EC7 Page 8 9 G4-EC8 Page 8 9 ENVIRONMENTAL G4-DMA Page 4 5 G4-EN6 Page 32 G4-EN19 Page 32 LABOR G4-DMA Page 4 5 G4-LA05 Page 31 SOCIAL G4-DMA Page 4 – 5 G4-so1 Page 11 33 G4-so4 Page 11 33 Please contact to; 2018 ARGE COP Ms. Pınar Ilgaz pilgaz@arge.com Mr. Erkin Erimez eerimez@arge.com 41
