Sustainability Report 2019 TRANSFORMING MINING FOR A BETTER FUTURE OF THE COUNTRY CONTENTS 03 REPORT PRESENTATION 28 Accident rates: The lowest ever 58 Board of Directors 103 COMMUNITIES AND TERRITORY 04 20 years of reportability 29 Workplace health and hygiene 60 Senior Management 104 Our Performance: 2019 in figures 05 Letter from the Executive Chairman 31 Health and safety management for 62 Board Committees 105 Our management approach 08 Transforming mining with a contractors and subcontractors 63 Corporate Governance and sustainability 106 Community Investment sustainable outlook 65 Risk management 107 Our Performance: Community 09 Codelco, the mining company of los 33 TEAM CODELCO 67 Risk monitoring development and indigenous peoples the chilean people 36 Our Performance: Employer 68 Ethics and integrity 113 Contribution to the local economy 10 Our Operations of excellence 115 Social compliance 11 What we are and what we do 38 Continuous improvement 72 COMMITMENT TO THE PLANET 12 Membership and associations 40 Our performance 75 Our Performance: Environmental 118 ANNEXES assessment tools impact and compliance 119 Methodology and other standards 14 A NEW OUTLOOK IN 41 Labor Relations 76 Operational incidents with 121 International standards SUSTAINABILITY 43 Diversity and Inclusivity environmental consequences 123 Verification Chart 44 Human Rights 78 Water resources 124 GRI Index 15 Sustainability milestones 81 Responsible waste management 133 Annexes 16 Transforming mining for a 47 EFFICIENT, COMPETITIVE, 83 Energy efficiency sustainable future and ETHICAL 84 Climate change 17 Sustainability: A commitment of years 86 Biodiversity 20 Our mining process and sustainability 48 Efficient, competitive, and ethical 91 Mine site closure 22 Material topics 2019 50 Our Performance: Efficient productivity and management 94 CULTURE OF INNOVATION 24 PRIORITY #1: OCCUPATIONAL 54 Economic benefit generated and distributed 96 Our Performance: Strategic HEALTH AND SAFETY 55 Our suppliers innovation 26 Our Performance: Occupational health 57 Corporate Governance and safety REPORT PRESENTATION CODELCO, PIONEER IN SUSTAINABILITY REPORTS Report A new outlook Priority #1: Team Efficient, Committed Culture of Communities Annexes presentation in Sustainability occupational Codelco competitive to the planet innovation and territories health & safety and ethical Report presentation 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 4 20 YEARS OF REPORTABILITY This exercise in transparency for the different This is why we work to attain international stakeholders showcases our commitment as standards for sustainability, transparency and a Corporation for building a sustainable future. probity, innovation, and people development. Showing both the vision with which, we address We are spearheading a new movement 1º IN REPORTING In 1999, we were the first company in Chile to each of the Environmental, Social and Governance in Chilean mining that contributes to the deliver its social and environmental results, IN CHILE through the Codelco environmental report (ESG) settings that surround the company’s country’s development and meets the critical activities, and the effort and oversight that we needs demanded by the extractive industry in perform each year in order to achieve these the 21st century. objectives. These 20 years of reportability bear witness We strive to maintain management excellence that to the path Codelco has taken to advance as 1ST IN CHILE TO INCORPORATE makes a contribution not only to economic growth, an operation that mitigates its impacts and THE GUIDELINES OF THE but also to the integrated development of moves towards a virtuous transformation of GRI the sector, in view of the context in which we do the zones in which our deposits are located. GLOBAL In 2002 we incorporated the business and the new and pending challenges that newly-created GRI guidelines. REPORTING the mining industry is facing. INITIATIVE 16 YEARS Since 2004, our reports have received external verification. OF VERIFICATION Report presentation 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 5 LETTER FROM THE EXECUTIVE Chairman (102-14) “Our 2019 sustainability Report was prepared amidst a pandemic that in the recent months has forced us to review and challenge the ways in which we do things, how we communicate with each other, and how we work. COVID-19 has taught us that implementing. COVID-19 has taught us that implementing the best protocols is not enough; the best protocols is not enough; instead we have needed to make drastic changes to our conduct and our culture of protection, for ourselves and for others.” This worldwide health crisis has set challenges As protecting our people guides our day-to-day for us, and will continue to do so in the immediate work and forms the basis for our decisions, I future. This is why every day we put our best ideas would like to start the 2019 report with a look at to the service of all our workers, their families, and our safety performance. We achieved the lowest the communities that surround us, because the accident rates in our history, but these numbers sustainability is our guiding light for this company, are sadly overshadowed by a fatal accident that which contributes all of its surpluses to bolster our occurred at El Teniente in mid-2019. We therefore country’s development. redouble our commitment to strengthening the habits of prevention, behavior, and self-care, with Twenty years ago, we were the first company in Chile responsible conduct for our colleagues, as the to issue a sustainability report. Along the way we only way to achieve the goal of zero fatalities. have expanded the suite of indicators, standardized In this context, during the year we advanced in the report format under the GRI methodology, and our management system, with safety leadership incorporated validation of the results by an external programs for executives and supervisors. certification body. Over the years, this report has Observation of behavior was a fundamental reflected Codelco’s commitment to sustainable and instrument for identifying risky actions, providing responsible mining. timely feedback, and undertaking corrective Report presentation 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 6 actions; we also consolidated our green card In definitive term, we are striving to assure the system as the main risk prevention tool at all of water matrix for our operations, competency our work sites. and efficiency in water usage, the incorporation of business intelligence and technology in the search Climate change and its effects also took center for, and application of, new water sources, and stage, now incorporated into our sustainability control and management of our As the world’s leading copper producer, we at Codelco strategy at Codelco. In 2019 we advanced wastewater discharge. with the analysis of mitigation and adaptation strive to be a responsible supplier”. to the phenomenon, a diagnostic study into Our efforts to reduce smelter emissions succeeded vulnerabilities and the preparation of an in achieving 100% compliance with Supreme adaptation plan for División El Teniente and Decree 28, which imposes greater restrictions. its surroundings. In this way, we examined the fragilities, risks, and opportunities for Meanwhile, and once again in an area linked to development at the mine, as a direct and climate change, we haveset a goal to reduce both put electric buses up against the harsh conditions and safety; inclusivity and equality of opportunities; indirect consequence of this phenomenon. We direct and indirect emissions into the environment. of a working mine, to validate technological, respect for human rights; transparency, also drew up an action program with specific To achieve this, we are developing an action plan sustainability, and business parameters, while also ethics, and compliance; environmental and initiatives to resolve the issues detected in to use clean technologies and supplies, so as to garnering greater understanding of the technology community impact; water footprint; emissions and the diagnostic work. The study provided us reduce the carbon footprint of our direct and identifying the challenges that we face in energy; and carbon footprint. with experience to enhance similar research emissions. We are also migrating our electricity building, incorporating, and scaling it to fit other projects in the Corporation’s other work supply contracts to renewable power sources, processes. Our 2019 planning allowed us to achieve sustained centers. to reduce our indirect emissions of greenhouse progress, and today we possess traceability gases. The positive results encouraged our company in indicators for the Gabriela Mistral, Ministro Hales, In 2020 we will continue to incorporate analysis incorporate the option for using these vehicles in Radomiro Tomic, and Andina divisions, accounting and management of the challenges imposed In this way we seek to enhance our standards in future tender processes. for 49.5% of our copper. Our new objective is to trace on us by climate change as part of the way we key areas such as energy efficiency and improve all of our production in 2020. operate. our performance in specific indicators of energy Additionally, in 2019 we launched pilot testing for usage in production processes, to consolidate two a hybrid LHD, set to continue during 2020, in a bid Community development is another strategic Under the same philosophy, our company essential goals: reducing power consumption, and to enhance interaction with mining production dimension in corporate management, so year on year operates a strategic water management plan, incorporating clean energy into our power matrix. activities. This new unit features a fully electrical we strengthen our relations with the communities because we are aware of the need to conserve transmission system and uses a diesel engine to where we operate, seeking to contribute to their the country’s water resources. In 2019 we In this context, it should come as no surprise that generate electricity, thus enhancing fuel development within a framework of dialog and implemented a platform to harmonize reporting our company is leading the way in Chile with its economy levels. ongoing contact. In 2019, following a review of in our different divisions, which will help to initiatives for pilot schemes and implementation of our plans and programs, we laid the groundwork control and reduce water extraction. Our goal electric transport as part of its corporate strategy. As the world’s leading copper producer, we at for actions this year developing a new community for 2020 is to achieve a 10% reduction in the In 2019, we continued todevelop pilot programs Codelco strive to be a responsible supplier.” Our development strategy for 2020 to 2030, setting volume of water used per ton of ore treated. for electric service vehicles in Distrito Norte and at goal is to trace 5% of our copper production during out to become a force for mobilizing territorial División El Teniente. This was the first program to 2020, across eight dimensions: occupational health development. Report presentation 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 7 The same year, our focus fell on optimizing and By means of this Sustainability Report we comply consolidating our online IT platforms, including with Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards updating our Environment Complaints and at its comprehensive compliance option and we Suggestions System (SRSS by its spanish acronym), respond to communication of progress, reaffirming to enhance control, traceability, and monitoring of our commitment to the 10 principles of the Global our relationship with the community. Compact of the United Nations. The safety of our communities is always a core All of these advances fall within the framework factor in our plans, so we are monitoring and of our principles and commitment to sustainable managing our tailings deposits. For the third year development, to Chile, and to the country’s running we took part in “Programa tranque”, a expectations for the Corporation. Although 2019 public-private initiative to create a standardized brought us major challenges, the year’s events system for monitoring and early warning. spurred us to redouble our efforts to continue This outstanding program allows the authorities, advancing in a responsible way, so as to carry on mining companies, and communities to receive forming a key foundation for the country’s information online regarding the physical and development. chemical stability of tailings ponds. Meanwhile, on the global stage we are collaborating actively with the International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM) to agree a standard for effective full lifecycle management of mine tailings deposits. The trust that the country endows in our company is a value that we must protect, so we strive to attain best practices in transparency; in 2019 we attained certification for the management of trading Octavio Araneda Osés processes under the standards specified under Executive President ISO 37001 for anti-bribery management systems, promoting an ethical corporate culture. Similarly, we approved a new risk management and control model and policy, developed internal regulations for identifying and managing conflicts of interest (actual, potential, and apparent), and updated our crime prevention model, bolstering the due diligence process. Furthermore, almost 10% of our personnel received anti-corruption training. Report presentation 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 8 TRANSFORMING MINING WITH A SUSTAINABLE OUTLOOK FOR 20 YEARS, CODELCO HAS PUBLISHED AN areas where our deposits are located, while at HOW WILL SUSTAINABILITY AFFECT oversight, and transparency. In a changing society ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT WHAT IS the same time allowing us to generate business BUSINESS MANAGEMENT? and a setting that is becoming ever more complex, THE OBJECTIVE OF THIS PRACTICE? value. regulated, globalized, and dynamic for the copper We are committed to sustainable industry, these parameters are becoming a guiding The Corporation has always led the way in AS PART OF THE TRANSFORMATION PROCESS, development in our operations and projects. beacon for all of the company’s actions. incorporating its social and environmental CODELCO HAS A NEW SUSTAINABILITY Sustainable development is not a trend, it management factors as part of our long-term STRATEGY WHAT DOES IT CONSIST OF, AND is the right way of doing things, and we at We will continue to guide our management based vision for business. This means being rigorous WHAT DOES IT FOCUS ON? Codelco have a twofold responsibility to on the principles of sustainable development, in in our reportability, in line with a deep-seated sustainability, in line with our role as a driving accordance with our mission for the country and commitment to transparency and accountability We at Codelco strive to do business in a force for the country’s development. with deep respect for the areas where we operate to our interest groups. way that is competitive and profitable for and their inhabitants. The challenge is significant, Chile, minimizing socio-environmental risks, The Corporation takes these challenges as is our motivation to contribute to Chile for many This activity, in adherence to the strictest global mitigating our impacts, and generating the right as opportunities to build economic and years to come. standards such as the Global Reporting Initiative conditions for operating in the long term. This reputation value as a state-owned company, (GRI), the International Council on Mining is the only way we can be capable of meeting respecting the fundamental rights of people, & Metals (ICMM), and the UN’s Sustainable the challenge of contributing to the country’s including workers, communities, indigenous Development Goals, allows us to identify areas development and projecting our organization groups, interest groups, and society as a for improvement and generate action plans, into the future. whole. thus making it a valuable tool for management throughout Codelco. In order to achieve it, we are working on a new We are convinced that our business sustainability strategy that runs alongside must develop under the guidance of In 2019, this effort became even more the business transformation process, setting these principles, as key factors in the paramount in line with the Corporation’s out to achieve more universal management of transformation process that the company is Renato Fernández transformation process, which sets out to ensure sustainability throughout the organization. undertaking. Vice President of Corporate Affairs the company’s sustainability. & Sustainability This strategy will set clear goals, which we will At the same time, it is increasingly relevant We firmly believe that 21st century mining take into account year on year, through the to possess corporate governance and requires ambitious environmental and social Corporation’s Sustainability Reports. management systems that are committed to goals, leading to a virtuous transformation in the enhancing standards for probity, Report presentation 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 9 CODELCO, THE MINING COMPANY OF THE CHILEAN PEOPLE (102-7) We are the National Copper Corporation of Chile, Codelco. An autonomous company owned by all Chilean people, world leader in copper production, and driving force for the country’s development. 7 MINING DIVISIONS 1,706,013 mtf1 23,353 mtf AND VENTANAS REFINERY AND SMELTER OF COPPER2 OF MOLYBDENUM MMUS$ 12,525 MMUS$ 4,043 MMUS$ 40,345 TOTAL SALES EBITDA TOTAL ASSETS 16,726 52,618 10.2% EMPLOYEES FEMALE WORKFORCE CONTRACTORS 0.7 128 3,884 FREQUENCY RATE SEVERITY RATE SAFETY CORRECTIVE PLANS 96.4% 97.4% 76.7% AVERAGE SULFUR CAPTURE AVERAGE ARSENIC CAPTURE WATER RECIRCULATION MMUS$ 897 CLP 2,817,845,692 MMUS$ 1,000 SUSTAINABILITY INVESTMENT SOCIAL INVESTMENT TREASURY CONTRIBUTION 1 Metric ton’s fine metal 2 Including our holdings in El Abra and Anglo American Sur Report presentation 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 10 OUR OPERATIONS (102-4) antofagasta santiago División División División División HEADQUARTERS Radomiro Tomic chuquicamata Ministro Hales Gabriela Mistral OPEN PIT MINE OPEN PIT AND OPEN PIT MINE OPEN PIT MINE 512 PERSONS 1,252 PERSONS UNDERGROUND MINE 791 PERSONS 449 PERSONS 266,415 4,899 PERSONS 151,838 104,087 Metric Tons of Fine Copper 385,309 Metric Tons of Fine Copper Metric Tons of Fine Copper Metric Tons of Fine Copper Radomiro Chuquicamata Tomic gabriela mistral andina casa matriz ministro hales salvador ventanas el teniente atacama valpara í so LIBERTADOR BERNARDO O’HIGGINS División División División División salvador ventanas andina EL TENIENTE OPEN PIT MINE AND REFINERY AND SMELTER OPEN PIT MINE AND OPEN PIT MINE AND UNDERGROUND MINE 852 PERSONS UNDERGROUND MINE UNDERGROUND MINE Staffing figures do not include the 1,437 PERSONS 1.597 PERSONS 4,058 PERSONS Projects VP 50,561 170,274 459,744 (879 PERSONS) Metric Tons of Fine Copper Metric Tons of Fine Copper Metric Tons of Fine Copper Report presentation 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 11 WHAT WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO (102-2, 102-6) We account for 8% of global copper mine HIGH-STANDARD PRODUCTS WORLDWIDE CLIENTS production, and 29% of domestic production.* We produce and trade in the following Our fine copper and derivatives reach clients To find out more about Codelco, WE INNOVATE TO HOLD OUR refined and unrefined copper products and throughout the planet, and we are responsible for you can download our annual POSITION AS CHILE’S LEADING byproducts, and one semi-finished product: one fifth of national exports. Our principal market is report at our website COMPANY Asia, followed by South America and North America. • Grade A copper cathodes We are currently engaged in structural projects • Copper concentrate to extend the working life of our deposits • Copper calcine SALES BY DESTINATION for a further 40 to 50 years, to enhance our • Molybdenum environmental standards, to increase our • Silver productivity, and to maintain current production • Gold levels of 1.7 million tons of fine copper per year. • Anode sludges 18.5% 13.4% 31.4% 29.3% 7.4% • Sulfuric acid CHINA OTHE PROVINCES AMERICA EUROPE OTHER MARKETS OF ASIA * Incluye nuestra participación en Minera El Abra y Anglo American Sur. Report presentation 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 12 MEMBERSHIPS AND ASSOCIATIONS (102-12, 102-13) The principal alliances and associations in which we work are the following: INTERNATIONAL INTERNATIONAL INTERNATIONAL INTERNATIONAL Global Reporting GLOBAL COPPER MOLYBDENUM COMMISSION ON COUNCIL ON MINING Initiative (GRI) COMPACT ASSOCIATION (ICA) ASSOCIATION (IMOA) LARGE DAMS (ICOLD CHILE) & METALS (ICMM) Board Board Founding Partner Member Member Member Member Member and Board Members CÁMARA CHILENA Consejo Minero Consejo Nacional Fundación para la Acción Líderes Empresariales NORTEAMERICANA de Chile A.G de Seguridad Sustentabilidad del Empresas Contra el Cambio DE COMERCIO Gaviotín Chico Climático (CLG Chile) Partner Company Partner Company Board Board Partner Company Member with Board Participation Member Member Asociación de Calama PLUS Asociación de Industriales Corporación de Corporación Corporación industriales de Región de Antofagasta (AIA) Desarrollo de la Provincia de Desarrollo Regional Pro Aconcagua Valparaíso (ASIVA) El Loa (Proloa) Pro O´Higgins Participant as a Member Member Member Member Member member of Proloa In terms of contributions, the leading bodies are the International Copper Association (ICA), International Molybdenum Association (IMOA), International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM) and Consejo Minero de Chile, accounting for a total of US$ 7.9 million. Report presentation 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 13 (102-11) We also declare our alignment with the following voluntary external initiatives, engaged in economic, social, and environmental issues: 1. United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). 2. United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights. 3. United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. 4. United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. 5. Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. 6. Precautionary principle, Article 15 of the Rio Declaration. 7. Partnering Against Corruption Initiative (PACI), World Economic Forum, 2005. 8. International Labor Organization (ILO) Convention 169 on indigenous and tribal peoples in independent countries. 9. International Labor Organization (ILO) Conventions 87, 98, 100, 11, and 138. 10. Toronto Declaration of the International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM). 11. International Chamber of Commerce business charter for sustainable development. Report presentation 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 14 A NEW OUTLOOK IN SUSTAINABILITY OUR GOAL Our transformation process runs alongside sustainable management to meet today’s ESG challenges. This must also apply to the entire organization promoted from the highest levels. Thus, in 2019 we have worked to redefine our sustainability strategy. Report A new outlook Priority #1: Team Efficient, Committed Culture of Communities Annexes presentation in Sustainability occupational Codelco competitive to the planet innovation and territories health & safety and ethical A new outlook in Sustainability 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 15 SUSTAINABILITY MILESTONES ECONOMIC OCCUPATIONAL PEOPLE PERFORMANCE STRATEGIC COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT HEALTH AND SAFETY AND GOVERNANCE INNOVATION AND TERRITORY 1. Improving our historic accident rates 1. Codelco was awarded the “Equality 1. Codelco opens Chuquicamata 1. Automation in Underground Mining 1. The Environmental Assessment 1. Codelco trials unique hybrid mining In 2019 we achieved our best severity and Inclusivity Prize 2019” by Women Subterránea, one of the country’s most With the objective maximizing task Service (SEIA) implemented its equipment index of all time, with a result of 128. in Mining Chile (WIM), an organization modern mines automation in underground mining Indigenous Consultation Process, División El Teniente premiered the first At the same time, we maintained our that promotes and supports the Following 104 years in operation and leveraging significant productivity including Colla communities hybrid LHD unit, with operating costs downward trend in the parameter development of women in the mining the world’s largest open-pit mine gains, thirteen modern units stand This process allowed us to establish 70% lower than similar conventional of accident frequency, attaining 0.7, the industry. has become a high-technology out. División El Teniente saw the commitments to participating diesel-powered units, and significantly lowest value in the past decade. underground operation that is ready arrival of autonomous trucks to begin communities, as well as clear lower exhaust emissions. This 2. Launch of “Inspira Codelco” to meet the environmental and testing a semi-autonomous LHD unit principles and standards to empower ore load-haul-dump unit, a standard 2. Management of High-Potential This networking program sets out safety standards of the 21st century, entered normal operations. Meanwhile, and strengthen collaborative relations sight at working mines, is the first Incidents to allow Codelco professionals and extending its useful life for another Chuquicamata Subterránea acquired with indigenous communities, in the to become operational using 100% In 2019, 102 high-potential incidents female engineering students at 40 years. Chuquicamata Subterránea eight units with the same technical context of the Rajo Inca Project. electric power, with no gearbox, filters, were recorded in the SGHP Preventive a number of universities, to build marks the kick-off for a major specifications, and operations are or mechanical actuators, using diesel Tool Management System, all of which effective networks. This initiative will transformation in terms of operations, planned to begin in 2020. 2. Update of our Socio-Environmental only to generate power. were fully investigated. This led to the allow us to help increase the number of organization, and culture at Complaints and Suggestions System generation of 3,884 corrective action women working at our company, and in Codelco. 2. Codelco is the only mining company (SRSS) 2. Progress in waste management plans, which have been loaded into the the mining industry as a whole. engaged in fast-tracking electric Building on a study conducted by In 2019, we advanced in the evaluation system for corporate learning. transportation KPMG, in 2019 this system was and implementation of measures 2. Codelco receives certification under Following the signing of a collaboration updated to incorporate the standards to extract value from waste products. ISO 37001 agreement with the Energy established under ISO We analyzed reuse, recycling, and With the goal of strengthening our Sustainability Agency, the corporation 19600 and by the ICMM for these recovery options, as well as the culture of integrity, transparency, forms part of this initiative, which is areas, as well as other industry best implementation of the corporate openness, and compliance, our Vicesupported by the Ministry of Energy practices. platform for each kind of waste Presidency of Trade (VCO) has certified and sets out to generate knowledge management and life-cycle monitoring process management under the and to implement projects for electric 3. Social Investment Agreements across all materials and divisions”. standards specified in the ISO 37,001 transport, thus bolstering this In 2019 we signed 95 social investment standard, for Anti-Bribery Management technology nationwide. During 2019 we agreements with social organizations Systems. made progress in the pilot scheme for and institutions, as well as nine electric buses and the incorporation of agreements with indigenous peoples, underground mining equipment. with a total investment of over 2.8 billion pesos. A new outlook in Sustainability 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 16 TRANSFORMING MINING FOR A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE At Codelco, we are committed to sustainable requirements, enhancing coverage in five specific These goals strengthen our commitment to transformation towards sustainability, helping management. Thus, in 2019 we have worked in areas: emissions, water, waste products, tailings, finding a suitable response to international to harmonize, simplify, and automate the line with our new business strategy to redefine our and development in our territories. standards and requirements for sustainability, Corporation’s processes. strategy, formerly managed under the Sustainability while also enhancing our links with the areas in Master Plan. This significant challenge has brought with it a which we operate, thus implementing the highest number of internal diagnostic studies, policies and standards for our Corporate governance. This new outlook incorporates elements from global process redesign, and definition of ambitions and trends in the field, and comes as a result of internal medium and long-term goals, which we are set to Our new outlook seeks to mobilize the discussion that challenges us to go beyond legal announce in 2020. organization, making all of us part of a A new outlook in Sustainability 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 17 SUSTAINABILITY: A COMMITMENT OF YEARS We at Codelco have taken a rigorous approach to measure our sustainability results. This discipline allows us to present our progress year-on-year, starting from 2012, in critical areas for our management, such as health and safety, environment, and sustainability investments. We have managed to reduce our Accident Frequency Each year we seek to increase our female workforce, as we OCCUPATIONAL Rate year-on-year, reaching 0.7 in 2019, the lowest TEAM recognize the relevance of diverse teams, particularly in an HEALTH AND SAFETY in our history. For more information, see the chapter CODELCO industry with few women workers. For more information see the Priority #1: Occupational Health and Safety chapter Team Codelco. FEMALE WORKFORCE 9.9% 10.2% ACCIDENT FREQUENCY RATE 8.90% 9% 9.5% 8.5% 8.70% 7.8% 1.35 1.35 1.32 1.23 1.10 0.99 0.77 0.7 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 We are the FIRST major state-owned mining company to attain CERTIFICATION AT ALL OUR WORK CENTERS UNDER CHILEAN STANDARD 3262: 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 gender equality and reconciliation of the work, family, and personal life balance. A new outlook in Sustainability 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 18 Water management is a key issue for Codelco, in light of the GHG EMISSIONS associated environmental and social impacts, so we set out to ENVIRONMENT ensure sustainable management of current and future water Since 2014 we have been measuring our GHG emissions, which have shown a gradual resources. Since 2012 we have been rigorously measuring water decline, and remained stable over the past two years. We will continue to work towards an recirculation in order to improve our management. For more operation with lower environmental impacts. information see the chapter Commitment to the Planet. WATER RECIRCULATION PERCENTAGE 5.7 5.9 5.5 5.6 4.7 78.5% 4.4 3.4 3.2 3.4 3.2 2.8 2.8 77.3% 77% 76.9% 76.7% 76% 75.8% 75% 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Total emissions in millions of tons CO2e Intensity tCO2 e/million de tmf OPERATIONS INCIDENTS WITH ENVIRONMENTAL CONSEQUENCES (CLASSED AS SEVERE OR VERY SEVERE) We strive to attain continuous improvement to prevent the occurrence of operational incidents with environmental consequences. Since 2012 we have achieved a significant reduction in the numbers of such incidents. 1 1 2019 2018 1 2017 0 2016 2 VERY SEVERE SEVERE 2015 1 2014 0 2013 0 2012 10 A new outlook in Sustainability 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 19 INVESTMENTS IN Our investment in sustainability areas has been SUSTAINABILITY increasing for some years. These funds are spent on occupational health and safety, and environmental issues. INVESTMENTS IN SUSTAINABILITY (MILLION US$) 959 897 752 496 435 380 274 338 266 208 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 As part of our contribution to all Chilean people, we contributed US$ 1 billion to the treasury in 2019. A new outlook in Sustainability 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20 OUR MINING PROCESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PROSPECTION PLANNING AND EXPLORATION OPERATION CLOSURE AND CONSTRUCTION All prospection and exploration We operate in line with Corporate Our Integrated Management Model We strive to ensure that planning and projects incorporate analysis of core Standard NCC 24, which requires assesses the aspects of safety, implementation of closure protocols factors in occupational health and all Codelco’s investment projects to environmental, community, economic, for the Corporation’s mining sites safety as well as environmental and evaluate their risks in terms legal, and reputation issues. fully cover health and safety, the territorial factors, from the start of the of occupational health, safety, the Each area is covered by a corporate environment, the territory, and the planning phase. environment, community, and territory, structure that oversees the community. throughout all stages of the investment implementation of control mechanisms As these activities involve direct cycle. This involves review by experts and corresponding action plans. All our divisions possess current contact with diverse communities, in each field. closure plans, approved by the this aspect is incorporated throughout We comply strictly with all applicable authority since 2015. We have also all project stages (planning, regulations, making use of internal constituted guarantees to the Chilean implementation, and closure). systems and tools, management State covering compliance with standards for workplace safety and the closure commitments of our the environment, and a community operations, for a total value of US$ 1.06 management model. billion across the corporation. A new outlook in Sustainability 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 21 TRACEABLE COPPER We formulated a traceability initiative with the objective of integrating, consolidating, and visualizing the relevant aspects for the different stakeholders across copper value chain in terms of responsible sourcing, identifying eight socio-environmental and governance aspects that give rise to 75 quantitative and qualitative indicators. These indicators were defined in harmony with the responsible consumption and production criterion of the UN Sustainable Development Goals, which sets out to integrate sustainability into the activities and work of mining, showcasing the impact of each item of raw materials and supplies in ESG variables, promoting efforts to ensure more efficient usage of these inputs and the reduction of any gaps detected. In this way, we set ourselves the ambitious target of attaining traceability for the entirety of Codelco’s production by 2020, a goal far higher than the 5% that we initially declared, although we retain every hope of achieving this lofty ideal as today we possess traceability indicators for the Gabriela Mistral, Ministro Hales, Radomiro Tomic, and Andina divisions, accounting for tracing of 49.5% of our production. CODELCO PRODUCTION 2019 49.5% OF PRODUCTION TRACED A new outlook in Sustainability 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 22 MATERIAL TOPICS 2019 (102-47) This Sustainability Report covers our actions in 2019, in accordance with the following 15 material topics. See the annexes for more information on the methodology used in this document. OCCUPATIONAL EMPLOYMENT LABOR HEALTH AND SAFETY RELATIONS HUMAN DIVERSITY ETHICS RIGHTS AND INCLUSIVITY & INTEGRITY EFFICIENT PRODUCTIVITY STRATEGIC COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND MANAGEMENT INNOVATION AND INDIGENOUS PEOPLES SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT COMPLIANCE TO THE LOCAL ECONOMY AND COMPLIANCE WATER CLIMATE MINING SITE RESOURCES CHANGE CLOSURE A new outlook in Sustainability 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 23 Highlighted case: In the field of sustainability, Codelco is apprised of its challenges, particularly care for the environment, which forms part of the change in organizational THE TRANSFORMATION PROCESS culture that we need to attain in core areas of our activities, like emissions, AND SUSTAINABILITY water resources, waste products, and tailings deposits. We will promote the usage of clean energy in future contracts, to attain a positive impact on business results. We will also continue our efforts to integrate our operations In late-2019, under the leadership of our Executive Chairman Octavio with the communities, to better understand their requirements, and meet Araneda, we launched what is considered to be the most significant them. organizational and operational transformation process seen at Codelco in recent years. In this framework, in 2019 the basis was established for refocusing our Sustainability Master Plan and determining new medium and long-term This transformation will allow us to become more competitive and to goals, seeking improvements in impact reduction and generation of position ourselves as a Corporation in the second quartile of costs, assuring innovative initiatives that make real-world contributions to sustainability, to financing and development for our structural projects while also attaining be brough about through a process of specification, planning, approval by a 20% saving in the portfolio of investments that we develop between 2019 the senior management, and deployment in 2020. and 2028. To achieve this, we seek to maintain Codelco’s contribution to the country for a further 50 years, with increased surpluses (compared to 2018) by USD 1 billion per year starting in 2021, and USD 400 million in 2020. One of the core objectives of this process is to become a world-class company in terms of sustainability, transparency and probity, innovation, and development of people, so we set out on a process of cultural change, transformation in the first person, for everyone working at the Corporation, focusing on shared objectives and purpose, and recognizing the contribution of every relevant behavior and goal as vital for attaining implementation of our business strategy. Report presentation 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 24 Priority number one: Occupational health and safety OUR GOAL Occupational health and safety constitute one of the fundamental strands of our Corporate management. This is why we will generate plans to strengthen our health and safety management, as part of efforts to reach our goal of 0 fatalities. Report A new outlook Priority #1: Team Efficient, Committed Culture of Communities Annexes presentation in Sustainability occupational Codelco competitive to the planet innovation and territories health & safety and ethical Priority #1: occupational health & safety 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 25 128 0.7 Severity Rate Frecuency Rate Indices include both employees and contractor workers 100% more than 500,000 Of collaborators Observations made are represented by a health to detect safe and risky behaviors and safety peer committee (CPHS) 15 3,884 Technical boards on safety Corrective action plans JUNE 2019 We deeply regret the occurrence of an accident with fatal consequences at the División El Teniente Pilar Norte mine in June 2019. Our management approach (103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Respect for life and human dignity forms a core and programs operating throughout all our value at Codelco, so we are always seeking to keep work centers, like the SIGO Management our workers safe and protected as they perform System, which harmonizes occupational their different workplace activities. health and safety management across the Corporation. Protection for all of our workers, both employees and contractors, stands at the heart of our Workplace Health, Safety, and Operational Risks Policy. This is implemented through specific plans Priority #1: occupational health & safety 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 26 Our performance Occupational health and safety (403-1, 403-2, 403-5, 403-8) At Codelco, we have a very important goal: 0 by our Corporation. In 2020 we will launch the Additionally, monthly Corporate reflection meetings • This information is reported on a monthly basis fatalities and 0 occupational illnesses. To that end, process to achieve international certification for our are held by the Executive Chairman, and since by the Corporate Occupational Health and we maintain a Management System for Workplace Management System. November they have taken the form of symposiums, Safety Department, and sent to all work centers. Health and Safety and Operational Risks (SIGO). with the participation of Codelco’s vice-presidents, This system applies to all of our operations and all The principal results of SIGO, based on health and drawing together the concerns, suggestions, and Technical boards on working our workers, with evaluation of risks and hazards safety guidelines, are summarized in the following ideas submitted by the staff. as well as investigation into all incidents that arise preventive management indicators and activities: • 15 technical boards, which operate in different at our operations. BEHAVIOR OBSERVATIONS areas of competency, gather knowledge at the Leadership different work centers, generate synergies, In 2019 we undertook two compliance validation • In order to identify risky behaviors, provide timely and standardize regulations in specific areas processes for the commitments established in • Compliance level of 95% with the Safety feedback, and implement corrective actions at the linked to their specialty, which apply across all the SIGO Plan; verifications that were conducted Leadership Program for executives. company’s operations, performed by the workers divisions and the Projects Department. in June-July and November-December at all our themselves, who manage information using the work centers and at three of the Corporation’s • Compliance level of 97% with the program for Preventive Tools Management System (SGHP). • Two new technical boards have been formed, structural projects: Chuquicamata Subterránea, supervisors. covering the key areas of conveyor belts and Traspaso Andina, and Proyecto de Desarrollo • We conducted over 500,000 observations, ergonomics. El Teniente. The program has achieved overall Key activities include the continuation of work area detecting more than 4 million behaviors, of which compliance of 95%, thus supporting the preventive inspections, meetings of the Senior Council with 98.8% fell within the “safe” category, and 1.2% actions undertaken contractor companies, and dialog held with workers were classed as “risky”. on-site. Priority #1: occupational health & safety 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 27 • These boards operate under a program that use of the Green Card and • Across the Corporation as a whole, we is evaluated twice per year, by means of SIGO reports on occupational health registered a total of 14,183 reports, mainly assessments. and safety associated with fatality control standards, level 1 (N-1) findings, and critical risks; Training • Use of the Green Card mechanism has been 95% of these have since been closed. consolidated as a valuable preventive tool • The Supervisors’ Workshops Program, which started in 2018, emphasized investigation into incidents. Within this framework, we undertook that allows workers to decide not to start or to stop a specific task, whenever the control systems established in the procedures are not Health and Safety Peer Committees 100% two courses, one for each Operations Department implemented. (403-4) (North and South-Central), providing training for 47 During this period, the certification process Of collaborators are persons. • This year, we recorded almost 13,500 cases of began for the committees at our divisions represented by a Health Green Card usage. and Projects VP, relating to delegated and Safety Peer Committee • We also structured a new Corporate Occupational administration (which is currently under (CPHS). Health and Safety Induction Course, including • Occupational health and safety reports constitute implementation at the divisions), as well as in-person preparation and training as well as new a source of information and learning to focus other Corporate bodies, in accordance with content in our Corporate e-learning platform. control mechanisms relating to fatality control Law No. 16,744 (the corresponding levels are standards, workplace health standards, and certified). • The Training Program for Workers with Low critical risks. Work Experience attained 90% compliance, in accordance with the results of the SIGO 2019 Corporate evaluation process. Corrective actions and lessons learned from incidents • We recorded 102 high-potential incidents in In 2019 we organized an annual meeting of Health and Safety Peer Committees the SGHP (by its spanish acronym) which were (ECOPAR) in Calama, hosted by the Projects Department, which is in charge of completely investigated. • We generated 3,884 corrective action plans, which 2019 Chuquicamata Subterránea. The event was attended by the Executive Chairman, who highlighted the role and the importance of participation in these committees for Codelco’s transformation. were registered in the Corporate learning system. • We issued an instruction on “handling and learning from high-potential incidents”. Priority #1: occupational health & safety 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 28 Accident Rates: The lowest ever (403-9) In 2019 we mourned the occurrence of Data on workplace safety, for employees and contractor workers, by year an accident leading to a fatality, which took place in June at División El Teniente. Total of Accidents Accident Severity Days lost Year Fatalities Following this deeply regrettable event, Accidents with Time Lost Frecuency Rate Rate of Accidents (*) Codelco has reaffirmed its commitment to Employees eradication of fatalities and the promotion of 2017 213 34 0.9 NA 3,558 2 a zero fatalities mindset, to protect the lives of all its workers. 2018 202 40 1.1 436 16,242 2 2019 180 36 1.08 325 11,081 1 Our total accident rate (for employees and Contractor personnel contractor workers) stood at 0.70, while the total severity rate (for employees and 2017 647 84 0.8 NA 3,963 0 contractor workers) attained an index of 2018 623 82 0.7 179 19,522 2 128. These are the lowest rates recorded in our Corporation’s history, and met the goals 2019 666 71 0.58 73 8,936 0 established for this period. (*) Article 2 Part G of Supreme Decree 67 defines days lost to workplace accidents in the following way: Comprises days lost to accidents caused by or linked to work subject to subsidy payment, regardless of whether this was paid in the month in question, including carry-over. In view of this definition, for the 2019 period the totals include days lost to accidents that took place in previous years, in the form of days carried over. FRECUENCIA DE INCIDENTES INCIDENT FRECUENCY RATE 2017 2018 2019 Incident frequency rate 0.9 1.1 0.7 Incident Frequency Rate Reference Value (Mining Industry Sonami) 1.2 1.1 1.1 Priority #1: occupational health & safety 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 29 Health and Hygiene at workplace (403-3, 403-6, 403-10) In the field of occupational health, we In the field of noise exposure, we updated operational and health & safety mechanisms, IT platform: one to control access to these strengthened control over risk factors and agents previous studies in line with the occupational as necessary to avoid internal exposure to this substances, and another for self-management affecting health, enhancing annual plans for noise exposure protocol (Prexor) and risk agent. by contractor companies at all projects and implementation and maintenance of control performed an internal benchmarking study for work sites of our Corporation. Furthermore, we mechanisms at emission or generation sites, existing noise sources and control systems, We enhanced our management of hazardous prepared a new version of the internal regulations definition of five-year plans for the 2020-2025 as a step towards launching an optimization substances with two new audits, performed by for radiological protection, incorporating aspects period to optimize reduction of exposure to process. an external body, for projects to attain adaptation relating to emergencies. silica, noise, and arsenic, for both employees to Supreme Decree 43 on “Storage of hazardous and contractor personnel. In this context we Meanwhile, we updated our internal oversight substances” and radiological protection at the completed Codelco Corporate Standard NCC -44 and control regulation for arsenic exposure, divisions and the Projects Department. Here, we “Requirements for eradication of silicosis”. specifying control measures, including some implemented two new modules in the existing Priority #1: occupational health & safety 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 30 In the field of occupational health, we signed mutual agreements with employers and the Instituto de Seguridad Laboral (ISL) for a “homologation agreement” for compatible health, thus attaining uniformity in procedures and criteria for assessments of Codelco employees and contractor personnel. Another key attainment during the period was the optimization of medical care for workers, including both employees and contractor personnel, at site medical facilities, through an agreement between the inter-mutual bodies. All of our work centers feature primary care facilities, where employees and contractor workers can obtain referrals to the applicable health system. In the field of ergonomics, we updated the status of regulatory compliance for work-related upper-body musculoskeletal disorders (TMERT by its spanish acronym) and usage of the load handling manual (MMC by its spanish acronym), with the objective of optimizing adherence to suitable planning for correcting shortfalls. Meanwhile, the Occupational Illness Classification Commission, as defined by instructions issued by the Office of the Superintendent of Social Security, held monthly meetings with the Codelco delegated administration (SATEP), classifying all cases that were presented. Priority #1: occupational health & safety 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 31 Health and safety management for Contractors and subcontractors (403-7) We develop the management of contractor In accordance with the SIGO 2019 Activity and the Projects Department for the North We also included preventive management as part of companies with the participation of professionals Plan, we conduct monthly audits with quarterly and South-Central Operations Departments, the biannual SIGO 2019 audit process, with overall at applicable administrative bodies, as consolidation to explore SSO performance at disseminating work directives for 2019. compliance rating 95%. established under Law No. 16,744, which provide contractor companies and at our divisions and advisory services and control over specific Projects Department. In line with Codelco’s transformation process, we activities linked to legal compliance and the have reviewed and updated the health and safety obligations established under the Corporation’s Activities planned for the year include a regulations, and launched a study to evaluate Special Regulations on Occupational Health and workshop that was held in the first six months, the impact of safety activities on productivity Safety (RESSO). with RESSO leaders at the different divisions for contractor companies, with results to be delivered during 2020. Priority #1: occupational health & safety 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 32 Highlighted case: Frequency Rate: Downward trend In 2019 we maintained our downward trend in this parameter, attaining a A decade of effort, frequency rate of 0.70, the lowest in the past decade. Best results 2019 2.25 Within the framework of the transformation process that we began in 2019, it is 2.00 vital to reaffirm our principal value: safety for all the workers who participate in our 1.75 operations. 1.50 1.25 The core purposes of our Management System for Workplace Health and Safety 1.00 0.7 and Operational Risks (SIGO) include the eradication of fatalities at our work sites, 0.75 for both employees and contractor personnel. In order to attain this objective, 0.50 all of our senior management, executives, supervisors, and workers have made 0.25 a commitment to creating, maintaining, and continuously improving a safe and 0.00 healthy working environment. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Principal results in 2019 Severity Rate: the best of all time Despite the occurrence of a deeply regrettable accident in 2019, our drive to work frequency rate Accidents with time lost / on reducing our accident rates remains strong. In 2019 we attained a reduction employees and third party personnel Millions of person-hours worked compared to the previous year, attaining a severity rate of 128, the lowest recorded in the Corporation’s history. Participative Corporate safety reflection With the attendance of Codelco’s Executive Chairman, vice-presidents, and 500 frequency rate general managers, since 2019 our Corporate Safety Reflection meetings have 400 employees been held each month in a new format, comprising direct dialog between and third party executives and workers, including both employees and workers at collaborator 300 personnel companies, in simultaneous events at each of the Corporation’s divisions. Days lost and rate All of the reflection meetings held in 2019 brought discussion of safety 200 128 /Million person-hours concerns and best practices, helping to strengthen this value with an effort worked involving everyone who works at Codelco. 100 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Priority #1: occupational health & safety 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 33 TEAM CODELCO OUR GOAL One of our priorities is to develop people who contribute to our organization each day with their knowledge and experience. To achieve this, we promote learning and talent, we recognize diversity and inclusivity, and we work towards a cultural transformation amongst our workforce guided by innovation and operational excellence, with deep-rooted respect for human rights. Report A new outlook Priority #1: Team Efficient, Committed Culture of Communities Annexes presentation in Sustainability occupational Codelco competitive to the planet innovation and territories health & safety and ethical Team Codelco 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 34 (401-1) 16,726 10.2% direct female personnel collaborators across the Corporation 1st major state-owned mining company to attain CERTIFICATION AT ALL OUR WORK CENTERS UNDER CHILEAN STANDARD 3262: GENDER EQUALITY AND RECONCILIATION OF THE WORK, FAMILY ANS PERSONAL LIFE 11.6% 99% Rotation of workers are members of different unions (not including professionals) Team Codelco 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 35 Our management approach (103-1,103-2, 103-3) Codelco’s human resources strategy To transform Codelco’s culture and Maximizing Codelco’s economic value and its contribution to the competencies, with an approach based on the state in the long term, in a competitive and sustainable way, through Corporation’s projects and operations, and to copper mining maximize our company’s economic value and long-term sustainability, in 2019 we launched our new Human Resources Strategy for 2019-2022, comprising 4 pillars and three Transforming Codelco’s core enablers. culture and competencies, with an approach based on the Corporation’s projects and operations, to maximize its economic value and long-term sustainability 1 2 3 4 Talent Talent-Value Cultural Work Processes Link Transformation productivity and Management organizational We also possess policies and associated Ensuring that simplification management systems that help us adhere Codelco’s “DNA” Ensuring we have Endowing Codelco with the right people for a culture that effectively Optimizing the to our Corporate identity and values: is present in the roles that supports the operational Codelco’s current processes for: generate 80% of excellence model and organization and • Codelco Business Code of Conduct a) Recruitment value. strategy, attaining strong staff to enhance and selection employee involvement productivity and b) performance • Corporate Policy for Gender Diversity and and effectively cash flow. management Reconciliation of the Work, Family, and promoting diversity and c) Capacity Personal Life inclusivity. development. • Balance Succession System LABOR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE, HUMAN RESOURCES ORGANIZATION, A RELATIONS B IT SYSTEM C AND HEALTH INSTITUTION MANAGEMENT Team Codelco 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 36 Our Performance Employer of excellence (102-8, 202-2, 401-1) We have a highly trained team that in 2019 amounted to 16,726 persons, working across nine departments and divisions that include our headquarters, the Projects Department, and the General Auditing Department. Recruitment, selection, and mobility Department, Ventanas, Ministro Hales, and When setting remunerations within Codelco, Meanwhile, in 2019 the ratio between the Chuquicamata. basic salaries depend on a worker’s position, standard starting salary and the minimum wage We are enhancing current productivity levels and responsibilities, competencies, and experience, not in Chile stood at 146% for men and 148% for preparing our workforce for the challenges of the These initiatives reflect our strong commitment their gender. women. coming Corporate transformation. To this end, to continuous improvement, ensuring that we are focusing on selection and induction of the all our processes feature transparency, best technicians, professionals, executives, and traceability, and equality of opportunities. Average standard starting salary by sex operators, who possess the characteristics that and difference to the local minimum wage we have specified to attain our objectives. Selection of people to hold executive positions at Codelco is based solely on an analysis As a result, 781 people joined our Corporation. of their competencies and merits. 97.7% of Women Men In line with our objectives and challenges as these people are Chilean nationals (5 foreign part of the new Human Resources Strategy, we nationals and 209 Chileans). Here, the term formed our Integrated Recruitment and Selection “local” refers to the principal site of operations Minimum Starting Salary at Codelco CLP 746,112 CLP 739,970 Center, which meets the need to create a singular in Chile. recruitment model with high standards, featuring new technologies and ensuring that talented Remunerations workers are attracted within suitable time scales. (102-38, 202-1, 405-2) Minimum Wage in Chile, 2019 CLP 301,000 The ratio between the average total annual In 2019 this system was incorporated at 50% compensation of the best-paid person at of our work centers: Headquarters, Salvador, Codelco and the median compensation is 14.8, Gabriela Mistral, Radomiro Tomic, and El Teniente. based on moving average annual payroll for Average Salary Ratio 148% 146% In 2020 we will consolidate the operation of our October 2018 to September 2019. Versus Starting Salary Integrated Recruitment and Selection Center, by scaling processes at Andina, the Projects Team Codelco 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 37 Additionally, the average salary ratio for female and male area directors and managers stands at 82.8% and 87.7%, respectively. That is: • On average, female managers earn 82.8% of the The work, family, and personal life balance income earned by their male peers. • On average, female directors earn 87.7% of the Codelco, equality of opportunities, diversity, gender equity, contribution to achieving business goals, productivity, and income earned by their male peers. and the work, family, and personal life balance constitute sustainability for the organization. essential principles in human resources management and labor Benefits for a team of excellence practices. These principles also stand as a clear expression As a Corporation, we have spearheaded initiatives that of the company’s commitment to respect for fundamental promote this balance, taking on equal responsibility for The benefits agreed in collective negotiations vary at human rights, and a way to help defend and promote these childcare and meeting the needs of persons who require each operation center in accordance with collective rights all based on our firm belief that mixed teams provide a special care. bargaining on the part of the corresponding unions, and are not related to type of work shift. It should be noted that, by law, workers on fixed contracts are provided with all mandatory benefits, such as monthly wages, meal allowances, statutory bonuses, and vacations. Other benefits are also provided, depending on the agreement reached at each work center, including education bursaries for workers and their children, housing loans, departure social security contributions, and economic aid on death. Codelco has arranged voluntary redundancy plans with a focus on social security solutions, based on the organization’s personnel needs. Meanwhile, retirement conditions are based mainly on health and pension benefits. Team Codelco 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 38 Continuous Improvement This year we laid the groundwork for a new Training Model that facilitates transformation. Specifically, this new model places emphasis on providing strategic guidelines and enhancing productivity, both amongst our workers and for our organization. The first milestone in this initiative was reached by defining training as based on three core elements: diversity, values, and technology. Team Codelco 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 39 High-Potential Graduates talent and leadership traits for value This program sets out to attract and develop early talent, and is oriented In 2019 we launched a new initiative called “Talent for Value”, which towards the challenges of productivity, sustainability, and innovation, in line allowed the identification of the key positions and areas that add economic with the future of mining. Its objective is to constitute a tool that empowers value at our work centers, ensuring that the people who hold these our ongoing transformation process, ensuring the recruitment of young positions have the competencies, knowledge, and experience required for professionals with high potential who have what it takes to provide leadership optimal performance. This initiative allows us to maintain a direct link to at Codelco. business activities, linking talent to the key value areas of our organization. During 2019, we worked on strategic coordination with the Operational Excellence and Innovation Area, to promote learning amongst professionals Our specific goals for this program through on-site work experience and development of innovation projects are to identify the highest impact that set out to add value at work centers. Furthermore, with the goal of initiatives for business objectives, empowering a more integrated perspective amongst professionals, we held either by increasing production or our first “Diploma Course on Business, Innovation, and Leadership in Mining”, by reducing costs. a joint initiative with the Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile, with the participation of the Corporation’s executives. Team Codelco 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 40 New Tools For performance evaluation In 2019, within the framework of Codelco’s ongoing transformation, we continued to strengthen the component of “how” things are done at our company. To that end, we developed and tested new 360º feedback to all vice-presidents and general built entirely by the Corporation’s expended performance evaluation tools and methodologies, managers at work sites. Executive Committee (Executive Chairman, ViceThis will be how such as 360º surveys and validation committees, Presidents, and General Managers), and lays the which addressed key behaviors and competencies This process hinged on the incorporation of the foundations for building a new culture that is performance is that we need for our organizational transformation. “New Codelco Seal of Leadership”, which sets out modeled on the vision of the organization’s key to enhance key competencies like “developing leadership figures. evaluated at our These new forms of performance management were people, teamwork, connecting with a common piloted for all executives at División Radomiro Tomic, purpose, aspiring to more, and continuous We also conducted our standard assessment for organization during División El Teniente, and the Human Resources improvement”, while also responding to current our vice-presidents and managers. Department. We then extended the application of and future business challenges. This seal was 2020. Team Codelco 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 41 Labor In view of the transformation plan discussed above, in 2019 we harmonized our labor relations with the strategic pillars of Human Relations Resources, which are based on: • Promoting and emphasizing dialog and agreements that empower longterm sustainability and business transformation processes. UNionization • Stimulating the personal and workplace and collective negotiations development of workers, and our (102-41, MM4) company’s competitiveness, based on 93% of the personnel contribution to employability and quality Our company has a high level of unionization of life for workers, creating stronger labor amongst its workforce, and we respect the with indefinite contracts are union members. links. guarantees and facilities established under the Labor Code regarding union organizations and their • Deploying initiatives to strengthen the leaders. direct relationship with supervisors and workers, allowing enhancements in commitment to the strategy, and thus garnering value for the organization. • Ensuring that labor relations teams generate collaborative development links to facilitate alignment with business priorities. • Systematizing and incorporating management technologies in labor relations processes. This year we held collective negotiations with eight unions, two of which were in advance, and the remaining six were on schedule. Team Codelco 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 42 The final agreements were reached following maximum possible effort, in line with the challenges that affect the work centers. (402-1) As established in Law No. 20,392 of 2009, two worker representatives at our Corporation, selected by the President of the Republic, form part of Codelco’s Board. One acts in representation of the Federation of Copper Workers (FTC by its spanish acronym), and the other acts in representation of the National Copper Supervisors’ Union Association (ANSCO by its spanish acronym) and the Federation of Copper Supervisors (FESUC by its spanish acronym), jointly. Any modification to our organization or management agreed by the Board is therefore reported to the workers by a trusted primary source. 2019 In 2019 we experienced a strike at our División Chuquicamata, lasting for two weeks. Team Codelco 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 43 Diversity and inclusivity Diversity on our team (405-1) We at Codelco hold a firm belief that valuing diversity, promoting openness to different ways workplace and sexual harassment, gender violence, and domestic violence; and 0.5% 8.8% 10.2% of our staff are of our staff are women staff AT of thinking, and creating inclusive environments institutionalizing gender management. FOREIGNERS aged over 60* CORPORATE LEVEL 2.1% are key elements for cultivating stimulating above industry average working environments that are well-disposed Codelco’s Corporate commitment to to meet the multiple challenges of 21st century respect and diversity is firmly rooted in the mining. Corporation’s Charter of Values. Codelco (*) Not including persons reaching the age of 60. has also taken on a commitment to gender According to data from the Ministry of Mining, equality in the Mining Industry Decalogue for During the period, the proportion of women for 2019. This figure is 2.1 percentage at a national level the industry is the second Incorporation of Women and Reconciliation, of in the Corporation’s staff attained 10.2%, points above the industry average. lowest economic activity for participation the Ministry of Mining; in the Strategic Pact and breaking two digits, which allowed us to amongst women. We at Codelco want to help adherence to the Gender Parity Initiative. meet the proposed goal of gender balance reverse this situation, and are working to bring more women into decision-making positions. During the year we attained certification for 10 of our work centers under Chilean Standard We have been operating a Gender Diversity NCH3262, on Gender Equality and the INSPIRA CODELCO Policy since 2017, helping us to make headway Personal, Family, and Work Life Balance, issued in this area. The policy is built on 10 principles, by Aenor and INN. Additionally, seven of our This year we launched Inspira Codelco, a male-female networking program covering the company’s commitment to work centers received the Iguala seal issued by that sets out to allow Codelco professionals and female engineering students concepts that include: adhering to applicable Sernameg. at a number of Chilean universities to form links, meet each other, and build laws and regulations; attaining equality of effective networks. This initiative sets out to make an impact in visualization opportunities and equity, to create conditions The Women in Mining Chile (WIM) Award and closeness of pathways to follow, setting the way to increase the number that reduce the divides between men and for Equity and Inclusivity that we received in of women joining our company and the mining industry by motivating young women; promoting gender diversity throughout 2019 further strengthens our commitment to women to take the lead in the future of mining. all human resources management processes; diversity. bolstering an inclusive and collaborative culture; helping to balance work, family, and personal life; overseeing maternity and paternity rights; preventing Team Codelco 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 44 Human Rights (412-3) formal commitment Additionally, the process for contracting The Codelco Business Code of Conduct further services at Codelco includes an explicit establishes that the Corporation’s workers must We at Codelco understand that the mining requirement to adhere to national regulations, adhere to both domestic and international legal industry cycle has the potential to affect human including protection for human rights, albeit regulations linked to prohibition against using rights, and that the risks and impacts inherent in with no specific clauses covering this topic. forced or coercive labor, or exploitation of child our operations are now being referred to in these (407-1) labor, in line with the principles established in terms. We at Codelco adhere to Chilean labor law, the United Nations Convention on the Rights of as well as a number of International Labour the Child and International Labour Organization Our commitment to manage these risks includes Organization (ILO) conventions ratified by (ILO) Convention 138, on the minimum working minimizing impacts and helping to bolster Chile, such as Convention 87 on Freedom of age. the strengthening and empowerment of our Association and Protection of the Right to workers, contractors, suppliers, and neighboring Organize, and Convention 98 on the Right to All of our management actions are aligned communities. We are committed to respecting Organize and Collective Bargaining. We posses with the provisions of the Corporate Human the right, cultures, customs, and values of a Business Code of Conduct based on Resources Management Policy, which applies the people and organizations that work on international treaties, laws, standards, and throughout the Corporation. our behalf, and those who are affected by our regulations that the Corporation’s workers are activities. mandated to respect and adhere to. In accordance with the United Nations Guiding Human Rights Risk Management Principles, an organization’s starting point (408-1, 409-1) for human rights needs to be a policy-level Across the Corporation, we possess a process commitment to respecting human rights. to identify, prevent, mitigate, and ameliorate This is a priority for Codelco, and during potential impacts on human rights, as an 2019 we worked to draw up a new Corporate ongoing process. These are associated with Sustainability Policy that contains specific existing processes such as Environmental commitments for this area, which is set to go Impact Assessments or Investment Project into implementation in 2020. Risk Assessments (NCC24). Team Codelco 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 45 One of the priority elements relates to principles that allow intellectual skills and Complaint mechanisms stakeholders in a fast and efficient way, by policy and/or procedure formation process capacities to be strengthened, basic attitudes allowing complaints to be escalated and assuring emphasis on human rights issues, specified in and procedures necessary for training, and We operate two principal mechanisms for internal strict response schedules, to build trust and avoid the induction program; code of conduct, gender specialization of private security guards, to be and external stakeholders submit guidance on conflict. diversity, and work-family-personal life balance; applied in the performance of their functions. In issues linked to human rights: harassment and violence; and fundamental rights. 2019, 100% of security personnel received this As part of the action plan derived from the due Training programs in this field include: Gender accreditation. 1. Internal complaint mechanism: process diligence process, we are incorporating the diversity, Human Relations, Fundamental Rights, operated via the Ethicspoint portal, a complaint various recommendations to each complaints Reconciliation, and Harassment, among others. Regular ongoing training for our security channel available on www.codelco.com. This tool mechanism, with the goal of ensuring factors that (410-1) personnel is fundamental for the Corporate allows both anonymous and non-anonymous include: legitimacy, accessibility, predictability, Each Division of Codelco operates an Industrial Industrial Protection Department, so in 2020 reporting of events that may constitute breaches of equity, transparency, and compatibility with other Protection Area, tasked with compliance with Codelco plans to conduct a specific training legal regulations, policies, procedures, the Code of rights. applicable regulations on its activities. In this process on Human Rights, to add to the Conduct, or any other regulation applicable to the context, all security personnel (internal and technical knowledge and skills in which these Corporation and its subsidiaries, workers, relations external) must meet accreditation standards and persons have already received training. In with contractors and/or third parties, assuring attend training course OS.10 for private security December 2019 the Corporate Procedure confidentiality. guards, run by the Police Force, which includes for Apprehension and/or Detention was topics such as public security legislation, general prepared and approved, built on mandatory 2. Socio-Environmental Complaints and Human Rights issues relating to the use of force, consideration of Human Rights and in line Suggestions System (SRSS): this is a mechanism and orientation in areas such as the ethical with the international principles of the ICMM. that sets out to address concerns raised by Team Codelco 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 46 Highlighted case: Diversity and inclusivity Results 2019 an important part of our transformation in personnel development • First major state-owned mining company to have all its work centers certified under Chilean Standard 3262 on Gender Equality and the WorkOne of the four pillars of Codelco’s Human Resources Strategy established in Family-Personal Life Balance. 2019 is management of our transformation, setting out to ensure that Codelco’s culture effectively supports the operational excellence model and strategy, • The Ministry of Women and Gender Equality awarded us the Iguala Seal attaining strong employee involvement and effectively promoting diversity and of Reconciliation for seven of our divisions, where training programs are inclusivity. implemented that focus on empowering female leadership. “Increasing female participation is an essential element of the Corporation’s • During the period, the proportion of women in the Corporation’s staff ongoing cultural transformation process. We need to introduce different attained 10.2%, 2.1% over the industry average, which allowed us to meet the dynamics, different leadership modes, ways of understanding, of relating proposed gender balance goal for 2019 to each other, of agreeing and building a different Codelco, leveraged with a diversity of outlooks. We consider it vital to be able to carry on placing women • Codelco received the 2019 Equity and Inclusivity Award from Women in leadership positions, and thus helping to build a better Codelco for all of our in Mining Chile (WIM), an organization that promotes and supports the workers, for their families, and for the country.” Marcelo Álvarez, Vice-President development of women in the mining industry. of Human Resources. • In 2019 we launched Inspira Codelco, a male-female networking program “Today at Codelco, we face the major challenge of managing to implement our that sets out to allow Codelco professionals and female engineering business strategy, and so linking talent to value is key. Based on this logic, students at a number of universities to form links, meet each other, and build diversity is a concept far broader than gender, and inducting new generations, effective networks, as part of our efforts to increase the number of women at from other countries, from other industries will allow us to attain business best our company and in the industry as a whole, making them leading figures in practices, and in this area we will be able to empower our teams and carry on the future of mining. attracting and developing the talent that will allow us to take the company where we plan to go, in terms of business results and positioning in both Within this framework, we at Codelco are continuing along a consistent the industry and the market.” Mary Carmen Llano, Strategic Human Capital road map to strengthen inclusion of women at the company and their career Manager. development, guaranteeing positive, specific, and immediate actions to advance in gender equality and inclusivity. Report presentation 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 47 EFFICIENT, COMPETITIVE AND ETHICAL OUR GOAL Codelco is currently undergoing a deep process of transformation that will carry the Corporation into a long-term productive and sustainable future. Report A new outlook Priority #1: Team Efficient, Committed Culture of Communities Annexes presentation in Sustainability occupational Codelco competitive to the planet innovation and territories health & safety and ethical EFFICIENT, COMPETITIVE AND ETHICAL 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 48 EFFICIENT, COMPETITIVE AND ETHICAL Our transformation plan drives us to achieve the highest possible performance on a sustained basis, through operational excellence and proper maintenance. In order to achieve this, our business strategy seeks to improve productivity, lower costs and additional profits to sustain the significant investment portfolio contemplated for the US$ 1,340 BUSINESS WITH forthcoming years, while incorporating sustainability throughout all our activities. IN EARNINGS 2,813 SUPPLIERS DURING 2019 Likewise, we are consistently seeking out more robust mechanisms to eradicate corruption, prevent conflicts of interest, ensure due accountability, raise our standards and 9 596 guarantee proper actions. DIRECTORS* COMPLAINTS THROUGH THE ETHICS HOTLINE IN 2019 Our corporate governance is key in the transformation process that we are undertaking and aims to lead our business towards being * On October 28, 2019 it was reported that Ignacio Briones resigned from his position as director of the Corporación even more efficient, innovative and profitable. Nacional del Cobre de Chile. In accordance with the provisions set forth in Decree Law No. 1,350, the President of the Republic must appointment the new board of directors member, which will materialize after December 31st. EFFICIENT, COMPETITIVE AND ETHICAL 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 49 OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH Over the last five years, we have implemented a (103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 102-16) portfolio of initiatives to strengthen compliance Codelco’s new strategic business plan, presented practices and reinforce business rules. Today, more during 2019, establishes clear guidelines to improve than ever, we are faced with the challenges of this productivity, lower costs and increase its profits transformation. We believe that our efforts should be that will support the finances that the significant redoubled to help install a culture of integrity, which investment portfolio contemplated for the years to is an essential element for an organization that come. seeks to maximize efficiency and productivity. We are convinced that our business must be Our Charter Code of Values governs the company´s developed under the principles of ethics and integrity performance and workers´ actions. These values are: which, in addition to sustainability, are key drivers of the transformation process that our company is undergoing. RESPECT FOR HUMAN LIFE AND DIGNITY RESPONSIBILITY PERSONAL TEAMWORK AND COMMITMENT SKILLS EXCELLENCE INNOVATION SUSTAINABLE IN EXECUTION DEVELOPMENT EFFICIENT, COMPETITIVE AND ETHICAL 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 50 Our performance EFFICIENT MANAGEMENT AND PRODUCTIVITY We understand the challenges that 2020 will bring. This is why our rigorous strategic plan seeks to strengthen Codelco´s management CHALLENGES INVOLVED IN CODELCO’S EXTENSIVE TRANSFORMATION in the face of current global economic trends involving the trade disputes between China and In December 2019, we launched the most important operational and organizational transformation campaign in recent years. the United States, which influences the copper price volatility. What are the objectives of this transformation? The aforementioned trade issues, in addition to • Position Codelco in the second quartile of costs; that is, place • Maintain and reinforce austerity. Save 20% on the total investments several operational, labor and climate-related ourselves in the group of 50% of all companies with the lowest to be developed between 2019 and 2028, which will signify an factors, contributed to a drop in our annual costs, thereby ensuring the financing and development of our approximate savings of US$ 8 billion. production. projects, to be competitive and maintain Codelco’s contribution to Chile for another 50 years. • Become a company that sets a world standard in sustainability, transparency, integrity, innovation and people´s development. • Improve our profits by US$ 1 billion per year starting in 2021 and by US$ 400 million in 2020 (considering 2018 as the base year). EFFICIENT, COMPETITIVE AND ETHICAL 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 51 KEY FIGURES HOW WAS OUR PRODUCTION IN 2019? The drop in the in-house copper production is explained by different factors, the most important being the climatic events that PRE-TAX PROFIT occurred in February in the north of the country, labor strikes within Chuquicamata US $ 1,340 MILLION trade unions in May and operational and PRODUCTION maintenance issues at the Chuquicamata and Andina concentrators. EBIDTA MOLYBDENUM US $ 4,033 MILLION 22,353 fmt 7% less than 2018 CODELCO’S OWN PRODUCTION COMPARABLE PROFIT US $ 825 MILLION COPPER 1,588,299 fmt 5.3% less than 2018 2019 1,706,013 TOTAL PRODUCTION OF Codelco’s copper production FINE METRIC TONS OF COPPER in 2019 represented 29% of (INCLUDES OUR STAKE IN MINERA EL ABRA AND ANGLO AMERICAN SUR)2 COPPER the total copper production in Chile. Including contribu1,706,013 fmt1 1 tions from El Abra and Anglo 5.6 % less than 2018 American operations. CONTRIBUTION TO THE TREASURY $1 BILLION Note 1: fmt: fine metric tons of copper. Note 2: Total Copper Production includes Minera El Abra (of which Codelco has 49% ownership) and Anglo American Sur SA (of which Codelco has 20% ownership). EFFICIENT, COMPETITIVE AND ETHICAL 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 52 US$ 1,000 MILLION TO THE TREASURY CONTRIBUTION TO THE TREASURY Codelco contributed US$ 1 billion to the national treasury during 2019, with the following comparative detail: CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE STATE OF CHILE, IN MILLION US $ 2019 Taxes 71 Law No. 13,196 918 Dividends 0 National affiliates tax 11 Total 1,000 (102-45) For more information on our financial statements, please consult our Annual Report available at www.codelco.com. Our Financial Statements include all Codelco divisions as well Codelco as those of affiliates and associated companies. Likewise, our tax report can be reviewed on page Annual ReporT 173 of the Statement document. EFFICIENT, COMPETITIVE AND ETHICAL 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 53 IMPROVING OUR PERFORMANCE INDICATORS During 2019 we defined one single way to measure labor productivity across all company processes. STRUCTURAL PROJECTS This has allowed us to compare the results of our individual divisions and seek synergies and good practices between them. If in 2019 we develop, At Codelco, we are executing structural projects to extend the life Along with Chuquicamata Subterránea, Codelco is also define and approve the formulas that we will use in of our ore deposits for a further 50 years. We are also raising our building Traspaso Andina and the El Teniente development Codelco for this purpose, in 2020 we will be able to standards, increasing our productivity and maintaining the current project. disclose these figures so that people may propose levels at 1.7 million tons of fine copper per year. changes that allow them to improve their own In addition to these are three other projects that are daily indicators and, in this way, be able to make Chuquicamata Subterránea was the first of these projects to undergoing different evaluation or engineering stages: Rajo additional profits that as a Corporation we deliver be inaugurated in August 2019, making it the second largest Inca, Desarrollo Futuro Andina y RT Sulfuros Fase ii. to our owner the Chilean State. underground mine in Chile, technologically advanced and prepared for 21st century environmental and safety demands which will help extend the life of this division for 4 more decades. EFFICIENT, COMPETITIVE AND ETHICAL 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 54 GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED ECONOMIC VALUE (201-1) Our distributed economic value consists of operating costs that include wages and the procurement of goods, among others; this, in addition to interest payments and payments to the treasury. FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE (201-4) US $ 16.8 By law, as a state company, Codelco may receive financial contributions from the Chilean BILLION government for the performance of its activities. In February 2019, the state provided Codelco with US $ 400 million for a capital injection of GENERATED ECONOMIC VALUE US $ 1 billion, approved in 2018. With this state support, the 2014 Capitalization Act conclude, which reinforced Codelco with a US $ 16.9 total of US $ 2.8 billion. This considerable state support has allowed helped Codelco maintain control over its debt during these years, despite BILLION the high level of investments made. DISTRIBUTED ECONOMIC VALUE The retained economic value corresponds to US $ 108 million EFFICIENT, COMPETITIVE AND ETHICAL 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 55 our Given the importance of having large volumes of supplies, goods and services, it is essential to advanced in the segmentation of our suppliers, according to a methodology that considers SUPPLIERS maintain relationships of trust with our suppliers who several aspects. facilitate the tasks within our production centers, (102-9, 102-10, 203-2, 204-1 ) projects and investments. Therefore, procure our Also, during this period, Codelco registered supplies, goods and services (and evaluate our a record number of open tenders (91%), suppliers) in accordance with the principles of equity, while maintaining low levels or direct awards We maintained transparency and competitiveness defined by our (1.6%). This has fostered competitiveness at Corporate policy and current regulations. unprecedented levels in Codelco. 3,723 BUSINESS DEALINGS IN 2019 Suppliers that are selected should be technically, Moreover, we commenced the implementation 92.7% legally and financially capable of supplying Codelco of the digital payment statements on the online We conducted new negotiations with 2,813 suppliers during 2019 7.3% with all required goods and services in accordance Platform SAP SUS. This permits suppliers to Chilean Foreigners with Corporate policies. In this regard, it should be directly upload their payment statements to the nationals highlighted that during 2019, Codelco continued system and seeks to provide a more modern, the strengthening of the Corporate procurement efficient, traceable and auditable payment processes through consistent criteria and enhancing process. 658 LOCAL from each region including compliance, and business risk management. SUPPLIERS micro entrepreneurs or SMEs. Finally, it is worth mentioning that during this We consolidated several contractor background period there were no significant changes to our Total supplier spending amounted to declaration forms into one single format, incorporating supply chain. the option to declare the existence of any factor that US $ 5,750 MILLION* could influence, diminish business impartiality (or give the appearance thereof) such as the existence of New businesses with national suppliers reached 98.5% of the total private dealings with a Corporate executive. We also amount of new businesses specify the implementation of a new Corporate system for recording and evaluating supplier performance, $ 185.6 BILLION which provides us with data and updated indicators of a supplier’s market capabilities. Likewise, we have spent on local suppliers * Note: This figure includes long-term contracts for both energy and fuel supply. EFFICIENT, COMPETITIVE AND ETHICAL 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 56 CONTRACTOR AND SUBCONTRACTOR COMPANIES 2019 Contractor Staffing 2019 Operation and services workers 19,946 Investment workers* 32,672 Total staff 52,618 *Includes VP During 2019, there were no significant changes in In addition to this, in compliance with labor and the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or industry best practices, our compliance policy supply chain. strictly protects freedom of association, unions, (407-1) collective bargaining, and other labor rights of The protection of the basic rights of internal and our collaborating companies. third-party workers at our facilities is not only a legal duty, but also one of Codelco’s guiding principles enshrined in our Charter of Values: We assume with conviction that the life of each person, regardless of area / position, has the utmost value. We provide adequate and safe working conditions; placing selfcare first and protecting the safety of everyone who works with us. EFFICIENT, COMPETITIVE AND ETHICAL 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 57 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE To carry out our business strategy, it has become increasingly important to have a corporate governance and administration committed to strategic business planning and to raise our standards of integrity, management control and transparency to ensure the sustainability of Codelco. This is the only way we be able to meet the challenges of maintaining our contributions to the development of Chile, while projecting ourselves into the future. EFFICIENT, COMPETITIVE AND ETHICAL 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 58 (102-18, 102-19, 102-20, 102-23, 102-24, 102-31, 405-1) BOARD OF DIRECTORS To December 31, 2019 Ghassan Hernán de Raimundo Dayoub Pseli Solminihac Tampier Espinoza Concha Director Director Director Civil-Industrial Engineer Civil Construction Engineer Electrical Technician. Universidad de Chile Pontificia Universidad Mine Engineering Studies RUT: 14.695.762-5 Católica de Chile Universidad Técnica de RUT: 6.263.304-2 Antofagasta RUT 6.512.182-4 Juan Enrique Isidoro Paul Schiodtz Morales Jaramillo Palma Penco Obilinovich Director Director Director Civil Mining Engineer Business Administration Civil-Mechanical Engineer Universidad de Chile Pontificia Universidad Universidad de Santiago RUT: 5.078.923-3 Católica de Chile RUT: 7.170.719-9 RUT: 4.754.025-9 Juan Blas Tomic Benavides Errázuriz Feliú Director Chairman of the Board Civil-Industrial Engineer Universidad de Chile Business Administration RUT: 5.390.891-8 Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile RUT: 5.633.221-9 EFFICIENT, COMPETITIVE AND ETHICAL 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 59 We are a Chilean state-owned company The President of the Republic appoints, from controlled by a Board of Directors consisting the nine directors, the Chairman of the Board of of nine regular members with terms lasting Directors. four years, which are renewed periodically. All board members are appointed by the Pursuant to Chilean Law No. 20,392 from 2009, President of the Republic, according to the none of the nine board members may hold following arrangement: executive positions at the corporation while on the Board. • Three directors appointed by the President of the Republic. Among the main duties of our Board of Directors is to designate the CEO who is responsible • Two representatives of the company’s for executing the Board’s agreements and workers, selected by the President of Chile: supervising all the productive, administrative one selected from a shortlist submitted and financial activities of Codelco. Moreover, the by the Federation of Copper Workers and CEO holds the powers delegated by the Board another jointly selected from other shortlist and remains in the position for as long as submitted by the Federation of Copper he or she maintains the confidence of this Supervisors and the National Association collegiate body. In turn, the CEO appoints the of Copper Supervisors (“ANSCO”). vice presidents and general managers of the Codelco “divisions”, who are in direct charge • Four directors are selected by the of the management and operation of their President of Chile from a shortlist respective work centers. proposed for each seat drawn up by the (405-1) Civil Service Board, with the approval of Up to December 31, 2019, the Board of Directors four-fifths of its members, renewed in consisted of 8 members, all male. Senior pairs. management consisted of 21 people in total, of which one was female. Codelco is owned by the Chilean State and is administered by a board of directors consisting of nine regular members, who hold four year terms that are periodically renewable. EFFICIENT, COMPETITIVE AND ETHICAL 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 60 SENIOR MANAGEMENT To December 2019 María Francisca Mauricio Alejandro Domínguez Meza Barraza Gallardo Rivera Stambuk Acting Chief Legal Vice President of South Vice President of Counsel Lawyer Central Operations Administration & RUT: 10.728.455-9 Civil-mining Engineer Finance RUT: 9.467.943-5 Industrial Engineer RUT: 7.332.747-4 Gerhard Marcelo Antonio von Borries Harms Álvarez Jara Bonani Rizzolli Vice President of Projects Vice President Vice President of Mining Civil-mining Engineer of Human Resources Resources Management RUT: 6.372.610-9 Business and Development Administration Civil-mining Engineer RUT 13.026.507-3 RUT: 10.535.613-7 Octavio Roberto José Renato Araneda Osés Ecclefield Escobar Robles Becerra Fernández Baeza CEO Civil-mining Engineer Vice President of Vice President of Vice President of RUT: 8.088.228-9 Marketing Civil Productivity & Costs Corporate Affairs & Industrial Engineer Civil-mechanical Sustainability RUT: 10.643.229-5 Engineer Journalist RUT: 8.088.122-3 RUT: 10.871.675-4 EFFICIENT, COMPETITIVE AND ETHICAL 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 61 SENIOR MANAGEMENT To December 2019 Álvaro Lindor Nicolás Rodrigo García González Quiroga Bugueño Rivera Rodríguez Barrera Páez Vice President of Technology and Automation in Business General Manager General Manager General Manager Processes División Radomiro Tomic División Chuquicamata División Ministro Hales Civil-industrial Engineer Civil-mining Engineer Civil Industrial Engineer Civil Mining Engineer RUT: 10.216.192-0 RUT: 9.182.846-4 and Civil Mining Engineer RUT: 13.327.336-0 RUT: 14.119.793-2 Sergio Christian Jaime José Herbage Lundin Toutin Navarro Rivera Machado Sanhueza Reyes General Manager General Manager General Manager General Manager División Gabriela Mistral División Salvador División Andina División Ventanas Civil Mining Engineer Civil Mining Engineer Civil Industrial Engineer Civil Metallurgical Engineer RUT 13.461.800-0 RUT: 10.044.337-6 and Civil Mining Engineer RUT: 6.525.034-9 RUT 14.134.931-7 Andrés César Álvaro Music Garrido Correa Parker Aliaga Jobet General Manager Chief Internal Auditor Vice President of División El Teniente Business Administration North Operations Civil Mining Engineer RUT: 7.417.045-5 Civil-mining Engineer RUT: 14.119.532-8 RUT: 8.366.217-4 EFFICIENT, COMPETITIVE AND ETHICAL 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 62 BOARD COMMITTEES (102-22, 102-33) This Board has decided to divide specialized tasks Auditing, Compensation and Ethics Committee, The most relevant concerns for the Board of Directors, Said commission shall formulate the mentioned taking advantage of the specific expertise of its formed by four representatives from the Public in matters of ESG risks, alerts on structural projects, proposal considering the remunerations that members, in order to address key issues in greater Senior Management Council. financial management, among others, are channeled are in force in the public and private sectors for depth and in a more executive fashion, supporting through the Executive President, in all Board sessions. similar positions. It may also include within the the work of the Board as whole, as the governing Moreover, the Board has considered the formation Furthermore, the Senior Management raises concerns proposed remunerations components associated entity of the company. of four other permanent committees and its and suggested strategical approaches to critical with attendance at meetings, participation in Corporate Governance Code establishes the issues, depending on the specific jurisdiction and committees and compliance with annual goals The structure and functions of the committees structure and roles of each: importance. pertaining to profitability, economic value and the are not regulated by law, except in the case of the company’s performance agreements. For further information on the formation of each committee, see annexes (GRI 102-22). Information on salaries for both the Board and the CEO can be found on our website www.codelco. Auditing, BOARD SUPPORT com and within Codelco’s Annual Report in the Compensation Projects and Management Consolidated Financial Statements section. And Ethics Investment Committee Average director attendance at ordinary sessions Committee Financing during 2019 was 100%. The criteria for determining senior management (“Cace”, by its Committee and executive salaries is established by the Board spanish acronym) For further information on the participation of Codelco as budgeted by the Auditing, Compensation and directors on other boards, see attached Annexes. Ethics committee. Both processes for defining salaries and incentives depend on the participation BOARD REMUNERATIONS of external and internal stakeholders. (102-35, 102-36, 102-37 ) Sustainability Science, Directors will be entitled to a remuneration established Committee Technology by the Ministry of Finance. To determine said and Innovation remunerations, the minister may consider the proposal Committee of a designated special commission. Said commission must be made up of three people who have held the position of Minister of Finance, Budget Director or CEO of the company. EFFICIENT, COMPETITIVE AND ETHICAL 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 63 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY (102-20, 102-26, 102-32, 102-33) The Board defines and approves the guidelines on the purpose, strategies and objectives The Sustainability Committee, whose primary inclusion policy and their dissemination; related to economic, environmental and role is to serve as an advisory entity to support any detected organizational, social or social impacts. Through the sustainability the Board of Directors on aspects related to cultural barriers that inhibit natural committee, the Board periodically evaluates sustainability policy, shall advise the highest diversity within the organization; utility Codelco’s sustainability performance, providing governing body on: and acceptance of sustainability reports guidelines and monitoring the management on disseminated to relevant stakeholders. All of these matters. In addition, the Board approves • Decide on Codelco’s sustainability policies the foregoing will be reported accordingly in the contents of the sustainability report and and goals. the ordinary meeting of the corresponding determines the development of board. specific related studies and / or audits • Monitor effectiveness of the corporate within this scope. policies and of the management systems • Review and recommend to the Board the related to health, safety, environment and approval of the summary of the annual Based on these guidelines, the senior community (HSEC), while periodically sustainability report for publication. management prepares a proposal that is evaluating, through quantitative and brought to the attention of the committees for qualitative indicators, Codelco’s • Provide guidelines on the impact of the subsequent analysis, discussion, revision and / performance on these topics. corporation’s activity on the community. or recommendation of approval to the Board. • Acknowledge and monitor compliance with the legal and regulatory provisions on sustainability to which the company is subject to. • The Sustainability Committee, representing Codelco Board of Directors, will meet with the relevant respective and analyze the corresponding results on diversity and EFFICIENT, COMPETITIVE AND ETHICAL 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 64 In 2019, Codelco’s Board of Directors has Senior Management impacts of the crime prevention model in force at This involved working on a documented process fostered a management approach inspired and Board Diversity Codelco, regulatory tendencies in sustainability to follow up on requests and agreements from the by international standards of good Corporate (405-1) and in the national and international markets and Board and its committees. governance, installing broader and more During 2019, our Board of Directors consisted climate change. A risk management workshop was demanding internal regulations regarding of nine members until October, when Ignacio also held and attended by Board of Directors. CONTRIBUTIONS TO THIRD PARTIES Corporate transparency, conflict of interest Briones was appointed Minister of Finance. (415-1) management, influence peddling and business All members are Chilean. Codelco’s senior PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT Codelco has precise rules that determine the authorizations, among others. management was made up of 147 people, (102-28) content of budgets and the destination of profits. 11 of them women and 2 foreign nationals. Our Code of Corporate Governance defines Under the Reserved and Exempt Decree of Along with the Board and the Sustainability the existence of a procedure to evaluate and Chile’s Ministry of Finance, Codelco did not make Committee, Codelco has other positions A PREPARED BOARD continuously improve the Board, in all its donations or financial or in-kind contributions to directly responsibility in economic, (102-27) aspects. This process is conducted on an annual any public or private, national or foreign institution. environmental, social and accountability The Board has a procedure for updating the basis and may be executed by a third party. Such issues, which can be reviewed in attached knowledge of its members on various topics, a procedure may also be executed as a selfCodelco is inscribed in Securities Register Annexes (GRI 102-20). including ESG issues. In practice, knowledge assessment. No. 785 of the Commission for the Financial training occurs through requests from the Market and is subject to Securities Market Law. Moreover, the Board prepares Codelco’s the Board in response to the needs of a During 2019, the Board of Directors chose not to Therefore, Codelco is obliged to disclose the same annual budget, which is then approved contingency. carry out the assessment process and worked information as openly-held corporations to said through a Supreme Decree issued jointly by on the implementation of the results of the 2018 commission and the general public. the ministries of Mining and Finance and then During 2019, a session was convened to process. transfer the profits to the Chilean Treasure. update Law No. 20,393 and to reflect on the EFFICIENT, COMPETITIVE AND ETHICAL 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 65 risk MANAGEMENT (102-29, 102-30) At Codelco, we seek to manage and mitigate legal requirements and added value to the A COMMON MANAGEMENT MODEL business uncertainty, strengthening the Chilean state. In addition, through an ongoing management for all risks to which we are search for best practices, we are required to Since 2017, we have managed risks with exposed. Therefore, we define the roles, foresee those factors may affect the viability a corporate model approved by the Board. responsibilities and a unique methodology of our business and objectives. This model integrates and consolidates to identify and manage events that may specialized risk management systems for impact the achievement of our goals. safety, occupational health and the environment; safeguarding, in addition, reportability on these A NEW POLICY matters to the Board. In December 2019, we published a new Corporate policy for comprehensive risk management, a necessary tool to reasonably ensure the continuity and sustainability of our 2020 To operate this model, governance starts with the Board through the Auditing, Compensation and Ethics Committee. This committee reviews all primary risks on a quarterly basis. In addition, business, spearheaded by the Board’s Auditing, the model has a standardized metric that reviews Compensation and Ethics Committee (“CACE Another change that demonstraimpact scopes, assessment levels and a standard by its spanish acronym”). This policy seeks tes the importance of risk manamanagement process. to incorporate risk management and control gement at Codelco is that, since into our corporate culture and identity, which February 2020, the Corporate This model is part of the transformation of will help us conduct our work proactively Risk and Control department will our Corporation and has a sense of urgency and preventively, with the aim of continuous report directly to the Executive for which, both general managers and vice improvement of our operations. Presidency. presidents must incorporate and encourage its use in each process. This permits the decisionThe implementation of this policy will help making process to be marked by the analysis of us to ensure compliance with Corporate ESG exposure to respective risks. standards, occupational safety and health, EFFICIENT, COMPETITIVE AND ETHICAL 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 66 LINES OF DEFENCE The model establishes three lines of defense against several risks that Codelco faces and includes roles and responsibilities: 1. fIRST LINE 2. SECOND LINE 3. THIRD LINE Includes areas responsible for each process. Risk Involves the Corporate Risk and Control department and its divisional Represented by Internal Auditing that directly reports management is the responsibility of each and every area of directors, who administer and manage the comprehensive risk management to the Board Committee, and other external audits. Its the company and all workers. Everyone must understand and control model. Specialist areas on specific matters such as occupational role is to objectively verify the applicability of the model that they have a responsibility in this matter, inherent to the health, safety and environment, community, water management, tailings, and compliance with the operational effectiveness of its position being occupied. among others, are also part of this line of defense. Also includes areas that controls, standards and procedures. exercise an advisory role to the first line of defense. Those within these areas must: • Deliver guidelines and instructions to the front line to ensure the application of proper risk management. • Ensure the administration of the model as a whole, through the review of evidence / support, with the aim of detecting possible deterioration of controls. • Follow up on action plans and variations in risk exposure levels. • Monitor and prepare periodic and consolidated reports to the Board and to senior management on critical risks, at the level of each workplace, ensuring the delivery of risk management information to the vice presidencies and general managers. • Coordinate and develop monitoring tasks among those in charge of risk management on the second line of defense. The aim is to generate spaces for discussion and decision-making in relation to the model at the conceptual (design) and operational (execution) levels. EFFICIENT, COMPETITIVE AND ETHICAL 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 67 RISK Monitoring (102-15, 102-34) As of December 2019, Codelco has a portfolio In addition to operational risks, we also consisting of 289 critical risks, which implies an monitor strategic risks, financial risks and STAGES OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS increase of 46 compared to 2018. compliance risks. These risks are analyzed and Additionally, we recorded a decrease in residual risks evaluated under six impact areas defined by with a high exposure level from 61 to 54. the Administration and the Board as critical: economic, occupational health and safety, Given that Codelco is a productive company, a large environment, community, reputation and legal. part of our risks are within the operational risk group, 1. 4. which includes the following categories: More than 1,900 controls have been implemented IDENTIFICATION TREATEMENT to mitigate the probability of occurrence and • Goods, supplies and critical services respective impact, and more than 40 action plans • Human capital are currently in execution to strengthen controls • Commercial and decrease residual exposure levels. • Electrical power • Water resources To ensure the effectiveness of said controls, the 2. 5. • Natural events most critical are subject to general monitoring ANALYSIS MONITORING • Geomechanics through our second line of defense. This allows • Asset management us to detect possible weaknesses or degradation • Environment and communities and make continuous improvements. If left • Short term mine plan undetected in this instance, the third line of • Operational sustainability defense should detect the risk. • Occupational health and safety, 3. 6. • Tailings systems ASSESSMENT REPORTING • Technological EFFICIENT, COMPETITIVE AND ETHICAL 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 68 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY UPDATES TO OUR CRIME PREVENTION Financial Market Commission (“CMF” by its MODEL spanish acronym). The certification term is two years, valid until July 2020. Codelco has established a Crime Prevention Model which is a mechanism defined by CODE OF CONDUCT 56% 7,540 E-LEARNING Chilean Law No. 20,393 on Criminal Liability of (205-1, 205-2) OF STAFF CERTIFIED AS Legal Persons. The model consists of several We have reinforced dissemination of our OF NOVEMBER 30, 2019 tools and control actions to oversee processes Code of Conduct as a tool to ensure that or activities exposed to risks indicated in we all know and live our corporate values. this Law. Knowing the Code allows us to establish During 2018 and 2019 different laws have been the limits of permitted actions and those actions that fall outside the law, while 9,298 1,758 enacted that have modified these regulations, protecting the reputation of our company. SELECTED IN PERSON incorporating eight new crimes which were added to the four crimes previously defined. To achieve this, during 2019 Codelco Therefore, we have worked on updating our adopted the practice of annually certifying Crime Prevention Model with these new its personnel. The objective of this requirements. Currently the Codelco’s model certification is to have our collaborators During 2019, we also carried out a Corporate crossAlso, 11% of our staff received training in anticovers 100% of our operations and is certified interact with all aspects of this Code, sectional assessment of risks associated with the corruption procedures within the organization. under the terms and conditions established by through a formal activity involving either commission of crime of corruption between private Codelco has a specific training program on the law itself. This certification was granted by in e-learning course or in-person training individuals and public bribery, national and foreign these matters. the company ICR, a firm registered in the sessions. officials. To review the list of risks identified from this assessment, please consult the Annex (GRI 205-1). EFFICIENT, COMPETITIVE AND ETHICAL 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 69 (406-1) 3 complaints received regarding specific • Gifts and invitations: Codelco stipulates strict discrimination issues through the “Ethicspoint” and stringent rules on gifts and invitations, with web portal in 2019. Investigations of another 20 clear limits on which are acceptable, and which Hotline cases were closed during the same period, while are required to return if they do not comply with (102-17) another 3 are still in the investigation process. Of corporate guidelines. Codelco established a reporting hotline more than 10 years ago. This channel permits all the closed complaints, all were dismissed. reporting -either anonymously or identifiedof events that may constitute violations (205-3) • Declaration of interests and ownership: Our of the code of business conduct, legal regulations and / or policies, procedures or any Moreover, during 2019, we have not confirmed Board of Directors and primary executives must other rule that is applicable to our workers, their relationships with contractors and / or complaints of any kind in relation to the crime provide theirs declared interests and assets in with third parties. of corruption (pursuant to law No. 20,393 for accordance with Chilean Law No. 20,880, under Codelco and its affiliates). the supervision of the General Comptroller of the Republic. The objective is to operate under 2019 BEST PRACTICES: ETHICS THE ONLY WAY standards that exceed those required under the legal framework, thus Codelco has also established an internal process of declaring • Politically exposed persons (PEP): At Codelco assets that now mandatory for the entire we regularly audit business with companies executive body and to which hundreds of people In 2019, 596 complaints were filed, representing an increase controlled through either management or join voluntarily. of 21% compared to 2018. ownership by so-called politically exposed persons. We are pioneers in our industry • Suppliers and contractors: We have with respect to these topics. We have also consolidated several supplier and contractor defined special authorization requirements information declaration forms into one single Also in 2019, we concluded the investigation of 507 cases, 70 of which for any business with companies in which form to simplify and have more efficient control correspond to complaints filed in 2018, and 437 from 2019. former Codelco employees participate (people strategies for the management of information exposed to Codelco (PEC), within 18 months and thus prevent conflicts of interest more from the date of stopping their functions in efficiently. In this form we included an “ethical our company. performance” section, in which we require Another 232 complaints are still under investigation. information related to national legal regulations • Lobbying: Codelco is aware of the importance such as those established in the Crime of transparent management of our prevention law. relationships with regulatory and supervisory bodies. In this sense, we have developed an Of the 507 cases processed, 22 ended with penalties. internal procedure that regulates lobbying and the procedures that represent specific interests before the authorities and public officials. EFFICIENT, COMPETITIVE AND ETHICAL 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 70 PENALTIES This regulatory framework governs several (419-1) procedures to manage potential conflicts of TRANSPARENCY LAW In 2019 we received 11 minor enforced fines for noninterest, namely: compliance with labor laws and regulations, for a 2019 marked the 10 year anniversary of Law No. 20,285 on total value of 1,100 Monthly Tax Units (UTM). • Administration, control and declaration of Transparency of the Public Service and Access to Information of State assets. Administration. This Law establishes that state companies must CONFLICTS OF INTEREST provide ongoing updates to the “Active Transparency” section on the (102-25) • Incompatibility and conflict of interest in corporate website. Codelco had a compliance rate of 98.13% with this Conflicts of interest are one of the issues that we personnel administration. standard in 2019, according to the Council for Transparency. manage under framework of a demanding standard for prevention and zero tolerance. We act under the • Businesses with Persons Exposed to Codelco logic of prevention, convinced of the importance (PEC). of protecting the integrity and credibility of our CODELCO LEADS INDUSTRY REPUTATION RANKING organization. Our objective is to have systems, • Business with Politically Exposed Persons (PEP). controls and procedures that allow us to identify and For the tenth consecutive year, Codelco ranked first in the mining manage conflicts of interest, whether real, potential • Business with related persons (family) sector and is the most valued Chilean public company, according to the or apparent. study carried out by the Corporate Reputation Business Monitor, Merco • Gifts and invitations. 2019. Furthermore, Codelco ranked ninth among 100 companies with Codelco has a Policy on Conflict of Interest, as the best reputation in the country. well as an integral regulatory framework for the • Regulation of corporate relations and lobbying. administration of the conflict of interest the field of business, institutional relations and internally for The Board participates, oversees and controls personnel administration. compliance with the aforementioned procedures through the Auditing, Compensation and Ethics Committee. EFFICIENT, COMPETITIVE AND ETHICAL 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 71 HIGHLIGHTED CASE: ANTI-BRIBERY MANAGEMENT: FIRST ISO 37001 CERTIFIED COMPANY Codelco’s Vice President of Marketing is responsible for the corporate and foreign affiliate sales force. During 2019, the VP of Marketing certified the management of its processes according to the standards set forth in International Standard ISO 37001 System Anti-Bribery Management. The main objective of this standard is to help companies combat bribery and promote an ethical business culture, through a series of measures that are used by companies to implement controls that improve their ability to prevent, detect and treat the risk of bribery. This standard is also a signal to major stakeholders and potential clients; given that it demonstrates our commitment to globally recognized antibribery practices, not only within our own operations, but also in transactions throughout our global value chain. Therefore, Codelco became the first company in Chile to obtain such certification for one of the purchasing processes, key in any operation, strengthening the measures designed to prevent, detect and sanction bribery at all levels of our organization. The installation of this management system represents an additional step towards the success of our transformation process. Strengthening controls and standardizing measures has strengthened Codelco’s integrity when entering into commercial agreements with clients and contractors. Report presentation 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 72 COMMITTED TO THE PLANET OUR GOAL We seek to continually improve our environmental practices through the sustainable management of resources. To do this, we have implemented economical and operational improvements in the use of energy, through energy efficiency strategies and the use of renewable energy, in line with our climate change mitigation policy. Report A new outlook Priority #1: Team Efficient, Committed Culture of Communities Annexes presentation in Sustainability occupational Codelco competitive to the planet innovation and territories health & safety and ethical Committed to the planet 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 73 OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH (103-1, 102-2, 102-3) Our transformation process has also called upon us to update and redefine management We intend to protect and seek the structures. For environmental aspects Codelco best options for water resources, and to has a Vice Presidency for Corporate Affairs identify and minimize the generation of and Sustainability, with an area dedicated industrial and mine waste by controlling exclusively to environmental compliance potential impacts. Finally, we want and new operating permits. Furthermore, it to contribute to conservation of biodiversity, also includes an area focused on sustainable and minimize impact on ecosystems. development, which seeks to improve management to integrate a medium and longterm perspective into our work. Along with the foregoing we have a series of policies and standards that allow us to integrate environmental management 16 PROJECTS 76.7% transversely across all our operations. During the 2019 period we found ourselves defining WERE APPROVED BY THE WATER RECYCLED the goals that will help to fulfill our ambition. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT SERVICE 96.4% 97.4% AVERAGE CAPTURE OF AVERAGE CAPTURE OF ARSENIC SULFUR Committed to the planet 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 74 MANAGEMENT POLICY CHALLENGES AND MECHANISMS • Corporate policy on sustainability • Development of an action plan to confront climate change, focused on risk management, mitigation and adaptation. • Environmental and community standards • Reduce the carbon footprint of our direct emissions by incorporating • Environmental and community standards implementation guideline clean technologies and supplies. • Standard jobsite closure guideline • Replacement of power purchasing agreements (PPAs) that are currently mostly coal-based, towards supplies from renewable • Standard bulk mine waste guideline sources, thereby reducing our indirect emissions. • Standard solid waste guideline • Reduction of fresh water consumption per processed ton, minimizing the use of inland waters. • Standard atmospheric emissions guideline • Management of tailings storage facilities with a focus on the health • Standard water resources and industrial liquid waste guideline. and safety of those communities within the areas of influence, incorporating online stability monitoring, along with emergency • Standard biodiversity guideline programs jointly developed with these communities. • Standard land, soil and landscape guideline • Standard energy efficiency and climate change guidelines • Environmental incident management standards • Environmental risk management system (“SGRA” by its spanish acronym) Committed to the planet 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 75 Our performance Socio-environmental impact and compliance At Codelco we have the Environmental Risk Management System (known as the “SGRA” by its spanish acronym). This system involves a document procedure that defines the activities and minimum requirements to strengthen our management in this area. The “SGRA” seeks to preventively and transparently • “Adaptation of the Andina Mine Works for manage all environmental risks. Additionally, it is Current Operational Continuity”, which aligned with Codelco’s Comprehensive Risk and enables the operational continuity of the Control Model and ISO 14001 standard. División Andina, while protecting water quality of the Blanco and Aconcagua rivers. (307-1) Regulatory compliance is an • “Gaby Project Operational Continuity”. essential pillar in Codelco’s corporate structure. During 2019, • Upgrade of the División Radomiro Tomic we paid 1 fine for a total value of mine project. 450 Monthly Tax Units (“UTM” by its spanish acronym). • Operational adjustments to the Chuquicamata Subterránea mine project. PROJECT EXECUTION Not one Codelco project was rejected by the Environmental Impact Assessment System (“SEIA” by its spanish acronym) in 2019. And the following projects were executed during this period: Committed to the planet 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 76 Operational incidents with environmental consequences (306-3) Since 2012 we have followed a Corporate standard for the management of operational incidents with environmental consequences. This standard classifies such incidents into categories ranging from “minor” to “very serious” with a focus on control, impact prevention and continuous improvement. In 2019 we recorded 2 important incidents A very serious incident occurred at División Andina A serious incident occurred at División El Teniente corresponding to a “serious” and a “very corresponding to a tailing spill due to a ruptured involving an electrical failure. Localized overflows serious” category: pipeline, with a specific impact on the Blanco occurred of tailings that -at some pointsreached River. Planned tasks for control, monitoring, the La Paula ravine. We applied the established immediate communication to the community and protocols (isolation of the area, soil inspection, water authorities, and cleaning of the affected sectors monitoring and sector cleaning) and we informed were activated. After a Corporate investigation, we the community supervision committee and oversight took preventive measures, applied process changes authority, taking preventive and corrective measures and strengthened the systems associated with the after their investigation. control of this type of spill. Spill volume: 36 m3 Spill volume: 2,000 m 3 Committed to the planet 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 77 OPERATIONS INCIDENTS WITH ENVIRONMENTAL CONSEQUENCES (SERIOUS AND VERY SERIOUS CATEGORIES) 2013-2019 Serious 15 Very Serious ENVIRONMENTAL GRIEVANCES 10 AND COMPLAINTS SYSTEM 10 We seek to respond in a timely manner to concerns, issues and suggestions that may arise as a result of 5 production processes or investment projects of the 2 1 1 1 1 company. Through this channel, in 2019 we received 0 0 0 2 0 73 requests on environmentaltopics. 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Toll free hotline: 800 222 600 e-mail: contactosocioambiental@codelco.cl Committed to the planet 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 78 Water resources (303-1, 303-2 ) MONITORING Monitoring is carried out by committees, both corporate and CONSUMPTION OF WATER divisional Water is a vital resource for human STRATEGIC WATER MANAGEMENT consumption and for several industries that MODEL support Chile’s development, given their To facilitate water resource reporting, the strategic nature for the operation of the Codelco has adopted a management strategy Corporate Divisional Department of Water economy. Over recent years, due to the effects for water that involves working in different and Tailings has developed and implemented of climate change and resource scarcity, water time horizons. This strategy considers the a Corporate Platform for Water Resource has become one of the most important topics. effective availability of the water resource, CONTROL OF Reporting. Using this platform, those areas its impact on the environment, management WATER EXTRACTION Given the importance that aspects such as of communities or stakeholders present responsible for water management in FROM OUR water resources have for Codelco, we have in an area or in the vicinity of an aquifer. It each work center report their management SOURCES established departments dedicated exclusively also ensures adherence to the water matrix monthly indicators (collection, consumption, to water management. The Corporate Water for operations, proficiency and efficiency in recirculation) and refer the information to and Tailings department is responsible for consumption, the incorporation of technology the Corporate Department of Budgets and the management and efficient use of water and business intelligence in the search and Management Control for follow-up. resources. application of new sources of water and the control and management of water discharge. In addition to the foregoing, Codelco has operations from the region of Antofagasta to the region of O’Higgins, which involves operating under diverse problematic Our approach involves water efficiency, circumstances from an industry point of view, WATER WITHDRAWL sustainable exploitation of water that involve local stakeholders and REDUCTIONS sources and the application and communities, hydrological regulations, effective development of innovative solutions. availability of resources and the effects of climate change, among others. Committed to the planet 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 79 Codelco is working towards a 10% reduction WATER USE in the water volume used per treated ore unit (known as make-up5) in our operations for We mainly use water from surface or underground 2020. This commitment involves strategic sources at all divisions. The extraction and use of water resource sharing and awareness. By means within desert climate areas, where we have 5 of our DESALINATION PLANT FOR DIVISIONS NEAR CALAMA: of the Water Resource and Liquid Industrial divisions, is of utmost importance. RADOMIRO TOMIC, CHUQUICAMATA AND MINISTRO Waste Standard, it has been possible to HALES consolidate the systematic reporting of A notable event in 2019 involved a drought in the fundamental data, to standardize key central area of the country, which resulted in less water Codelco held a bidding process for a desalination plant indicators within work centers which, in availability resulting from the hydrological conditions of for Radomiro Tomic, Chuquicamata and Ministro Hales, as turn, provides us with a platform to manage the watersheds where the water sources for the Andina scheduled for 2019. However, due to several circumstances efficiency. and El Teniente mines are located. This situation posed the process was suspended to adapt to the development a challenge to our operations in terms of efficiency. strategy of the Project. In spite of this, the desal project Finally, based on the Water Resource continues to be part of the supply strategy for the Northern Strategy, it has been possible to work on In this context, over recent years we have carried out District divisions. the construction and execution of divisional a marked effort across all divisions to promote water strategic plans that aim to schedule the efficiency and reduce water consumption. These critical activities of each division to align efforts have produced positive results, which allow our operations with the direction established at operations to be better prepared to face such risks and the corporate level. without affecting the copper production. 5 Makeup: freshwater consumption in cubic meters per ton of processed ore. i.e. how much freshwater is required per metric ton of processed ore, measuring strain on the water sources. Committed to the planet 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 80 In terms of compliance, Codelco regulates and Resolutions that regulate both the water component reports management compliance based on the itself, as well as commitments with third parties and existing regulatory framework at the national general procedures, within the framework of current level, for water extraction, compliance with the operations. In 2019, there were no breaches of this Water Code, Supreme Decrees that regulate regulatory framework. water discharge and Environmental Qualification Water withdrawl RECIRCULATED (THOUSANDS OF M3) WATER 2017 173,944 76.9% SMELTER BOILER RECOVERED 100% OF THE WATER USED IN ITSPROCESS 2018 170,867 77.3% Thanks to an initiative that workers who work on the smelter boiler devised at Chuquicamata, it was possible to recover 100% of the water that was used for cooling equipment. 2019 159,007 76.7% This innovation consists of recovering the water that is used to cool the boiler equipment, in addition to the flush water used in the process. This water which were previously discarded, are now diverted to a pond that was left unused after improvements to the flash furnace were completed. Once water arrives to the pond, it is processed and recirculated to the cooling system. Committed to the planet 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 81 RESPONSIBLE WASTE MANAGEMENT Each Codelco operation is subject to national, associated national legislation, which implies not SOLID INDUSTRIAL recovery facilities, sanitary landfills and deposits or regional and local regulations pertaining to affecting water bodies, as established by law6. WASTE MANAGEMENT sent to treatment companies. the protection of the environment and natural (306-2) resources, including regulations regarding Our efforts in solid industrial waste management Hazardous waste is transparently managed under the disposal and transportation of hazardous TOTAL DISCHARGE VOLUME are focused on aligning ourselves with the the Hazardous Waste Declaration and Tracking waste. Chile has adopted environmental (THOUSANDS OF M3) Extended Producer Responsibility Law (known System (SIDREP) of the Ministry of Health, while regulations that have forced companies as the “REP” by its spanish acronym Law), taking non-hazardous waste is managed under the operating in the country, including Codelco, measures that maintain and increase waste National Waste Declaration System (SINADER) to carry out programs to reduce, control or eliminate important environmental impacts. 9 value (reuse, recycling or energy recovery). Therefore, we have proceeded to implement a platform. DISCHARGE POINTS corporate monitoring and control platform for In 2019, we evaluated and implemented waste MANAGEMENT OF LIQUID INDUSTRIAL each stage of waste management, streamlining recovery measures (alternative reuse, recycling WASTE 2015 2016 2017 the classification, registration and quantification and recovery options). In addition, we are working (306-1, 306-5, 303-2, 303-4) standards of all waste generated in our divisions. on the implementation of a corporate platform for Our primary focus with liquid waste 55,989 52,252 60,781 the management and monitoring of waste life cycles management is to reduce the volume of Codelco’s solid waste standard is aligned with across all our divisions. discharge and increase the recirculation of principles 6 and 8 of the ICMM. Essentially, this water. We identify our liquid waste and report 2018 2019 management standard seeks to minimize solid SOLID WASTE the monitoring results of our nine authorized waste generation, control the potential impacts discharge points monthly to the competent 49,521 29,428 of solid waste management and to dispatch type of waste authorities: 4 at Andina, 3 at Salvador, 1 at such waste to final destinations authorized for 2017 2018 2019 (tons) Ventanas and 1 at El Teniente. The Salvador, elimination or valorization. Radomiro Tomic, Chuquicamata, Ministro Note: Discharge points have monitoring programs (Superintendency of hazardous 241,624 228,599 148,036 Hales, and División Gabriela Mistral do not Sanitary Services / Directemar). All our divisions have management plans in place discharge liquid industrial waste into water Note 2: División Salvador did not report any discharge during 2019. to control and avoid possible impact of solid waste No hazardous 108,759 151,293 152,891 courses. on the environment and human health. Accordingly, generated waste is sent to authorized destinations Total 350,383 379,892 300,927 All discharge points for liquid industrial 6 The specific impact on water courses caused by environmental including recycling or reuse plants, energy waste from our operations comply with the incidents are presented in detail for significant spills. Committed to the planet 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 82 BULK MINE WASTE (MM3) Codelco has established a bulk mining waste standard that aims to strengthen the prevention of impact and risk to people, the environment and land, applying control criteria in the design of tailings dumps, operations and projects. With respect to tailings, Codelco has implemented the industry’s best practices we are moving forward to find the best available technologies for our tailings systems. We encourage continuous improvement in this area, through controls and audits and the incorporation of internal and external experience. Committed to the planet 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 83 Energy Efficiency In order to raise energy efficiency processes to contribute to the bottom line of ENERGY CONSUMPTION (PJ) our business. This is achieved through a project (302-1, 302-3) standards, we have set out to improve 2017 2018 2019 Codelco’s specific energy use indicators management aimed at reducing consumption in production processes to achieve two and incorporating clean energy into future direct consumption essential objectives: to decrease energy contracts. oil and uts derivatives, natural 24.71 24.14 23.78 consumption and incorporate clean energy gas and coal into our matrix. 4 FOCUSES OF THE Given the importance that Codelco MANAGEMENT SYSTEM indirect consumption places on aspects such as energy, we electricity from chile’s “sistema have managers dedicated exclusively 26.36 25.95 24.30 1. interconectado central de chile” to these aspects such as the Strategic CONTRACT MANAGEMENT (sic) NOT including self-generation Supplies manager. During 2019 we restored the roles of divisional managers for Sustainable Energy and established divisional Sustainable Energy Management 2. Energy efficiency management in process consumption of renewable resources (solar) 0.12 0.13 Committees at most of our divisions. 3. These initiatives established specific energy consumption indicators (“ICE” by its RENEWABLE ENERGY Total 51.41 50.21 48.21 spanish acronym) for the main processes, reported monthly, and proposed goals for 4. energy use intensity each ICE for 2020. ENERGY EFFICIENCY 29.65 29.65 30.32 (pj/million fmt) IN INVESTMENT PROJECTS Likewise, we seek to optimize specific energy use indicatorst in production Note 1: Codelco has not developed a method to quantify external energy consumption. Note 2: Consumption values for total production do not include El Abra or AngloAmerican Sur operations, where Codelco has a partnership stake. Note 3: PJ / million fmt = peta joules / million fine metric tons of copper. Note 4: Codelco has not developed a method to quantify external energy consumption. Committed to the planet 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 84 CLIMATE CHANGE (201-2) At Codelco, we recognize the importance of this During 2019 we began the study of adaptation initiatives to resolve the vulnerabilities, risks GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSION MANAGEMENT phenomenon both in our industry and worldwide. to climate change “Service for the Diagnosis and opportunities detected in the diagnosis. (305-1, 305-2, 305-3) We therefore address this issue comprehensively of Vulnerabilities Product of Climate Change This study has served as experience to Regarding our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, at with specific mitigation and adaptation plans. and Adaptation Plan for Codelco El Teniente”, promote similar studies in the rest of the Codelco we measure the following: where a diagnosis of climate uncertainty Corporation. Our new Sustainable Development department will was made for the El Teniente area and its • Direct emissions, which are those generated by the allow us to better face environmental challenges community environment, vulnerabilities, risks Given our commitment to climate change, use of fuels in our operations. over the medium to long term. One of the functions and opportunities as a direct and indirect we will continue to incorporate analysis and of this department is to develop Codelco’s consequence of climate change for the respond to the challenges imposed by this • Indirect emissions, which are generated at the power Sustainable Development policy, which will be development of the mine were analyzed, and phenomenon, as part of our corporate culture. generation systems that provide electricity to our updated during 2020. an action plan was drawn up with concrete divisions. Additionally, we are developing lines of action leading to: GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS (TCO2e): 1. Having an increasing carbon neutral electrical Categories 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 supply matrix, and more efficient energy use Direct emissions 1,586,922 1,720,614 1,704,772 1,619,506 1,609,711 2. Gradual incorporation of electromobility SING by its spanish acronym 2,638,869 2,649,321 2,669,079 Indirect emissions 3,019,061 2,733,995 3. Increase in the efficiency of water use and SIC by its spanish acronym 1,248,278 1,439,591 1,213,963 incorporate the use of desalinated seawater. Other fuel combustion processes 51,959 51,009 49,479 50,055 4. Develop a circular economy to reduce waste sent to landfill / dumps. Total emissions 5,474,069 5,861,485 5,638,823 4,688,046 4,393,761 Note 1: In 2018 the SING and SIC interconnected systems were merged into the “Sistema Eléctrico Nacional” (SEN). / Note 2: Codelco does not quantify indirect emissions of greenhouse gases (Scope 3). Committed to the planet 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 85 (305-4) GREENHOUSE GAS INTENSITY Metrics 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Total emissions Millions of tons of CO2e 5.5 5.9 5.6 4.7 4.4 Copper production Millions of Mtf 1.7 1.7 1.7 1.7 1.6 Intensity tCO2 e/ million fmt 3.2 3.4 3.2 2.8 2.8 Note: Copper production corresponds to Codelco’s divisions without inclusion of stake in Minera El Abra and Anglo American Sur. MANAGEMENT OF SMELTER EMISSIONS This new regulation establishes greater restrictions Emissions capture (%) AND OTHER EMISSION SOURCES on sulfur and arsenic emissions, while increasing the (305-7) capture of such elements. Arsenic Sulphur Codelco owns four (4) copper concentrate smelters that generate, mainly, sulfur dioxide In terms of 2019 results at the corporate level, Chuquicamata 97.7% 97.4% (SO2), arsenic (As), and particulate material the average sulfur and arsenic emission capture (MP). These facilities are governed by emission at Codelco smelters reached 96.4% and 97.4%, regulations, while others are governed by respectively, indicators that exceed the 95% Potrerillos 96.0% 96.1% pollution plans applicable to the cities located requirement under Supreme Decree 28. within the area of influence of the respective Caletones 98.6% 96.5% operations. At Ventanas, management focused on modifying operational practices to comply with the Atmospheric Ventanas 95.5% 95.8% During 2019, efforts at the Chuquicamata, Decontamination and Prevention Plan for the Potrerillos and Caletones smelters focused on communities of Concón, Quintero and Puchuncaví, Codelco Total 97.4% 96.4% the completion of construction, start of operation issued by the environmental authority in December and consolidation of investment projects 2018. to comply with the emissions regulations Supreme Decree 28 95.0% 95.0% under Supreme Decree 28 of the Ministry of In 2019, this workplace has been heavily supervised the Environment, which entered into force on and has strictly complied with smelter regulations December 12, 2018. The Ventanas smelter is that govern it and the operational plan approved by Note: Copper production corresponds to Codelco’s divisions without inclusion of stake in Minera El Abra and Anglo American Sur. now in full compliance with the regulations of the authority, demonstrating strict adherence to all said decree for the third consecutive year, since regulations. December 2016. Committed to the planet 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 86 biodiversity (MM1, MM2) We seek to contribute to the conservation of MANAGEMENT OF BIODIVERSITY IMPACT Richly biodiverse areas managed by biodiversity and minimize impact on ecosystems (304-1, 304-2, 304-3, 304-4) Codelco are located in the vicinity of the and in the areas of influence of our projects, tailings deposits in the Valparaíso Region operations and explorations, respecting protected and correspond to the Fundo Rinconada de areas. Therefore, we have initiated efforts to have Huechún, of División Andina, and the Ecological plans for biodiverse areas to achieve zero incidents Hacienda Los Cobres de Loncha, of División El in biodiversity by 2020. Teniente. Our divisions are located over an extensive These two divisions were identified as requiring portion of the national territory, involving vast OBJECTIVE DESCRIPTION management plans and represent 20% of our ecosystem diversity. Therefore, biodiversity is a total operations that have such operating fundamental part of the Environmental pillar of our plans. At Ventanas and Salvador the oversight Evaluate and monitor In different types of environments Sustainability Strategy. Areas rich in biodiversity or monitoring programs have not detected our risks. (land, water and air), that are managed by Codelco are recognized by the significant impacts on coastal biodiversity, identifying and characterizing the State and / or by studies or environmental impact and do not require management plans, which area of influence. statements. are described below: Since 2012, Codelco has prepared biodiversity standards and respective implementation guidelines. By applying these standards, each Establish management plans Implemented at division may identify and characterize the conservation programs. different stages of our projects. ecosystems within their respective zones of influence and define initiatives associated with protection and/or conservation. Committed to the planet 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 87 HIGHLY VALUED AREAS FOR BIODIVERSITY WITHIN OUR MINING OPERATIONS T Y p E of A rea PROTECTION MEASURE di v isi ó n Marine area populated with microalgae Monitoring program reports state that port sal v ador and benthic invertebrates rich in coastal activities will not significantly or irreversibly biodiversity. Extends through the bay of impact the area, provided that operations Chañaral near the port of Barquito. are carried out under the quality and safety standards established by the aforementioned division. salvador di v isi ó n División Ventanas maintains monitoring Coastal area of the Valparaíso Region plans to regularly inform the authority v entanas that contains the Campiche wetland. (DIRECTEMAR) of accounts of the coastline conditions. A diagnostic study of the behavior of the Campiche wetland has been prepared. Moreover, an integral management plan has been developed with the purpose of conserving and protecting the biodiversity of the area. ventanas andina Río Blanco National Reserve, an area There is no record of significant di v isi ó n rich in biodiversity with an area of environmental impact. Therefore, no andina 10,175 hectares. management plan has been prepared to date. Committed to the planet 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 88 Areas highly valued for biodiversity close to our mining operations T Y p E of A rea PROTECTION MEASURE di v isi ó n The Fundo Rinconada de Huechún consists Currently, these areas have a management plan andina of a preservation area of 1,033 hectares and for the conservation of natural resources and a conservation area of 1,618 hectares. Both includes a fauna monitoring program to identify areas include an ecosystem rich in avifauna. possible impact. andina di v isi ó n Hacienda Ecológica Los Cobres de Monitoring plans and management plans are in Loncha, located in the Municipality place to identify the presence and abundance E l T eniente of Alhué, contains the 5,980-hectare of flora and fauna species in categories of el teniente Roblería del Cobrede Loncha national conservation. reserve. The respective management plan for this zone This reserve was handed over for use addresses the primary impacts caused by the en comodatum by División El Teniente tailings impoundment through programs for to the National Forestry Corporation reforestation, recovery and resettlement of (“CONAF” by its spanish acronym) for individuals. its administration. This reserve contains species of flora and fauna classified as vulnerable, primarily endemic. Committed to the planet 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 89 Several Codelco divisions have established programs and/or agreements entered into Flora and fauna species at risk with universities, government agencies, and other organizations engaged in biodiversity conservation or protection initiatives. As a result of consistent monitoring conducted in flora and fauna species at risk our divisions, over the years we have identified Chinchilla the following flora and fauna species Vizcacha Chinchilla brevicaudata classified as “endangered”, as well as Southern viscacha species classified in other categories. Avellanita Avellanita Bustillosi GAVIOTÍN CHICO (LITTLE TERN) Sternula lorata Coscoroba swan Tricahue Coscoroba coscoroba Cyanoliseus patagonus Endangered Species in category Representative species of Region II, species of conservation which are “endemic” or distribution restricted and subject to protection Lagidium viscacia (vizcacha) Jubaea chilensis (palma chilena) Reptil Liolaemus constanzae (Lagartija de Constanza) Chinchilla brevicaudata (chinchilla) Persea lingue (lingue) Solanum sitiens (tomatillo) Sterna lorata (gaviotín chico) Citronella mucronata (naranjillo) Coscoroba coscoroba (cisne coscoroba) Cyanoliseus patagonus (tricahue) Avellanita bustillosii (avellanita) Committed to the planet 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 90 KEY INITIATIVES IN BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION Five years after the commencement of the Wetland Restoration Plan, the site has been restored through Protecting wild tomatillo in the Atacama Desert the generation of a vegetation screen forming an División Radomiro Tomic has reinforced the awareness important ecological corridor around the wetland, of the biodiverse species present in the industrial which has allowed the settlement of more than 60 zone, with the aim of protecting species by regular species of vertebrates. publications to workers. Among the primary initiatives developed is the execution of a protocol to protect and Biodiversity study on fauna in the Region of disperse wild tomatillo (Solanum sitiens). This species Libertador Bernardo O’Higgins of endemic and vulnerable flora from northern Chile Together with three entities from the Region inhabits some of the driest sectors of the Atacama of Libertador Bernardo O’Higgins, División El Desert, which is currently protected with fencing and Teniente sponsored and published the study on signage and is monitored for protection. the biodiversity of regional fauna, a document that provides valuable information on local fauna Recovery of Native Flora to the Antofagasta region and endangered species. Furthermore, together The División Ministro Hales greenhouse is located at an with public and private entities, this division has altitude of 4,200 masl at Pampa Puno. This greenhouse participated in a rehabilitation and reinsertion plan consists of a high-tech environmental project that for local native fauna. since 2014 has consistently studied the behavior of a series of typical species from the local ecosystem. “Fundación Gaviotín Chico” (Small Tern Foundation) Among its main objectives of this project is the recovery We are part of the Gaviotín Chico Foundation, along and remediation of areas with flora native to the with other private-public entities. The objective of Antofagasta region. this foundation is to contribute to the conservation of the “Gaviotín Chico” or “Chirrío” (Sterna lorata), Campiche wetland protection through the development of research, the creation One of the highlighted initiatives in the Campiche of awareness of the species and the implementation wetland is the use of the bioengineering technique of technical measures associated with this known as “biorrollos vegetados”. The purpose objective, which are compatible with the industrial of this technique is to revegetate the banks of the main development of Mejillones in the Antofagasta region, lagoon in order to create a favorable habitat for the where there are energy, mining and port projects colonization and development of the vegetation in the underway in one of the nesting zones of this species, sector in addition to providing refuge, nesting and feeding grounds for resident and migratory wildlife. Source: Photograph fro Fundación Gaviotín Chico (www.fundaciongaviotinchico.cl) Committed to the planet 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 91 MINE SITE CLOSURE At Codelco we seek to ensure that the planning and execution CLOSURE PLANS APPROVED UP TO DECEMBER 31, 2019 of mine site closures comprehensively considers the health and NOMINAL CLOSUR COSTS safety of people, the environment, the land and the community. DIVISION SERNAGEOMIN RESOLUTION UF MUS$ No. 1290 RADOMIRO TOMIC 10,385,450 395 May 11 2015 This is why we have an environmental standard In compliance with this timeline, in 2019 No. 2327 and a corporate standard (NCC No. 46) updated we approved closure plans under a general CHuQUICAMATA* 17,935,585 682 September 6 2019 in 2019, in line with international standards. This framework for División Chuquicamata and means that the design of our projects keeps Ventanas and submitted the updated closure No. 1316 MINISTRO HALES 4,270,201 162 May 14 2015 closure in mind, thereby reducing associated plan under a general framework for División El impacts and costs early on. This approach Teniente. No. 1600 GABRIELA MISTRAL 3,632,838 138 helps strengthen the local community’s skills June 15 2015 and resources (for the post-closure stage) and Consequently, as of 2019 we have 2 closure No. 2080 considers the interests and expectations of the plans approved under the general framework SALVADOr 12,533,918 477 August 17 2015 communities and authorities within the zones of of the law, 1 plan submitted to Sernageomin No. 2777 influence. (currently under evaluation) and ANDINA 18,725,048 712 November 3rd, 2015 5 closure plans approved under the transitional No. 2570 During 2019, we continued to progress on the framework; whose update goal is November VENTANAS* 5,217,560 198 October 8 2019 compliance and implementation of Law No. 2020. 20,551 that regulates the closure of mine sites and Admitted EL TENIENTE* 44,046,397 1,675 December 30 2019 facilities and its regulation DS No. 41. In accordance with these regulations, it is CODELCO TOTAL 116,746,997 4,439 appropriate to update the 8 closure plans that UF = $28,309.44 UP TO DECEMBER 31, 2019 Codelco approved in 2015, moving them from a US$ = 744.62 SAME DATE transitional to general framework provided for by law with a 2020 deadline. (*) Approved or submitted to Sernageomin Committed to the planet 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 92 (MM10) 2019 In 2019 Codelco totaled MUSD 4,439 in nominal costs for closings. Up to December 31, 2019 we have bank guarantees constituted for an amount of $ 27,892,919 UF “Unidades de Fomento” in favor of the Chilean state, to ensure full compliance of with facility closure commitments. Committed to the planet 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 93 HIGHLIGHTED CASE: PROACTIVE TAILINGS MANAGEMENT Our commitment is to implement the best industry practices and advance on 2019 RESULTS the search for the most outstanding and applicable technologies available for sustainable management of our tailings systems and thus minimize the • Corporate Tailings Policy probability of catastrophic failure occurring at our TSFs. • Codelco Corporate Standard for Tailings Management Systems (NCC 45) and several Standardization Documents Our Corporate Tailings Policy for April 2019 establishes among its objectives • New Tailings Governance implemented to identify and manage risks that could affect the health of people, the • Modernization of the closure plan approach in tailings deposits environment, infrastructure and business. This helps us to charge of the sustainable management of our tailings operations with full respect for people, For the third year we continue to actively participate in “Programa Tranque”, communities and other stakeholders. which is a private-public initiative aimed at developing standardized online monitoring and an early warning system that provides an improved online In this context, Codelco is implementing a Tailings Management System information channel to stakeholders (authorities, mining companies and focused on risk control that minimizes the probability of catastrophic failure communities) in terms of opportunity, quality and reliability on the behavior occurrence and respective impact. Therefore, by safely storing solids and water of tailings deposits in relation to physical (geotechnical) and chemical within designated areas, recirculating water from tailings ponds to process (environmental) stability. facilities and incorporating permanent controls, we seek to ensure compliance with current regulations and maintain the necessary human, financial and We are also working as active members of the ICMM (International technical resources throughout the life of our tailings deposits. Council on Mining and Metals) to be a key player in the development of an international standard that ensures effective management throughout the life Through divisional, water and tailings project management, we transitioned cycle of tailings facilities for the mining industry (Global Tailings Standard). into consolidating our visible tailings management at the highest level. We incorporated the participation of companies and professionals with high levels of experience and prestige in the field of tailings, through the services of the Independent Tailings Review Board to review our systems, the engineer of record and a dam safety review. Report presentation 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 94 CULTURE OF INNOVATION OUR GOAL We seek to promote a culture of innovation that favors the development and incorporation of technological advances in processes and management systems, generate new knowledge, create value and enhance our leadership. Report A new outlook Priority #1: Team Efficient, Committed Culture of Communities Annexes presentation in Sustainability occupational Codelco competitive to the planet innovation and territories health & safety and ethical Culture of Innovation 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 95 6 NATIONAL 1 CONTEST 28 STUDIES PATENTS FOR INNOVATION CONDUCTED FOR TECH BASED PROSPECTING SOLUTIONS GRANTED OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH We understand innovation as the process of capturing knowledge to transform it into economic value, without neglecting corporate strategy, important business variables and returns on investment. INNOVATION The challenges of this transformation currently as a key component underway, which is the most significant in Codelco’s history, places innovation as a key of Codelco’s component. To exploit our mine resources and transformation make viable the current structural projects, the use of innovation and cutting-edge technology are permanent priorities for Codelco. Culture of Innovation 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 96 OUR PERFORMANCE Strategic innovation We work in three aspects of innovation: the application of hydraulic fracturing to weaken the pressure nozzles in the melting furnaces. Also, rock, in addition to the collaborative work we carry at Potrerillos smelter, we continue the industrial a. Disruptive innovation through out with specialists across the globe. validation stage for the sensors in the Teniente a portfolio of innovation projects, converter sensors. Finally, we successfully addressing the Codelco’s strategic In-situ leaching (ISL): completed the core studies that provide baseline challenges in sustainability and increasing We have determined the need to develop a less information for the industrial test design of mining reserves, through the development invasive mining method to process minerals that continuous conversion technology. of new technologies. are not currently feasible to exploit. To do this, we are working to adapt this technique used in uranium Impurity processing: mining to copper mining. At Codelco we seek to be global leaders, both in Sulfide leaching: the processing of concentrates with high arsenic Codelco has conducted extensive testing of several Pre-concentrating: content using the roaster that operates in the national and international technologies and our own With the decrease in ore grades over recent years, División Ministro Hales, and in the processing of innovations, with positive results. The success of it is imperative to introduce new innovations that smelter powders (also high in arsenic) as well this development will enable us to process sulfides improve the selectivity of the processed ore, thus as the stabilization of this waste in the form of in a more profitable and sustainable manner. reducing specific water and energy consumption. scorodite, through the Antimonio arsenic supply Accordingly, we are working on exploring and testing plant from Ecometales. In this sense, our company High-stress deep level underground mining: a set of technologies to meet this challenge. is striving to further improve these technologies, Given the current depth level of División El Teniente with respect to productive development and new levels, and the start of underground operations Smelter optimization: sustainability. at División Chuquicamata, in 2019 we developed In order to improve the productive and sustainable a roadmap to face the geomechanical challenges performance of our smelters, we are following that the projects impose on us and increase the three lines of action to complement the Chinese productivity of our extraction methods. This was technologies that we currently operate with. achieved by improving Codelco’s own developments, Therefore, at Caletones smelter we began the such as technical-economic study to implement highCulture of Innovation 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 97 Concentrate enrichment: During 2019 we developed more than 25 b. Incremental innovation Projects Obtaining a better-quality copper concentrate c. Open innovation Projects that go technological monitoring campaigns to focused on improving the competitiveness and cathode increases competitiveness and beyond Codelco’s limits and develop make the supplier market associated with of operations over the short and medium helps reduce direct costs of the company. One cooperative efforts with external an operational challenge visible. We also term. development implemented at División Ministro organizations or professionals. made this information available to productive Hales this year permitted automated lime areas to ensure the best decisions when batching in the flotation process, according incorporating new technologies. The Corporate Innovation Department has to the iron-copper ratio of the feed. This will We promote interaction with the innovation deployed a series of incremental project initiatives provide for an increase in the concentrate ecosystem, to combine internal and external Technological prospecting at all Codelco divisions with the aim of capturing copper grade. knowledge and capabilities that translate into Prospecting allows us to have valuable short-term benefits. Over the last four years we innovative solutions that can be generated with less and updated information for technological have implemented projects that have generated Use of water resources: At Codelco, the time, less cost and less risk. Therefore, we have development, since it helps us to contribute significant economic, environmental and safety efficient use of critical resources and supplies entered into agreements with universities, study and identify new technologies and suppliers benefits. is crucial. During 2019, at División Ministro centers, suppliers and pilot centers. at local and global levels. Prospecting also Hales, we implemented a project that allows allows us to generate collaborative models Our aim is to develop and implement new the reallocation of water in the milling process, Moreover, we also participate in the Innovación that encourage the ecosystem to participate technologies and capabilities to add value to the in the face of water shortages. Abierta Expande platform by Fundación Chile, and engage with our challenges, always operations and increase the competitiveness of our where we are able interact with several technology concerned with properly protecting our company. In order to streamline project objectives, Operational continuity: suppliers that provide solutions to the challenges investment. in 2019 we established six strategic focuses for A historic operational challenge for Codelco’s presented by our divisions. incremental innovation: mine pits is the interruption of the crushing The results of our intellectual property processes due to shovel bucket teeth breaking Technological monitoring approach has positioned us as a benchmark in • Processing off into the ore. Over time we have developed We perform ongoing technological monitoring to the industry, maintaining a significant portfolio different types of sensors or cameras to have a systematic and global vision for areas of of industrial property rights. • Cu and by-product metallurgical recovery alert the shovel operator; however, none of interest, new technologies, competitors, potential these solutions accomplished its purpose. partners or allies, and suppliers, with the ultimate • Reliability of conveyors and pipelines At División Andina, it was implemented goal of making informed decisions, aiming at rugged technology that triggers an alert when technological intelligence. • Mobile equipment performance detecting the presence of such non-crushable materials. This was a technological solution Likewise, our technological monitoring seeks to be • Water consumption, critical supplies and dust transferred from División Gabriela Mistral. attentive to new patent applications in Chile that mitigation are related to mining and metallurgy, and to define courses of action regarding industrial protection of • Monetization of mining liabilities our developments. Culture of Innovation 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 98 2019 During 2019, we conducted 28 prospecting studies of technological solutions. Culture of Innovation 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 99 CONTEST: “PIENSA MINERÍA” (THINK MINING) This initiative was organized by Codelco in partnership with our technological development subsidiary Codelco Tech. The objective of this initiative is to help sponsor thesis programs to contribute to the advancement of new technologies and knowledge creation within the mining industry. The 2019 version was conducted the participation of seven universities. Those awarded received sponsorship for their enrollment, tuition and other regular expenses for 3 doctorates and 5 master’s programs. The topics that were covered during this contest ranged from exploration to sustainability, including mines, plants and smelters, with applicants of four nationalities. In 2019, as part of their internship, 11 interns from a wide range of engineering disciplines participated in training processes associated with the search and analysis of functional data for the technological monitoring process. Culture of Innovation 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 100 at División Ministro Hales and División El Teniente, in addition to the changes and INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY optimization to automation infrastructure at División Chuquicamata. NATIONAL PATENTS 2019: Another key milestone was the definition and formalization of Codelco’s Integrated Operations Requested 2019: 5 Granted 2019: 6 Center (“CIO” by its spanish acronym) strategy, which conceptualizes and defines guidelines 2019 towards a Strategic CIO, based at head office, and three tactical CIOs located in Calama, Los Andes and Rancagua. TECHNOLOGY AND AUTOMATION This will allow Codelco to identify optimal ways to In this context, in 2019 we consolidated the operate our valuable assets and processes. Chuquicamata and El Teniente Tactical CIOs, and In March 2019, we at Codelco created the new we transferred the CIO from the Minister Hales Another important milestone Vice Presidency for Technology and Automation in Today we have large volumes of data to manage, operation to the Calama Tactical CIO. in regulatory application Business Processes as a key influencer on our path organize and classify to obtain the optimal benefits. areas is in the generation of of transformation. By incorporating analytical models we will optimize Support areas (supply chain, human resources, an electronic waybill. This the production of fine copper, lower operational finances, among others) requirement came into effect The objective of this VP is to capture global costs, increase operational safety and / or reduce the In 2019, Codelco kicked off the Improved Supply in January 2020, under the advances in digitization, automation, robotics, risks in operation. Analytics permits us to calibrate, Management Project (known for its acronym new legislation. data processing and analysis, to impact all set parameters and evaluate thousands of possible in Spanish “GEMA”). GEMA aims to implement mining processes and administrative areas, in scenarios to finally recommend the best operation a technological tool called Ariba to leverage order to improve the productivity, safety and option in the context of the moment. transformation at the supply chain area. Also, reliability of our processes, and also ensuring the some projects, such as the migration of the IT / OT (Information Technology and Operation b. Technological projects and automation in reporting and management platform database to Technologies) cybersecurity of the systems. business processes the new version of SAP (called “HANA”), provides The two focuses of this work consist of: considerable improvements in data execution and Codelco is currently working in 3 specific areas: analysis times. Moreover, notable advances in Technological and automation projects in production the Employee Central project will provide Human a. Digital and advanced analytics areas, with an emphasis on mines and plants: In this Resources with centralized individual data and With this in mind and given the enormous area, the Concentrator Plant Automation Program make self-service available to employees. challenges facing the future, in October 2019 we (“PAPC” by its spanish acronym) and, especially, the began forming the Corporate Digital and Advanced advanced control systems, stand out. Analytics Department, necessary for our digital transformation. Culture of Innovation 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 101 c. Technology Information is centralized in the Networking Additionally, we carried out a series of activities to equipment rooms, which will be optimized with and Telecommunications Directorate, which raise our overall levels of security such as blocking projects to be carried out during 2020. Within our new organizational structure, we also concentrates the definition of wireless USB ports, e-learning, data classification and created the role of Technology Business Partner, communications (trunking). In this aspect, phishing scams, among others. which will play a key role in how the Vice during 2019, in addition to supporting all the Presidency of Technology and Automation in growth projects of our operations, we carried Technological solutions Finally, among our Business Processes related to the diverse range of out an analysis that will allow us in 2020 to The definition of standards, engineering reviews future goals and projects client projects and functional areas at Codelco’s launch a project to technologically renew and project implementation regarding is the implementation of operations. This role provides a single point our communications networks and evoid the equipment rooms, communication rooms, closed new work areas: of contact and management of technological technological obsolescence, which would circuit television technology and access control the Department of Technological demands, which will allow Codelco to deliver to otherwise expose us to multiple types of network are also part of the actions we are promoting. Architecture and the Project robust, integrated and coordinated service to our failure. Management Office (PMO) clients. Accordingly, we are establishing standardized of this vice presidency. These Cybersecurity levels of technological solutions to be are 2 key areas where advanced Today we are seeking to implement technologies Another of our objectives is the protection of our implemented. This will provide us with an digitization will be developed at that enable our company´s digital transformation. information assets and IT / OT cybersecurity. integrated solution ecosystem, which ultimately Codelco. Therefore, we are defining technological standards This involves monitoring and protecting the translates into optimized levels of support and and guidelines that will be used within our different Corporation from cyber-attacks through the use of lower levels of failure. Corporate operations. a series of security systems and applications. During 2019, we rolled out technologies and Communication networks Therefore, during 2019 we initiated joint efforts commenced the specification of documented These networks are the channels through which with Operations VP to generate higher levels of standards that will serve as a guide for the entire all the information used in Codelco flows, both security in operational networks; specifically, for Corporation. We also checked possible administratively and operationally. the Chuquicamata Subterránea project. points of failure at certain communications Culture of Innovation 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 102 HIGHLIGHTED CASE PIONEERS IN ELECTROMOBILITY Electromobility is not just an innovative technology. It also contributes to This event was organized by the Regional Ministerial Secretariat for Energy reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, which in turn contributes to with the collaboration of the “Agencia de Sostenibilidad Energética” and the reduction of global warming. The electrification of vehicles creates a addressed several challenges that this technological transformation faces. “transportation that is more energy efficient, reduces oil dependency and improves local air quality” (Clean Energy Ministerial, 2019). We highlight and reaffirm our commitment to the implementation of new lowemission and sustainable technologies that allow us to be the best business At Codelco, we were the pioneers in Chile in piloting and implementing for Chile, and that also put us at the forefront in the global technological electromobility as part of a Corporate strategy. Implementation began with context. service and support vehicles, and it is rapidly advancing towards being used for underground production equipment at both El Teniente and Chuquicamata Subterránea divisions, seeking new standards of operation and a fully electric mining design. During 2019, Codelco was part of the pilot project for the promotion of electromobility developed by the “Agencia de Sostenibilidad Energética” (Sustainable Energy Agency) with the support of the Ministry of Energy. This initiative seeks to test technologies within strategic companies in Chile and then spread out to other market stakeholders. This first version of this initiative included the participation of five companies. Also, in line with the drive for innovation and electromobility, in June 2019 Codelco’s Development and Innovation Manager at El Teniente, Alejandro Leiva, participated in the expert panel for the Seminar on Electromobility and Innovation held in Rancagua. Report presentation 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 103 Communities and territories OUR GOAL Our daily commitment is to execute our operations in a responsible manner and with a sense of community. Excellence in execution is one of our main objectives and our contribution to Chile’s development must be transparent to the territories where our operations are established. We do this by seeking participation, dialogue, transparency and common benefit in the areas where we operate. Report A new outlook Priority #1: Team Efficient, Committed Culture of Communities Annexes presentation in Sustainability occupational Codelco competitive to the planet innovation and territories health & safety and ethical Communities and territorIES 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 104 OUR PERFORMANCE 2019 IN FIGURES 25 DISTRICTS 95 AGREEMENTS CLP 2,817,845,692 IN OUR AREA OF INFLUENCE FOR SOCIAL INVESTMENT WITH IN INVESTMENT THROUGH 95 SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS / INSTITUTIONS AGREEMENTS 21 INDIGENOUS 9 AGREEMENTS CLP 215,845,574 COMMUNITIES WITH INDIGENOUS PEOPLES IN INVESTMENT THROUGH AGREEMENTS WITH INDIGENOUS PEOPLES 180 REQUIREMENTS 39 AGREEMENTS CLP 1,025,243,861 RECEIVED THROUGH THE SOCIO-ENVIRONMENTAL ASSOCIATED INITIATIVES OF INVESTED IN INFRASTRUCTURE COMPLAINTS AND SUGGESTION (“SRSS” by its INFRASTRUCTURE spanish acronym) SYSTEM Communities and territorIES 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 105 OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH (103-1, 103-2) During 2019 we focused on three main areas: community development and indigenous peoples, contribution to the local economy and legal compliance and commitments. Moreover, these aspects are part of the 6 areas of evaluation contained in our Comprehensive Community development is the process by which communities are strengthened, their Business Risk Management Model, whereby we implement all the necessary controls and plans, quality of life is improved and where they may participate in decisions that affect them. with the respective results reported to senior management. This is specifically vital in the territory where ongoing or eventual socio-environmental Our regulatory framework, the Corporate impacts or effects are produced and / or are perceived as a consequence of Codelco’s Sustainability Policy (2016), Codelco Corporate Standard NCCº 39 on Community Investment operations or the development of its investment projects (...) (2016) and the Community Development Standard (2016), Community Relationship (2016) and Native Peoples Standard (2016) define what we understand about these three aspects and In this context, we recognize the intrinsic value of indigenous peoples, in their identity the commitments that we as a corporation have to them. and form of self-organization, their rights, culture, rites and customs, together with their ties to the land, territory and its resources. Codelco Corporate Standard NCCº 39 on Community Investment, 2016 Communities and territorIES 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 106 Community investment (203-1) At Codelco we have established an important 39 of our community agreements were Total budget for social investment tool through Codelco Corporate associated with infrastructure initiatives for a Total social investment social investment agreements signed in 2019 Standard No. 39 on Community Investment total budget of CLP 1,025,243,861. agreements in 2019 2016 (“NCC 39” by its spanish acronym): the Community Investment Agreements. These consist of instruments through which we Distrito Norte 49 CLp 1,369,147,982 enter into agreements with institutions with legal standing, public or private, in order to formalize the delivery of contributions to develop community projects. Salvador 1 CLp 90,000,000 All community contributions we make as a Corporation have an agreement, and 100% of these agreements are made with Andina 30 CLp 1,067,859,756 compliance certifications and sworn statements, pursuant to Law No. 20,393 on Criminal Liability of Legal Persons. Ventanas 12 CLp 244,541,656 In turn, our community investment has two sources of financing: El teniente 3 CLp 46,296,298 • Direct, through each division / district • Through the Social Investment Fund (“FIS” by its spanish acronym) Total 95 CLp 2,817,845,692 Community investment in 2019 focused on 4 priorities, which will be described below. CLP = Chilean Peso Communities and territorIES 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 107 OUR PERFORMANCE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND INDIGENOUS PEOPLES COMMUNITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM PERCENTAGE OF AGREEMENTS SIGNED PER INVESTMENT priorities IN 2019 In 2019 we were focused on optimizing and (103-3) consolidating our online platforms, which will allow In order to formalize, monitor, follow up and us to optimize control, traceability and monitoring of: evaluate the relationship, investment and impact of our work with the communities, we 12% Community investment have a management system in place that is Contributions that Codelco makes in favor of the based on the guidelines and commitments 78% communities within the area of influence of its established in the Corporate Sustainability operations and projects, seeking to contribute to the Policy, in force since 2016. development of our business activities. 9% This system consists of: Areas of influence Territory where ongoing or eventual socio• Community relations plans: each divisions environmental impacts or risks occur and / or are must manage its own. SIGNED AGREEMENTS 1% perceived as a consequence of our operations or the PER INVESTMENT priorities development of our investment projects. • Perception study: analyzes the perception IN 2019 of the authorities and communities within Stakeholders the operations zone on the performance All groups, people and social organizations that of the Corporation in several aspects of inhabit the territory where our mining activities and / sustainability. or projects are carried out. • Online project information and monitoring Community relations system: divisions provide project To materialize a community strategy by generating information that permits monitoring of their transparent relationships based on collaborative TERRITORY DEVELOPMENT INDIGENOUS PEOPLES activities. work and mutual benefit, managing expectations with appropriate and inclusive processes. HUMAN CAPITAL SOCIO-ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITMENT Communities and territorIES 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 108 Training and development management Local training and development instruments seek to support the communities through TERRITORIAL DEVELOPMENT education and training initiatives in order to increase employability and employment opportunities. 69% OF TOTAL SOCIAL INVESTMENT Social-environmental conflict Ongoing monitoring of community dynamics in the territories within the area of influence, in addition to anticipating conflicts therein, allows 75 us to establish plans to avoid operational and / SIGNED AGREEMENTS or reputational losses. Community strategy This integrates socio-environmental risks CLP 1,956,324,276 into community management, establishing IN INVESTMENT focal points for community relations and development within the area of influence. Organization values Considering the importance of creating spaces for learning and communication among Codelco Social Investment Fund (FIS) FINANCED PROJECTS IN 2019 (203-1) community organizations in addition to those The FIS is another of our resource already established with the communities. allocation mechanisms that allows Total project FIS Division Project name amount financing amount co-financing for community projects AT THE SERVICE OF SOCIAL with resources from the divisions, ORGANIZATIONS the corporate center and social Sustainable beautification VENTANAS CLp 20,044,035 CLp 10,933,110 and insurance, square at Ventanas (413-1) organizations. One of the four topics for 2019 community investment was territorial development, aimed This is aimed at civilian groups within at strengthening the skills and resources of the the area of influence of our operations, Our science room CLp 36,955,193 CLp 15,618,252 inhabitants of the communities within the area and aims to develop projects that seek of influence. This consists of 3 priority areas: to foster citizen participation and El TENIENTE quality of life, organizational strengthening and improve the people´s quality of live. Education for environmental CLp 7,265,878 CLp 3,159,527 culture and heritage appraisal. Care in the dintrans sector CLP = Chilean Peso Communities and territorIES 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 109 FEATURED COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS SALVADOR ANDINA Responsible Ownership of Pets in Chañaral Safe rural water (“APR” by its spanish acronym) Amount: CLP 90,000,000 Amount: CLP 266,000,000 Consistent with our community relations policies and echoing the sentiment Through División Andina we support the improvement of the APR system of the general public, as Codelco División Salvador we are financing the of the “Camino internacional” in the province of Los Andes and of the APR construction of a kennel to harbor dogs in Chañaral district, thereby systems in the province of Chacabuco: Río Blanco, Riecillo, Chacayes Alto, promoting responsible pet ownership in conjunction with the Community Río Colorado, “El Sause” Riecillo, Bocatoma, Camino Internacional Alto. These Neighborhood Committee of this city. initiatives aim to improve the quality of life of the residents and, through these improvements, allowing them to have availability of this vital resource Diego de Almagro Children’s Orchestra throughout the day. Continuing with this initiative in 2019 and for the third consecutive year through División Salvador, we financed classes for children and young Consolidation of the community office in Huertos Familiares as a space for members of the Diego de Almagro Children’s Orchestra, dependent on meeting and providing information the district Municipality. The orchestra has more than 30 musicians who Amount: CLP 9,600,000 periodically give recitals in different parts of the Atacama Region. Through our community office located at Calle Dos Oriente 160-C, we seek to strengthen ties of trust with neighbors and neighborhood leaders of the towns surrounding Ovejería tailing dam, and to publicize the key aspects of the sustainable operation of said dam. Communities and territorIES 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 110 INDIGENOUS PEOPLES: STRENGTHENING OUR COMMITMENT DIVISION/ INDIGENOUS DEVELOPMENT AREA INDIGENOUS COMMUNITIES (MM5) DISTRICT At Codelco we engage with the indigenous Community of Taira Aymara, Atacameñas, Quechuas and Collas communities. We recognize their unique Community of Conchi Viejo attributes and we greatly respect their forms of organization, customs, worldview and way Community of Caspana of life. Therefore, Codelco has specifically Community of Toconce developed community relations plans for indigenous communities in the area of influence Community of Valle Lasana of each division. These plans define the actions that Codelco takes within the communities, Alto el Loa Community of Estación San Pedro maintaining a presence in the territory through Community of Chiu-Chiu periodic visits and carrying out work meetings, workshops, training and participatory and Community of Ollagüe associative community projects with the Community of Cupo indigenous communities surrounding our Distrito Norte operations. “Asociación Indígena de Agricultores y Regantes de Chiu-Chiu” (ASACHI) Neighborhood Council No. 24 of Village of Chiu-Chiu Community of San Pedro de Atacama and the Indigenous Community Ayllus Community of Río Grande Community of Toconao Atacama la Grande Community of Peine Community of Socaire 5 of our 8 divisions are Community of Camar located in areas close to indigenous Community of Talabre communities. Colla Community of Diego de Almagro Division Salvador Colla Community of Geoxcultuxial Colla Community of Chiyagua Communities and territorIES 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 111 In 2019 we signed 9 collaborative agreements with indigenous communities / organizations, for a total budget of CLP 215,845,574, which translates into the following initiatives that contribute to quality of life and sustainability of the parties involved: CLP 2,582,300 CLP 18,098,165 LICKANANTAY PAPUR IMPLEMENTATION OF A RADIO TOCONAO RECORDING STUDIO TO CREATE Start: 03-21-2019 / End: 03-15-2020 VALUE FOR AND DISSEMINATE CULTURAL, ARTISTIC AND SPORTS HERITAGE OF TOCONAO AND SURROUNDING AREAS CLP 43,194,757 Start: 12-27-2019 / End: 12-23-2020 IMPLEMENTATION OF RENEWABLE ENERGY: INDIGENOUS COMMUNITY OF CHUNCHURI CLP 20,500,000 Start: 01-17-2019 / End: 01-17-2020 “MEJORAR MI TURI” Start: 12-23-2019 / End: 12-23-2020 CLP 60,000,000 CHUNCHURI A SELF-SUSTAINING AGRICULTURAL COMMUNITY CLP 20,410,750 Start: 05-14-2019 / End: 07-14-2020 IMPROVEMENT TO WATER CHANNELING FOR THE INHABITANTS OF VEGA CHELA CLP 20,500,000 Start: 11-25-2019 / End: 11-25-2020 NON-CONVENTIONAL RENEWABLE ENERGY (NCRE) PROJECT TO SUPPORT THE BEST QUALITY OF LIFE FOR THE INHABITANTS OF CLP 20,059,602 CHIU-CHIU ACTIVATION OF COMMERCIAL AGRICULTURE IN CHIU-CHIU THROUGH THE Start: 11-19-2019 PROCUREMENT OF AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT Start: 11-25-2019 / End: 11-25-2020 CLP 10,500,000 IMPLEMENTATION OF CASPANA SHELTER Start: 11-18-2019 / End: 11-18-2020 Communities and territorIES 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 112 Engagement processes with local community (MM5, 413-1) All Codelco operations have established consultation and participation processes that are carried out with the local neighboring communities, in accordance with the Corporation’s guidelines and Chilean law. These processes establish working groups, surveys and foster engagement with public-private organizations, among other instances, resulting in several development projects, in addition to citizen consultations established by the environmental authority or other instances. One highlight of 2019 was the Indigenous Consultation Process conducted by the Environmental Assessment Service (“SEA” by its spanish acronym) as part of the Rajo Inca project. This involved participation from the Colla communities from the district of Diego de Almagro and the Colla Geoxcultuxial and Colla Chiyagua from Quebrada del Jardín. This process allowed us to establish commitments with the participating communities, as well as solid principles and standards to promote and strengthen collaborative relationships with the indigenous communities (411-1, MM6) surrounding División Salvador, through the signing of protocols of There were no recorded cases of violation of the rights of indigenous peoples agreements. These protocols and agreements include Codelco’s in 2019, nor were there any reported significant conflicts associated with mitigation, compensation and voluntary commitments that will help land use, customary rights of local communities or indigenous peoples. improve the quality of life of indigenous communities, and boost the economy of Chañaral and that of the Atacama Region. Communities and territorIES 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 113 CONTRIBUTION TO LOCAL ECONOMY (103-2; 413-1) HUMAN CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT Another focal point of our investment strategy following aspects: training for employability, training is strengthening human capital, aimed at for community development, entrepreneurship increasing and / or improving skills, abilities and and / or productive development, education, and training of people from the communities within environmental education. the area of influence. This includes the HUMAN CAPITAL 22% OF TOTAL SOCIAL INVESTMENT 11 SIGNED AGREEMENTS CLP 608,675,842 IN INVESTMENT Communities and territorIES 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 114 FEATURED HUMAN CAPITAL AGREEMENTS NORTHERN DISTRICT DIVISION ANDINA DIVISION VENTANAS Union of independent workers, fishermen of Tocopilla Contribution to culture through music education for Education program for technological projects Amount: CLP 100,000,000 vulnerable children and youth Amount: CLP 7,500,000 Amount: CLP 180,000,000 This is the first agreement signed with this union The objective of this initiative is to train students and and will involve concentrating efforts on improving This project involves the Children’s Symphony Orchestra teachers of an educational establishment on the use productive activity by acquiring a 6.5 ton crane. This Foundation and conducts music classes for children of new technologies that may become useful tools will allow the union to improve the movement of and youth in vulnerable conditions in the towns of Los both for future jobs or ventures and for the teaching seafood and fish boats and cargo by 110% on a daily Andes, Til Til and Río Blanco from March to January. processes of the establishment. basis. Children and young people learn musical techniques Educational resources guides and posters for 5th with several types of instruments, whose classes are grade students to develop projects with technologies led by professionals in the area who are guided by that use copper and relating to the contents of the annual plan carried out by the conductor of the workshops in natural sciences, art and language orchestra. courses. We also worked on a research proposal for copper applications in school projects, such as the At the end of the year, children and young people give use of copper nanoparticles in conductive ink and the recitals at the provincial and national levels, in which use of new sensors or actuators with copper, among they demonstrate their skills acquired during the period. others. Communities and territorIES 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 115 SOCIAL COMPLIANCE FULFILLING OUR COMMITMENTS Socio-environmental Complaints (103-2) and Suggestion System (“SRSS”) Part of our funds are invested in agreements that (103-2, MM7) enable compliance with commitments in community In order to respond swiftly to the concerns, issues. These issues involve legal instruments or grievances and proposals that arise from voluntary commitments assumed by our operations communities in relation to our production Toll free hotline: and / or investment projects and which may arise processes and / or investment projects, 800 222 600 from: Environmental Qualification Resolutions, we established the Socio-environmental sectoral permit requirements and agreements with Complaints and Suggestion System (“SRSS” by authorities and / or community representatives. its spanish acronym). The SRSS is a permanent communication platform open to communities e-mail: In 2019 we invested a total of CLP 37,000,000, within different territories where we are present contactosocioambiental@codelco.cl corresponding to 1.3% of the total social investment. and operates via email and a toll-free hotline. This fund was invested in the project “Ecogranja In 2019 this system was optimized as a result Parque Cordillera” a learning experience through of a KPMG diagnosis, the standards established knowledge, respect and appreciation for animals. by ISO 19600 and ICMM in these areas, and the The aim of this investment is to preserve and identification of best practices in our industry. improving the facilities required for the operation of During the period, we received 180 requests the ecofarm and ensure the well-being of animals through the Socio-environmental Complaints and their diet. and Suggestions System, representing a significant increase compared to the In parallel, the repair of sanitary facilities and requests received in 2018 (76). The 180 children’s playground will be carried out, in requests received in 2019 met the following addition to pest control, sanitation and structural characteristics: improvements to the artificial pond and facilities. Communities and territorIES 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 116 21% TYPES OF REQUIREMENTS OF THE REQUIREMENTS WERE RECEIVED IN SEPTEMBER, MARKED BY A HIGH NUMBER OF TICKETS FILED BY DIVISION RADOMIRO TOMIC (24) COMPLAINTS 83% (149) OF THE TOTAL THE NORTH DISTRICT RECORDED THE HIGHEST AMOUNT WITH 105 REQUIREMENTS. OF REQUIREMENTS THESE, DIVISIÓN CHUQUICAMATA RECEIVED 51% (53) COMPLAINTS FILED BY THE COMMUNITY FOR TRUCK ACTIVITY ASSOCIATED WITH MINING OPERATIONS. CONSULTATIONS 8% (15) OF THE TOTAL HEADQUARTERS RECEIVED THE HIGHEST TOTAL REQUIREMENTS RECEIVED 2019 (%) QUANTITY OF CONSULTATION (5) SUGGESTIONS 9% (16) OF THE TOTAL 54% (97 cases) SOCIAL 6% (10 cases) OTHERS CHANNELS OF RECEIPT FOR REQUIREMENTS ENVIRONMENTAL 40% (73 cases) 70% CALL CENTER (411-1, MM7) OF ALL THE COMPLAINTS, NONE CORRESPOND TO HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS. 23% EMAIL LIKEWISE, NO COMPLAINTS WERE FILED ASSOCIATED WITH LAND USE CONFLICTS, CUSTOMARY RIGHTS OF LOCAL COMMUNITIES AND INDIGENOUS PEOPLES. 7% WEBSITE Communities and territorIES 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 117 2019 REQUIREMENTS REGISTERED PER DIVISION (413-2) 56 In 2019 there were no conflicts 53 Requirements with the community that impacted the continuity of Complaints our work, nor were there any 28 27 26 29 24 24 18 incidents with social impact caused by our activities. 9 9 10 5 1 1 3 3 3 Ministro Hales Gabriela Mistral Radomiro Tomic Chuquicamata Salvador Andina Ventanas El Teniente Head Office Report presentation 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 118 Annexes 20 years of reporting For 20 years at Codelco we have been committed to reporting our environmental and social management through annual sustainability reports. This document celebrates two decades in which we report on our comprehensive performance. Report A new outlook Priority #1: Team Efficient, Committed Culture of Communities Annexes presentation in Sustainability occupational Codelco competitive to the planet innovation and territory health & safety and ethical Annexes 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 119 METHODOLOGY AND OTHER STANDARDS (102-21, 102-40, 102-42, 102-43 ,102-49, 102-51, 102-54, 102-48) As members of the International Council for Mining and Metals (ICMM) we use the methodology suggested by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) in The first step, consisted on defining and classifying our stakeholders, who then their option for comprehensive option. In addition, participated in a consultation process: we report on progress for the United Nations Global Compact. PRIORITY STAKEHOLDER CONSULTATION AREA The information included in this report continues 2019 LABOR CLIMATE SURVEY from the report issued in 2018 and covers the period DIRECT MEETING AGENDA WITH TRADE UNIONS from January 1 to December 31, 2019, covering all of WORKERS 2019 MERCO STUDY Codelco’s operations and activities without changes in scope and coverage of information regarding what MEETING AGENDA was reported in the previous period. CONTRACTOR MEETING MINUTES COMPANIES WEB This report was externally reviewed by KPMG, Auditores Consultores SpA. LABOR MEETING AGENDA MATERIALITY PROCESS UNIONS WEB In 2019 we carried out a materiality definition STAKEHOLDER MAPPING process to identify the significant impacts of our SURROUNDING COMMUNITIES “MORI” SURVEY work, as well as the issues that substantially AND SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS “VEAS” RESEARCH influence the assessments and decisions of our “UNIVERSIDAD CATOLICA” 2019 PERCEPTION STUDY stakeholders. Annexes 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 120 DIFFERENTIATED INTEREST IMPORTANT Water resources CRITICAL (102-44, 102-46) Occupational health and safety The important issues that resulted Community development from this consultation process and indigenous peoples were prioritized in the following 100 Productive and efficient management materiality matrix and validated by the Employment Impact and socio-environmental Sustainable Development Department compliance at Head Office and the Board’s 90 Climate change Sustainability Committee. Contribution to local Labor relations economy 80 Social compliance Relevance for the stakeholders Human rights Ethics and integrity Diversity 70 and inclusion Closure of mine sites Strategic innovation Corporate governance 60 MODERATE DIFFERENTIATED INTEREST 50 40 30 20 10 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 RELEVANCE FOR CODELCO Annexes 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 121 INTERNATIONAL STANDARDS At Codelco, we adhere to certain international standards that contribute to our management in terms of sustainable development. ICMM • Obtain an independent third-party verification of • Position statement on transparency in mineral This Sustainability Report serves the function of our performance in sustainability. Accordingly, an revenues (complement to Principle 1) – July 2009. communicating Codelco’s progress in complying We are members of the International Council independent auditor must review and assess the with these principles. of Mining and Metals (ICMM). Since 2001 this quality of our reports, systems and processes in • Position statement on mercury risk management organization has brought together leaders of the accordance with ICMM’s Assurance Procedure. (complement to Principles 4, 6 and 8)February SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS mining and metallurgical extractive industry with a 2009. (SDGs) commitment to improve performance in sustainable • We adhere to the principles of transparency development that society demands through its ten proposed by the Extractive Industry Transparency • Position statement on indigenous peoples and The Sustainable Development Goals are 17 principles (available at www.icmm.com). Initiative (EITI). mining (complement to Principle 3) – May 2013. measures developed by the United Nations in which all society stakeholders may contribute As ICMM members we have agreed to comply with At Codelco, we adhere to and comply with the six • Position statement on mining and protected areas to achieve important goals including an end to three mandatory elements: position statements that provide clarity to the (complements Principles 6 and 7) September poverty, protecting the planet and guaranteeing commitments contained in the ten principles of 2003. the overall well-being of persons. The detail of • Integrate the set of 10 principles for sustainable Sustainable Development of the ICMM: each of these goals can be found here. development and support position statements in GLOBAL COMPACT corporate policies. • ICMM Principles for the Design of Climate Change Our contribution as a State-owned company to Policies (complements to Principles 4 and 6) Since June 2016 onwards Codelco has adhered to the the fulfillment of the SDG`s is reflected in this • Report the progress and management of June 2011. United Nations Global Compact, a voluntary initiative document. the principles and position statements in in which companies commit to align their strategies Sustainability Reports (annually), according to the • Mining Position Statement: Partnerships for and operations with ten universally accepted Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), including the GRI development (complements Principle 9) January principles in four thematic areas: human rights, labor Mining and Metals Sector Supplement. 2010. standards, environment and anti-corruption. Annexes 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 122 Annexes 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 123 LETTER OF verification (102-56) Independent Review Report Codelco’s 2019 Sustainability Report To the President and Directors of Corporación Nacional del Cobre de Chile (CODELCO) We have conducted a limited review of the content and data • Interviews with Codelco’s key personnel, in order to disclosed in the 2019 Sustainability Report of Codelco for the year assess the 2019 sustainability report preparation ended December 31, 2019. process, content definition, information systems used and the scope regarding the principles of sustainable Codelco’s management is responsible for the preparation of the development and the ICMM Statements of Position. Sustainability Report. Additionally, Codelco’s management is • Verification of data included in “Codelco’s 2019 responsible for the contents, affirmations, scope definition and the Sustainability Report” through supporting management and control of information systems which provided documentation provided by Codelco. the information reported. • Analysis of the collection process and the quality control of the quantitative information reported in Our review was conducted in accordance with attestation “Codelco’s 2019 sustainability report”. engagement standards established by the Colegio de Contadores • Verification of data reliability using analytical de Chile A.G. A review is substantially less in scope than an procedures, testing on a sample basis and the review examination, the objective of which is the expression of an opinion of recalculations. over “Codelco’s 2019 Sustainability Report”. Accordingly, we do • Visits to the corporate offices located in the not express such an opinion. Metropolitan Region and videoconference interviews. • Review of the drafting of “Codelco’s 2019 Contents and data disclosed in “Codelco’s 2019 Sustainability Sustainability Report”. Report” were also reviewed considering the criteria established in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Standard Based on our review, nothing came to our attention that caused as well as its related Supplement for the Mining and Metal Sector us to believe any of the following: and in the Principles of Sustainable Development Assurance Procedure and • Contents and data disclosed in “Codelco’s 2019 the International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM) Statements Sustainability Report” are not duly supported with of Position, which are summarized as follows: sufficient evidence. • “Codelco’s 2019 Sustainability Report” has not been • Determine that the contents and data disclosed in prepared in accordance with the Principles on Content “Codelco’s 2019 Sustainability Report” are duly supported and Quality as established by the GRI Standard and with sufficient evidence. the Supplement for the Mining and Metal Sector. • Determine that Codelco has prepared its 2019 • “Codelco’s 2019 Sustainability Report” does not Sustainability Report in accordance with the Principles on comply with the comprehensive option stated by Content and Quality as established by the GRI Standard and Codelco in accordance with the GRI Standard. the Supplement for the Mining and Metal Sector. • Codelco is not aligned with the principles of • Confirm the comprehensive option stated by Codelco in sustainable development and the ICMM Statements its 2019 Sustainability Report, in accordance with the GRI of Position. Standard. • Confirm Codelco’s alignment with the Principles of KPMG SpA. Sustainable Development Assurance Procedure and the International Council on Mining and Metals Statements of Position. Our procedures considered conducting inquiries with Codelco’s management and the personnel from the operations responsible for the preparation of the report, as well as performing other analytical procedures and tests, that included: Tamara Agnic M. Partner Santiago June 30, 2020 © KPMG Auditores Consultores SpA, a Chilean joint-stock company and a member firm of the KPMG network of Santiago independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), a Swiss entity. Isidora Goyenechea 3520 All rights reserved. Piso 2, Las Condes +56 2 2997 1000 contacto@kpmg.com Annexes 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 124 GRI TABLES (102-55) GENERAL CONTENTS PRINCIPLES GRI STANDARD CONTENTS PAGE / OMISSION SDG* GLOBAL PACT* 1. PROFILE OF THE ORGANIZATION 102-1 Name of the organization 149 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services 11 102-3 Location of headquarters 149 102-4 Location of operations 10 102-5 Ownership and legal form 149 102-6 Markets served 11 102-7 Scale of the organization 9 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 36 138 6 8 GRI 102: 2016 102-9 Supply chain 55 General 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 55 Disclosures 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach 13 102-12 External initiatives 12 102-13 Membership of associations 12 2. STRATEGY 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 5 102-15 Key impacts, risks and opportunities 67 3. ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 49 10 16 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and converns about ethics 69 10 16 Annexes 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 125 GENERAL CONTENTS PRINCIPLES GRI STANDARD DESCRIPTION PAGE / OMISSION SDG* GLOBAL PACT* 4. GOVERNANCE 102-18 Governance structure 58 102-19 Delegating of authority 58 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics 58 63 64 -144 102-21 Consulting stakeholders stakeholders on economic, environmental and social topics 119 16 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body 62 142 5, 16 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 58 16 102-24 Nomination and selecting the highest governance body 58 5, 16 102-25 Conflicts of interest 70 16 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose values and strategy 63 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body 64 4 GRI 102: 102-28 Evaluation the highest governance body’s performance 64 2016 102-29 Identifying and managing of economic, environmental and social impacts 65 16 General Disclosures 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes 65 102-31 Review of economic, environmental and social topics 58 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in Sustainability Report 63 102-33 Communicating critical concerns 63 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns 67 102-35 Remuneration policies 62 102-36 Process to determining remuneration 62 102-37 Stakeholders involvement in remuneration 62 16 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio 36 5. PSTAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 119 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 41 140 3 8 Annexes 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 126 CONTENIDOS GENERALES PRINCIPLES GRI STANDARD DESCRIPTION PAGE / OMISSION SDG* GLOBAL PACT* 102-42 Identifying and selecting agreements 119 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 119 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 120 6.PRACTICES FOR REPORT PREPARATION 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 52 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 120 102-47 List of material topics 22 120 GRI 102: 2016 102-48 Restatement of information 119 General 102-49 Changes in reporting 119 disclosures 102-50 Reporting period 149 102-51 Date of most recent report 119 102-52 Reporting cycle 149 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 149 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance in accordance with GRI standards 119 102-55 GRI content index 124 102-56 External assurance 123 Annexes 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 127 TEMAS MATERIALES PRINCIPLES GRI STANDARD DESCRIPTION PAGE / OMISSION SDG* GLOBAL PACT* EFFICIENT MANAGEMENT AND PRODUCTIVITY CLIMATE CHANGE CONTRIBUTION TO THE LOCAL ECONOMY 49 MANAGEMENT APPROACH (103-1 / 103-3 / 103-3) GRI 201: 2016 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 54 141 2, 5, 7, 8, 9 Economic performance 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change 84 7 13 201-4 Financial assistance received from government 54 GRI 202: 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage 36 6 1, 8 2016 Market presence 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community 36 6 8 GRI 203: 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 106 108 2, 5, 7, 9, 11 2016 Indirect economic 203-2 Significant indirect economic impact 55 1, 2, 3, 8, 10, 17 impacts GRI 204: 2016 Procurement 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 55 12 practices ETHICS AND INTEGRITY. MANAGEMENT APPROACH (103-1 / 103-3 / 103-3) 49 GRI 205: 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 145 68 10 16 2016 Anti-corruption 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 68 16 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 69 10 Annexes 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 128 MATERIAL ISSUES PRINCIPLES GRI STANDARD DESCRIPTION PAGE / OMISSION SDG* GLOBAL PACT* 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 83 7, 8 7, 8, 12, 13 Codelco has not developed a method to quantify energy 302-2 Energy consumption outside the organization 8 7, 8, 12, 13 consumption outside the organization. GRI 302: 302-3 Energy intensity 83 8 7, 8, 12, 13 2016 Energy Codelco has not quantified 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption energy savings figures 8,9 7, 8, 12, 13 from the initiatives This indicator does not apply to Codelco due to the type 302-5 Reduction in energy requirements of products and services 8,9 7, 8, 12, 13 of product that Codelco produces. WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT APPROACH (103-1 / 103-3 / 103-3) 73 303-1 Interaction with water as a shared resource 78 7, 8 6 303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts 78 8 6 GRI 303: 303-3 Water withdrawl 146 2018 Water and effluents 303-4 Water discharge 81 Codelco has promoted initiatives to quantify 303-5 Water consumption this indicator according to the GRI Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and 304-1 86 8 6, 14, 15 areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas GRI 304: 2016 304-2 Significant impact of activities, products and services on biodiversity 86 8 6, 14, 15 Biodiversity 304-3 Habitats protected or restored 86 8 6, 14, 15 304-4 IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations 86 8 6, 14, 15 Annexes 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 129 MATERIAL ISSUES PRINCIPLES GRI STANDARD DESCRIPTION PAGE / OMISSION SDG* GLOBAL PACT* 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 84 7, 8 3, 12, 13, 14, 15 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 84 7, 8 3, 12, 13, 14, 15 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 84 7, 8 3, 12, 13, 14, 15 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 85 8 13, 14, 15 GHG reductions have GRI 305: 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions GHG emissions have 8 13, 14, 15 2016 not been quantified Emissions Codelco does not produce nor export these types of substances. Codelco 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) emphasizes by corporate 7, 8 3, 12, 13 definition it doesn’t import CFC-11 substances 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX) and other significant air emissions 85 147 7, 8 3, 12, 13, 14, 15 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination 81 8 3, 6,12,14 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 81 147 8 3,6-12 GRI 306: 2016 Effluents and 306-3 Significant spills 76 8 3,6, 12, 14, 15 waste 306-4 Transportation of hazardous waste 147 (*) 8 3, 12 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff 81 147 8 6, 15 GRI 307: Socio-environmental impact and compliance MANAGEMENT APPROACH (103-1 / 103-3 / 103-3) 73 12, 13, 14, 15 2016 Environmental compliance 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 75 8 16 EMPLOYMENT. MANAGEMENT APPROACH (103-1 / 103-3 / 103-3) 35 GRI 401 : 2016 Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 34 6 5, 8 (*) Page indication issued on July 20, 2020; being outside the external verification scope. Annexes 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 130 MATERIAL ISSUES PRINCIPLES GRI STANDARD DESCRIPTION PAGE / OMISSION SDG* GLOBAL PACT* GRI 402: LABOUR RELATIONS. MANAGEMENT APPROACH (103-1 / 103-3 / 103-3) 35 2016 Labor/ Management relations 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 42 3 8 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY MANAGEMENT APPROACH (103-1 / 103-3 / 103-3) 25 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system 26 5, 8 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment and incident investigation 26 3,8 403-3 Occupational health services 29 3, 8 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on occupational health and safety 27 8 GRI 403: 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety 26 2018 Occupational health and safety 403-6 Promotion of worker health 29 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts 403-7 31 directly linked by business relationships 403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and safety management system 26 403-9 Work-related injuries 28 403-10 Work-related ill health 29 DIVERSITY & INCLUSION. MANAGEMENT APPROACH (103-1 / 103-3 / 103-3) 35 GRI 405: 2106 Diversity and 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 43 64 6 5, 8 Equal opportunities 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 36 6 5, 8, 10 GRI 406: 2016 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 69 6 5, 8, 16 Non-discrimination Annexes 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 131 MATERIAL ISSUES PRINCIPLES GRI STANDARD DESCRIPTION PAGE / OMISSION SDG* GLOBAL PACT* GRI 407: HUMAN RIGHTS MANAGEMENT APPROACH (103-1 / 103-3 / 103-3) 35 2016 Freedom of association and Operations and suppliers in witch the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining Collective 407-1 44 56 3 8 may be at risk bargaining GRI 408: 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor 44 5 8, 16 2016 Child labor GRI 409: 2016 Forced or 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor forced or required 44 4 8 compulsory labor GRI 411: TERRITORIAL DEVELOPMENT AND INDIGENOUS PEOPLES. MANAGEMENT APPROACH (103-1 / 103-3 / 103-3) 105 2016 Rights of indigenous people 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples 112 116 1 2 HUMAN RIGHTS. MANAGEMENT APPROACH (103-1 / 103-3 / 103-3) 35 To date only 1 operation (división Radomiro Tomic) GRI 412: has undergone 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments 1 2016 Human rights a due diligence assessment assessment on matters of human Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or 412-3 44 1, 2 that underwent human rights screening TERRITORIAL DEVELOPMENT AND INDIGENOUS PEOPLES. MANAGEMENT APPROACH (103-1 / 103-3 / 103-3) 105 GRI 413: 2016 Local 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments and development programs 108 112 113 1 communities 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities 117 1 1 GRI 415: 415-1 Political contributions 64 16 2016 Public policy GRI 419: SOCIAL COMPLIANCE. MANAGEMENT APPROACH (103-1 / 103-3 / 103-3) 49 2016 Socio-economic compliance 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area 70 16 Annexes 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 132 MINING SECTOR SUPPLEMENT INDICATORS PRINCIPLES GRI STANDARD DESCRIPTION PAGE / OMISSION SDG* GLOBAL PACT* Amount of disturbed or restored land (owned or leased, and managed for MM1 86 6, 14, 15 extractive, production or use activities). Number and percentage of sites identified as needing biodiversity management plans, according to criteria MM2 86 6, 14, 15 established, and number (percentage) of those sites that are already covered under such plans. MM3 Total overburden, waste, tailings, sludge, and associated risks. 82 148 3, 6, 12 MM4 Number of strikes and lockouts lasting longer than a week, per country. 41 139 8 Total number of operations located in or adjacent to indigenous peoples’ territories, and number and percentage of MM5 110 112 1, 2, operations or sites that have formal agreements with local communities. Number and description of significant conflicts related to land use, local community customs rights MM6 112 1, 2 and indigenous people’s rights. Extent to which complaint mechanisms were used to resolve conflicts related to land use, MM7 115 116 1, 2 community or indigenous people customs rights. Indicate outcomes. CLOSURE OF SITES MANAGEMENT APPROACH (103-1 / 103-3 / 103-3) 73 MM10 Number and percentage of operations with closure plans. 92 Annexes 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 133 ANNEXES CHAPTER 3: Priority #1: Occupational health and safety CODELCO PERSONNEL ACCIDENT RATES TOTAL ACCIDENTS WITH ACCIDENT SEVERITY LOST DAYS DIVISION / VP GENDER FATALITIES ACCIDENTS LOST TIME FREQUENCY RATE RATE PER ACCIDENT (*) Female 2 0 0 0 0 0 Radomiro Tomic Male 6 1 0.46 148 324 0 Female 3 1 1.05 0 0 0 Chuquicamata Male 47 16 1.78 150 1,352 0 Female 0 0 0 0 0 0 Ministro Hales Male 6 1 0.67 201 302 0 Female 2 0 0 0 0 0 Gabriela Mistral Male 3 1 1.20 94 78 0 Female 0 0 0 0 0 0 Salvador Male 24 4 1.41 187 533 0 Female 0 0 0 0 0 0 Andina Male 19 6 2.04 187 549 0 Female 1 0 0 0 0 0 Ventanas Male 16 1 0.65 4 89 0 Female 3 0 0 0 0 0 El Teniente Male 45 5 0.79 1,027 7,778 1 Female 1 0 0 0 0 0 Head Office Male 0 0 0 0 76 0 Female 1 0 0 0 0 0 VP of Projects (VP) Male 1 0 0 197 0 0 TOTAL 180 36 1.08 325 11,081 1 Annexes 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 134 EXTERNAL PERSONNEL ACCIDENT INDICATORS TOTAL ACCIDENTS WITH ACCIDENT SEVERITY LOST DAYS DIVISION / VP GENDER FATALITIES ACCIDENTS LOST TIME FREQUENCY RATE RATE PER ACCIDENT (*) Female 2 0 0 0 0 0 Radomiro Tomic Male 35 5 0.62 42 339 0 Female 5 1 0.62 11 17 0 Chuquicamata Male 36 10 0.68 45 661 0 Female 2 0 0 0 0 0 Ministro Hales Male 38 3 0.70 735 3,169 0 Female 0 0 0 0 0 0 Gabriela Mistral Male 17 3 0.50 36 230 0 Female 1 0 0 0 0 0 Salvador Male 30 2 0.27 44 329 0 Female 1 0 0 0 0 0 Andina Male 37 6 0.70 67 575 0 Female 2 0 0 0 0 0 Ventanas Male 17 1 0.47 165 351 0 Female 9 0 0 0 0 0 El Teniente Male 179 15 0.65 51 1,177 0 Female 0 0 0 0 0 0 Head Office Male 2 0 0 0 0 0 Female 14 0 0 0 0 0 VP of Projects (VP) Male 239 25 0.67 56 2.088 0 TOTAL 666 71 0.58 73 8,936 0 Annexes 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 135 OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS FREQUENCY RATE 2019 Radomiro Tomic 0.52 Chuquicamata 1.06 Ministro Hales 0.61 Gabriela Mistral 0.71 Salvador 0.54 Andina 0.97 VentanaS 0.5 El teniente 0.64 Vice-presidency of Projects 0.58 Head Office 0 REFERENCE VALUES 0.9 Annexes 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 136 2019 JOINT HEALTH AND SAFETY COMMITTEES (CPHS) No. OF WORKERS % OF WORKERS No. OF WORKER No. OF MANAGEMENT DIVISION CPHS No. REPRESENTED ON THE COMMITTEE REPRESENTED PARTICIPANTS (CPHS No. 3*) PARTICIPANTS (CPHS No. 3*) Radomiro Tomic 2 1,229 100% 6 6 Chuquicamata 14 5,198 100% 42 42 Ministro Hales 2 787 100% 6 6 Gabriela Mistral 1 524 100% 3 3 Salvador 6 1,490 100% 18 18 Ventanas 1 854 100% 3 3 Andina 6 1,629 100% 18 18 El Teniente 8 4,398 100% 24 24 Head Office 1 520 100% 3 3 VP of Projects (VP) 6 997 100% 18 18 Note: The indicated staffing corresponds to the annual average, unlike indicator 102-8, which corresponds to staffing as of December 31, 2019. Annexes 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 137 EXPOSURE TO THE MAIN RISK AGENTS PRESENT AT CODELCO SITES DIVISION Silica Noise Arsenic Acid mist Radomiro Tomic YES YES NO YES Ministro Hales YES YES YES NO Chuquicamata YES YES YES YES Gabriela Mistral YES YES NO YES Salvador YES YES YES YES Andina YES YES NO NO Ventanas YES YES YES YES El Teniente YES YES YES YES Vice-presidency of Projects YES YES YES NO (VP) Head Office NO NO NO NO Annexes 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 138 ANNEXES CHAPTER 4: CODELCO TEAM IN-HOUSE STAFF PER WORK CENTER AND AREA (102-8) 2018 2019 Variation % Chuquicamata 5,494 4,899 -12.1% Radomiro Tomic 1,216 1,252 2.9% Ministro Hales 810 791 -2.4% Gabriela Mistral 564 449 -25.6% Salvador 1,652 1,437 -15.0% Andina 1,671 1,597 -4.6% El Teniente 4,248 4,058 -4.7% Ventanas 858 852 -0.7% Head Office 490 468 -4.7% Vice-presidency of Projects 997 879 -13.4% General Auditing 36 44 18.2% Total 18,036 16,726 -7.8% Annexes 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 139 NUMBER OF STRIKES AND BLOCADES / LOCKOUTS EXCEEDING 1 WEEK 2019 COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (MM4) (102-41) Work Center Number of strikes Weeks duration Division Union Role Chuquicamata 1 2 Workers union No. 1 Chuquicamata B Antofagasta work center Radomiro Tomic 0 0 Chuquicamata Workers union No. 1 B Ministro Hales 0 0 Chuquicamata Workers union No. 2 B Gabriela Mistral 0 0 Salvador 0 0 Chuquicamata Workers union No. 3 B Andina 0 0 Chuquicamata Workers union B El Teniente 0 0 Chuquicamata Workers union No. 5 B Ventanas 0 0 Supervisors and Salvador A Head Office 0 0 professionals union Professionals and Gabriela Mistral A analysts union Annexes 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 140 Unionized workers by division (102-41) DIVISION/ VP Type of contract Total Employees Number of unionized personnel Unionization % No. of unions Permanent 4,818 4,686 97.26% 7 Chuquicamata Total 4,818 4,686 97.26% Permanent 1,079 970 89.90% 3 Radomiro Tomic Total 1,079 970 89.90% Permanent 765 721 94.25% 2 Ministro Hales Total 765 721 94.25% Permanent 446 392 87.89% 2 Gabriela Mistral Total 446 392 87.89% Permanent 1,324 1,250 94.41% 3 Salvador Total 1,324 1,250 94.41% Permanent 1,566 1,530 97.70% 4 Andina Total 1,566 1,530 97.70% Permanent 3,989 3,848 96.47% 7 El Teniente Total 3,989 3,848 96.47% Permanent 818 741 90.59% 2 Ventanas Total 818 741 90.59% Permanent 515 302 58.64% 2 Head Office Total 515 302 58.64% Permanent 902 650 72.06% 1 VP of Projects (VP) Total 902 650 72.06% Permanent 16,222 15,090 93.2% 33 CODELCO Total 16,222 15,090 93.2% 33 PERCENTAGE OF ABSENTEEISM BY GENDER (403-9) Gender Percentage Female 6.59% Male 3.69% Total 3.87% Note: Does not consider pre-post natal leave. Annexes 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 141 TOTAL BUSINESS IN 2019 PER AWARD TYPE ANNEXES (204-1) Award type Amount (thousands of dollars) Total project % CHAPTER 5: Open tender 5,211,686 90.64% EFFICIENT, COMPETITIVE AND ETHICAL Tender with panel of suppliers 170,084 2.96% GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED ECONOMIC VALUE Direct award-investment 76,833 1.34% (201-1) Direct award-operation 17,102 0.30% GENERATED ECONOMIC VALUE 16,811 Direct award to affiliates or 70 0.00% associated companies Revenues for the sale of products and others 14,381 Public or private tender Revenue Credits 2,149 15,485 0.27% with one single bid Other income 281 Sole supplier 232,804 4.05% DISTRIBUTED ECONOMIC VALUE 16,919 (Materials or services) Purchase procedure 750 0.01% Operations costs 15,296 or low amount contract Salaries (and own workers’ benefits) 1,800 Procurement for testing 4,217 0.07% Procurement of goods and services 7,481 Public or private Procurement of capital assets 3,269 11,995 0.21% tender, minor work order Investment on environment, occupational health and safety 1,270 Purchase procedure 8,984 0.16% Community investment costs 9 Other operations costs 1,467 Total 5,750,010 100.00% Interests 623 Contribution to State 1,000 2019 PROCUREMENT OF GOODS AND SERVICES (IN MILLIONS OF US$) Net profits paid National International Total Income tax 82 Goods 804 81 884 Law No. 13,196 918 Others Services 4,858 8 4,866 RETAINED ECONOMIC VALUE -108 Total 5,661 89 5,750 Annexes 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 142 BOARD OF DIRECTORS (102-22) Juan Benavides F. Hernán De Solminihac T. Blas Tomic E. Juan Enrique Morales J. Isidoro Palma P. Paul Schiodtz O. Raimundo Espinoza C. Ghassan Dayoub P. Executive / Non-executive Non-executive Non-executive Non-executive Non-executive Non-executive Non-executive Non-executive Non Executive Independence yes yes yes yes yes yes Worker Worker Years in company 2 years 2 years 7 years 5 years 5 years 3 years 8 years 3 years Gender Male Male Male Male Male Male Male Male Science, Technology Sustainability and innovation Projects and Auditing, Management Projects and Science, Technology Participation in Auditing, Auditing, Investment Financing Compensation and Ethics which committees Science, Technology Financing and innovation All Compensation and Ethics Compensation and Ethics Auditing Projects and Innovation of investment Sustainability Sustainability Projects and Financing Compensation and Ethics Financing of Sustainability Management Management of investment Management Investments, Sciences, Sustainability Technology and Innovation Member of the Board of Director of the Latin AmeriMr. Tomic’s career has been Director of the SONAMI Member of the Advisory CounChairman of the Board of In 1991 he assumed the Director of regional Directors of the Chilean can Center for Economic and tied closely with international Technological Foundation cil of the Center for Corporate the Chilean Security Assoposition of vice president ANSCO in the VI Region Institute of Rational Social Policies of the Ponorganizations such as the and Member of the Advisory Governance of the Universidad ciation (ACHS), director of of the Federation of of the El Teniente Business Administration tificia Universidad Católica Chilean National Copper CorpoCouncil of the Innovation Club. Católica de Chile and member Cintac SA and director of Copper Workers, FTC, Division. Director of the (ICAR), Real Estate Elede Chile (CLAPES UC). He ration (Codelco), the Economic Mr. Tomic’s professional career of the Board of Directors of Dadneo. He has worked in until 1993, when he United Syrian Club and vator Spa and Glasstech was Minister of Public Works Commission for Latin America spans more than 40 years in numerous public limited comthe natural resources area became president of the national director of the Economic, S.A. and Le Fournil S.A. between 2010 and 2011. In and the Caribbean (ECLAC), the the mining sector at the level panies. He has a long history in for 32 years in Chile, Canfederation, a position he Federación de environmental Between 2012 and 2013, 2011 he assumed the poRegional Employment Program of senior management and as the areas of corporate finance, ada and the United States, has held until today. Identidad Árabe and other boards in which they he was President of sition of Minister of Mining, (Prealc) and the Inter-Ameria specialist in mining-metalas an independent consultant in the forestry, mining, oil His career as a union He worked at Imporparticipate. Banco Falabella Perú, which he held until 2014. In can Development Bank (IDB), lurgical projects and processes in corporate strategy, project and gas and petrochemical leader began in 1988 tadora y Exportadora Skills related to Director of Falabella Fithis same period, he served where he was executive director in public and private mining financing and arbitration. industries. when he joined the Union MAGD Ltd, At Holding social aspects nancial Investments S.A., as president of the National between 1992 and 1994. companies. Between 2012 and No. 1 of the Salvador DiDimeiggs S.A. and at Director of Banco FalaMining Company (Enami) 2014 he was Director of the vision of Codelco, where DHL Express Santiago. bella Chile and Director and the Chilean Copper Mining Innovation Center of the he has held the position He entered Codelco in of CMA Falabella S.A. Commission (Cochilco). Adolfo Ibáñez University. of director and president. 2009 and in 2012 he was promoted to senior specialist engineer. Annexes 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 143 Juan Benavides F. Hernán De Solminihac T. Blas Tomic E. Juan Enrique Morales J. Isidoro Palma P. Paul Schiodtz O. Raimundo Espinoza C. Ghassan Dayoub P. Between 2004 and 2012, In the private sector, Mr. SolMr. Tomic was Business Loans Previously, he served as Vice Since 1991 he has been a Since 1991 he has been a From 1994-1998, He was selected from Mr. Benavides was CEO minihac has been an advisor manager at Banco del DesarrolPresident of Development for key partner and executive key partner and executive President Eduardo Frei a shortlist in April 2017 of falabella S.A.C.I. and, to public institutions and prilo and later partner and Codelco (1994 -2011). Mr. Tomdirector of Inversiones y director of Inversiones y Ruiz-Tagle appointed him by President Michelle between 1995 and 2004, vate companies both in Chile general manager of Execom ic also worked between 1981 Asesoría Prime, a management Asesoría Prime, a manageas director of Codelco to Bachelet as the reprecorporate general manand abroad. He is a member In the mid-1990s, he joined VTR and 1992 in the field of mining consulting company. He was ment consulting company. represent copper worksentative of supervisors ager of financial retail. of the Infrastructure Policy Telecomunicaciones as CEO and developments as project manalso Vice President of Citicorp He was also Vice President ers. This position has on the Board. Between 2005 and 2010 Council (CPI) and the Chilean then led VTR Banda Ancha as ager and engineering manager. Chile and General Manager of Citicorp Chile and Generbeen ratified over several he was also a member of Academy of Engineering. CEO. In 2005, he was executive From 1971 to 1980 he worked of Inversiones Citicorp Chile al Manager of Inversiones presidential the Directory of the pharpresident of Express de Santiaat ENAMI and in medium-sized (1980-1991). For 12 years Citicorp Chile (1980-1991). periods to date. macy chain Ahumada. go and Inversiones Alsacia and copper mining companies. He he was a member of the Risk For 12 years Mr. Schiodtz two years later he joined Metro was Executive Vice President of Classification Commission and was a member of the Risk de Santiago as chairman Cochilco in 1993 and member a member of the Supervisory Classification Commisof the board. of the Council of this governCommittee of investment and sion and a member of the Between 1994 and 2009, Blas ment entity between real estate investment funds. Supervisory Committee of Tomic joined the boards of Col1990 and 1992. Between 1976 and 1980 Isidoinvestment and real estate bún, Telefónica del Sur, CTCVTR ro worked in New York at the investment funds. Telefonía Móvil (Startel), Banco de Santiago office and Transelec, Quintec, Soquimich at the Production Development Comercial, Cristalerías de Chile Corporation, Corfo. and the Peñalolén Municipal Development Corporation. Annexes 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 144 EXECUTIVE LEVEL LIABILITY FOR ECONOMIC, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL ISSUES (102-20) TYPE OF HOW ARE THEY ACCOUNTABLE TO POSITION RESPONSIBILITY SUPERIOR GOVERNING BODY Vice President of Corporate Affairs & Sustainability Environmental and social Sustainability and Institutional Relations Executive Vice-President Environmental and social Occupational Health and Safety Executive Vice-President Environmental and social Reports directly to the CEO. Must periodically Vice President of Administration and Finance Economic account for his/her performance before the Board and different committees. Finance Executive Vice-President Economic Corporate Risk and Control Department Economic, environmental and social Budget and Department Control Executive vice-president Economic Vice President of Productivity & Costs Smelter and Refinery Optimization Executive Vice-President ( FURE ) Technical Management of Divisional Projects Supply Chain Department Environmental and social Management and Supervision of Contractors Companies Strategic Supply Department Reports directly to the Vice President or the CEO. Corporate Tailings and Water Department Must periodically account for his/her performance before the Board. Vice President of Human Resources Corporate Labor Relations Department Corporate Human Resources Department Social Recruitment and Development Department Gender Diversity Management Corporate Health Projects Management Annexes 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 145 SIGNIFICANT RISKS RELATED TO for advantages and / or privileges in said • Hiring a ex-former public official or a relative CORRUPTION DETECTED FROM relationship, in favor of Codelco’s interests. thereof as consideration for the Bribery EVALUATIONS Commission for the benefit of Codelco (205-1) • Codelco employees who make contributions • Codelco employees or contractors that grant via agreements to organizations related to • Hiring a person or a relative thereof as economic incentives, gifts and / or favors a public official which could be interpreted consideration for a third party as an action of any nature, including the assignment as an incentive to receive a benefit on the committed in favor of the Corporation. to purchase goods and services to public occasion of the contribution. officials as consideration for some type of • Union and union organizations using administrative power in favor of the Company, • Codelco workers who, within the framework funds received as contributions from the during the processing or the request of a of relations with a government institutions, Corporation, to make payments to public permit for customs processes, explosives, which have the objective of promoting their officials with the intention of obtaining some internments, and / or to avoid penalties as a interests, offer public officials any economic benefit result of an inspection, among others. benefit or benefit of any other nature as consideration for an action to be taken in • Delivery or receipt of an improper benefit for favor of Codelco. the purpose of directly or indirectly receiving favor in a process of awarding, purchasing or • Promotion and financing of electoral managing a contract. activities carried out by public officials who have a benefit in the interests of Codelco, in • Offer or give financial incentives, gifts and / the event that these officials are winners in or favors to national customs officials or port an electoral process. agents in order to avoid or reduce fines and / or expedite procedures. • Codelco workers who offer financial or other incentives to officials of the Ministry of • Accept or receive, offer or give an economic Treasury in order to ensure or accelerate the or other benefit to favor a particular supplier / approval of a debt plan. customer during a process of buying / selling copper and / or by-products thereof and / or • Receive economic benefits, or those of any sales of sulfuric acid and / or to close a claim other nature as favorable consideration in the post sale service. or have favored any financial institution, brokerage or insurance company, in fund • Codelco employees offer and / or receive placement operations (overnight, purchase incentives, economic benefits or of any other of bonds, repurchase agreements and nature to representatives of communities mobilization of current accounts), and / or or institutions, among others, in exchange the award of insurance contracts. Annexes 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 146 ANNEXES CHAPTER 6: Committed TO THE PLANET 2019 WATER COLLECTION (THOUSANDS OF M3) (303-3) CALAMA CATCHMENT Chuquicamata Ministro Hales Radomiro Tomic Gabriela Mistral Salvador Andina Ventanas El Teniente Total Water 19,239 16,271 14,264 38,360 88,135 On the surface use Underground 36,430 2,010 6,874 2,366 6,272 893 54,844 Collection per source Mine water 203 1,063 17 5,776 8,970 16,029 Total collected 55,873 3,072 17 6,874 18,637 26,312 893 47,330 159,007 Own Water purchased 7,091 1,829 1,527 10 348 10,805 from third parties Water transferred -15,411 6,994 8,417 between divisions total 47,553 11,896 9,961 6,874 18,637 26,322 1,241 47,330 169,813 Note: Recirculation percentage is obtained by dividing the total amount of recirculated water by the total volume of water used in the divisions, including withdrawal, recirculation, and waters received from third parties. Annexes 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 147 SOLID WASTE SENT FOR ELIMINATION OR ASSESSMENT, PER TYPE (IN TONS) SMELTER EMISSION (THOUSANDS OF TONS) (306-2, 306-4) (305-7) TYPE OF LIMIT OF 2018 2019 SMELTER 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 EMISSION EMISSION* DIVISION SO2 95.42 85.8 76 54.56 5.21 49.7 HAZARDOUS NON HAZARDOUS HAZARDOUS NON HAZARDOUS Chuquicamata (Division MP 0 0 0 0.43 0.01 Radomiro Tomic 3,361 16,135 2,566 9,622 Chuquicamata) As 0.32 0.19 0.42 0.08 0.03 0.48 Chuquicamata 79,844 84,219 11,548 69,782 SO2 67.6 60.2 49.3 28.0 6.8 24.4 Potrerillos MP 0.18 0.12 0.16 0.03 0.01 5.5 Ministro Hales 48,771 3,417 48,864 3,071 (Division Salvador) As 0.58 0.56 0.56 0.47 0.05 0.16 Gabriela Mistral 1,115 10,032 1,460 6,314 SO2 14.14 13.86 10.56 10.01 9.46 10.56 Ventanas MP 0.12 0.08 0.051 0.054 0.085 0.1 Salvador 8,605 1,124 9,407 1,525 (Division Ventanas) As 0.05 0.05 0.039 0.026 0.026 0.05 Ventanas 40,696 6,675 31,869 1,604 SO2 54.41 69.06 52.81 52.81 25.76 47.68 Caletones (Division El MP B 0.65 0.74 0.30 0.02 Andina 3,576 9,890 1,898 10,337 Teniente) As 0.22 0.22 0.18 0.15 0.024 0.13 El Teniente 42,631 19,801 40,424 50,636 : Application of the emissions standard for air quality B: In 2003, the Caletones smelter ceased to measure its emissions and today must apply the Quality Standard for Particulate Material. TOTAL 228,599 151,293 148,036 152,891 (*) These restrictions apply as of 2017 or 2019 according to Supreme Decree No. 28 of the Ministry of the Environment. This table does not consider 73.3 ton of PCB waste genreated in the previous years at División Chuiquicamata, wich were finally eliminated in Europe in 2019 after the respective legal process, in comply with the national and international regulations (this clarification was issued on July 20, 2020; for this reason it was not consider for external verification). Annexes 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 148 LIQUID INDUSTRIAL WASTE (306-1, 306-5) TOTAL DISCHARGE VOLUME (THOUSANDS OF m3) No. of discharge Division delivery end 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Destination type Salvador 3 0 115 258 127 NO DISCHARGE Surface water, Quebrada Norte Potrerillos Andina(*) 4 13,678 10,851 9,856 9,856 7,785 Surface water, Rio Blanco Ventanas 1 335 310 287 220 183.7 Sea water, Quintero Bay El Teniente 1 41,976 45,976 50,380 39,318 21,459 Surface water, Alhué estuary Total 9 55,989 57,252 60,781 49,521 29,428 (*) In 2015, after a management process conducted on discharge elimination systems, the Andina division submitted a request for review of the liquid industrial waste to the Superintendence of Environment, which established in Resolution 490/2016, decreasing discharge points from 10 to 4. Note: Discharge points have monitoring programs in place (Superintendence of Sanitary Services / Directemar). QUANTITY OF BULK MINING WASTE GENERATED IN 2019 (THOUSAND TONS) (MM3) DIVISION Tailings Slag Waste rock Low grade ore Leach tailings Radomiro Tomic NA NA 135,196 0 0 Chuquicamata 56,527 26 34,372 0 23,972 Ministro Hales 17,856 NA 120,973 0 0 Gabriela Mistral NA NA 17,939 0 11,900 Salvador 7,598 NA 1,044 3,991 2,583 Ventanas na 252 na na na Andina 28,729 NA 37,472 na na El Teniente 63,826 0 2,364 na na total 174,536 277 349,360 3,991 38,455 Annexes 2019 CODELCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 149 (102-1, 102-3, 102-5, 102-50, 102-52, 102-53) Name: Corporación Nacional del Cobre de Chile (Codelco) Location: Headquarters, Huérfanos 1270, Santiago de Chile Telephone: (56 2) 2690 30 00 Legal form and ownership Public company, property of the State of Chile. Created on April 1, 1976 by Decree Law 1.350 Registered in the securities registry of the Valores de la Superintendencia de Valores y Seguros, in its power as issuer of public offers. Auditor: Comisión Chilena del Cobre (COCHILCO), Contraloría General de la República and the Comisión para el Mercado Financiero (CMF). Year: 2019 Sustainability report Reporting cycle: Annual Point of contact: For questions or queries regarding this report, contact email informe@codelco.cl Version 2.0
