Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 01/01/2019 – 31/12/2019 for Göteborg & Co AB Corporate ID no. 556428-0369 The mission of Göteborg & Co is to get more people to discover and choose Gothenburg. We do this through wide-reaching collaboration, by leading and promoting the development of Gothenburg as a sustainable destination, so that everyone who lives and works here benefits from a growing visitor industry. Göteborg & Co is the parent company of the Tourism, Culture and Events cluster, which includes Liseberg amusement park, Got Event and Göteborgs Stadsteater. Göteborg & Co is owned by the City of Gothenburg. The Board of Directors and the CEO of Göteborg & Co AB hereby submit the following annual report & sustainability report. Photography: Anders Wester, Pekka Lähteenmäki, Happy Visuals AB, Volvo, Peter Kvarnström, Frida Winter, Studiografen, Dear Studio/Mattias Vogel, Beatrice Törnros, Superstudio D&D, Per Pixel Petersson, Fredrik Karlsson, Tina Stafrén, Jennie Smith, Björn Olsson, Nobel Media/Anna Svanberg, Maria Kopp, Marie Ullnert, Stefan Gadd, Samuel Unéus, Filip Eklund, BonnierHoops Biskopsgården, Liseberg/ Stefan Karlberg. 2 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Contents 4 Introduction 6 Visitor industry trends Sustainability report 8 Priorities for sustainable development 16 A welcoming and inclusive destination 24 A growing and healthy destination 30 An environmentally smart and climate-smart destination 36 Fair conditions Directors’ report 40 Directors’ report 46 Events 48 Convention Bureau 50 Marketing & Communications 52 Trade & Industry Group 54 Gothenburg’s 400th anniversary in 2021 56 Analysis & Market Trends 58 Results and position / Tourism development in the Gothenburg region 59 Proposed appropriation of profits / Equity Financial reports 60 Income statement 61 Balance sheet 63 Cash flow statement 64 Notes to the financial statements 71 Auditor’s report 73 Review report GRI index 74 GRI index ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 3 Smart Gothenburg will set an international example The choice of Gothenburg as European Capital of Smart Tourism in 2020 is more than just an honour. It drives us on to develop the sustainable destination of the future and is great proof that we are on the right track. The visitor industry plays an important role in sociof the people of Gothenburg. eties that want to develop. This was understood by The residents of Gothenburg are also the starting the EU Commission when it set up the smart tourism point for our combined preparations for the city’s competition. As well as generating employment and 400-year anniversary in 2021. On the road to the guest nights, our industry opens up opportunities for anniversary we have found new ways to collaborate, innovative collaboration between different sectors gained new insights and understanding of how we and acts as a driver of social change. Gothenburg has can all make Gothenburg an even better city, through been given an opportunity to become a role model in sustainable solutions for the future. the EU and promote sustainable development, along There are some challenges. The development of with other cities in Europe. more sustainable forms of transport happens mostly Gothenburg is a very appealing city and guest at national and international level. Our opportunity nights have risen for the 28th consecutive year. Prito have an influence lies in encouraging visitors to vate travel is growing. We are now focusing more on make sustainable choices wherever possible. Our own our annual theme and our seasonal attractions to operations and events, and those of our partner orextend this appeal all year round. As the parent comganisations, must be environmentally friendly, open pany, Göteborg & Co will continue to lead the way by and inclusive. developing the Tourism, Events and Culture cluster, For the fourth year in a row Gothenburg achieved including Liseberg amusement park, Got Event and the highest score in the Global Destination SustainaGöteborgs Stadsteater. bility Index. This means we have a responsibility to As a city of meetings, Gothenburg is a guiding star. continue leading the way through strategies based on This is clear from the interest shown by international the principles of the UN Global Compact, as explained organisers, our range of world-class facilities and our in our sustainability report. close collaboration between academia, the research On the whole we have been successful in our sector and the city. The hospitality of our city is also shared goals for 2019. We achieved many of them, highly rated by visitors. although more work is needed in some areas. The Our tourist centres play an important part in this city’s programme for growth in the visitor industry hospitality. Hundreds of thousands of visitors come by 2030 shows us the way ahead. here each year, most of them from abroad. If they do We will hold the title of Capital of Smart Tourism not meet us at a tourist centre they may be among the throughout 2020 and we are continuing to develop three million who do so online at goteborg.com. In Destination Gothenburg together with all our stakeeither case, it is vital that this encounter encourages holders. We will deepen partnerships and find new more people to visit Gothenburg. ways of working together within the destination, as Sporting and cultural events are important for well as extending our role in national and internationGothenburg. During the year Göteborg & Co began al contexts. And on New Year’s Eve 2021 we will beworking on Gothenburg’s future events strategy. gin celebrating Gothenburg’s 400-year anniversary. Again, this is about development and connection with society as a whole. Come and join us! We must be a role model and lead the way through our sustainability initiatives, our actions and the way Peter Grönberg we use our resources. Göteborg & Co must promote sustainable use of the destination’s attractions by CEO, Göteborg & Co AB encouraging, inspiring and setting good examples. Essentially, this is about working for the best interests 4 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 In October, Gothenburg was named “European Capital of Smart Tourism 2020”. Peter Grönberg, CEO of Göteborg & Co, and Anneli Rhedin, Municipal Council Chair, were delighted to accept the award at a ceremony in Helsinki. Gothenburg also received the award as the best city in the sustainability category. “ Gothenburg should be a role model in smart tourism for other cities in the EU during the year when it implements its attractive programme. It should show off its own strengths and good solutions it has implemented, but also facilitate cooperation with other European cities and learn from others. The European Commission’s reasons for choosing Gothenburg as European Capital of Smart Tourism. ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 5 Destination development 2019 Gothenburg has developed a strong and successful visitor industry and there is potential to further improve the attractiveness of the city and region. With almost 30 years of experience in destination development, meetings, events and marketing, Göteborg & Co has built a strong and well-established platform in close collaboration with the visitor industry, the city, academia and other parts of the business community. Strong global growth and digitalisation have changed the behaviour patterns of travellers. In many cases, traditional marketing has been replaced by creative destination development and a constant presence in online media. This demands continual adaptation and innovative ways of working. But the basic purpose of Göteborg & Co remains unchanged; to support the development of an attractive city for visitors and residents of Gothenburg. More visitors than ever Tourism continues to grow, and more people visited any other industry and in 2019 it employed around Gothenburg in 2019 than in any previous year. Over19,000 people full-time in the Gothenburg region. night stays at hotels and hostels in the Gothenburg The total number of people employed in tourism region rose for the 28th consecutive year and were was actually over 25,000, as it is largely a seasonal expected to exceed five million guest nights by the industry. The visitor industry is also one of the main end of December. Numbers have grown by 340 per reasons for the wide choice of restaurants, events, cent since 1991, or around 4.5 per cent average per hotels, entertainment, culture, meetings and much year for almost three decades. This makes the hosmore. In other words it creates a more vibrant city pitality industry one of the leading growth industries for residents of the city as well as visitors. in the region. Room occupancy in hotels and hostels in GothAmong major cities in Europe, balanced tourism, enburg was very good and was higher than in Stockor balanced growth, has become a frequent subject holm and Malmö. This led to almost full occupancy of debate, and sustainability is now one of the big for parts of the year, so the planned investments in trends in the meeting industry. Gothenburg has been new accommodation capacity for coming years are working in this area for several years and has a good very welcome. Leading efforts to develop the attracreputation internationally in sustainability issues. tiveness of the destination to match the increased Göteborg & Co works for the best interests of the availability of new hotels is an important task for the people of Gothenburg, as reflected in the company’s company. Göteborg & Co has overall responsibility mission, which states “everyone should benefit from as the parent company of the Tourism, Events and a growing visitor industry”. Culture cluster, which also includes Liseberg amuseThe visitor industry delivers more jobs than almost ment park, Got Event and Göteborgs Stadsteater. 6 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 DESTINATION GOTHENBURG 2019 GUEST NIGHTS AT HOTELS AND HOSTELS 5,060,000 (forecast) BREAKDOWN OF GUEST NIGHTS International 28% 72% Sweden SIX LARGEST FOREIGN MARKETS Norway 5.6% Germany United Kingdom 2.7% 2.6% USA 2.5% Denmark 2.0% FULL-TIME EQUIVALENT China 1.1% JOBS IN VISITOR INDUSTRY % of total number of guest nights. 18,900 TOURISM TURNOVER SEK 33.9 BILLION PERCENTAGE OF CERTIFIED 95% Hotels 100% Meeting facilities HOTELS AND MEETING FACILITIES Tourism development in the Gothenburg region, see table on page 58. ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 7 ElectriCity is a collaborative initiative between industry, research and society to develop and test solutions for the electrified transport system of the future. Within a few years, all buses that serve the city will gradually be replaced and switch entirely to electric operation. Priorities for sustainable development Göteborg & Co strives to make Gothenburg a sustainable city by taking financial, environmental and social responsibility, and constantly challenging accepted ideas of sustainability. In collaboration with other stakeholders in the visitor industry, Göteborg & Co contributes to a vibrant Gothenburg that offers sustainable, attractive and unique experiences. Sustainability for Göteborg & Co The work of Göteborg & Co will lead to sustainable platform for collaboration on sustainable destination growth and help to make Gothenburg stronger as a development and innovative and sustainable develsustainable destination, so that everyone who lives opment of the tourism, meetings and events industry. and works here will benefit from a growing visitor inSustainability efforts are based on the ten princidustry. The goal for the destination is to double tourples of the UN Global Compact, the UN World Tourism by 2030, by setting an international example and ism Organization’s definition of sustainable tourism constantly challenging accepted ideas of sustainability. and the Global Sustainable Development Goals. Göteborg & Co will be an internationally respected 8 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Gothenburg was voted the global leader in sustainability in 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019 in the Global Destination Sustainability Index. The world’s most sustainable destination guidance and support for the visitor industry. Gothenburg scored highly in all areas, but has room For the fourth year in a row Gothenburg took to improve its e ​​ nvironmental initiatives and clarify its first place in the Global Destination Sustaincontribution to the Global Sustainable Development ability Index. Just behind Gothenburg came Goals. Copenhagen, followed by Zurich. The fact that Gothenburg has once again been voted the world’s most sustainable destination is The index compares how well destinations meet a recognition of the long-term sustainability efforts of wide range of sustainability requirements. About the city and destination. It gives added weight to the 60 destinations take part in the benchmarking promarketing of the city, particularly when bidding for gramme and are judged on a number of criteria dividlarge meetings, events and investments. Find out ed into four areas: the city’s environmental initiatives, more about the Global Destination Sustainability Insocial initiatives, sustainability efforts by suppliers, dex: www.gds-index.com. and the destination organisation’s management, ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 9 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Gothenburg is the Capital of Smart In addition to being named European Capital of Smart Tourism 2020 Tourism 2020, Gothenburg also received an honourable mention in the category of sustainability. The European Capital of Smart Tourism initiative Gothenburg’s commitment to sustainability is one was launched by the European Commission to of the key reasons the city won the award. 95 per reward, highlight and market European cities cent of hotels and 100 per cent of meeting facilities for outstanding achievements and approaches are environmentally certified, and public transport to “smart tourism”. is virtually fossil-free. For Gothenburg, its coming year as Capital of Tourism is the third largest socio-economic sector Smart Tourism will bring even more international in the EU, which therefore promotes innovative and attention. In 2020, local partners and destinations inclusive solutions. The award considers four catewill be invited to collaborate and exchange knowledge gories: digitalisation, cultural heritage and creativity, internationally. sustainability, and accessibility. 10 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Ongoing stakeholder dialogue Göteborg & Co’s activities as a platform for collaborawill continue in 2020, partly in the form of workshops tion are based on ongoing dialogue with stakeholders, with representatives from the visitor industry. whose views are important for the continued develIn 2017, Göteborg & Co conducted an in-depth opment of the company and destination. The Board stakeholder dialogue with special focus on the comof Göteborg & Co is politically appointed, but also pany’s influence on and contribution to sustainable includes co-opted representatives from the visitor development. Around ten representatives of the comindustry. Each of the company’s business areas also pany’s key stakeholders, including its owner, event has a steering group made up of important stakeorganisers, hotels and tourism organisations, were holders who meet regularly. interviewed to find out their views regarding the comDuring the year the company continued to collect pany’s main responsibilities. and analyse information about visitors, and this work A review was carried out in 2019. Göteborg & Co’s primary stakeholders Key issues for the stakeholder Stakeholders Forms of dialogue group Annual General Meeting, Board Owner meetings, owner dialogue, annuContribution to sustainable growth, sustainaCity of Gothenburg. al and interim reports and group ble city, attractive city, balanced budget council Employee reviews, departmental/ Working environment, sustainable services Employees group meetings, internal conferenc(events, meetings, etc.) es, employee survey, etc. Partners Visitor industry forum, steering Diverse choice in the city, partnerships, Companies in the visitor groups, collaboration groups, netattractive city, skills supply industry. Local organisers. work groups, members’ meetings and newsletters Social media, visitor services, surWide choice, availability Visitors veys by interview and questionnaire State-of-market survey, digital Choices for residents of Gothenburg, sustainResidents of Gothenburg channels, visitor services, through able city, accessibility, equality, job creation the owner Contribution to sustainable growth, working Administrations and authorin accordance with the city’s plans and Collaboration groups and councils ities programmes Cluster companies Liseberg amusement park, Council of CEOs and thematic clusCollaborations, attractive city, accessibility Got Event, Göteborgs Stadter council steater ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 11 Göteborg & Co’s key sustainability issues The mission of Göteborg & Co states that sustainatainability areas. Within each area, there are three bility must be considered in every aspect of its work. important sustainability issues that the business foThe company inspires, supports and enables sustaincuses on. These areas and issues were identified and ability initiatives by other stakeholders, while also prioritised based on stakeholder expectations and the being responsible for the sustainability of its own actual influence of the business. During 2019, efforts operations. in each of these sustainability areas and issues have Göteborg & Co has identified four priority susbeen improved. A welcoming and inclusive destiAn environmentally smart and clination mate-smart destination • Broad offering • Climate-smart travel • Accessible and inclusive • Efficient use of resources • Safe and secure • Sustainable consumption A growing and healthy destination Fair conditions • Economic growth through the visitor industry • Good working environment • Job creation and provision of skills • Business ethics • Highlighting important social issues through • Sustainable procurement and purchasing experiences 12 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Contributions to the Global Sustainable Development Goals The Global Sustainable Development Goals are a the achievement of the agenda by 2030. Göteborg & blueprint adopted by the UN and directed at all states, Co actively works to maximise the positive effects and companies and individuals, with the aim of eliminatminimise the negative effects of its mission, thus coning extreme poverty by 2030, reducing inequalities in tributing to sustainable development and the Global the world, promoting peace and justice, and resolving Goals. The company’s task is clearly stated in three the climate crisis. of the Global Goals: The Global Goals enable everyone to contribute to Based on the most pressing sustainability issues for the company, management has identified that it has the strongest influence and opportunity to contribute to the Global Goals above. ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 13 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Governing documents and responsibilities The company is governed at general level by its owner ronmental management system since then. In 2019, directives, the Municipal Council budget, the threethe company issued a statement of position on susyear business plan for the destination and the comtainable development for Göteborg & Co and began pany, the Board’s objectives and focus documents, developing the sustainability goals for the business, and the City of Gothenburg’s programmes, policies which will be finalised in 2020. and guidelines. The sustainability perspective is inGöteborg & Co’s sustainability strategy drives and tegrated in the governing documents. The business develops sustainability initiatives in collaboration received environmental certification for the first time with the company’s various departments. The CEO in 2008 and has been continually improving its enviis ultimately responsible for sustainability efforts. Sustainability strategies The sustainability efforts of Göteborg & Co are based on three company-wide strategies that interact and reinforce each other: We will set an example and lead the We will encourage and challenge 1 way through our actions and our 2 the destination’s stakeholders and resourcefulness. partners to develop in a sustainable direction. We will inspire and help visitors to 3 enjoy the destination’s attractions sustainably. The core values of Göteborg & Co must be reflected in what we do and the way we treat each other Human Pluralistic Inspiring 14 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Hönö island ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 15 Götaplatsen A welcoming and inclusive destination Everyone who visits or lives in Gothenburg should feel that they are part of the city and that the meetings and events that take place here are also for them. Göteborg & Co aims to make events and experiences in Gothenburg accessible to everyone, regardless of gender, beliefs, ethnicity, sexual orientation, ability, age and language. The company must also help to ensure that experiences are safe and secure. Important sustainability issues: • Broad offering • Accessible and inclusive • Safety and security Under the heading of a ​​ Welcoming Destination, the company believes that it makes a particular contribution to the following Global Goals: 5 Gender Equality, 10 Reduced Inequalities, 16 Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions, and 17 Partnership for the Goals. 16 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Broad offering The visitor industry builds bridges between people A sustainable city of events and makes the city more attractive by providing enGöteborg & Co will promote and strengthen Gothentertainment, restaurants, cafés, culture, days out and burg as a city of events by strategically developing, shopping. By marketing the city and a wide range of facilitating and implementing sustainable events events and experiences, Göteborg & Co helps to crein sports and culture. The company must strive to ate a vibrant city that offers something for everyone, broaden the range of events available to people of regardless of physical ability or language. all ages, genders and backgrounds. The goal is that The “Always-on” marketing strategy aims to create Gothenburg should be the leading city for sustainable a presence and content throughout the year, rather events in northern Europe by 2030. than using one-off initiatives to highlight individual Göteborg & Co arranged three cultural events durcampaigns. This constant presence is backed up by ing the year. They were the International Science Fesspecial initiatives for events such as Autumn City and tival, Gothenburg Culture Festival and Student GöteGothenburg Christmas City, which combine, package borg. Göteborg & Co also organised the European and present destination content during what has norChoir Games 2019 in collaboration with Interkultur mally been seen as the low season. och Körcentrum Väst / Kultur i Väst, with support from Region Västra Götaland. International city of meetings In 2019 the company was involved in various ways Gothenburg is an international city and Göteborg in 105 events, including 40 cultural events and 64 & Co has the task of attracting large congresses and sports events. corporate meetings to the city. The company focuses These included in-depth collaborations with the on congresses and meetings that bring academia and P3 Gold music awards, Gothenburg International industry in the region together with research & deFilm Festival, Gothenburg Horse Show and the Scanvelopment at a high national and international level. dinavian Invitation golf championship. In 2019, the company was involved in the process of Several Swedish and international sporting events hosting 35 meetings in the city. A further 31 meetings will take place in Gothenburg in 2020. In January, were arranged and will be held in the coming years. Gothenburg will host stages in the European HandGöteborg & Co must act as a role model and piball Championship 2020, and later in the year the oneer in sustainability issues to the organisers who European Championship in Trampoline and the arrange meetings and congresses in the city. The Swedish Mountain Bike Championship. Five major company encourages and challenges the meeting national and international events were arranged durindustry by driving development and having influing the year, to be held in Gothenburg from 2020 ence locally, nationally and internationally, and by onwards: The Swedish Mountain Bike Championdemonstrating how the company and the destination ship 2020, UEFA Women’s Champion League final tackle sustainability. 2021, the European Karate Championships 2021, the World Junior Ice Hockey Championships 2022, and O-ringen 2024 (orienteering). ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 17 Art throughout the city Gothenburg. A music competition was launched to In an effort to include the whole city in Gothenburg’s find an anniversary song for Gothenburg in partner400-year celebrations, the annual Whole City’s Galship with the Brewhouse Awards, which generated a lery initiative exhibits 100 pictures on large outdoor great deal of interest locally and nationally. screens. The content is created by residents of various ages from all parts of the city. In 2019, the exhibitions Everyone can Sail in Centenary Park covered two themes: Young Art, and Rich in Years / Everyone can Sail began offering sailing lessons in Living with Time. Centenary Park in 2014, and has been a big success. Sailing is free and the small dinghies are suitable for Dialogue and participation in the city’s 400everyone regardless of skill level or physical ability. year anniversary The initiative has been supported since its inception One of the priorities for discussing the city’s 400as part of Gothenburg’s 400-year anniversary, and in year anniversary is open dialogue and involvement. 2019 Passalen received continued support to run the In 2019 the 400 Things campaign was launched to activity and give everyone access to the water. Pasencourage everyone to get involved through their salen is a non-profit association that works to make own initiatives. Prompted by questions from resisociety more inclusive for children and young adults dents, ten videos about the history of Gothenburg with physical disabilities. were produced in collaboration with the Museum of 18 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Gothenburg Culture Festival sets a sustainability policy for 2019 states, among other sustainable example things, that the event must contribute to the development of Gothenburg as a sustainable and innovative Gothenburg Culture Festival is one of the bigdestination and city of events. The festival must also gest cultural festivals in the Nordic region and minimise its environmental impact, make environis organised by Göteborg & Co. mentally aware choices, reduce segregation and increase accessibility, and all suppliers to the festival For six days, the city’s streets and squares are transmust take steps towards sustainability. The festival formed into 52 festival venues offering a variety of aims to contribute to the growth of the local economy cultural experiences. This year, visitors could choose and interest in the region. from a total of 747 events, all free of charge. Of the Through the festival, Göteborg & Co intends to 750,000 visitors, 57 per cent were women, 42 per cent be a role model for sustainable events, and it forms men and 1 per cent non-binary. part of the company’s efforts to achieve the goal of Gothenburg Culture Festival takes an active and becoming the most sustainable events city in northstrategic approach to sustainability. The festival’s ern Europe by 2030. ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 19 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Accessible and inclusive Segregation and widening gaps in society pose big Visitor Services challenges. The City of Gothenburg’s efforts to create Visitor Services improve the hospitality of the destian equal city aim to reduce disparities in living condination through chat, email, phone, brochure stands, tions and health. Göteborg & Co aims to offer a wide tourist offices as well as information points and develrange of experiences and events that are accessible oping skills in destination awareness. Approximately regardless of gender, faith, ethnic background, sexual 400,000 visitors used the company’s two tourist cenorientation, physical ability, age or language. The tres (in Nordstan and at Kungsportsplatsen) in 2019. company also aims to offer a selection of events that The official visitor guide to the destination – goteare free of charge. Göteborg & Co must communicate borg.com – is regularly updated with tips, guides and in a way that is socially aware and inclusive, using information on the city’s attractions, excursions, language that is simple and accessible to everyone. Its public transport and current events. The site had content should appeal to a wide audience, and images 3,100,000 visitors during the year. should reflect diversity and inclusion. Together, digital tools and human encounters ensure good hospitality and enable all these visitors to act as ambassadors for Gothenburg. Best in Europe for hospitality Christina Bonnevier from Gothenburg Tourist Office was honoured with an award as best tourist adviser in Europe at the EMC TIC Hostmanship Award in 2019. The competition focuses on “soft” human values ​​in encounters with visitors. The award is recognition of Göteborg & Co’s commitment to face-to-face meetings through its tourist offices. The TIC Hostmanship Award is presented by the European Cities Marketing organisation, which is made up of members from European tourism organisations. Christina Bonnevier Meetings, events and experiences support that Göteborg & Co organises involve a high level Equality in Gothenburg of awareness and systematic efforts to create proGöteborg & Co follows the City of Gothenburg’s grammes and stages that promote equality. This work Equality in Gothenburg programme. The company’s is complemented by inclusive content and marketing. main contribution to the targets of the programme is Initiatives for Gothenburg’s 400-year anniversary to create opportunities for work and the right condihave been aligned with the Equality in Gothenburg tions for participation, influence and trust. programme to create a more socially sustainable city. By supporting open events in the urban space it This is done through open dialogue, city-wide collabprovides opportunities for people to meet, which in oration and enabling people to meet. turn can lead to greater participation. The events 20 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GBG Talks given to participants were specifically designed to promote understanding between people. In December, Gbg Talks gave passers-by in Gbg Talks was held over a period of eight hours Gothenburg central station the chance to get spread over two days. A total of 100 people took part to know someone they had never met before. in 50 conversations. Göteborg & Co organised the event to draw attention to organisations that work To break the ice and encourage stimulating conversawith various issues, including Gothenburg City Mistion, everyone was given specially prepared questions sion, Language Exchange Gothenburg, Buddy Sweden to ask. The purpose of the talks was to highlight the and Culture Buddy. importance of human encounters, and the questions ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 21 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Safety and security Perceived insecurity and unrest has increased ercises before its own events, as well as cooperating throughout Sweden in recent years (source: BRÅ naclosely with the city authorities (police, emergency tional security survey 2019). Many people gather in services, medical services, the traffic and public transone place during events, which is why the safety and port authority, etc.). security of all visitors and organisers is important. For events where Göteborg & Co gives support to Sexual harassment is a social problem that occurs organisers, advice is provided and requirements are at major events in general and at music events in set to ensure that each event meets the relevant safety particular. Göteborg & Co has worked actively on criteria. These criteria vary based on the context and this issue and there was no increase in the reported particular needs of each event. number of complaints in 2019. The company takes proactive measures to ensure safety, including risk analyses and risk and crisis exthe Swedish Basketball Association, the City of GothBonnierHoops – another successful year enburg and the Police Department, Göteborg & Co’s Trade & Industry Group, Göteborg BonnierHoops once again ran a summer holBook Fair, Bostadsbolaget, Poseidon, Bo Bra and iday project outside Sjmila school in BiskopsVästra Hisingen Basketball Association. In 2020 the gården. Throughout summer, from Monday to district of Biskopsgården will run the project itself Saturday, children and young people took part and the Trade & Industry Group will act as a strategic in various activities such as street basketball, partner. BonnierHoops will set up and run a similar reading books, spoken word competitions and event in Angered in 2020. much more. The project ended during Göteborg Book Fair with a big poetry competition, in which young people aged 14–21 competed in slam poetry. The event is cited as one of the reasons why crime fell in Biskopsgården by almost 50 per cent in the summer compared to previous years. The project has also helped young people to improve their reading and writing skills, and improved the sense of security and belonging in various associations. BonnierHoops was first organised in 2018 and is a joint initiative between Bonnier publishing house, BonnierHoops outside Sjmila school in Biskopsgården 22 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Röda Sten Art Centre ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 23 Haga A growing and healthy destination The mission of Göteborg & Co is to make Gothenburg an attractive and sustainable metropolitan region where ideas, businesses and people grow together. The visitor industry generates jobs and economic growth in the city, and enables important social issues to be highlighted. Important sustainability issues: • Economic growth through the visitor industry • Job creation and provision of skills • Highlighting important social issues through experiences Under the heading of a ​​ Welcoming Destination, the company believes that it makes a particular contribution to the following Global Goals: 5 Gender Equality, 8 Decent Work and Economic Growth, 10 Reduced Inequalities, 11 Sustainable Cities and Communities, 12 Responsible Consumption and Production, and 16 Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions. 24 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Economic growth through the visitor industry The visitor industry creates jobs for many people. the low season, could help to fill available capacity A wider range of events, restaurants, hotels, meetand spread visits across the seasons. A pilot study on ings and experiences helps to make Gothenburg an the theme of the low season was set up during the even better city to live in and work in. By acting as a year and stakeholders were invited to find collective platform for collaboration and engine for sustainable solutions. growth in the visitor industry, Göteborg & Co makes a significant contribution to social development. Meetings that increase the appeal of the city Tourism and the visitor industry in the GothenGothenburg must attract meetings that are identified burg region continue to develop positively in terms as strategically important for trade & industry, acaof guest nights, employment and tourism turnover. demia and the city. The meeting industry is part of The goal is to double tourism by 2030. However, the visitor industry and is an essential element in the doubling the visitor industry must not be achieved Gothenburg region’s goal for continued sustainable at the expense of the people of Gothenburg or make growth and attractiveness. the city less attractive. A state-of-market survey is Göteborg & Co has a particular focus on attracting therefore used to assess the attitudes of Gothenburg meetings and congresses within the framework of the citizens, and the results for 2019 showed that 86 per City of Gothenburg’s business strategy programme. cent of Gothenburg residents have a positive view This programme gives priority to six areas: skills proof their city. vision, attractiveness, infrastructure and accessibilBy the year 2035, the city must provide space for ity, site preparation and spatial planning, business 150,000 new residents, 80,000 new homes and new climate and innovation. workplaces. This creates challenges – as well as big The meetings industry generates growth and raisopportunities. Continuous, strategic marketing that es the profile of the city in research, innovation and aims to offer a variety of events, particularly during business. All this makes Gothenburg a more attractive those parts of the year that are normally regarded as place to study, work in and invest in. Job creation and provision of skills The hospitality industry is a major employer that atThe business community as facilitator tracts people with a wide range of experience, backThe Trade & Industry Group (TIG) must serve as a grounds and education. More tourism means even platform for collaboration between trade & industry, more jobs, but also greater demand for education organisations, municipalities and academia in their and skills. The restaurant sector is one area where it efforts to make Gothenburg even more competitive is now becoming a challenge to find the right skills. and attractive. TIG supports and enables projects But this also means there are great opportunities and investments in knowledge, business, events and for young people and newcomers to Gothenburg to culture. These projects promote long-term skills profind work. Continuous efforts are made to improve vision and inclusion, for an attractive, vibrant and skills provision in collaboration with Business Region sustainable metropolitan region. Göteborg (BRG), the Göteborg Region Association of Local Authorities (GR) and the West Sweden Tourist Board, among others. ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 25 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – A GROWING AND PROSPEROUS DESTINATION Skarpt Läge fair creates jobs to create opportunities for young adults between the ages of 18–30 to meet employers and find work, During the Skarpt Läge job fair in February, a internships or further studies. The job fair builds on total of 1,831 young people met potential emcollaboration between Göteborg & Co’s Trade & Inployers, setting a new visitor record. dustry Group, Gothia Towers / the Swedish Exhibition & Congress Centre, the Swedish Public Employment The result was 184 new jobs, 94 of which were fullService, Visita and the Labour Market and Adult Edtime. All the employers who exhibited at the fair ucation Administration. were able to offer jobs, further studies or internThe ambition is that Skarpt Läge should not only ships. Most of the employers represented at the fair be the best job fair for young people in Gothenburg, worked in the field of warehousing and logistics, or but also the best platform for young people to enter hotels and restaurants. the labour market in Sweden. Skarpt Läge has been held every year since 2014 Highlighting important social issues through experiences Through the visitor industry, Göteborg & Co strives The city where we read to our children to highlight important social issues such as gender The City of Gothenburg is preparing to become “the equality, diversity, health, integration and considerCity where we read to our children”. This initiative ation for the environment. This is an ongoing theme is part of the city’s commitment to equality. In a city in the company’s own initiatives, including its own where we read to our children, more of them are likely events and activities, but also during international to go to university, enter further education and find congresses and meetings. jobs more easily. As part of Gothenburg’s 400-year One example during the year was the Gbg Talks anniversary initiatives all pre-school children in initiative, which took place at Gothenburg central Gothenburg received a selected book. station and focused on human encounters. Gothenburg Culture Festival has worked actively for many Young people influence the development years on social issues and sustainability. The event of the city invests in creating stages that demonstrate equality Gothenburg’s 400-year anniversary has a youth referand feature artists from many parts of the world. It ence group that was set up in 2014 for the focus year has also worked deliberately with environmental isCreated by and including Young People. The group, sues for many years. Sustainability initiatives during called Power to the Youth, is made up of 16 people the festival have received a lot of publicity, and serve between the ages of 16 and 26 from every district of as an example for many organisers. the city. The members are employed on an hourly basis and their task is to communicate the perspective of youth. The aim is to engage with more young 26 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT people and give them influence in Gothenburg’s dewas Astonishing Thought. Over the course of 12 full velopment and the anniversary initiatives. During the days in early April the festival was visited 52,475 year, Power to the Youth has for example worked on times. several of the city’s anniversary initiatives. Gothenburg International Science Festival is Sweden’s biggest celebration of knowledge and one of the Anniversary Pavilion – 400 years of Gothenburg leading popular science events in Europe. It provides During Gothenburg Culture Festival and the Eua platform for researchers and experts to present their ropean Choir Games in 2019, visitors were invited research to schoolchildren and the general public in to an Anniversary Pavilion in Bältespännarparken. enjoyable ways. The aim is to build a positive attiThis is done every year in the run-up to the 400-year tude towards research and science, and encourage anniversary. The intention is to meet and involve more people to study at a higher level. The Science Gothenburg citizens and visitors and establish a Festival aims to be accessible, interdisciplinary, credialogue about the development of the city in conative and inclusive, and is split into three different nection with 2021. This year, for example, there was programmes: an “interactive wall” in the pavilion where visitors The Schools Programme, aimed at pupils in precould post their suggestions on how they would like school and primary school, as well as a teachers’ conto celebrate Gothenburg’s anniversary year, which ference. This offers specially designed school activicommunication channels should be used, etc. The ties that showcase science in a fun way. The teachers’ Consumer & Citizen Services administration also set conference discussed the highly topical subject of up a digital Gothenburg Suggestions box so adults netiquette and choosing online sources critically. It and children could post ideas for making the city a was attended by 19,155 students and teachers. better place. Representatives of the anniversary iniThe Open Programme is aimed at the general pubtiatives were on hand to discuss and talk about plans, lic and provides a valuable democratic meeting place and the CEOs and directors of the various anniversary where the public can learn about current research. initiatives also visited to discuss the development of The activities and lectures are set up in places that Gothenburg. are not normally associated with research and the communication of research. 32,890 visitors took part. International Science Festival makes science The Trade Programme is a platform for collaboration more accessible and a meeting place for specialists such as researchFor the 23rd consecutive year Gothenburg hosted the ers, the media, educators, politicians and the business International Science Festival. The theme for 2019 community. Influencing factors: Fine, ugly or dangerous? of successful examples in research communication, and a discussion on popular education through telA Forum for Research Communication was held evision. This year’s conference attracted 430 people, for the sixth year in a row during Gothenburg setting a new record. International Science Festival. The Forum for Research Communication was organised by Göteborg & Co in collaboration with The conference, regarded as the largest of its kind in Vinnova, the Swedish Research Foundation, Forte, the Nordic region, offered a broad programme that the Ragnar Söderberg Foundation, Mistra, Public looked at new ways to convey research to the public. & Science, the Swedish Knowledge Foundation, The programme included a lecture on behavioural the Swedish Foundation for Strategic Research and design and nudging, a panel discussion on why society the Swedish Foundation for Humanities and Social should be involved in research, several presentations Sciences. ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 27 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Anniversary initiatives highlight social issues Gothenburg City Triennial in September. The year 2021 marks the 400-year anniversary of The accessible form of the anniversary process, Gothenburg, and many things are happening as a in which the city lays the foundations then invites result. Thousands of ideas have been gathered in open open consultation, has led to hundreds of initiatives dialogue with the people of Gothenburg. This process run by various stakeholders in business, the city, the led to the development of the anniversary initiatives, region, academia, foundations, organisations and which are run by companies and administrations. The associations. The central aim is to make Gothenburg initiatives are diverse and wide-reaching, and add an even better city. value to the city in the form of unique solutions and The anniversary celebrations themselves in 2021 events that are sustainable in the long term. Many will be a year of experiences for residents of Gothof the city’s anniversary initiatives that took place in enburg and visitors, and will begin on New Year’s 2019 were inclusive, open and public activities that Eve 2020. The anniversary has its own website: gotefocus on the development of the city and key social borg2021.com. issues. A common element in the anniversary work is colTeam Göteborg creates opportunities laboration and open dialogue that encourage particTeam Göteborg is a project that invites young people ipation and meetings between people. and adults to work as event hosts on a voluntary basis. Examples include the Anniversary Pavilion in Between them, the project hosts speak over 40 lanBältespännarparken during Gothenburg Culture guages and represent every district. The project is priFestival, where the anniversary initiatives take cenmarily targeted at young people and aims to increase tre stage; the Näsan i Blöt play space in Centenary their employability by building self-confidence, expePark, which was built with the help of 100 residents rience, knowledge and a network of contacts. Team of Gothenburg and was opened in spring; the Ö-festen Göteborg has a total of 290 members today. festival on Ringön in August; and the middle stage of Future Ambassadors Under the project, schools in Gothenburg work with the Universeum and its education suite to create the The Future Ambassadors project was set up in conditions for students to develop in smart, sustain2019 by the Universeum Science Centre, Gothable and inclusive ways. The content is based on the enburg’s Compulsory School Administration, curriculum as well as the Global Sustainable DevelGöteborg & Co’s Trade & Industry Group and opment Goals. The idea behind Future Ambassadors Gothenburg’s 400-year anniversary organisation. is to encourage students to get involved in making the world and Gothenburg a better and more inclusive place. Impact of the visitor industry pact on the climate, while travel is essential for the The visitor industry has many benefits for Gothenvisitor industry. This is not just a challenge for Gothburg. But it can also have a negative impact, which enburg as a destination, but a massive challenge for must also be considered and managed by the comindustry globally. pany together with the city authorities and adminInternational research shows that increased touristrations, and by stakeholders in the destination. ism leads to a higher risk of black labour, human Over-tourism and complaints from residents are trafficking and demand for sexual services includbecoming increasingly common in cities that attract ing prostitution. By using the existing collaboration lots of tourists, such as Barcelona. We have not yet platforms of the visitor industry and Göteborg & Co, seen this trend in Gothenburg, but as tourism grows structural conditions can be created that promote and the city rapidly expands it is a potential probsocial sustainability in order to combat trafficking and lem and therefore a challenge that must be guarded prostitution in the visitor industry. The company has against. In response, a survey is carried out regularly continued to collaborate with the Social Resources to gauge the views of residents regarding their own Administration and County Administrative Board on city. measures to counter human trafficking associated One of the biggest challenges for tourism is transwith the visitor industry. port. Air travel and car journeys have a negative im28 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Gothenburg International Science Festival ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 29 The Edible Country is a do-it-yourself restaurant where visitors pick and prepare their own food by following instructions. An environmentally smart and climate-smart destination Gothenburg is a green city, with parks, forests and water right on our doorstep. It is a small city where almost everything is within walking distance. Tourism and the activities of Göteborg & Co have an impact on the climate and the environment. Through its operations, decisions and actions, the company aims to reduce the impact of its own activities and, by collaborating and communicating with others, help to make the destination sustainable. Important sustainability issues: • Climate-smart travel • Efficient use of resources • Sustainable consumption Under the heading of a ​​ Welcoming Destination, the company believes that it makes a particular contribution to the following Global Goals: 8 Decent Work and Economic Growth, 11 Sustainable Cities and Communities, 12 Responsible Consumption and Production, 13 Climate Action, 14 Life below Water, and 15 Life on Land. 30 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Climate-smart travel Transport is one of the biggest challenges in the the City of Gothenburg’s internal climate compensavisitor industry. The destination’s goal is to double tion. The travel policy requires employees to choose tourism by 2030. Increased tourism has a positive the mode of travel with the lowest climate impact impact on the local economy, but also has negative and low cost. In 2018, a total of 328 flights were takimpacts on the environment. Gothenburg attracts en, of which 7 were shorter than 50 kilometres. The both tourists and business travellers, mostly from year before, 447 flights were taken, of which 17 were Sweden, but international visits are also growing. shorter than 50 kilometres. In 2018, emissions from The climate debate clearly shows the effects of the company’s air and car travel totalled 77.1 tons of travel behaviour and the form of transport we choose. CO2e (1.35 tons / working year) (2017: 192.8 tons of A report from the rail operator SJ on climate-smart CO2e and 1.48 tons /working year). travel, showed that the number of train journeys made in Sweden rose by 1.5 million in 2018. The foreSustainable travel in the city cast for 2019 is that train travel will continue to grow Gothenburg is a city where many attractions are within Sweden. 75 per cent of visitors to Gothenburg come in walking distance. In the company’s communicafrom other parts of Sweden, and for them, travelling tions, visitors are encouraged to walk, cycle or use by car is still the most common way to get here, even public transport within the city. For the meetings though there has been a shift from car to train in and events sector, the destination’s ability to offer recent years according to SJ’s report. International “everything within walking distance” and the “all untravel is dominated by aviation. der one roof” concept offered by the Scandinavium To raise awareness about the climate impact of arena and the Swedish Exhibition & Congress Centre travelling, Göteborg & Co has been involved in deare important competitive advantages during the bidveloping a climate calculator that shows the carbon ding process. This, in turn, reduces the organisers’ footprint of each journey, and how emissions can be need for transport. Göteborg & Co has a long-standreduced by choosing rail travel over air travel and ing dialogue with Västtrafik to find competitive and by staying in eco-labelled accommodation. You can viable business models for offering public transport try the calculator at www.klimatsmartsemester.se. solutions to meeting delegates and visitors to events. In its communications about transport options Organisers of meetings and events are currently offor travelling to Gothenburg, the company lets visfered public transport deals at discount prices. itors know how they can get to the city in the most There is also growing interest in offsetting the climate-smart way, which is always listed first. carbon emissions that delegates’ journeys give rise All travel undertaken by the company’s employees to, an opportunity that Göteborg & Co highlights for must comply with our travel policy and be offset by organisers. Conversion factors: Car (own car for work) – 149 g/km; Fuel – Petrol: 2.42, Diesel: 2.67, LPG: 0.35. Information on air travel and climate impact comes from the travel agency Egencia. Figures for journeys in 2019 are not available until after this report has been produced. ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 31 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Using resources efficiently Göteborg & Co first gained environmental certifitainability through ongoing dialogue. The company cation in 2008 and follows the environmental prooffers advice and support on sustainability issues to gramme of the City of Gothenburg, which aims to help organisers become more sustainable. The goal is take a pioneering role in environmental and urban that all the events arranged by Göteborg & Co should development, and become one of the most progresbe environmentally certified, and this was true this sive cities in the world in tackling climate and enviyear of Gothenburg Culture Festival, the Internationronmental problems. al Science Festival, the European Choir Games and Systematic measures have been put in place to the Association World Congress. reduce the impact of our operations on the climate To qualify for an environmental diploma, it is and environment, including sustainable purchasing necessary to have an environmental management and imposing requirements on suppliers, as well as by system that complies with Swedish Environmental training the company’s employees. The areas where Base criteria. This contributes to a more eco-friendly environmental measures are needed are travel and selection of products and services, and requires suptransport, resource management, purchasing and pliers to contribute to positive development. procurement, waste, food and groceries, energy, In 2020, Göteborg & Co will produce a guide for chemicals and water. organising sustainable events in line with the city’s goals, challenges and opportunities, which apply to Sustainable meetings and events all city-organised events, but will also provide support Göteborg & Co encourages collaborating organisers to and guidance for events arranged by others. improve their environmental performance and susThe world’s most sustainable destination differ, but one thing they all have in common is that they require the hotels to meet strict environmental Gothenburg has more than 12,600 hotel rooms and sustainability criteria. For example, eco-labels and 95 per cent of all hotels in Gothenburg are set criteria for the use of fossil fuels, energy effienvironmentally certified and have third-party ciency, waste management, choice of materials and certification such as the Nordic Swan ecolabel, food. These labels also require that goals are set Green Key, Swedish Environmental Base diploand monitored, and that employees receive trainma, ISO 20121 or ISO 140001. ing. Because ecolabelling is a valuable competitive advantage it provides an additional guarantee that The requirements for these certification schemes hotels take their sustainability efforts very seriously. 32 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Sustainable consumption Göteborg & Co will contribute to sustainable contion on sustainable accommodation, climate-smart, sumption in the visitor industry and in the services/ eco-friendly restaurants and shops that are commitevents that are offered to visitors. This may mean ted to improving sustainability. highlighting sustainable options in the city through The company has also established routines for our communications, encouraging visitors to act resource management and minimising waste. One sustainably during their stay in the city, for example of the most effective ways we can improve resource by using public transport, eco-labelled hotels and management is through the event business and those restaurants that serve sustainable food. events the company has influence over. At goteborg.com visitors can also find informaGothenburg Culture Festival – reuse, local able-free zones for food and drink at the festival site. produce and disposable-free Special requirements were placed on food vendors to further reduce the use of disposable items. At this year’s festival all the officials wore secFood vendors were also asked to offer half portions ond-hand clothing supplied by Björkå Frihet. to reduce food waste at the festival. The commitment to avoiding disposable prodThese measures meant that the need for 12,153 ucts was stronger than ever and the issue of disposable plates and cutlery was avoided and 82 food waste was given special attention. per cent of the waste from the event was recycled. Gothenburg Culture Festival aims to be a disposThe plates, glasses and cutlery used at the festival able-free event by 2021. The initiative began in 2018 were reusable and, as in previous years, visitors could and was scaled up in 2019. Efforts to make the event buy food at a discount if they brought their own lunch disposable-free have received a lot of publicity and box along. Those who did not bring a lunch box could are also intended to inspire others to become disget one in return for a refundable deposit, which posable-free. meant they could be reused. There were also disposANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 33 At the conclusion of Chef of the Year 2019, two chefs from Gothenburg were on the podium. Martin Moses from SK Mat & Människor took first place, and his colleague Ola Wallin (now at Upper House Dining) took silver. Gothenburg – city of food Gothenburg has starred restaurants, trendy bars, food food producers and microbreweries. All the food that trucks and a wide choice of high-quality restaurants. was served also met WWF recommendations for susBut the city’s cuisine is not just intended to attract tainable meat consumption. visitors, it is also an important part of the destinaTo draw attention to food waste, a Green Corner tion’s commitment to sustainability. This applies to was set up in Bältespännarparken, offering a delicious the use of local produce in restaurants and to public three-course dinner prepared entirely from waste catering for schools and welfare. It is also reflected food. Visitors could also buy city-grown vegetables in raising awareness of the choice of local produce, from small producers. All meals were served with vegetarian and vegan restaurants and organic food. real plates and cutlery as part of the “Disposable-free During the year, Göteborg & Co began formulating event” initiative. a food strategy for the destination. This is a guide to Göteborg & Co is a member of the Délice network how the company will lead the development of and of Good Food Cities of the World. Délice brings tomarket Gothenburg as a city of food in the future. gether 31 member cities from all over the world in Large meetings and events are key platforms that can order to exchange experiences and promote economic help drive changes in habits in a more sustainable didevelopment through gastronomy and the restaurant rection. The environmental certification of meetings industry. Gothenburg shared its know-how and expeand events puts demands on restaurants and supplirience at the Délice Annual Meeting in 2019 in Staers to offer organic produce, vegetarian alternatives vanger, where the theme was “Food and Gastronomy and fish from sustainable stocks. in a SMART city”, with special focus on improving The “Eat local. Drink local.” concept was launched the quality and sustainability of food at big meetings during Gothenburg Culture Festival to encourage visand events. itors to enjoy sustainable food and drink from local 34 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Sustainability theme at the Associations ers, as well as showcasing Gothenburg as an attracWorld Congress & Expo tive city and destination for meetings, so Göteborg & Co took a more active role as host. The Associations World Congress & Expo is an The congress was certified to the Swedish Enviannual international conference that brings toronmental Base standard, which among other things gether almost 500 leaders from meeting organmeant that only vegetarian dishes were served on isations, representing about 9,000 meetings one day of the congress, and that all meals included around the world. a large proportion of organic local produce. Delegates were also encouraged to drink tap water. Active In 2019, the congress was held for the first time in the steps were taken to minimise food waste during the Nordic region, at the Swedish Exhibition & Congress congress. Centre in Gothenburg. The congress was arranged by There were also initiatives to encourage more the Association of Association Executives. sustainable travel. Carbon offsets were provided for Göteborg & Co generally provides support for all specially invited guests travelling to the congress and the elements needed to bring a congress to Gothenthey were encouraged to use airport shuttle buses burg. These can include strategies, application docuand public transport. Low-emission buses running ments, marketing materials, valuable contacts in the on eco-classified fuels were hired to transport concity, and advice and information. But the Association gress delegates. Wherever possible delegates were World Congress & Expo was a strategic initiative that encouraged to take advantage of the fact that the city provided an opportunity to connect many stakeholdhas “everything within walking distance”. ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 35 Magasinsgatan Fair conditions For Göteborg & Co it is only natural that efforts to achieve sustainability should also be reflected in our own operations. We therefore develop and improve our internal sustainability measures continuously. As a publicly owned business, it is also important to have transparent procurement and a high standard of business ethics. Important sustainability issues: • Good working environment • Business ethics • Sustainable procurement and purchasing Under the heading of ​​Fair Conditions, the company believes that it makes a particular contribution to the following Global Goals: 8 Good Health and Well-being, 8 Decent Work and Economic Growth, 10 Reduced Inequalities, 12 Responsible Consumption and Production, and 16 Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions. 36 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Good working environment Its employees are one of Göteborg & Co’s most imsors, union representatives and the working environportant assets and a good working environment is esment committee. In 2020, all employees will receive sential to the business. The company sometimes has training in the working environment. heavy workloads and requires considerable flexibility, Absence due to illness is historically low, but which can lead to stress, an issue that the company showed a weakly rising trend in 2016–2018. There is constantly working to improve. The likelihood of was a decrease in absence in 2019. a heavy workload is especially high in some departments at certain times of the year. The company aims Results of the employee survey 2018 to tackle this by allowing more time for recovery. The results of the 2018 employee survey were reOngoing occupational health activities include ocported in February 2019 and showed that the comcupational inspection tours and employee reviews, pany’s scores are above or in line with the index while the regular employee survey assesses factors for the city’s companies in most areas. Scores rose such as psychosocial working conditions. slightly compared to the previous year (2017). Special initiatives were taken to improve the workThe results of previous employee surveys were ing environment in 2019, including training and setsummarised as an Employee Satisfaction Index and ting up a forum for unit managers to discuss issues Sustainable Employee Engagement. No employee relating to issues such as the working environment. survey was conducted in 2019 and in 2020 the comThe company also focused on providing training in pany intends to develop a new form for the employthe working environment to all managers, superviee survey. Focusing on the elements of discrimination Each year, Göteborg & Co adopts an equality and diversity plan. The plan is based on the City of GothenOne of the guidance goals for the City of Gothburg’s equality initiatives and equality goals. In 2019, enburg is that the city should be free from disGöteborg & Co worked actively on its diversity plan. At crimination and that human rights are self-evthe end of 2019, a series of lectures was introduced ident. to address the seven elements of discrimination. The first lecture was held in December on the theme of Accessibility. ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 37 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – FAIR CONDITIONS Business ethics Göteborg & Co must comply with the City of Gothenvarious situations that are specific to the company’s burg’s policy and guidelines regarding anti-corrupoperations. This work is intended to minimise risks tion, formulated in line with the Swedish Anti-corand make it easier for employees to do the right things ruption Institute’s Code on anti-corruption. in various situations. New instructions on anti-corruption and bribery Corruption is primarily a risk in connection with were agreed within the company in 2019, and all purchasing and business entertainment. Compliance employees will receive relevant training in 2019 and of the business with policies and guidelines is as2020. The new instructions describe the city’s stance sessed annually by internal audit. on anti-corruption, as well as stating its position in Sustainable procurement and purchasing Göteborg & Co is a municipal company and is therethat suppliers must meet. fore governed by the Swedish Public Procurement Because of the nature and focus of operations, the Act. The company is also covered by the city’s policity’s framework agreement does not always cover cy and guidelines for procurement and purchasing, the company’s procurement needs. In such cases which sets requirements for achieving a sustainable the company procures goods and services itself, and city. Under this policy, consideration must be given where possible this is done by reaching its own frameto climatic and environmental impact, human rights work agreements. Depending on the purchase value, at work and the UN Convention on the Rights of the this can be done by advertising procurement needs or Child. by direct procurement. Goods and services that are In 2019, the company had a total of 810 contracted procured by Göteborg & Co include sound, lighting, suppliers and procured goods and services to a value stages, tents, catering and other items needed to host of SEK 80.8 million. events. Whether advertised procurement or direct Göteborg & Co always follows the City of Gothprocurement is used, the company must adhere to the enburg’s framework agreement when it is relevant City of Gothenburg’s policy, and direct procurements to procurement. The city’s framework agreement worth over SEK 50,000 are always documented. defines the environmental and social requirements Employees in figures 2019 2018 2017 2016 Sickness absence % 3.58 4.99 3.45 3.4 Work-related injuries, number reported* 4 2 3 3 * The figure for 2019 is forecast and not confirmed. The figures refer to the date the injury occurred, not when it was reported. The reported work-related injuries include sickness, work accidents and travel accidents. 2019 2018 2017 2016 Employee Satisfaction Index* 60 57 67 Sustainable Employee Motivation* 76 76 80 *No employee survey was conducted in 2019, as we are reviewing the form of the survey and will produce a new questionnaire in 2020. Over Under 30 Women Men Age 30–49 50 years years Board* 5 2 2 2 3 Senior management 5 4 0 3 6 All employees** 74 25 2 68 29 * Excl. deputies. ** Figures refer to permanent employees in December 2019. Other staff data are presented on page 66. 38 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Vasaplatsen ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 39 DIRECTORS’ REPORT Directors’ report Group and ownership Göteborg & Co AB is wholly owned by Göteborgs Got Event AB (corporate ID no. 556015-9823), LiseStadshus AB (corporate ID no. 556537-0888) with berg AB (corporate ID no. 556023-6811) and Göteits registered office in Gothenburg, which in turn is borgs Stadsteater AB (corporate ID no. 556016-7875). wholly owned by the City of Gothenburg. Göteborg The parent company, Göteborgs Stadshus AB, pre& Co AB owns 100 per cent of the shares in pares the consolidated financial statements. Information about operations The mission of Göteborg & Co is to get more people to budget year. The mission and long-term focus of discover and choose Gothenburg. We do this through Göteborg & Co are governed by the Articles of Associwide-reaching collaboration, by leading and promotation and owner directive, as well as the various straing the development of Gothenburg as a sustainable tegic programmes of the City of Gothenburg, of which destination, so that everyone who lives and works the programme for growth in the visitor industry is here benefits from a growing visitor industry. Since particularly important. In addition, the company’s 1991, Göteborg & Co has coordinated and organised operations are governed by the three-year business development of the visitor industry in the Gothenburg plans for Destination Gothenburg and Göteborg & Co, region in close cooperation with the city, industry which are formulated in collaboration with the visitor and academia. industry, academia and other public stakeholders. The company recruits and arranges large meetings The company’s sales fluctuate from year to year and events, markets the destination and promotes depending on the number of events and assignments. reasons for travelling to the region. The company The company shows an operating profit of SEK 0.1 generates commercial benefit for society by serving million. Operating profit for the previous year was as a platform for collaboration, driving Gothenburg’s SEK -13.1 million. This was expected, due to changdevelopment as a destination, supporting sustainable es in the form of finance for Volvo Ocean Race. The growth in the visitor industry and helping to make deficit was covered by intra-group transfers. the destination attractive and dynamic for visitors The Board of Directors and the CEO consider that and residents of the city. the business is managed in line with the municipalThe Municipal Council budget is the overall and ity’s intentions for ownership of the company and overarching policy document that states the goals that the company has complied with the principles and focus of the council for the mandate period and set out in paragraph 3 of the Articles of Association. Significant events and developments during the financial year The visitor industry shows continued growth in the and probably included a larger proportion of Swedes Gothenburg region. In 2019, it is estimated that than previously thought. This does not affect the total around 5 million guest nights were spent in hotels number of guest nights, just the way they are split and hostels, an increase of around 4 per cent over the between Swedish and foreign visitors. Hopefully this previous year. The statistics do not cover alternative means that in future we will have clearer and more new forms of accommodation such as Airbnb. One reliable information on the origin of guests. change is a shift to a larger proportion of Swedish However, it also means that the goals of the city guests. One likely explanation is that figures from and Sweden as a whole rely on projections of figStatistics Sweden / the Swedish Agency for Economic ures for international guest nights that are probably and Regional Growth for previous years included a unreliable. One consequence is that more accurate relatively large proportion of guests of unspecified national statistics will pose challenges to the adoptnational origin who were counted as guests from ed goals for Gothenburg and for Sweden in general. abroad. This group has now been greatly reduced The occupancy rates for hotels and hostels are 40 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 DIRECTORS’ REPORT Kungstorget ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 41 DIRECTORS’ REPORT generally high, almost 70 per cent on average up to Growth, and Svensk Turism AB. October, and as much as 85 per cent in July, which Collaboration within the Gothenburg region has is the highest figure among metropolitan regions in developed into two networks: a marketing network Sweden. In reality, Gothenburg has a shortage of that is dedicated to marketing and communication, capacity and the planned addition of almost 4,000 and another that is aimed at business leaders. The rooms between 2022 and 2026 is long awaited. purpose of the latter is to tackle visitor industry isGothenburg was named European Capital of Smart sues at a strategic level. Visitor industry questions Tourism 2020 in October. The competition was set are always on the network’s agenda and Göteborg & up by the European Commission to reward cities that Co has responsibility for such issues. stand out for their smart, innovative and inclusive The big events of the summer were Gothenburg tourism solutions. For Gothenburg, it is an engine Culture Festival (GCF) and the European Choir that will drive development next year at European Games (ECG), which were successfully held in Aulevel. For the fourth year in a row, Gothenburg was gust. In 2020, Gothenburg Culture Festival will take also named the world’s most sustainable destination place in week 33. by the Global Destination Sustainability Index. Göteborg & Co continued to implement its stratThe partnership with Stockholm and Malmö was egies in each of its business areas during the year. expanded during the year to ensure a big city perMany of the operation-specific strategies are starting spective when planning future strategies for the visto show concrete results, in areas such as new meetitor industry within the Ministry of Enterprise and ing concepts, new events, developing seasons, and Innovation, the Agency for Economic and Regional themed concepts. Municipal Council objective and mission During the year the company delivered the projects ramp up in several business areas. The anniversary assigned in the Municipal Council’s budget, and was organisation has grown and involves many people responsible for the projects assigned from the 2018 throughout the company in various preparatory roles. owner dialogue with Göteborgs Stadshus AB. Political decisions were taken during the year on One positive trend is the increase in company-wide the focus and budget for the anniversary year, and cooperation between business areas, with the aim of this work has now entered the implementation phase, building synergies and added value. This is especially including planning the various highlights of the celnoticeable in the Anniversary project, where prepaebrations in 2021. rations for the 2021 anniversary year are starting to Regional and national collaboration Destination Gothenburg covers a larger geographical task of working on behalf of the entire region. In orarea than the city alone, and visitors care little about der to grow and attract more international visitors, municipal boundaries. The destination is generalthere is also a multi-year agreement with the West ly regarded as 13 municipalities that make up the Sweden Tourist Board and Visit Sweden that aims to Gothenburg region. Through cooperative agreements coordinate resources in prioritised foreign markets with the Gothenburg Region the company has the to maximise the effects of marketing. Future outlook Global travel rose by four per cent during the first half The availability of accommodation in the Gothenburg of 2019, according to the UN tourism agency UNWregion is limited for large parts of the year, which is TO, which forecasts that growth will remain at the slowing growth in guest nights. The planned new insame level throughout the year. This reflects continued vestments in accommodation will not show results for strong growth in the visitor industry internationally. a few years, so there are limited options to increase 42 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 DIRECTORS’ REPORT The Nobel Week Dialogue was held at the Swedish Exhibition & Congress Centre in December and free entry led to full audiences. A string of Nobel laureates appeared on stage and world-leading researchers discussed the theme of “Into the unknown”. Gothenburger of the Year 2019 was Joel Lundqvist, team captain of Frölunda Hockey Club and high-profile sports figure. Since 1993, Göteborg & Co, the evening newspaper GT and Swedish Radio P4 have each year chosen someone who means a lot to many residents of Gothenburg. Joel was the 28th person to receive the title. ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 43 DIRECTORS’ REPORT capacity during the peak seasons. growth must always be sustainable and balanced. The plans for the destination and the company thereEnsuring a good supply of skills is one of the main fore focus on attracting more visitors during the low issues for the visitor industry. The major initiatives season and broadening the range of experiences on planned for Gothenburg will increase the need for offer to attract new target groups. recruitment, especially in the hotel and restaurant In order to benefit the people of Gothenburg, such sector. Risks and uncertainties An annual risk analysis is conducted in relation to the • External risks arising from events in the outside company’s overall and operational goals. The risks world, such as economic unrest, recession or include various events that could directly or indirectly acts of terrorism, could have a major impact on affect activities. The following are worth mentioning the company’s ability to meet its goals. These lie in particular: outside the company’s control but affect tourism • The Administrative Court of Appeal rejected the and travel in general. Insecurity on streets and in appeal of the City of Gothenburg against the 2017 public squares is also a risk that can be managed ruling of the Swedish Competition Authority on through proactive communication and continuous the city’s financing of the company. This case is security and safety measures by authorities and very important in principle and affects the forms the City of Gothenburg. of the company’s financing and the prospects for • Several large infrastructure projects are currently similar operations in the EU. The city has appealed under way in Gothenburg that limit accessibility against the decision to a higher court. in some areas. This could create an image of an • Gothenburg’s ability to compete for major ininaccessible city and lead organisers and visitors ternational events is weakened by a shortage of to rule out Gothenburg. attractive venues, economic conditions or poor accessibility. Sustainability The company must strive, through long-term, inTravel and transportation are crucial for the comtegrated sustainability initiatives, to prevent and pany’s mission, but also play a substantial role from minimise negative impact from the business and to an environmental standpoint. The scope of this imcontribute positively as a collaborative platform to the pact fluctuates from year to year depending on the development of the city and the region. The company number of recruitment processes, events and other supports the principles of the UN Global Compact assignments. The climate impact of business travel for companies. is offset by the City of Gothenburg’s internal climate Göteborg & Co was awarded its first environmencompensation. tal diploma in 2008. The company’s operations are Göteborg & Co is not subject to the legal requirenot subject to a permit or duty to give notice under ment to prepare a sustainability report. Nevertheless, other provisions of the Environmental Code. Envithe company has chosen to prepare a sustainability ronmental initiatives are carried out systematically report in accordance with Global Reporting Initiative based on the Swedish Environmental Base national (GRI) standards for sustainability reporting (2016) environmental management standard, with a focus at the “Core” level. The sustainability report can be on continual improvement. found on pages 8–39. Personnel Göteborg & Co will be an attractive workplace where In October, the company began a process of review equality and diversity are natural elements. The comand reorganisation. The intention is that the company pany wants to be seen as an innovative, creative and should take a more strategic approach to meeting the professional organisation that works proactively and strategies and measures set out in the business plan has clear goals and values. A new CEO was recruited and the long-term objectives for the destination. The to the company in spring and in June Peter Grönberg focus was on expanding roles, re-prioritising existing took up this position. services and a general exchange of skills. The changes 44 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 DIRECTORS’ REPORT made in autumn led to a few personnel changes. been set up for unit managers to deal with issues The results of the 2018 employee survey were reregarding the working environment and other areas. ported in February 2019 and show that the company’s An initiative has been taken to improve inclusiveness scores are above or in line with the index for the City in corporate culture since the appointment of the of Gothenburg’s companies in most areas. No survey new CEO. was conducted in 2019. The forms of the survey will Absence due to illness is historically low, but be revised and it will be conducted again in 2020. showed a weakly rising trend in 2016–2018. Health Special investments were made in the working statistics have started to decline again in 2019. Perenvironment during the year. Managers, supervisonnel turnover is at about the same level as in presors, health & safety representatives and trade union vious years. representatives all received training. A forum has Valand ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 45 European Choir Games 2019 Events Gothenburg hosted three world events in one week in 2019. Gothenburg Culture Festival, the European Choir Games and Way Out West all took place on 3–8 August, creating a festival mood in and around Gothenburg. The city also won bids for several big international events during the year, including the UEFA Women’s Champion League final 2021, the European Karate Championships 2021 and the World Junior Ice Hockey Championships 2022. The business area’s mission The task of the Events department is to promote and strengthen Gothenburg as a sustainable city of events by strategically developing, facilitating and implementing sustainable events in sports and culture. 46 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 DIRECTORS’ REPORT Summary of the financial year The city won bids for several big events in 2019, infurther by introducing returnable stations for lunch cluding the UEFA Women’s Champion League final boxes, as well as a new restaurant area for local food 2021, the European Karate Championships 2021, producers and micro-breweries. the World Junior Ice Hockey Championships 2022 The European Choir Games drew more than 6,000 and O-ringen 2024 (orienteering). Working with orchoir singers from around the world. The inaugural ganisers, venues and arenas in the city has resulted concert with the Eurovision Choir attracted a capacity in new events with a long-term focus, such as the audience at Partille Arena and was broadcast live in Gothenburg Design Festival and the Way Out West 11 countries. This event is a perfect illustration of how Youth Programme. the city can perform as an arena, with 93 well-executEvent Support reviewed and improved collaboraed performances all around Gothenburg. tion with external organisers during 2019 through The week after this choral success it was the turn workshops and individual meetings. The Team Gothof world-class golf when the Scandinavian Invitation enburg volunteer pool, which aims to improve the came to Hills Golf Club in Mölndal on 11–14 August. employability of young people, assisted at various The large crowd of spectators was treated to a thrilling events during the year, including the P3 Gold music competition, and afterwards the organisers praised awards, Göteborgsgirot bike race and the European both the partnership and the event. Choir Games. A review of the potential of Gothenburg Christmas Gothenburg Culture Festival was held on 6–11 AuCity led to the event becoming a full season of events gust this year, to coincide with the European Choir in 2019, now organised by the Marketing & CommuGames. The event was very popular and drew over nications department. 750,000 visitors during the five-day festival. The The Events department had operational responmain stage was at Kungstorget this year and hosted sibility for a number of events in 2020, including the big star of the festival, Egyptian-Lebanese singer the European Handball Championships on 10–14 Haifa Webe, who entertained thousands of happy and January and the European Championship in Tramdancing spectators. poline on 7–10 May. This work is carried out in close The festival, which was voted “Sustainable Event collaboration with Got Event. of 2018”, took the idea of a disposable-free event even Business strategies for Events Innovating and creating value Leading the way in sustainable events 1 The events industry is constantly changing, and 3 Over the years, Göteborg & Co has developed a one task is to develop new concepts that can proprocess for integrating sustainability criteria vide a basis for the future success of Gothenburg into the framework of events, particularly the as a city of events. Preparations for developing Gothenburg Culture Festival. The effects of this Gothenburg Culture Festival began in autumn work will be exploited with the aim of becoming a and will continue in 2020. leading platform for collaboration in sustainable events. Sharper destination focus for atLeading, driving and building on 2 tracting and developing events 3 collaboration The strategy of selecting a number of recurring One measure for improving collaboration and external events and combining them in a longhandling event issues is the ongoing developterm development plan began in 2019. Gothenment of a common project model and project burg Film Festival is the first project to follow tools for steering and managing complex events. this strategy and the initiative will be evaluated Implementation is in progress in collaboration to see how this approach can be extended to othwith Got Event, and the model is being tested on a er events. number of pilot projects, including the European Choir Games, the World Junior Ice Hockey Championships and anniversary events. ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 47 Gothenburg’s sustainability stand at the IBTM World meetings fair was built to resemble a west Swedish boathouse. All the materials were recycled or reusable. Interest in sustainability issues is growing rapidly among meeting organisers and destinations. Convention Bureau Gothenburg is the world’s leading sustainable destination. For the fourth year in a row Gothenburg won the prestigious title in the Global Destination Sustainability (GDS) Index. The focus on sustainability was accompanied by an increase in the number of bids submitted in 2019 (a number of which were successful.) Several successful meetings and congresses were held in Gothenburg during the year, not least the strategic commitment to the Association World Congress & Expo (AWC). Gothenburg was also represented for the first time as a destination at the IMEX America trade fair. The business area’s mission Gothenburg Convention Bureau will actively attract major congresses and corporate meetings that bring together academia and business in the region with research & development at a high international level. 48 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 DIRECTORS’ REPORT Summary of the financial year For the fourth year in a row Gothenburg was voted the was a recurring theme throughout the event. AWC world’s leading sustainable destination in the GDS was a success for organisers and delegates, who said Index. The index rates the sustainability efforts of that AWC 2019 in Gothenburg was the best congress destinations in three categories: ecological, social to date. This was the first time the congress was held and economic. Winning four years in a row is clear in the Nordic region and it offered a unique opporrecognition that Gothenburg has a firm lead and proof tunity to showcase Gothenburg and reinforce our of the strong cooperation that exists between business position as a city for sustainable meetings. and the city on sustainability issues. The European Human Genetics Conference, Several strategic bidding processes and activities ESHG, was held at the Swedish Exhibition & Conwere conducted during the year. The number of curgress Centre in June and attracted just over 3,000 rent bids covers a total of 220,000 delegate days. delegates. ESHG was last held in Gothenburg in 2010, During the year, 31 future meetings involving around which shows that satisfied customers always return. 110,000 delegate days were confirmed. According to the 2019 survey of delegates, a full 98 After years of preparation, the strategic commitper cent had a positive overall impression of Gothment to the Associations World Congress & Expo led enburg as a destination. to the event being held at the Swedish Exhibition & In September, approximately 2,000 people atCongress Centre in April. AWC was project-managed tended the congress of the International Continence by Göteborg & Co’s Convention Bureau and the AsSociety, ICS. The congress took place at the Swedish sociation of Association Executives in collaboration Exhibition & Congress Centre with support from with the Swedish Exhibition & Congress Centre and leading congress organiser Kenes. congress organiser MCI. AWC brought together alGothenburg exhibited for the first time as a desmost 500 people, many of them with leading roles tination at the IMEX America trade fair in Septemin international medical, scientific or trade organber. There was considerable interest from customers isations and with their own congresses that are of and our calendar was filled with interesting customer interest to Gothenburg. The delegates included more meetings. than 20 specially invited key figures, each representDuring the IBTM trade fair in Barcelona, G ​​ othening congresses that Gothenburg is in the process of burg and partner organisations had their own stand bidding for. in the Scandinavian section, following the withdrawal Hosting this event provided an opportunity to of Sweden as an exhibitor. It was a very successful show how a congress can be organised sustainably event with more than 150 pre-arranged individual and to inspire the international meetings industry. meetings. Gothenburg also stood out as being the desThe congress was certified as sustainable under Swedtination with the strongest record of sustainability. ish Environmental Base criteria and sustainability Business strategies for Gothenburg Convention Bureau Attracting large meetings in specialUsing Gothenburg as an arena to de1 ist areas 3 velop new meeting concepts Several long-term strategic initiatives and bidBy encouraging public events to be held at the ding processes were carried out during the year same time as congresses, meetings can contribto attract more large meetings (in excess of ute to a more open and accessible city by giving 2,000 delegates). The number of bids for large a broader audience the opportunity to learn about meetings has risen. the latest research. Full advantage was taken of the AWC expo to Ramping up collaboration with repromote the Gothenburg as a destination for meet2 gional trade & industry ings, including the use of new concepts in sustainability. There was also a strong connection to The business area presented a strategic plan for Gothenburg’s 400-year anniversary and the focus meetings on behalf of the Municipal Council in theme for 2019, Knowledge & Enlightenment. To 2018. Work began on implementing this plan in mark the hosting of the European Choir Games by 2019. So far, this work has led to the identificaGothenburg in August, choral singing was a recurtion of specific meetings and subject areas. The ring theme during the congress, from the welcome local business community shows strong engagereception through to the congress dinner. ment in the bidding processes, sending letters During the large IAGG-ER congress on geronof support and participating in site visits. During tology and geriatrics that took place in May, a phoAWC, collaboration with the local business comto exhibition on ageing entitled Rich in Years was munity was demonstrated in speeches, lectures held at the City Library and in Bältespännarparken. and presentations by Volvo Cars, Cellink and Astra Zeneca, among others. ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 49 Wave Swinger, Liseberg amusement park Marketing & Communications Communication and good relations strengthen the destination and increase the value of the Gothenburg brand, as well as highlighting the company’s role as a platform for collaboration. The business area’s mission Marketing & Communications has the task of developing themes, seasons and reasons to visit the city, as well as providing first-class hospitality in collaboration with stakeholders locally, regionally, nationally and internationally. We are responsible for destination communication, the corporate communications of Göteborg & Co, and the company’s internal communications. 50 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 DIRECTORS’ REPORT Summary of the financial year The destination website – goteborg.com – continues There is continued strong interest in Destination to grow, and surpassed the previous year’s record Gothenburg among international journalists and with just over three million unique visitors in 2019. influencers. Alongside seven priority international The destination has a presence on social media every markets we also introduced Sweden as a new marweek of the year and the number of followers is steadiket, leading to positive results for PR initiatives that ly growing. This year’s image survey shows that Gothincluded a 24-page newspaper supplement about enburg is perceived as a friendly family destination by Gothenburg in Aftonbladet and a similarly themed residents and by visitors. In addition to friendliness, supplement in GT/Expressen. During Gothenburg we increasingly highlight innovation, creativity and Design Festival a well-attended press trip was arsustainability in our communications. ranged on the theme of design and sustainability. During the year, the department established a The good hospitality provided by Visitor Services brand platform for the destination, a new plan for and the tourist centres, as well as information points, corporate communication and a new plan for crisis enhance the appeal and competitiveness of the descommunication, among other things. We also carried tination. This year we arranged destination training out a special assessment of the company’s internal courses for front-of-house staff and hotel managers. communications and held a training day in commuMarketing and communications influence the repnicative leadership. utation of the destination. As more people commuGood cooperation with our partners is vital for the nicate the Gothenburg brand it increases credibility, destination to reach its set goals. Within the frameand as partners and colleagues in the industry raise work for collaboration with GoCONNECT and Visit the profile of Gothenburg it reveals more and more Sweden we worked with Qatar Airways during the reasons to visit the city. The Marketing & Commuyear on extending marketing in both China and Innications toolbox, containing images, video and artidia. The Next to Gothenburg campaign, launched in cles, keeps the conversation going about Gothenburg. spring in collaboration with Västtrafik and the West Events and meetings are also important platforms Sweden Tourist Board, has proven successful in six for marketing. very satisfied destinations, from Alingsås to StyrsöVrångö. Business strategies for Marketing & Communications Developing seasons and theme Having a digital presence where vis1 concepts that promote interest in 3 itors are Gothenburg as a destination As a result of our collaboration with Visit Sweden Work has continued on the themes of food, naand the West Sweden Tourist Board, Gothenburg ture and design. Further progress was made on gains exposure on key platforms such as visitsdeveloping the new Valentine’s Season in 2019. weden.com and westsweden.com. Always-on Marketing & Communications took over responmarketing and individual campaigns are primarsibility for Gothenburg Christmas City commuily channelled through digital/social media. On nications during the year. This means that the the digital front a great deal of user-generated regular destination campaign for Christmas will content is used and there is ongoing dialogue in also target local and regional audiences. Work social media with followers and visitors. has begun on promoting the region during low season. Marketing Gothenburg by commuTaking the hospitality of Gothenburg 2 nicating in new and innovative ways 4 to new heights and through new channels/platIn April, Visitor Services invited managers of forms Gothenburg hotels to an event at the tourist The editors of goteborg.com have extended colcentre at Kungsportsplatsen that was designed laboration with major events and congresses in to improve their knowledge of Destination Goththe city to create content that encourages event enburg. The aim was to give a taste of the free visitors to discover more of Gothenburg while destination training offered by Visitor Services they are here. These guides and articles are also to front-of-house staff. By increasing knowledge distributed in partners’/ events newsletters and about the destination we are supporting the gensocial channels. eral corporate goal – to shift from implementer The destination’s communication materials to facilitator. are developed in collaboration with the steering In collaboration with the Port of Gothenburg, we group for Marketing & Communications and the welcomed 65 cruise ships during the year and marketing network for the Gothenburg region. a total of around 115,000 cruise passengers to Images, videos and articles are distributed for Gothenburg. further marketing of the destination. ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 51 In 2019 the Gothenburg Company Prize was awarded to the 2018 winner, i-Tech, which accepted the award from the Chair of Gothenburg City Executive Board, Axel Josefson. Trade & Industry Group The Trade & Industry Group aims to use knowledge and innovation to benefit future competitiveness and sustainable welfare in the region. Several strategic collaborations were extended in 2019, and special attention was given to project initiatives that aim to improve inclusion and long-term skills provision. The business area’s mission The Trade & Industry Group will serve as a platform for collaboration between trade & industry, organisations, municipalities and academia, in their efforts to make Gothenburg even more competitive and attractive. 52 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 DIRECTORS’ REPORT Summary of the financial year In 2019, operations focused more clearly on supportThe 50th anniversary of the first lunar landing was ing the destination’s overall strategies, and shifted celebrated during Space Week in September. With the from a support role to acting as a resource by providsupport of the Trade & Industry Group and as part of ing know-how and financial initiatives. The Student the focus theme of Knowledge and Enlightenment, Göteborg and Go Science projects have been merged around 150 activities were organised on the theme of into Unimeet Gothenburg and now focus more clearly Space to highlight the strong role of western Sweden on international students and researchers. in space research. For the second year in a row a range of activiAs part of West Pride’s efforts to raise awareness, ties were organised in the district of Biskopsgården staff at targeted schools were given free training, as part of the BonnierHoops initiative. Throughout support and ongoing advice on equality throughout summer, young people were able to meet there and the year. In return, the schools undertook to actively challenge emergency service staff to games of street include LGBTQ issues in their curriculum throughout basketball, hang out in the book lounge, write poetthe year. ry, do handicrafts and much more. Apart from the The Future Ambassadors project was officially success of these activities the project is also believed launched in 2019. Its purpose is to explore the poto have contributed to a reduction in reported crime tential of digitalisation in finding solutions for a susin the area. tainable world, and at the same time give all primary The International Science Festival attracts around school students a better understanding of nature and 52,000 visitors and is one of the leading popular scitechnology ence events in Europe. The review of its legal resIn 2020, the Trade & Industry Group will continue idence has been completed and a new three-year to manage the focus theme process in preparation for agreement has been signed with an agreed grant and Gothenburg’s 400-year anniversary. The theme for an additional sponsor – the City of Gothenburg. A the coming year is Sustainable Growth. strong and successful commitment has also been made to increase partner funding. Business strategies for the Trade & Industry Group Developing forms of collaboration Highlighting and building awareness 1 The forms of cooperation for the long-term pro3 of Gothenburg jects and partnerships that the Trade & Industry The projects that the Trade & Industry Group Group is working on were developed and given a was involved in during 2019 help to improve more formal framework in 2019. This applied in knowledge about Gothenburg, the region and particular to: Student Göteborg, Junior Achieveits attractiveness. PR and news publishing acment, the celebrity Arab performance at Gothentivities have been established for each project. burg Culture Festival and the Future AmbassaThere has been ongoing internal and external dors project. communication through several channels at local, national and international level. The Magasin Initiating and facilitating new projGöteborg supplement was published in collabo2 ects ration with Business Region Göteborg. The magA number of initiatives in the focus areas of inazine was also the most widely read supplement clusion and skills provision were started and in the business journal Dagens Industri this year, implemented during the year. One successful reaching 210,000 readers. example is Gothenburg Design Festival. The Trade & Industry Group also supported CapitalOnBoard, an innovative new meeting event that allows start-up companies to meet investors on a boat during a return journey to Fredrikshamn. With the help of the Trade & Industry Group, Alfie Atkins’ Cultural Centre has been able to focus even more on improving inclusion and accessibility. In 2019, the Trade & Industry Group continued to work closely with Business Region Göteborg on the business policy programme to improve ​​skills provision. ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 53 From the recording of “How did we get here? – ten videos on the history of Gothenburg – based on questions from residents” in collaboration with the Museum of Gothenburg. Gothenburg’s 400-year anniversary in 2021 Since 2009, Göteborg & Co has been driving the city’s collective preparations for the 400-year anniversary in 2021. Thousands of Gothenburg residents have been involved in the process and contributed ideas and suggestions about how the city should develop. The city’s administrations and companies are realising many of these ideas, and hundreds of stakeholders are involved in initiatives for the 400-year anniversary. Their shared goal is to make Gothenburg an even better city. Numerous activities have taken place under the anGothenburg in Centenary Park, and the park attracted niversary umbrella, and some examples are given a record 100,000 visits during the season. The anbelow: Ten history videos have been produced with niversary music camp, Side by Side by El Sistema, the Museum of Gothenburg, prompted by residents’ brought together young musicians from 16 different questions about Gothenburg. The videos were popcountries; an Anniversary Corner was set up at the ular on social media and quickly spread. A rain arttourist office; and a competition to create an Anniwork by designer Bea Szenfeld was opened at Espeversary Song was announced in partnership with the rantoplatsen, an outdoor play space called “Näsan i Brewhouse Award. blöt” (Nose in the wet) was built by 100 residents of Vision: By 2021, Gothenburg will be internationally recognised as a bold model for sustainable growth. We are an innovative, open and inclusive city, where all residents feel a sense of purpose and participation. 54 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 DIRECTORS’ REPORT Knowledge and enlightenment in focus in 2019 Each year leading up to the 400-year anniversary problems, and the Whole City’s Gallery, an exhibition has a special focus theme. In 2019 the focus was on of images entitled Rich In Years that reflect a senior research and skills provision, and the aim was to conperspective, as well as photo art by children from the tinue working to engage the entire city. One way this city’s art schools. Other important platforms included is done is through projects such as Future Ambassathe International Science Festival and Space Week. dors, which challenges pupils to think about global The anniversary year 2021 It is almost time to start inviting Gothenburg’s resithrough the city. On 5 June, attention turns to the dents and visitors to the anniversary year itself, which river as we satisfy the desires of Gothenburg residents will be a full year of celebrations and experiences. to get near to the water. On 6 June we meet in green The high points of the anniversary year that will be spaces and celebrate National Day together. arranged by Göteborg & Co were established in 2019. In December 2021 there will be a tribute to GothThe celebrations begin on 31 December 2020 with enburg and its residents that focuses on sustainable an opening event that brings light to Gothenburg durgrowth, human rights, democracy and equality. This ing the dark winter period. will be an international gathering for the very latest in On 4–6 June 2021 we will celebrate the Anniversaknowledge, research and innovation that puts Gothry Weekend. This will take place in the historic quarenburg on the world map. ters of the city and include a massive party parade New ways of collaborating have long-term benefits The role of the anniversary organisation is to lead, efforts have provided new insights and understanding co-ordinate, communicate and follow up progress. of how we can make Gothenburg an even better city, The organisation was given more resources during finding sustainable solutions for the future. In the the year and has increasingly focused on planning and run-up to 2020 the anniversary process shifts from implementing the programme for the anniversary development and planning to setting up, inviting peoyear. Five steering groups were formed in accordance ple and implementing the anniversary celebrations. with the company’s project model and these involve In 2022 a detailed summary and review will ensure additional staff from Göteborg & Co. we manage the city’s investment and use the expeOn our journey to the anniversary we have found riences gained from the process and celebrations to new ways of collaborating with stakeholders from continue improving the city and region. all parts of society, including residents, businesses, Read more about Gothenburg’s 400-year anniveracademia, the city, the region, organisations, founsary at goteborg2021.com dations and associations. Ten years of combining our Five goals To make an international mark by workwith everyone. 1 ing to make Gothenburg a city where res5 To strengthen the image of Gothenburg through effecidents enjoy life and feel involved, proud tive communication and marketing. and confident about the future. 2 To be a bold model for sustainable growth by meeting and exceeding already agreed Theme targets. By the water getting closer to the sea, the archipelago, the harbour To develop Gothenburg and the surround3 ing region through broad collaboration and the river. Building bridges with the city’s committees and companies, building bridges between people and reducing disas well as local, regional, national and intances. ternational stakeholders. Open spaces 4 To involve the whole city in the celebradeveloping an open and tolerant city by providing tions by inviting ongoing open consultation creative new meeting spaces. ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 55 View from Skansen Kronan fortress towards Oscar Fredrik Church and Masthugget Church Analysis & Market Trends Analysis & Market Trends collects, processes, packages and communicates information, data and knowledge in a targeted way. In 2019 the department provided internal support to the company’s other business areas, for example by assisting the project group that gathered data for the Global Destination Sustainability Index and European Capital of Smart Tourism. The department’s work also included reviewing the company’s internal processes and routines for meeting data and information needs. This work will continue in 2020 and will focus on providing the appropriate technology, skills and resources to meet these needs. It is the ambition of Göteborg & Co to become a knowledge hub that generates value for its partners. This involves a complex process of change and the Analysis & Market Trends department will be the driving force in the process. The business area’s mission The mission of Analysis & Market Trends is to use analysis, monitoring of market trends and strategic partnerships to ensure the company has solid background information to support the destination’s development. 56 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 DIRECTORS’ REPORT Summary of the financial year A systematic process of collecting and organising relso that the company can monitor long-term trends, evant data and metrics has begun. This is groundwork use the data for analysis and combine them with other that is essential to measure development and longdata sources. term trends at the destination level. Steps were taken to make interactive self-service A discussion was started with visitor industry reports accessible on the website for external target stakeholders and interest organisations during the groups during the year. The department has also year about the data that is available and relevant identified several databases, services and external from a destination perspective. Annual statistics on reports and analyses that provide insights into martransport, trade and attractions were collected and kets, visitors and their driving forces. processed. Market statistics and hotel metrics from Statistics Sweden were also organised and aggregated Strategies for Analysis & Market Trends in 2019 Set up a new unit – Analysis & Market Create a framework and processes 1 Trends 3 for sharing knowledge about the The process of gradually building up a strong visitor industry internally and with analysis and market trends unit has continued partners during the year and the outline for an effective Sub-strategy: organisational model will be completed in early Packaging and communication of data, 2020. information and knowledge Implementation of the strategy will be clarified Acquire systematic knowledge about 2 visitors in the coming financial year. Sub-strategy: Statistics and measurements Develop partnerships and exchanges The department finds, compiles and presents 4 of knowledge with academia current statistics, as well as coordinating asSub-strategy: sessments that will support the business and Connect skills to Analysis & Market partners. Trends Establishing formal collaborative partnerships Sub-strategy: Formalise collaboration on Guest DNA with experts in the various areas of the visitor The process of implementing this strategy will industry will ensure access to information about continue next year. The management of the comdevelopments and trends that affect the growth pany and its partners agree that traditional metof the destination. This process has been driven rics such as guest nights need to be combined by a number of strategic meetings with key with new metrics that more clearly reflect the players and stakeholders. The department was profiles of guests, behaviour patterns and conalso represented on seven different value-creattributions to the destination. ing networks, regionally, national and international. Sub-strategy: Continuously assess events and activities organised on behalf of management and the company’s business areas In 2019, Analysis & Market Trends coordinated around ten surveys on behalf of the company’s other business areas. ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 57 DIRECTORS’ REPORT Performance and financial position The following table shows the company’s performance with regard to some central earnings measures and key ratios (amounts in SEK thousand): 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Operating income 180,985 203,447 196,252 241,755 249,874 Profit after financial items -2,162 10,009 1,370 1,122 -1,166 Total assets** 1,162,122 1,118,488 1,115,346 90,022 69,224 Equity/assets ratio* 93.7% 95.9% 95.5% 21.2% 26.7% Average number of employees 103 106 105 112 113 Sales per employee 1,757 1,919 1,869 2,159 2,211 *Equity + 78% of untaxed reserves/total assets ** During 2017 there was a reverse merger between Göteborg & Co Kommunintressent AB. The company then became the owner of three subsidiaries, which affected the total assets. Tourist development in the Gothenburg region 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Total tourist sales SEKm 33,900 32,100 30,200 27,700 25,600 Market share of commercial hotel and hostel nights 10.9% 10.8% 11.1 % 11.3% 11.0% Number of guest nights, thousands 5,060 4,844 4,777 4,696 4,488 Number of employees in travel and tourism industry 18,900 18,700 18,600 17,600 17,100 Forecast figures for 2019. Outcome for other years. 58 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 DIRECTORS’ REPORT Proposed appropriation of profits The following profits are at the disposal of the Annual General Meeting: Profit brought forward 1,086,714,964 Net profit for the year -3,685,011 SEK 1,083,029,953 The Board of Directors proposes that the profits be appropriated so that: dividend to shareholders 1,586,256 carried forward 1,081,443,697 SEK 1,083,029,953 The company’s performance during the year and financial position at year-end in other respects can be seen from the following income statement and balance sheet. Intra-group transfers were paid to SEK Shareholder contributions were paid to SEK thousand thousand Göteborgs Stadshus AB 69,811 Liseberg AB 31,509 Göteborgs Stadsteater AB 2,018 Göteborgs Stadsteater AB 10,500 Intra-group transfers were received from SEK Shareholder contributions were received SEK thousand from thousand Got Event AB 27,810 Göteborgs Stadshus AB 43,513 Göteborgs Stadshus AB 2,018 Liseberg AB 40,088 Equity Profit brought Net profit for Share capital Statutory forward the year reserve Opening balance 3,000,000 1,208,540 1,043,196,259 23,089,802 Appropriation of profit 23,089,802 -23,089,802 Dividend to shareholders -23,084,100 Net profit for the year -3,685,011 Shareholder contribution 43,513,003 Closing balance 3,000,000 1,208,540 1,086,714,964 -3,685,011 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 59 Income Statement Note 2019 2018 Operating income 1 180,984,752 203,447,296 Cost of services sold -4,524,978 -7,613,753 Other external costs 2, 3 -89,096,015 -124,865,585 Personnel costs 4, 5 -86,090,559 -82,839,876 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 6 -1,149,831 -1,182,700 Total operating expenses -180,861,383 -216,501,914 Operating profit 123,369 -13,054,618 Profit from shares in Group companies 7 -2,241,744 23,084,100 Profit from other securities and receivables 8 -123,297 0 Interest expense and similar profit/loss items 84,195 23,545 Interest expense and similar profit/loss items -4,587 -43,872 Profit after financial items -2,162,064 10,009,155 Appropriations 9 -1,505,198 13,630,000 Tax on profit for the year 10 -16,752 -549,353 Tax from previous year -997 0 Net profit for the year -3,685,011 23,089,802 60 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Balance sheet Note 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Assets Property, plant and equipment Equipment 6 3,255,874 4,100,117 Financial assets Shares in Group companies 11 1,070,332,505 1,032,151,120 Other non-current securities 12 22,703 146,000 Total non-current assets 1,073,611,082 1,036,397,237 Current assets Inventories, goods for resale 873,362 820,785 Current receivables Trade receivables 12,960,777 18,812,214 Receivables from companies within Gbg Stadshus AB 37,326,657 29,811,933 Tax assets 1,699,504 2,819,866 Other receivables 29,937,789 25,125,663 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 13 5,597,610 4,557,214 Total current receivables 87,522,337 81,126,890 Cash and bank balances 14 115,349 143,025 Total current assets 88,511,048 82,090,699 Total assets 1,162,122,130 1,118,487,937 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 61 Balance sheet cont. Note 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Equity and liabilities Equity Restricted equity Share capital (30,000 shares, par value SEK 100/share) 3,000,000 3,000,000 Statutory reserve 1,208,540 1,208,540 4,208,540 4,208,540 Non-restricted equity Profit brought forward 1,086,714,964 1,043,196,259 Net profit for the year 15 -3,685,011 23,089,802 1,083,029,953 1,066,286,061 Total equity 1,087,238,493 1,070,494,601 Untaxed reserves 16 2,846,359 3,254,161 Current liabilities Trade payables 14,817,623 15,170,132 Liabilities to companies within Gbg Stadshus AB 35,305,653 5,954,723 Other current liabilities 2,683,149 3,049,080 Accrued expenses and deferred income 17 19,230,853 20,565,240 Total current liabilities 72,037,278 44,739,175 Total equity and liabilities 1,162,122,130 1,118,487,937 62 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Cash flow statement Note 2019 2018 Operating activities Profit after financial items -2,162,064 10,009,155 Adjustments for non-cash items 4,691,745 1,182,700 Tax paid 1,102,613 -701,969 Cash flow from operating activities before working capital changes 3,632,294 10,489,886 Working capital changes Inventories -52,577 -233,765 Current receivables -2,736,066 4,623,857 Current liabilities 27,298,103 -5,218,267 Cash flow from operating activities 28,141,754 9,661,711 Investing activities Investment in equipment -305,587 -151,643 Cash flow from investing activities -305,587 -151,643 Financing activities Intra-group transfers received 0 13,500,000 Dividend paid out -23,084,100 -14,600,000 Cash flow from financing activities -23,084,100 -1,100,000 Cash flow for the year 4,752,067 8,410,068 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year, incl. Group account 25,092,069 16,682,001 Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year, incl. Group account 18 29,844,136 25,092,069 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 63 Notes to the financial statements General information part payments. The outcome of the mission is assessed in The consolidated financial statements are not prepared connection with the annual accounts. If there is reason to with reference to the exception to the Annual Accounts Act suspect that a loss has occurred, it is recorded in its entirety. Chapter 7. § 2. Other revenue is recognised when the income can be estimated reliably and when, on the whole, all the risks and Accounting principles rights associated with ownership have been transferred to Göteborg & Co complies with the Annual Accounts Act the purchaser, which normally takes place when goods are (1995:1554) and the general advice of the Swedish Acdelivered or services provided. counting Standards Board, BFNAR 2012:1 Annual Report and Consolidated Financial Statements (“K3”). Taxes The tax expense or tax income for the period consists of Intra-group transfers current and deferred tax. Current tax is the tax calculated Received and paid intra-group transfers are recognised as on the taxable profit for the period. appropriations in the income statement. Shareholder conDeferred tax is calculated on the difference between the tributions received are recognised directly against equity. carrying amounts of the company’s assets and liabilities and their tax base. The difference between these amounts Shares in Group companies is multiplied by the current tax rate, giving the amount of Shares in subsidiaries are carried at cost. Dividends from the deferred tax asset/liability. Deferred tax assets are recsubsidiaries are recognised as income when the right to the ognised in the balance sheet to the extent that it is probable dividend is deemed secure and can be measured reliably. that the amounts can be utilised against future taxable profAn impairment charge was taken for shares in subsidiaries it. In June 2018 the Swedish Parliament decided to reduce because of the decline in value. the corporate tax rate in two stages. Deferred tax liabilities/ assets that are expected to be realised in 2019–2020 are Depreciation thus valued at 21.4 per cent, while other items are valued Depreciation according to plan is based on the original cost at 20.6 per cent. of the assets and is allocated over the estimated useful life. Equipment is written off at 20% per year as its useful life is Leasing estimated to be 5 years. All lease agreements are recognised as operating lease The difference between depreciation according to plan agreements, which means that the lease payments are aland book depreciation is shown as an appropriation. located on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Inventories Cash flow statement Inventories have been valued at the lower of cost or fair valThe cash flow statement is prepared using the indirect ue. The FIFO method has been applied when determining method. The reported cash flow only includes transactions cost. Fair value consists of estimated sales value less estiresulting in cash receipts or payments. Cash and cash mated selling expense. equivalents refer to cash and bank balances. The balance in the Group account is reported as cash and cash equivalents. Receivables Receivables have been recognised at the amounts expected Parent Company to be received. Other assets and liabilities are recognised Göteborg & Co AB is wholly owned by Göteborgs Stadshus at nominal amounts unless otherwise stated in the notes AB (556537-0888). below. Revenue amounted to 5% of income (2018: 9%) from other Göteborgs Stadshus companies and 4% (2018: 4%) of Revenue costs for “costs of services sold” and “other external costs” Payment for assignments from the City of Gothenburg is are assigned to other Göteborgs Stadshus companies. recognised the year the expenses arise that the payment relates to. Significant events after the balance sheet date The company recognises revenue from fixed-price serNo significant events occurred after the balance sheet date. vice assignments carried out on completion of the work. This means that ongoing service assignments are valued in the balance sheet at direct expenses accrued less invoiced 64 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Note 1 Operating income 2019 2018 Payment for assignments from the City of Gothenburg 119,037,000 118,970,000 Income from sales of services 13,691,049 16,581,045 Marketing payment, project funds and other income from owners and stakeholders 48,256,703 67,896,251 180,984,752 203,447,296 Note 2 Fee and reimbursement 2019 2018 Audit assignment Ernst & Young AB 153,991 151,643 Audit assignment City Audit 167,400 191,101 Audit duties beyond audit assignment Ernst & Young AB 0 149,354 Audit assignment refers to the statutory audit of the annual accounts, the accounting records and the administration of the Board of Directors and the CEO. Other audit services refers to an audit of the administration or the financial information that is required by statute, articles of association, regulations or agreements and that results in a report or some other document in addition to the audit report, as well as guidance or other assistance occasioned by observations in connection with an audit assignment. Other services are services that do not relate to the audit assignment, other audit services or tax consultancy. Note 3 Leasing The essential leases refer to leases for the company’s premises on Mässans Gata and Kungsportsplatsen square. These agreements include indexation according to the CPI. The agreement for Mässans Gata runs through 2022 and will be extended for 36 months if it is not terminated. The agreement for Kungsportsplatsen runs through 2024 and will be extended for 36 months if it is not terminated. Other leases relate to equipment such as copying machines. 2019 2018 Lease payments for the financial year 7,306,037 7,122,659 Future contracted lease payments: Within one year 7,382,010 7,192,651 Two to five years 19,621,780 23,558,797 More than five years 2,546,940 2,287,200 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 65 Note 4 Personnel 2019 2018 Men 29 29 Women 74 77 103 106 The average number of employees as above has been calculated in relation to the company’s normal hours worked per year. In order to give a more complete picture of employment in the company, the table below shows the number of permanent employees and fixed-term employees (project employment, seasonal employment, temporary employment or consultants) during the year. Number of full-time equivalent jobs 2019 Number of people 2019 Permanent employees 76 106 Fixed-term employees/Consultants 27 319 103 425 Note 5 Wages, other remuneration and social security expenses 2019 2018 Board, CEO and CEO Wages and other remuneration 1,758,194 1,881,781 Social security expenses 1,029,472 1,208,031 Of which pension expenses (383,911) (496,359) Other employees Wages and other remuneration 56,370,148 53,317,220 Social security expenses 24,414,442 23,198,101 Of which pension expenses (5,550,693) (5,241,682) Total Wages and other remuneration 58,128,342 55,199,001 Social security expenses 25,443,914 24,406,132 Of which pension expenses (5,934,604) (5,738,041) The company had an acting CEO during the period January to June. A new CEO took up the position in June. The CEO’s contract can be terminated on a mutual notice period of 3 months within the first 12 months. After this period the CEO’s notice period is 6 months. If the Board terminates the contract within the first 12 months, the CEO is entitled to a severance payment equivalent to 6 months’ salary. If the Board terminates the agreement after 12 months, the severance payment is equivalent to 12 months’ salary. No severance payment will be made if the contract is terminated on grounds that justify immediate termination. The CEO has a defined contribution pension plan, with no guaranteed final pension level. Gender distribution in senior management 2019 2018 Number Of which men Number Of which men Board members 7 29% 7 29% Senior management 9 56% 10 50% 66 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Note 6 Equipment 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Opening costs 14,791,884 15,291,697 Purchases 305,587 151,643 Sale/disposal -1,239,164 -651,456 Closing costs 13,858,307 14,791,884 Opening depreciation according to plan 10,691,767 10,160,523 Depreciation according to plan 1,149,831 1,182,700 Sale/disposal -1,239,165 -651,456 Closing depreciation according to plan 10,602,433 10,691,767 Closing residual value according to plan 3,255,874 4,100,117 Note 7 Profit from shares in Group companies 2019 2018 Anticipated dividend 1,586,256 23,084,100 Impairment charge from shares in Group companies -3,828,000 0 -2,241,744 23,084,100 Note 8 Profit from other securities and receivables 2019 2018 Impairment of shares in other companies -123,297 0 -123,297 0 Note 9 Appropriations 2019 2018 Change in tax allocation reserve 0 -720,000 Change in excess depreciation 407,802 850,000 Intra-group transfers received 69,916,414 58,795,000 Intra-group transfers paid -71,829,414 -45,295,000 -1,505,198 13,630,000 Note 10 Tax on profit for the year 2019 2018 Current tax -16,752 -549,353 Deferred tax 0 0 Tax on profit for the year -16,752 -549,353 Reconciliation of tax expense for the year Recognised profit/loss before tax -3,667,262 23,639,155 Tax calculated at a tax rate of 21.4% 2019 (22 % 2018) 784,794 -5,200,614 Tax effect of non-taxable expenses -318,706 -425,557 Tax effect of impairment charges -819,192 Tax effect of non-taxable income 339,459 5,078,502 Standard income on tax allocation reserves -3,107 -1,684 Total -16,752 -549,353 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 67 Note 11 Shares in Group companies 2019 2018 Opening cost 1,032,151,120 1,032,151,120 Shareholder contribution paid 42,009,385 0 Impairment of shares -3,828,000 0 Closing cost 1,070,332,505 1,032,151,120 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Number of Capital Carrying amount Carrying shares share % amount Liseberg AB 556023-6811, Gothenburg 419,998 100.0% 1,006,697,385 975,188,000 Got Event AB 556015-9823, Gothenburg 15,000 100.0% 30,771,000 30,771,000 Göteborgs Stadsteater AB 556016-7875, Gothenburg 79,941 100.0% 32,864,120 26,192,120 1,070,332,505 1,032,151,120 Note 12 Other non-current securities 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Svensk Turism AB, 556452-7157, Stockholm 22,703 146,000 The par value of the above shares is SEK 15.55/share and share capital totalled SEK 1,160,000 in 2019. Note 13 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Staff-related 39,970 44,456 Rental expenses 1,963,629 1,907,294 Project-related 2,593,407 1,486,361 Other 1,000,604 1,119,103 5,597,610 4,557,214 Note 14 Pledged assets 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Travel guarantee (bank guarantee) 0 50,000 68 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Note 15 Appropriation of profit The following profits are at the disposal of the Annual General Meeting: Profit brought forward 1,086,714,964 Net profit for the year -3,685,011 SEK 1,083,029,953 The Board of Directors proposes that the profits be appropriated so that: dividend to shareholders 1,586,256 carried forward 1,081,443,697 SEK 1,083,029,953 Note 16 Untaxed reserves 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Accumulated excess depreciation 0 407,802 Allocation reserve assessment year 2014 358,000 358,000 Allocation reserve assessment year 2015 285,459 285,459 Allocation reserve assessment year 2016 724,900 724,900 Allocation reserve assessment year 2017 758,000 758,000 Allocation reserve assessment year 2018 720,000 720,000 2,846,359 3,254,161 Note 17 Accrued expenses and deferred income 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Staff-related 8,885,531 7,732,168 Project-related 5,076,161 4,822,010 Other 5,269,161 8,011,062 19,230,853 20,565,240 Note 18 Cash and cash equivalents 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Of this item, balance in Group account makes up 29,728,787 24,949,044 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 69 Gothenburg, 06 February 2020 Jonas Ransgård Kurt Eliasson Eva Flyborg Chairman Anna Karin Hammarstrand Madeleine Jonsson Alice Vernersson Linnea Wikström Peter Grönberg CEO, Göteborg & Co AB Our audit report was submitted on 06 February 2020 Ernst & Young AB Hans Gavin Authorised Public Accountant Our review report was submitted on 06 February 2020 Birgitta Adler Lars-Gunnar Landin lay auditor lay auditor appointed by the Municipal Council appointed by the Municipal Council 70 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Auditor’s report ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 71 Auditor’s report 72 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Review report ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 73 GRI INDEX GRI index This is Göteborg & Co’s third sustainability report. prepared in accordance with the Core option of the For 2019, the annual report and sustainability report Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporthave been combined in a single report. General ining Standards (2016), and describes Göteborg & Co’s formation about the business is presented on pages management of key sustainability issues. Göteborg & 40–57, and the report on key sustainability issues Co issues a sustainability report once a year. is presented on pages 8–39. The report has been GRI Standards (Core) Disclosure Page numGlobal Global ber Compact targets GRI 101 (2016) Basic accounting principles GRI 102 (2016) General information ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE 102-1 Name of the organisation Göteborg & Co AB 102-2 Activities, brands, products and 40-57 services 102–3 Location of headquarters Gothenburg 102-4 Location of operations Gothenburg 102-5 Ownership and legal form 40 102-6 Markets served Sweden and international through marketing and partnerships. 102-7 Scale of the organisation 38, 58 102-8 Information on other workers The company conducts all its Principle 6 Target 8 operations in Gothenburg. Full-time employees (December): 97 people Part-time employees (hourly paid employees during the year): 319 people Average number of employees during the year: 103 people 102-9 Supply chain The company had a total of 38 Target 810 suppliers in 2019. 12 102-10 Significant changes to the organiNo significant changes sation and its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary Principle or Göteborg & Co actively strives Principle 7 Target approach to reduce environmental Principle 8 13 & 15 impact from its own Principle 9 operations as well as the operations of collaborative partners. 74 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI INDEX GRI Standards (Core) Disclosure Page numGlobal Global ber Compact targets 102-12 External initiatives UN Global Compact, UNW8 Target TO definition of sustainable 17 tourism, and Global Sustainable Development Goals. GDSI – Global Destination Sustainability Index 102–13 Membership of associations Visita, ECM – European Cities Target Marketing, IAEH – Internation17 al Association of Event Hosts, ICCA – International Congress and Convention Association, SNDMO – Swedish Network Of Destination Management Organisations, SNCVB – Swedish Network of Convention Bureaus, Sustainable Visitor Industry Network Sweden. STRATEGY 102-14 Statement from senior deci4 sion-maker ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and 13-14, 37-38 norms of behaviour MANAGEMENT APPROACH 102-18 Governance structure 13-14, 40-57 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 11 Target 17 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements All except the CEO are covered Principle 3 Target 8 by collective bargaining agreements. 102-42 Identifying and selecting stake11 Target holders 17 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engage11 Target ment 17 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 11-12 Target 17 REPORTING PRACTICE 102-45 Entities included in the consoliGöteborg & Co AB. Subsidiardated financial statements ies prepare their own annual accounts. The consolidated financial statements are prepared by Göteborg Stadshus AB. 102-46 Defining report content and topic 11-12 boundaries 102-47 List of material topics 12 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 75 GRI INDEX GRI Standards (Core) Disclosure Page numGlobal Global ber Compact targets 102-48 Restatements of information No significant changes 102-49 Changes in reporting No significant changes 102-50 Reporting period 01/01/2019 – 31/12/2019 102-51 Date of most recent report March 102-52 Reporting cycle Calendar year, coinciding with financial year 102-53 Contact point for questions regardKatarina Thorstensson, Sustainability Officer ing the report katarina.thorstensson@goteborg.com 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance 72 with the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI index 72-75 102-56 External assurance The report has been externally audited Topic-specific standards 200 ECONOMIC TOPICS 103-1, Management approach 7, 24–29, 2, 3 40–53 203 INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS (2016) 203-2 Significant indirect economic 7, 24–29 Target 4, impacts 5, 8, 12 & 16 205 (2016) ANTI-CORRUPTION 103-1, Management approach 38 2, 3 205-2 Communication and training 38 Principle Target on anti-corruption policies and 10 16 procedures 300 ENVIRONMENTAL TOPICS 308 (2016) SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT 103-1, Management approach 30-35, 38 2, 3 76 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI INDEX GRI Standards (Core) Disclosure Page numGlobal Global ber Compact targets 308-1 New suppliers that were screened 247 new suppliers in 2019, of Principle 7 Target using environmental criteria which 5 engaged under the Principle 8 12 City of Gothenburg’s blanket Principle 9 agreements and the rest through direct procurement. All assessed in accordance with the City of Gothenburg’s policy. 400 SOCIAL TOPICS 403 (2016) OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 103-1, Management approach 36-39 2, 3 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, 38 Target 8 occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 405 (2016) DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 103-1, Management approach 36-39 2, 3 405-1 Gender and age diversity on Board, 38 Principle 6 Target in management and among other 10 employee groups 406 (2016) NON-DISCRIMINATION 103-1, Management approach 37 2, 3 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and None reported Principle 6 Target actions taken 10 413 (2016) LOCAL COMMUNITY 103-1, Management approach 4-57 2, 3 413-1 Operations with local community 46-55 Principle 1 Target 3, engagement, impact assessments, 4, 5, 8, and development programmes 10, 11, 12 & 16 414 (2016) SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT 103-1, Management approach 38 2, 3 414-1 New suppliers that were screened 247 new suppliers in 2019, of Principle 2 Target 8 using social criteria which 5 engaged under the Principle 3 & 12 City of Gothenburg’s blanket Principle 4 agreements and the rest Principle 5 through direct procurement. All assessed in accordance with the City of Gothenburg’s policy. ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 77 A municipal company, City of Gothenburg
