Social Responsibility Report – 2019 Content Message from the CEO...............................................................3 I BIAL Mission & Values..............................................................................5 Innovation in Health.....................................................................6 Social Responsibility....................................................................7 II BIAL and the 10 Principles of the United Nations Global Compact Human Rights....................................................................................9 Labour Practices.............................................................................10 Environmental Protection...................................................... 15 Anti-corruption............................................................................... 17 III Patronage Social Responsibility and Patronage..................................................................................19 BIAL Foundation.......................................................................... 20 Social Responsibility Report 2019 2 Message from the CEO BIAL is an innovative pharmaceutical company. We are focused on the research, development, production and commercialization of medicines capable of providing a better quality of life and more Health to all patients in different parts of the world. In fulfilling this mission, we remain committed to the principles of sustainable development, seeking to guarantee the balance between the pursuit of our activity, and the inherent creation of value, as well as the well-being of citizens, the preservation of the environment, the rational use of natural resources and building a more just, inclusive and tolerant society. We believe at this present time we are building conditions to safeguard the rights of future generations. Aware of this responsibility, we renew our commitment to the Global Compact, reflected in this Progress Report. We renew our commitment to remain on the path of sustainability, guiding our management practices and the relationship with different stakeholders according to the 10 principles of the Global Compact, based on respect for People and Human Rights, for the Environment, always working ethically and in accordance with the best Labour Practices. We work every day to be able to offer society quality innovative medicines and thus make a difference in the lives of patients, their caregivers and families. We believe that it is also in our hands to continue to make a difference for the future of the planet and humanity. Keeping life in mind. Social Responsibility Report 2019 3 I BIAL I BIAL Mission & Values Founded in 1924, BIAL’s mission is to discover, develop and provide new therapeutic solutions within the Health area. “Keeping Life in Mind” is our motto and our strategic areas of development are Research and Development, Internationalisation and Quality. We want to meet people’s Health needs, by playing an active part in global economic growth. We also want to contribute to the construction of a knowledgeable society, one that is competitive and dynamic, based on scientific development and innovation. The values which guide us reflect our identity: • Caring for Health • Invest in Quality and Innovation • Excellence in scientific research • Integrity and high ethical standards • Rigour, responsibility and teamwork • Respect for universal values Social Responsibility Report 2019 5 I BIAL Innovation in Health We believe that, to better serve the interests and needs of In recent years we have patented several new drugs worldwide. everyone, we cannot limit ourselves to the production and supply of The average amount of time the pharmaceutical industry spends on medication, we must go beyond. This is why we have decided that a researching a new medication is between ten to fourteen years and strategic focus for BIAL should be the research of new therapeutic research investments can reach 1 billion Euros. During this process, solutions. thousands of molecules are left behind, either because they are not effective or safe, or because they have undesirable side-effects on the To be able to contribute towards the development of mankind, human organism. we feel we should discover, innovate and actively contribute to the treatment of the many diseases that affect human beings and their In 2009 BIAL put Portugal on the world map of therapeutic quality of life. To live every single day in a spirit of creativity and innovation, by launching the first medicine researched and patented in evolution, within a highly professional business sector, means engaging Portugal onto the market – an antiepileptic drug. This drug is currently our employees, our shareholders, our customers and our suppliers in marketed in several European countries, including Portugal, Spain, the BIAL project. United Kingdom, Germany, France and also in the USA. BIAL invests over 20% of its turnover in Research and In 2016 the European Commission approved a new innovative Development (R&D). The 2019 EU Industrial RD Investment Scoreboard drug from BIAL, for the treatment of Parkinson’s disease. This drug has ranked BIAL in the 395th position among the top 1,000 European R&D already been marketed in several European countries. This drug was companies. also approved by the U.S. agency, Food and Drug Administration, while forecasting the launch in the U.S. until the end of the year (2020). The Group’s R&D projects are developed at the R&D centre located in Trofa, Portugal, by more than 150 people, 62 of which have PhDs In recognition of our commitment to research and development, and 14 different nationalities. BIAL’s research focuses mostly on the BIAL is part for more than one decade, to the European Federation of neuroscience and the cardiovascular system, with the aim to contribute Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA), the prestigious to therapeutic development, providing the market with products that federation of the leading research companies in the European improve people’s quality of life. pharmaceutical sector. As a national industry, we also feel compelled to contribute actively to economic and social development, by fostering the construction of a society founded on the pillars of knowledge, competitiveness, cooperation, science and innovation. BIAL is a founding member and an associate of the Health Cluster Portugal, a pole of competitiveness in health whose mission is to make Portugal a competitive player in the research, design, development, manufacture and marketing of health-related products and services. BIAL is a member of APIFARMA (Portuguese Pharmaceutical Industry Association), an entity whose main mission is to foster innovation and the development of therapies that address the needs for treatment and prevention of new diseases, as well as providing medicines which will improve the health and the quality of life for all populations. By carrying out its mission, the pharmaceutical industry defends high ethical and quality standards, which combine social responsibility and the duty of solidarity. Social Responsibility Report 2019 6 I BIAL Social Responsibility BIAL’s social responsibility policy is an integral part of the company’s management practices and dictates the relationship with its various stakeholders. It involves several areas: people management, quality and environmental protection policies, various initiatives to promote/support scientific research and association with humanitarian causes and social organisations throughout the world. We are not alone in this mission. Over the course of recent years BIAL has allied with several institutions and bodies that share our vision of cooperating to build a more responsible and sustainable planet. Aiming to contribute towards the promotion of sustainable economic progress, we are a member of the UN Global Compact, acting in accordance with the ten principles regarding management practices. Climate change is a real problem which affects current and future generations. We are signatory to Caring for Climate, a declaration by the members of the Global Compact that promotes solutions towards climate problems which affect our planet. Thinking of a more sustainable future, in 2018 BIAL joined The Porto Protocol initiative as a founding member. This forum brings together entities from different fields and aims to promote the discussion of ideas, while sharing experiences and recommending solutions to reduce ecological footprint. BIAL is also a member of EPIS – Empresários Pela Inclusão Social (Businessmen for Social Inclusion). This association was created in 2006 and is focused on Education, with special emphasis on reducing school failure and early drop-out. Social Responsibility Report 2019 7 II BIAL and the 10 Principles of the United Nations Global Compact II BIAL and the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact Human Rights The People Human Rights • Principle 1: BIAL supports and respects the protection We are constantly focused in respecting Human Rights in all our of internationally proclaimed human rights; activities and within the relationships with our stakeholders. • Principle 2: BIAL guarantees no corporate complicity in BIAL does not make any kind of discrimination and our processes the human rights violations. always call for equal opportunities. Our Research & Development Area employs people from 14 different nationalities and, as a result of our commitment to internationalisation, our products are in more than 50 countries across Europe, America, Africa and Asia. The human factor is a priority in BIAL Group’s management policy. We believe that our employees are the cornerstone of the Group’s It is also important to state that BIAL has never been involved in success, recognised today by public and private institutions as a any case related to Human Rights violations and the Group has a Code benchmark in the labour market. of Ethics and Conduct, read and accepted by all employees, which emphasizes the topic of the respect for the non-violation of Human BIAL has consistently and steadily created relevant job Rights. opportunities. In 1995 BIAL employed 250 people, nowadays we are more than 900 employees. On a regular basis we also carry out an Internal Satisfaction Survey, where any situation which might contradict the Universal Declaration of Our commitment is reflected in the quality and qualification of Human Rights, may be reported confidentially and anonymously. our employees. BIAL is proud of its extremely thorough selection and recruitment process, as it seeks to attract, select and retain skilled workers, with the best qualifications. This factor can be proven by the percentage of employees with higher education degrees which is of 82%. “Although we have defined a corporate policy common to all group companies, there are of course different habits and cultures between countries or nationalities. Perhaps the first rule to manage an international team is to respect the differences”. Luís Portela, Chairman of BIAL. Social Responsibility Report 2019 9 II BIAL and the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact Labour Practices • Principle 3: BIAL supports freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective negotiation; • Principle 4: BIAL condemns all forms of forced and compulsory labour; • Principle 5: BIAL condemns all forms of child labour. BIAL’s strategy is future-oriented, protecting the basic principles that any company should ensure in order to be socially responsible. Below we have examples of some situations which reflect BIAL’s activity development, aiming the sustainable growth while respecting society and human beings. BIAL has a proactive policy which ensures the development of employees through talent management programs, such as training and development actions, as well as several opportunities for internal and international mobility. Health and safety are a constant priority so BIAL complies with all legal and regulatory requirements related to the health and prevention of work-related accidents. This fact is recognized and validated by the occupational Health and Safety Management System, in accordance with the requirements of OHSAS 18001. Social Responsibility Report 2019 10 II BIAL and the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact Labour Practices • Principle 6: BIAL guarantees the elimination of employment discrimination. The BIAL Group does not engage any discriminatory practice in recruitment processes, namely pertaining to disability, gender, religion, political or sexual orientation, marital status, nationality, ethnic origin or union membership. For example, 54% of the company employees are female. 46% DISTRIBUTION BY GENDER 54% Women Men 44% GEOGRAPHIC LOCATION 56% Portugal Rest of the World Social Responsibility Report 2019 11 II BIAL and the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact Labour Practices LABOUR RELATIONS BIAL aims to develop the best practices pertaining to the management and relationship with people. Labour relations are no exception. As part of APIFARMA one of BIAL’s main responsibilities is to follow the guidelines and rules of the Collective Employment Agreement of the Pharmaceutical Industry, an existing convention between companies involved in the sector who are members of the Association. This collective agreement regulates the sector’s activities within the Labour Law, Establishment of Employment Relations, Vocational Training, Safety, Hygiene, Health and Safety, among others. BIAL is also part of the “ISO Group”, a project developed in partnership with Infarmed (Portuguese Authority of Medicines and Health Products I.P.), which gathers a work group of representatives of each industry to harmonise procedures and promote potential synergies between the participating entities. It should also be emphasised that BIAL gives priority to job security and stability and is proud of having approximately 85% of employment contracts as permanent. Social Responsibility Report 2019 12 II BIAL and the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact Labour Practices HUMAN RESOURCES POLICIES Performance Management Turnover and Mobility Performance Management is crucial and an essential management tool to assure employee/organisation alignment. At BIAL performance At BIAL we favour the internal turnover of our employees, with appraisal is carried out annually, based on the evaluation of the almost all existing opportunities within the Group being disclosed (corporate, departmental and individual) goals, strengths and areas internally, thus offering our people integration through new roles and needing improvement, which result in a development plan with specific departments, as well as working in different countries. In 2019 the rate actions and measures. of recruitment processes completed with internal employees was 14%. In this evaluation employees are given the opportunity to reinforce Whenever BIAL enters a new market and / or creates international their career by “mapping” needs and expectations, to promote the teams, the integration of business processes, values, ethical principles development of specific training plans. This also enables us to gain a and BIAL’s culture are priority. Nevertheless, always based on more detailed perception of the interests, motivations and ambitions of individuality respect, specificities and differences of the communities the employees in a short and medium-term, as well as align them with where we are present. the strategic needs of the BIAL Group. Social Responsibility Report 2019 13 II BIAL and the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact Labour Practices Training and Development Internal Satisfaction Since the opinion of our employees is important to overall growth, At all functional levels, we promote teamwork and an ongoing every 2 years we conduct an Internal Satisfaction Survey. This survey is training systems which allows updating and expanding skills and an opportunity for all employees to voice their views on several issues competencies of our human resources. related to their work. With the intention to generate high levels of motivation and In the last two editions 2017 and 2019 the overall employee performance, BIAL develops programs aimed towards individual satisfaction with the company exceeded 80%. This instrument allowed performance. In 2019 approximately 53 training hours were provided us to collect a set of information that led to the implementation of new to each employee, proving BIAL’s commitment to the qualification measures that aim to further improve the level of satisfaction of our and professional valorisation of people. Below are some examples of people. training programs implemented at BIAL: • Induction Training – Defined and aimed at all employees who Internal Communication start working for the company. As BIAL is present in over 50 countries and has more than • Executive Coaching – Provided annually to a group of 1000 employees, internal communication is key to a good employees with the main goal of providing them with key skills to organisational climate. better perform their roles. Through our intranet all relevant information is shared and • Leadership Training – Through partnerships with distinguished available to all employees. institutions, each year, BIAL provides its leaders with leadership training. “myTEAM” and “BIAL Tools” are examples of programs Annually there is an event commemorating the anniversary of which have been developed. the company where the Chairman, the CEO and the Directors of the different areas share information about the present status and the future of the company. In addition, international meetings are annually held with all Directors to share information and make decisions on the definition/adjustment of the company’s strategy. BIAL has been creating a virtuous circle of satisfaction between the Company and its employees, defined as a priority of the internal motivation and the support of a cooperative and collaborative spirit. The high level of permanent and open dialogue is a source of pride, which is recognised both internally and externally. • Management and Leadership Good Practices Program. • Curriculum Enrichment – BIAL annually contributes to or finances the costs of employee graduation, master, PhD and MBA studies, which may be considered as an added value to the business and to the employees. • Language Training – Given each year so that, over time, all employees can improve this skill to promote, optimise and speed up the internationalisation process defined for the Group. • Internal Training – Annually, several internal training plans are provided to all employees with topics on process updates, procedures or equipments. Our employees are also trained in key areas such as Best Practices in the Pharmaceutical Industry, Occupational Health and Safety, Pharmacovigilance, among others. It is important to state that the Code of Ethics and Conduct is accessible to all new employees in the company. Once again, proving our commitment to offer training, BIAL has also developed an e-learning platform. Social Responsibility Report 2019 14 II BIAL and the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact Environmental Protection Quality and the Environment as Principles The main environmental aspects which directly and indirectly depend on our activity are periodically monitored in a systematic • Principle 7: BIAL supports a precautionary approach to manner, namely: environmental challenges; Waste production • Principle 8: BIAL promotes environmental Water consumption and wastewater responsibility; Energy • Principle 9: : BIAL promotes the use of environmentally-friendly technology. Gas emissions Environmental noise Quality is understood as being a responsibility for all. Its Promotion of legal compliance for “Entities that work on behalf of improvement must be constantly sought out and developed as a or for the Organisation” determinant factor towards the accomplishment of our goals. Health, Safety and the Environment are also an integral part of our commitments. The strategies as well as the development and WASTE PRODUCTION optimisation efforts in our processes, products and services respect both the Environment and all those who live in it. In 2019 the overall production of waste was 169 tonnes. In total all of it was sent to licensed operators. This decrease from 205 ton These commitments will be ensured by all areas of the Company, (in 2018) to 169 ton (in 2019) demonstrates BIAL’s commitment in through the following principles: reducing our ecological footprint. Guarantee the quality and safety of the drugs manufactured, in In 2019 the production of recyclable waste (plastics, aluminum, harmony with the health and safety of employees as well as of the glass, cardboard, paper ...) at BIAL corresponded to approximately environment; 67% of the total waste generated. The economic value of this waste led to added value for the company of about 15% of the total costs Strictly comply with regulatory, technical and normative associated with global management of waste. requirements which apply to our activity or others to which BIAL subscribes; BIAL monitors paper consumption. It is worth noting that, despite the increase in the number of employees registered in 2018, there Stimulate the improvement and development of the employees’ are several reduce consumption strategies implemented by BIAL such skills, recognising their contributions as a way of professional as the transition of documents in digital form, the use of double-sided growth, job satisfaction and commitment to quality, health, safety printing and the reuse of paper. and the environment, so as to maintain an organisation which values initiative, teamwork and knowledge sharing; In addition to recyclable waste, BIAL produces hazardous waste resulting from the return of products from the market (pharmacies, Demand, from suppliers, the strict compliance with the wholesalers) and from production leftovers. In 2019, hazardous waste specifications and requirements for different materials, products amounted to approximately 39 tons, which is 50% less than the and services, as well as acting responsibly with regards to health, previous year. safety and the environment, stimulating their participation in the improvement of their processes, products and services; Continuous improvement of the system performance, for us to have merit in the acceptance of the Health Community, regulating entities and society in general. Certified in 2001, BIAL was the first pharmaceutical company and the first operating in the healthcare area to obtain Certification for its Environmental Management System from ISO 14001. Social Responsibility Report 2019 15 Environmental Protection ON BEHALF OF OR FOR THE ORGANISATION” Throughout 2019, BIAL continued to promote training and awareness actions regarding the Environment, with special emphasis on subcontracted entities. In 2020, BIAL will continue committed to monitoring the effectiveness of the Environmental Management and Occupational Health and Safety Systems, along with their evolution in time, while paying special attention to the compliance within the applicable legislation and continuous improvement. WATER CONSUMPTION AND WASTEWATER OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY (OHS) During 2019, 21 051 m3 of water from the public supply system were consumed. This water was used for human consumption as well BIAL promotes a healthy and safe working environment, adopting as for the production processes. In order to reduce costs and their the necessary measures to prevent accidents which may occur during inherent impact, the company’s fire prevention network, irrigation the course of work and minimizing or eliminating the risks, where systems, washing and cooling systems use untreated water obtained possible. from a borehole and 1 823 m3 were consumed, which means a saving in the consumption of drinking water. Within the training/awareness and communication context, several actions were developed with all employees, both in conference rooms The volume of wastewater produced and treated in 2019 in our and at the workplace. Various emergency drill exercises were also Industrial Effluent Chemical and Biological Treatment Plant was of 6 conducted. In 2019, several actions were conducted, namely in areas 464 m3, corresponding to 31% of total consumption of drinking water. such as the Environment and OHS, focusing on Waste Management, Good Environmental and OSH Practices for Service Providers, ENERGY Emergency Response (fire extinguisher training), Occupational Noise and Ergonomics (included class of labor gymnastics), Chemical Energy consumption is mainly associated with two types of Agents,Individual Protective Equipment, Height Work, Confined Space “sources”: Electricity and Natural Gas, the total of which is recorded Manual and Load Handling. under Primary Energy, TEP. Energy consumption has shown some fluctuations over the past 10 years, alternating with positive and In terms of health, in addition to the usual auxiliary diagnostic tests negative variations from one year to another. that support the medical fitness assessment, two additional campaigns were also developed: audiometric tests and optometric tests. In 2019 BIAL’s facilities consumed a total of approximately 1 426 TEP, with the consumption profile decreasing 2,4% in With regards to the choice of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), comparison to 2018. Under the applicable law, BIAL group is this is performed by taking into account the risks to be protected and considered to be an energy-intensive consumer and is implementing the characteristics of the employees who will use it. In addition to an Energy Rationalization Plan. providing all PPE required for the tasks to be performed, BIAL replaces them whenever they are damaged or have expired. GAS EMISSIONS Technical audits to the facilities are also carried out, with the According to the “Gaseous Effluent Characterization” conducted objective of verifying the safety conditions of workplaces (work periodically and as a consequence of the improvement actions taken, equipment, environment, PPE, fire-fighting equipment, exposure to BIAL maintains mass flow rates of pollutants below the respective chemical, biological and physical agents) as well as verifying legal minimum mass flow thresholds, and therefore it is not required to compliance. These audits also screen machines, the use of shields comply with the respective Emission Limit Values (ELV). and other aspects related to OHS. These audits result in reports which include the findings and corrective measures suggested. ENVIRONMENTAL NOISE According to the provisions of the applicable law and based on the results obtained in the last measurement, BIAL meets the noise indicator values, not exceeding the exposure limit values nor the discomfort limit values. PROMOTION OF LEGAL COMPLIANCE FOR “PEOPLE WORKING Social Responsibility Report 2019 16 II BIAL and the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact Anti-corruption • Principle 10: BIAL works against all forms of BIAL conducts all activities according to the highest ethical corruption, including extortion and bribery. standards reflected in our Code of Ethics and Conduct. BIAL complies with any and all laws, directives, regulations, standards or national, international or regional rules, associative codes, policies, procedures and ethical, deontological and moral BIAL has been in the market for over 96 years and throughout standards, applicable to our activities in all geographical locations these nine decades, has worked in compliance with the highest ethical where we operate. standards. This has always been part of the company’s DNA. On a regular and continuous basis, BIAL promotes global or BIAL has a Code of Ethics and Conduct which reminds and applies sectoral training actions. Transparency, ethics, and integrity are the main ethical principles which govern the company and relations expected of our employees, as well as of the hierarchies while with its partners. Since BIAL’s image and success depends on each of promoting BIAL’s ethical culture. their employees and the group’s strength, integrity and ethics are part All new employees, regardless of their function, are trained of daily activities, BIAL will continue to work responsibly, seeking to according to the the Code of Ethics and Conduct. make a difference, offering everyone a longer and better life. Bribery and corruption are against BIAL’s core values; they are unethical and contribute to inequality. Therefore, we have a zerotolerance policy regarding bribery and corruption practices. As part of our commitment towards integrity and high ethical standards in the conduct of our business activities, each and every Officer, Employee or legal person working on behalf of BIAL, is strictly prohibited from (and from attempting to) offering, giving, soliciting, accepting or receiving any goods, services or amounts, with the intention of obtaining illegitimate economic or business benefits or advantages. Failure to comply with the Code or with the Laws, Procedures and Ethical Standards may lead to (administrative, civil and criminal) penalties for BIAL, causing significant business disruption and harm to BIAL’s reputation, and personally towards each one of us. It may lead also to disciplinary action including possible enforcement of legally permitted penalty. BIAL has internal and external mechanisms to report irregularities or noncompliant behaviours which are not in accordance with the principles outlined. We aim to ensure and monitor that all employees comply with ethical and conduct principals provided. Social Responsibility Report 2019 17 III Patronage III Sponsorship Social Responsibility and Patronage BIAL integrates several entities and institutions whose aim is the Once a year a blood donation and bone marrow collection is sustainable development of the planet and the creation of a more fair also held at BIAL’s premises, by Instituto Português de Sangue e and responsible society. Transplantação. BIAL is part of “Porto de Futuro”, a pioneering and innovative BIAL Group contributes actively towards the development of several educational program in the country, which is a response to the need for institutions, associations, hospitals, schools, universities, municipalities a greater involvement from the civil society in schooling, recognising and other organisations who work to foster the well-being of today’s the key role of Education in the sustainable development of a more society and future generations. BIAL gives special attention to competitive and dynamic society. In this program, BIAL supports a supporting the local community where it is based in, namely the Group of Schools in the Porto region and, among various programs, we Câmara Municipal da Trofa, local schools in Trofa and Maia districts, as highlight the “Braço Direito” project. This project aims to have students well as local sports clubs and associations. come to BIAL for a work day as the right hand of one of our employees, accompanying them on their daily tasks and activities. We also highlight BIAL’s participation in the “Banco do Medicamento” initiative, a protocol between the Ministério da Furthermore, every year, some of BIAL’s employees volunteer to Solidariedade e Segurança Social, Infarmed, Apifarma and “União das train students from one of that Group’s schools on topics such as Misericórdias”. This is a platform for access to free medicines through Family, Citizenship, Economy, among others. donations made directly by pharmaceutical companies, through social institutions that have medical and pharmaceutical services. In the Every year we collect food products, school books, toys and Health area, we also have partnerships with several medical societies clothing to support charitable institutions. and patient associations which aim towards training, education and awareness of the various issues that affect the health of the population. Social Responsibility Report 2019 19 III Sponsorship BIAL Foundation With the aim in disclosing and promoting science and research in Health, BIAL created, in 1994, the BIAL Foundation. It is an institution of public utility, whose mission is to promote and motivate scientific knowledge of the human-being, both from a physical and spiritual point of view. Over the years, the BIAL Foundation has recognised and stimulated discoveries in biomedicine, the BIAL Award in Biomedicine was created, scientific research by awarding Prizes and Grants for Scientific which from 2019 onwards year of its first edition is attributed in Research, collaborating with the scientific community from around the the odd years alternating with the Prémio BIAL de Medicina Clínica. world. This new Award, with a value of 300 thousand Euros, distinguishes an article of biomedical nature published in the last ten years that reflects Aimed at motivating medical research and publishing works with a work of high quality and scientific relevance. great repercussion in medical research, the BIAL Foundation promotes the Prémio BIAL Medicina Clínica. This award aims to reward an The Grants for Scientific Research are aimed to encourage original, intellectual work of medical nature, with a free theme and research in Psychophysiology and Parapsychology areas and can directed to clinical practice, representing a work with results of great go as far as up to € 50,000. The competitions already conducted quality and relevance. have already benefited of more than 690 projects of around 1500 researchers from 25 countries. In addition to the monetary value of 100 thousand Euros, the Prémio BIAL Medicina Clínica also includes the publication of the With the same goal of stimulating the neurophysiological and winning article, with a first exclusive edition to be distributed free of mental study of Man, the BIAL Foundation has been organising, charge among health professionals. every two years since 1996, the “Behind and Beyond the Brain” symposium, which is currently an international forum for the In 2018, with the objective of widening the scope of the BIAL discussion and expansion of research in the field of Neurosciences and Foundation action and recognising the most remarkable and relevant Parapsychology. Social Responsibility Report 2019 20
