SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019/20 BUSINESS REPORTER brought to you by A MESSAGE FROM OUR MD “I am very proud to present our first annual Sustainability Report for 2019/20. This year we have decided to report our sustainability performance in line with the globally recognised UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). This report highlights the work we have achieved within our four priority Goals but also acts as a reaffirmation of our commitment to continue supporting the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. We are very conscious of the impact that we can have on the world as well as the responsibilities that we have in order to make positive differences; to that end, 2019 has been an important year for us. Having become participants of both the UN Global Compact (UNGC) and the SDG Media Compact, we made an ongoing commitment to take action on the Sustainable Development Goals. Through the many projects and reports we produce, we have helped to encourage responsible and sustainable business practices and investments. Over the coming year, we will continue to support our priority Goals and forge partnerships to further promote the need for responsible and sustainable business. By delivering on our targets and promoting the Goals to our senior business audience, we will ensure that Lyonsdown and Business Reporter continue to positively contribute to society and the environment. Sincerely yours, Bradley Scheffer – M.D.” 17/01/2020 The UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) provide targets for how businesses, governments and civil society can tackle global sustainability challenges and we therefore make every effort to incorporate all the SDGs into the core of our business. However, in line with UN Global Compact guidance, we have identified which goals are particularly relevant to us: where expectations, risks and opportunities for Business Reporter are the greatest, and where we can make the most significant contribution. HOW WE As a small media agency, primarily known for our educational C-Suite business reports, it was immediately clear to us that the most relevant goals are centred around partnerships and IDENTIFIED education. We have therefore adapted our existing reports and developed new platforms to better educate an influential business audience about specific SDGs; highlighting their critical societal importance but also changing attitudes around the business benefits for those who OUR PRIORITY invest in making sustainability a core part of their enterprise. Goal 17, “Partnerships for the Goals”, is particularly significant for Business Reporter. We are GOALS proud to be the first UK member to join the SDG Media Compact, a global community of media and entertainment organisations committing their resources and creative talent to advance the Sustainable Development Goals. Because of this commitment, we have leveraged our reputation and media connections to form partnerships with senior leaders in both public and private sectors as well as creating a platform specifically designed to promote achieving the SDG targets within corporate institutions. We have spent a large part of 2019 building a network of senior business professionals, highlighting the sustainable efforts that progressive organisations have been making and encouraging a global business audience to take note and take part in these critically important global sustainability efforts. OUR PRIORITY GOALS GOAL SDG TARGET AIM ACTION CHANGE/IMPACT 1) Last year we produced and 1) Improve and adapt our distributed 15 reports focused existing business model and on sustainability, including “The company offerings with a Future of Sustainable Packaging”, We have shifted our business model to greater focus on the new “The Future of Energy” and promote the SDGs across all of our public facing 4.7 technologies, strategies and “Sustainability: The Future of channels. Of the c2.66 million views our content “By 2030, ensure that all tools that advance businesses Business”. tracked in 2019, about 1.2 million were of learners acquire the knowledge towards a more productive and content we had produced specifically to ensure and skills needed to promote sustainable future. 2) We have hired new journalists that our viewers could acquire the knowledge sustainable development […]” with the sole purpose of generating and skills to incorporate the SDGs into their 2) Invest in new resources, sustainability focused copy and business. journalists and platforms to built a new platform specifically better engage in a larger, more to promote the corporate senior audience. engagement within the SDGs www.17GlobalGoals.com. 1) Business Reporter produced 15 By forming 39 partnerships with relevant sustainability reports in 2019 with organisations like the association for Business 1) Create sustainable focused 12 of these specifically designed Psychology, MIND and a member of the House 9.2 Innovation and Infrastructure around inclusive and sustainable of Lords, we were able to engage a senior “Promote inclusive and reports that promote industrialisation. business audience of over 1.2 million on the sustainable industrialization inclusive and sustainable importance of Goal 9. We have committed to and, by 2030, significantly raise industrialisation. 2) We have invested in new producing 14 more inclusive and sustainable industry’s share of employment software, developed new industrialisation reports over the course of and gross domestic product 2) Engage senior decision techniques and built new the next 12 months in addition to covering […]” makers in the report to distribution partnerships to broader aspects of sustainable innovation and encourage and action change. increase meaningful engagement infrastructure on our dedicated 17 Global Goals in these topics. hub. GOAL SDG TARGET AIM ACTION CHANGE/IMPACT 1) Business Reporter produced 15 By forming 13 partnerships with institutions sustainability reports in 2019 with like the Forum for the Future, the Institution of 1) Create Sustainable Cities 3 of these specifically designed Engineering Technology and the Smart Cities 11.A and Communities reports that around promoting sustainable and World Congress, we were able to engage a Support positive economic, promote positive economic and smart cities. senior business audience of over 300,000 on social and environmental links social growth in urban areas. the importance of Goal 11. We have committed between urban, peri-urban and 2) We have invested in new to producing four reports on inclusive and rural areas by strengthening 2) Engage senior decision software, developed new sustainable industrialisation reports over national and regional makers in the reports to techniques and built new the course of the next 12 months in addition development planning encourage and action change. distribution partnerships to to covering broader aspects of smart and increase meaningful engagement in sustainable cities on our dedicated 17 Global these topics. Goals hub. Our participation in the SDG Media compact has committed us to creating compelling content that shares knowledge and expertise in how to 17.16 1) To help educate on the tackle all 17 of the goals. Enhance the global partnership importance of the SDGs as for sustainable development, 1) Build upon existing well as to promote the efforts Our 158 editorial partnerships with associations, complemented by multipartnerships and forge organisations make to a larger charities, bodies of the United Nations and stakeholder partnerships that new relationships to share senior business audience, Business government officials have provided opportunity mobilize and share knowledge, knowledge, expertise, Reporter has forged 72 editorial to create promotional SDG material. We have expertise, technology and technology and financial and distribution partners over produced content with senior spokespeople from financial resources, to support resources, to support the combined total of our 2019 respected public and private institutions and the achievement of the the achievement of the campaigns. are building a library of credible insight from a sustainable development goals sustainable development goals wide range of sectors that cover a diverse range in all countries, in particular within enterprises. 2) We have built relationships themes and goals. developing countries with charities, government 2) Build relationships with spokespeople and bodies of the In addition to editorial, these partnerships have 17.17 relevant public sector United Nations to provide the expanded the readership of our SDG content. Encourage and promote figureheads and leverage our public sector with a platform to They are increasing the effectiveness of our effective public, public-private platforms to promote their educate our business audience promotion due to the additional credibility and civil society partnerships, sustainability messages. on the importance of corporate that association with our partners provide. building on the experience sustainability. However, they are also influencing the content’s and resourcing strategies of engagement more directly; by promotion across partnerships. their channels, our educational content is reaching a broader audience outside of our own spheres of influence. UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS In addition to recommitting to the UN Global Compact, we have highlighted this year's actions against each principle below: AREA PRINCIPLE INFORMATION ON PROGRESS 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally We have ensured our workers are provided safe, suitable and sanitary work proclaimed human rights. facilities. Human Rights 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights We protect workers from workplace harassment, including physical, verbal, abuses sexual or psychological harassment, abuse or threats. 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective We respect the right of all our workers to form and join a trade union of their recognition of the right to collective bargaining. choice without fear of intimidation or reprisal, in accordance with national law. 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and We ensure that the company does not participate in any form of forced or compulsory labour. bonded labour. Labour We ensure that all company labour is provided by legally employed adults of 5 -Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. working age. 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of We ensure that employment-related decisions are based on relevant and employment and occupation. objective criteria We avoid environmental damage via regular maintenance of production 7Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental processes and environmental protection system (air pollution control, waste, challenges. water treatment systems, etc.) Environment 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental We provide emergency procedures and best practices to prevent and address responsibility. accidents affecting the environment and human health. 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of We incorporate the use of sustainable technologies and behaviours across the environmentally friendly technologies business and within our products/services. We assess the risk of corruption when doing business and specifically Anti-Corruption 10Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including highlight “anti-corruption” and/or “ethical behaviour” in all contracts with extortion and bribery. business partners.
