United Nations Global Compact 2019 Communication on Progress. Contents. 01. General Information 3 02. Human Rights Principles 4 2.1 Assessment, policy and goals 4 2.2 Implementation 4 2.3 Measurement of outcomes 5 03. Labour Principles 6 3.1 Assessment, policy and goals 6 3.2 Implementation 6 3.3 Measurement of outcomes 8 04. Environmental Principles 9 4.1 Policy and goals 9 4.2 Implementation 9 4.3 Measurement of outcomes 9 05. Anti-Corruption Principles 10 5.1 Assessment, policy and goals 10 5.2 Implementation 10 5.3 Measurement of outcomes 11 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2019 2 01. General Information. 7 February 2020 Dear stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm ME reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. In our 2019 Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. Yours sincerely, Jamie McPhee Chief Executive Officer UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2019 3 02. Human Rights Principles. 2.1 Assessment, policy and goals. For people. ME provides a respectful and inclusive environment, ME is committed to upholding the Universal where employees can bring their whole selves Declaration of Human Rights and all other to work, where their opinions and talents are international standards relating to the protection welcomed and valued, and where they will be given of these rights. In addition to the measures in fair and equitable career development opportunities. place to protect the human rights of its people relating to labour (see Labour Rights section of this For the industry. document), ME abides by all legislation relating to ME thinks differently to other banks. It has a freehuman rights protection in Australia, where ME thinking culture, with its customer promises and conducts all its business. ME is also committed values at the core of all it does. to ensuring it partners with suppliers which demonstrate a considered approach to economic, FY19 saw ME’s staff-led affinity groups ProudlyME social and environmental responsibility. and Women at ME continue to grow to have a positive impact across the organisation. This included the implementation of internal events that grew awareness of the importance of fostering 2.2 Implementation. a diverse and inclusive environment, and which helped to create a setting where everyone at ME United Nations Principles feels like they can bring their whole selves to work. for Responsible Investment. ME uses its employee engagement survey ME is a signatory to the United Nations Principles HowÜDoin? to measure the broad reach and for Responsible Investment. As a professional impact of its diversity and inclusion strategies and services partner signatory, ME acknowledges the initiatives across the organisation. relevance of environmental, social and governance issues within the investment sector, including the The bank also uses quantitative turnover data protection of human rights. ME’s participation coupled with qualitative insights gained through in this initiative represents a commitment to exit surveys to monitor attrition trends across providing and promoting services which support demographic factors and ensure it understands the the implementation of the principles by those drivers of voluntary turnover and acts if required. within its business network, primarily its industry ME regularly reports to the board, executive and superannuation fund shareholders. external agencies on its continued progression regarding pay parity, promotions and rewards. Diversity and inclusion. It regularly reviews and reports female representation ME believes a diverse and inclusive workplace at management and board levels, which it publishes is critical to the quality of decision-making, idea publicly via its Annual Review. generation and financial success. The bank supports this belief through its diversity and Supply chain. inclusion commitments to its customers, its people ME works closely with a wide range of suppliers and the industry. in the day-to-day operation of its business. In line with its commitment to corporate responsibility, For customers. it chooses to partner with suppliers which A diverse workforce provides the bank with demonstrate a considered approach to economic, deeper insights and understanding into its social and environmental responsibility. customer base, allowing it to better meet their When sourcing new suppliers, ME regularly needs from a communication, engagement and assesses performance across a range of corporate innovation perspective. responsibility indicators. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2019 4 Responsible procurement. 2.3 Measurement of outcomes. ME believes in value for money as a founding principle of all procurement activities. A decision on price alone During the reporting period, ME has complied does not necessarily represent value for money. Value with all its obligations under the United Nations for money is achieved when all risks are considered Principles for Responsible Investment. It has also across social, economic and environmental impacts. complied with all Australian legislation relating to Costs and benefits are thoroughly examined, human rights protection. optimised and managed during the bank’s sourcing Highlights include: and contract management activities. All procurement activities are documented to demonstrate the • International Women’s Day Event in March 2019, integrity, transparency, consistency and accountability which featured a keynote presentation from Sally of the process. Moyle, Chief Executive of CARE Australia. Sally shared insights on how supporting women and In FY19, ME completed a full review of the supplier girls is one of the most effective ways to create due diligence process, which has ensured that sustainable outcomes in poor communities. the bank’s evaluations adhere to its regulatory requirements, new legislation such as the Modern • ProudlyME’s first Queer Week, centred on the Slavery Act 2018 (Commonwealth), and a continued theme ‘Queerness in Australia: Past, Present and commitment to secure customer data. Future’. Queer Week featured a movie night, a market and a panel headlined by leaders in the ME values and respects human rights and the LGBTIQA+ community, which discussed how environment. Relationships with suppliers are queer diversity and inclusion has changed post based on lawful, efficient and fair practices. The the achievement of marriage equality. bank expects its suppliers to be environmentally conscious and to obey the laws and regulations in • ME’s inaugural sponsorship of the Melbourne their jurisdictions that require fair treatment of all Queer Film Festival, with ME’s brand visible to over workers within a safe environment. a million filmgoers across the two-week festival. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2019 5 03. Labour Principles. 3.1 Assessment, policy and goals. Any variable pay and performance-based components of remuneration are designed to ME is committed to upholding the principles encourage behaviour that supports the bank’s of the International Labour Organization’s (ILO) long-term financial soundness and its risk core instruments in all its operations. As a wholly management framework. Australian-owned and operated company, ME ME also continues to actively listen to the needs complies with Australian laws and regulations of its employees through its annual HowÜDoin? relating to labour rights. employee engagement survey. ME was the first Australian banking organisation to enter into a formal partnership with a union to Health, Safety and Wellbeing Policy. work collaboratively to solve business issues. ME’s ME employees, contractors and visitors expect and partnership with the Finance Sector Union (FSU), deserve a safe and healthy workplace. People are forged in 2011, recognises that management, the focus of ME’s business and the wellbeing of all employees and the union have a mutual interest in the workers – including employees, contractors and ongoing success of the business and uses collaboration students – is a non-negotiable. as an important means of achieving its business objectives while improving employee satisfaction and ME is committed to providing and maintaining the engagement. The partnership is a more sophisticated safety and wellbeing of all its employees. To achieve way to engage on business issues such as change, this, it ensures its business and work practices are modernisation, productivity, and employment terms created and conducted safely, and that hazards to and conditions. It hinges on a shared understanding of, health, safety and wellbeing are either identified and works towards, agreed business objectives. and removed, or minimised and controlled. ME’s workplace agreement contains a range of The bank develops, implements and maintains facilitative provisions – including recognition of the its occupational health and safety management role of union delegates as critical to building union system, Keep ME Safe, to comply with all capability. ME provides financial assistance towards current legal requirements. ME is committed to an FSU membership or a professional association fee. establishing measurable objectives and targets Employees receive a contribution to a professional to ensure continued improvement of health and membership to receive ongoing professional safety performance aimed at eliminating workdevelopment, a contribution to an FSU membership related injury and illness. for support or training purposes, or a contribution ME communicates information and consults with to an association useful for the development of and educates its employees on health, safety and working relationships. wellbeing matters in the workplace. ME actively supports the physical and mental health wand wellbeing of its employees through 3.2 Implementation. the provision of a health and wellbeing program called Mindfully ME, with an annual company-wide Remuneration Policy. Wellbeing and Benefits Expo. ME aims to provide rewards that attract, motivate ME also actively participates in work-related and retain employees to fulfil ME’s core purpose and non-work related return-to-work of injured of helping all Australians get ahead and meet its employees and supports injury management and overall objectives, while encouraging employees rehabilitation processes to achieve positive returnto act responsibly within its risk appetite and to-work outcomes. risk framework. ME uses a range of different remuneration elements to effectively reward employees, which are described in the bank’s reward framework. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2019 6 Employee Assistance Program. The agreement covers: ME offers an Employee Assistance Program • employment categories (EAP) to support employees and immediate • hours of work family members in dealing with issues at home or work. The EAP is a voluntary, professional and • job grading and remuneration confidential counselling service. EAP counsellors • performance development and reward are all experienced psychologists or social workers who have extensive training and experience in • leave counselling and workplace consulting and hold • workers’ compensation and make-up pay peak industry body accreditations. • redundancy, redeployment and retrenchment Manager Assistance Program. • termination of employment ME offers a Manager Assistance Program (MAP) • workplace diversity and flexibility to identify, explore and help people leaders manage a range of issues through a solution• ME/FSU partnership focused approach. All Australian-based people • workplace change managers at ME can discuss a wide range of issues – from employee behaviour to organisational • dispute resolution development, in addition to accessing coaching, • work, health and safety tools, psycho-education and other resources. • training and development. Collective bargaining. Supply chain. ME’s workplace agreement covers all ME employees and provides the cornerstone for ME When partnering with new suppliers, particularly and its employees to create a workplace culture those who conduct activities outside of Australia, in accordance with the bank’s commitments to ME asks them to demonstrate their approach to a labour rights. range of corporate responsibility indicators. ME worked closely with the FSU in negotiating its most recent ME Workplace Agreement, guided by its partnership principles and a shared commitment to common business objectives. All ME employees had the opportunity to contribute to creating the agreement by submitting ideas and feedback. Following a successful employee vote, the ME Workplace Agreement was approved by the Fair Work Commission effective from 12 January 2018 with a nominal expiry date of 30 June 2020. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2019 7 3.3 Measurement of outcomes. GENDER DIVERSITY IN FY19* Non-managerial employees Workplace profile. Female 48% At the end of June 2019, ME had 1,164 permanent Male 51% employees and 454 contractors. The bank’s 12-month rolling average workplace turnover Business leaders for the year was 20.8%. Female 32% Work, health and safety. Male 68% A common health and safety benchmark is lost Executive (including CEO) time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) which measures Female 28% the number of lost time injuries per million hours Male 72% worked. ME’s LTIFR in FY19 was 1.56. Board (including Chairman) Diversity metrics. Female 43% ME’s gender diversity profile and the number Male 57% of employees utilising parental leave in FY19 are shown in the following tables. UTILISATION OF PARENTAL LEAVE IN FY19* Primary carer’s leave Female 28 Male 5 Secondary carer’s leave Female 8 Male 17 * From the 2018–19 public report form submitted by Members Equity Bank Limited to the Workplace Gender Equality Agency UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2019 8 04. Environmental Principles. 4.1 Policy and goals. 4.3 Measurement of outcomes. Reducing its impact on the environment is part In FY19, ME reduced its greenhouse gas (GHG) of ME’s commitment to responsible business. The emissions by 7% to 1,703 tonnes from its operations, bank understands that its environmental impact which covers electricity use in offices, vehicle fleet extends beyond its own operations to include the usage and employee air travel. This is a decrease of products and services it provides and procures. 127.5 tonnes from the previous year, achieved from a consistent reduction in all reported areas. The largest source of GHG emissions for ME was 4.2 Implementation. electricity use in its offices, which accounted for 59% of the bank’s total emissions. In FY19, ME ME’s head office in Melbourne Central Tower, reduced its electricity usage by 134 tonnes, or 11.7%, where most of its people operate from, has a of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2-e) and vehicle five-star ‘Green Star – Office Interiors v1.1’ rating. fleet usage by 32 tonnes, or 6.6%, of CO2-e. The building that ME sits in has a five-star assisted NABERS Energy Rating and a threestar NABERS Water Rating. The bank’s green star accommodation has provided significant environmental benefits, including reduced electricity consumption (due primarily to improved heating, cooling and lighting efficiencies), waste improvement campaigns to minimise contamination of organic and recyclable waste that’s sent to landfill, as well as social awareness campaigns among tenants around annual occasions like Clean Up Australia Day and Plastic Free July. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2019 9 05. Anti-Corruption Principles. 5.1 Assessment, policy and goals. The Board. ME’s directors have a duty to not place themselves in a position which gives rise to an actual conflict, ME is committed to the protection of its employees or real possibility or perception of conflict, between and customers, and to maintaining the integrity of their duties to the bank and a personal interest the bank’s operations and reputation. To this end, it or duty owed elsewhere. All directors are required has policies and systems in place to protect against to disclose any interest which they believe is corruption, fraud, crime or serious misconduct within appropriate to disclose in order to avoid an actual the organisation. conflict of interest or the perception of a conflict ME is committed to complying with all relevant of interest and must disclose any material person Australian legislation and codes to prevent corruption. interest in a matter that relates to the bank’s ME complies with Australia’s Anti-Money Laundering affairs. This disclosure must be made prior to and Counter-Terrorism Financing Act 2006. their appointment and on an ongoing basis, with directors required to keep these disclosures to the ME has several policies and procedures to prevent board up to date through formal standing notices. instances of corruption and these are reviewed and updated every year. The Board Disclosure of Interests and Handling Conflicts of Interest Procedures set out disclosure obligations and procedures to be followed by 5.2 Implementation. directors in the event of a conflict or a potential conflict of interest. Conflicts of Interest Policy. The Board is responsible for ensuring the bank’s conflicts of interest systems and controls are The staff. appropriately designed and effectively implemented The bank’s Conflicts of Interest Policy is responsible across the bank. for setting an expectation on how the bank and its employees should manage conflicts of interests so Code of Conduct. as to not disadvantage customers. The Conflicts of ME recognises the importance of being an inclusive Interest Policy is communicated to employees on a employer and the value of a safe, fair and respectful regular basis. workplace where there is no room for intolerance. ME is a place where teamwork is valued, and diversity As part of managing actual, perceived or potential is celebrated. The bank is committed to embracing conflicts of interest, the Conflicts of Interest Policy diversity and inclusion and creating an environment also provides guidance for the acceptance, nonwhere everyone can reach their full potential across acceptance and reporting of business and personal the organisation. gifts by ME employees. The policy is intended to reduce the actual or perceived risk that the ME has a Code of Conduct that provides a framework acceptance of a gift or benefit might influence or to guide decisions, actions and behaviours for all appear to influence an employee. directors, employees and contractors. The Code of Conduct sets out several guiding principles under the Specific exclusions to this include the giving of gifts following headings: to employees from other employees or management to mark occasions – such as birthdays, retirements, • Integrity resignations, promotions and the celebrations of • Respect successes, gifts under $50 (unless they are repeated gifts) – or token branded items such as pens, golf balls • Be your best or umbrellas. • Live our values. This policy forms part of the ME Risk Management Framework and is applicable to all ME employees and contractors. Breaches of its requirements will be subject to appropriate consequence management and outcomes of non-compliance may include disciplinary action, such as termination. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2019 10 Training about the Code of Conduct is part of the induction process for all new ME employees. It is also 5.3 Measurement of outcomes. a requirement that ME employees complete regular In FY19, ME continues to comply with suspicious online refresher training about the Code of Conduct. matter reporting requirements of the Australian As a values-based organisation, ME believes in Transaction Reports and Analysis Centre and to free and open communication on even the most ensure compliance with the Anti-Money Laundering difficult of issues. ME’s values of Love Monday, Have and Counter-Terrorism Financing Act 2006 (Cth). a Swing, Ride the Subway, Stay Hungry and Go for In the 2019 calendar year, ME launched 21 internal the Moon allow for all employees to feel confident fraud investigations, including those not resulting that they may, in good faith, raise concerns or relating to a monetary loss. internally. The bank’s Code of Conduct provides a mechanism to enable employees to report actual or Banking Executive Accountability Regime (BEAR). suspected misconduct or unlawful activity. On 1 July 2019, BEAR came into effect for ME and ‘Speak Up’ Policy. all other medium and small authorised deposittaking institutions (ADIs). The government has ‘Speak Up’ is ME’s whistleblower policy and implemented BEAR to provide a heightened operates in addition to the Code of Conduct. It accountability framework for the most senior and supports all ME employees – both current and influential directors and executives. former, including contractors, officers, suppliers, brokers and third parties or a dependant of these In response to BEAR, ME has: individuals – to raise concerns of suspected or • identified and registered the board of directors actual misconduct or unlawful activity with the and senior executives as ‘accountable persons’ knowledge that retaliation will not be tolerated. with APRA This type of actual or suspected inappropriate • strengthened existing accountability structures, conduct includes things such as corruption, bribery, including a new accountability policy to provide abuse of authority, wilful breaching of legislation greater clarity on accountabilities across ME or internal policies, questionable accounting or auditing practices, business behaviour and • refined delegation and management committee practices that may cause consumer harm, unsafe protocols to result in clearer decision-making work practices and health risks, bullying and with greater accountability, including updates to harassment, and engaging in or threatening to delegation policy and committee terms of reference engage in detrimental conduct against a person • implemented changes to its remuneration policy who has made a disclosure, among other things. and deferral periods for incentive pay to align The policy covers instances where the employee is with BEAR requirements. reluctant to, or it would be inappropriate to, follow ME will continue work to embed BEAR across ME a standard notification process or if the person in FY20. wishes to make the report anonymously. The processes within the policy aim to protect those Sedgwick Review. who speak up by making sure that anyone who reports wrongdoing feels safe doing so, while at the ME has completed the implementation of the same time, effectively investigating and managing key recommendations under the Retail Banking concerns with fair treatment. Remuneration Review (Sedgwick Report) and continues to work on the cultural change required to ensure customers and ethical considerations are at the forefront of decision-making within the organisation. ME also continues to work on third-party relationships to ensure their processes and remuneration are in line with ME’s and the Sedgwick Report’s expectations. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2019 11 Brought to you by... 215852/0420
