<SR> D I V E R S I F I E D, D E C I S I V E , S U S TA I N A B L E B U S I N E S S S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 9 2019 <SR> ABOUT ANGLOGOLD ASHANTI LEADERSHIP MESSAGES OUR STRATEGY MATERIAL ISSUES COMPLIANCE C ON T E N T S ABOUT ANGLOGOLD ASHANTI 2 Data relating to our About this report 3 sustainability performance can be downloaded from Our business: corporate profile 4 our online report Our performance in 2019 6 www.aga-reports.com/19/ download/AGA-SR19-datatables.xls LEADERSHIP MESSAGES 8 From the Chairperson of the Social, Ethics and Sustainability Committee 8 VISION From the Chief Executive Officer 9 OUR STRATEGY 10 Our sustainability approach 11 Stakeholder engagement 14 MISSION Frameworks and standards 15 TO BE THE MATERIAL ISSUES 16 LEADING To creat e val u e f o r o u r s h areh o l d er s , o u r em p l o yees an d Employee safety 18 o u r b u s i n es s , an d s o ci al p ar t n er s t h ro u g h s af el y an d res p o n s i b l y Employee and community health 20 ex p l o r i n g , m i n i n g an d m ar k et i n g o u r MINING p ro d u ct s . O u r p r i m ar y f o cu s i s g o l d , Contributing to resilient, self-sustaining communities 23 b u t w e w i l l p u r s u e val u e creat i n g Responsible environmental stewardship 27 o p p o r t u n i t i es i n o t h er m i n er al s w h ere w e can l ever ag e o u r ex i s t i n g Employee, community and asset security 33 COMPANY as s et s , s k i l l s an d ex p er i en ce t o en h an ce t h e d el i ver y o f val u e. Artisanal and small-scale mining (legal and illegal) 35 Respecting human rights 37 Talent management, skills development and employee relations 38 VALUES Navigating regulatory and political uncertainty and risk 40 O u r b u s i n es s val u es an d b el i ef s g u i d e o u r b eh avi o u r, i n o rd er COMPLIANCE 42 t h at w e m ak e a p o s i t i ve i m p act . T h es e b eh avi o u r s an d b el i ef s Independent assurance report 43 l i n k o u r b u s i n es s act i vi t i es t o Administration and corporate information 49 o u r s o ci al p er f o r m an ce. VALUES AngloGold Ashanti’s 2019 suite of reports comprises: <IR> Integrated Report Notice of Annual General Meeting and Summarised <NOM>* Financial Information (Notice of Meeting) Safety is our We treat each We are accountable We want the We value We respect the first value. other with dignity for our actions communities and diversity. environment. <SR> Sustainability Report and respect. and undertake societies in which we <R&R> Mineral Resource and Ore Reserve Report to deliver on our operate to be better commitments. off for AngloGold <AFS> Annual Financial Statements Ashanti having <WWW> Reporting website been there. * Publication has been delayed as the forthcoming annual general meeting has been postponed. Obuasi See <NOM> on our reporting website for an update on when this document will be available. PAGE 1 2019 <SR> ABOUT ANGLOGOLD ASHANTI LEADERSHIP MESSAGES OUR STRATEGY MATERIAL ISSUES COMPLIANCE ABOUT THIS REPORT SECTION 1 ABOUT T he AngloGold Ashanti Sustainability Report 2019 In the context of this report, “outside of the organisation” presents comprehensive and detailed information refers to our suppliers, where we do not own the assets and on our performance in improving the sustainability do not directly engage or employ the workforce, and where of our business. we do not operate the asset under a contractual obligation. “Within the organisation” refers to all operations and entities in In setting our reporting boundary for each material issue, we have which the group has a controlling interest, and which are under ANGLOGOLD considered the impacts that result from the activities of AngloGold our management in terms of a contractual obligation. We do Ashanti and its associated companies, as well as from external factors. not report non-financial information for Morila mine in Mali or In exceptional circumstances we may report on developments, Kibali mine in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC), impacts and data outside our reporting boundary where these are which are managed and operated by our joint venture partner material to the business and its sustainability performance. Barrick Gold Corporation. ASHANTI Compliance with reporting standards Significant changes in reporting This report has been prepared in accordance with the Global parameters Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core option. These standards There have been no significant changes in our reporting are the benchmark for sustainability reporting globally. In line with parameters during the year. this option, we have conducted a robust materiality assessment and focused our reporting on these aspects. Reporting AngloGold Ashanti is a signatory of the United Nations Global Information is consolidated and reported as AngloGold Compact (UNGC) and this report serves as the 2019 Communication Ashanti results for assets under our control. For assets on Progress (COP). Our sustainability approach and activities are where we have a significant influence, we may choose to also aligned with the Sustainable Development Framework of the report information externally if it is of specific interest to our International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM). stakeholders and applicable agreements allow. The section on frameworks and standards provides additional Control detail of compliance with other frameworks, including By control we mean we own the assets and engage or voluntary memberships. employ the workforce. GRI content index An independent, global Significant influence This section can be found in our online report. 1 gold mining company with a By significant influence we mean we operate the asset 1 www.aga-reports.com/19/sr under a contractual obligation to the owners. d i v e r s e, h i g h q u a l i t y p o r t f o l i o Report assurance Restatements o f o p e r a t i o n s, p r o j e c t s a n d Ongoing improvements to our data collection systems, This section can be found on pages 42-48. processes and quality can result in restatements of e x p l o r a t i o n a c t i v i t i e s. previously reported data. Such restatements have been Data and transparency provided in the body of this report and are noted as such We recognise that the data on our core sustainability disciplines in the footnotes or corresponding disclosures. is increasingly important to our stakeholders in analysing our performance, and we have consequently provided this information Additional information in Excel format. We believe this is an improvement that More information about AngloGold Ashanti is available on significantly improves transparency by making the data easier our website. to extract and analyse. Online Sustainability Report 2019 This year our online report provides additional content related to our performance. Video case studies highlight key initiatives, detailed data spreadsheets are available for download and our GRI content index can be viewed here. 3 www.aga-reports.com/19/sr Iduapriem 3 PAGE 2 PAGE 3 2019 <SR> ABOUT ANGLOGOLD ASHANTI LEADERSHIP MESSAGES OUR STRATEGY MATERIAL ISSUES COMPLIANCE OUR BUSINESS: CORPORATE PROFILE A OUR n g lo G o ld Ash a nti Li m i te d ( A n gl o G o l d A s h a nti ) i s a n i nde pe nde nt, gl o ba l go l d mi ni ng c o mpa ny wi th a di v ers e, h ig h -q u a lit y p o r tfo l i o o f o pe ra ti o ns , pr o j e cts a nd expl o ra ti o n a c ti vi ti e s a c r o ss te n c o untr i e s o n fo ur c on t in en t s . W h ile g old is o u r pr i n c i p a l p r o duc t, w e a l s o pr o duc e si l ve r (A rge nti na ) a nd sul phur i c a c i d (Bra zi l ) a s FOOTPRINT by-pr od u c t s an d will pur s u e va l ue cre a ti ng o ppo r tuni ti e s i n o the r mi ne ra l s whe re we c a n l e ve ra ge o ur exi stin g assets, skills an d ex pe r i e n c e to e nha nc e va l ue c rea ti o n. ANGLOGOLD ASHANTI AT A GLANCE • Third largest gold producer globally and the largest on the African continent, producing 3.3Moz and employing 34,263 people in 2019 • Leading responsible gold miner in meaningful partnership with host communities and government – we aim to create valuable outcomes for stakeholders over the long term • Listed on four stock exchanges around the world – the Johannesburg, New York, Australian and Ghana exchanges – and included in the JSE Top 40 Index, FTSE/JSE Responsible Investment Index Series (of the FTSE4Good Index), Responsible Mining Index and the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (now part of S&P Global Inc) and the Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index • A geographically diverse shareholder base includes some of the world’s largest financial institutions 5 4 • Market capitalisation of $9.28bn as at 31 December 2019 6 7 3 8 Geita 2 9 10 1 Our operations and projects are grouped regionally as follows: AMERICAS CONTINENTAL AFRICA SOUTH AFRICA AUSTRALIA 1 Argentina 4 Guinea 9 South Africa 10 Australia Cerro Vanguardia (92.5%) (1) Siguiri (85%) Mponeng (6) Sunrise Dam 4 14 4 3 2 Brazil 5 Mali Surface Operations (6) Tropicana (70%) Serra Grande Morila (5) AGA Mineração Sadiola (41%) (3) 3 Colombia 6 Ghana Gramalote (51%)* Iduapriem La Colosa Obuasi (4) Quebradona (2) 7  Democratic Republic of the CONTINENTS OPERATIONS JOINT VENTURE PARTNERS PROJECTS Congo (DRC) Kibali (45%) (5) 8 Tanzania Note: Percentages indicate the ownership interest held by AngloGold Ashanti. All operations are 100%-owned unless otherwise indicated Geita Legend Geographic shareholdings (%) Operations Projects Asset sale underway Greenfields exploration CORPORATE DEVELOPMENTS (1) Sale process at an advanced stage • Obuasi redevelopment achieved first gold pour in South Africa 24 Change in ownership to 100% as B2Gold's shareholding was converted to a share of profits. Will be a copper mine producing (2)  December 2019 United Kingdom 16 gold and silver as by-products • Sale of South African and Mali assets announced Europe 7 (3) Agreement and sale announced December 2019 North America 43 • Sale process of asset in Argentina advanced (4) Obuasi's redevelopment project began in 2019 Asia 6 • Closure at Yatela is on track and its sale is pending, (5) Kibali and Morila are managed and operated by Barrick Gold Corporation (Barrick) Rest of the world and other 4 subject to fulfillment of conditions precedent (6) Agreement and sale announced post year end in February 2020 * An agreement reached for B2Gold to earn back 50:50 partnership effective from 1 January 2020 PAGE 4 PAGE 5 2019 <SR> ABOUT ANGLOGOLD ASHANTI LEADERSHIP MESSAGES OUR STRATEGY MATERIAL ISSUES COMPLIANCE OUR PERFORMANCE ENVIRONMENT: Z e r o harm and equitable use of natural resources IN 2019 Water use efficiency Energy intensity Environmental incident rate (kilolitres per tonne treated) (gigajoule per tonne treated) (number of incidents per million tonnes mined) 2015 0.64 2015 0.31 2016 1.77 2016 0.59 2016 0.33 2017 1.43 2017 0.61 2017 0.35 2018 1.43 A 1.25 s we deepen the integration of sustainability 2018 0.57 2018 0.32 2019 into our business, we have strengthened the connection between our business activities 2019 0.59 2019 0.33 and the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). This section provides an overview of our performance in 2019, aligned with our 2030 aspirational goals. PAGES Obuasi A l i g n m en t t o S D G s 27-32 0 SAFETY: All injury frequency rate (AIFR) (per million hours worked) GOVERNMENTS AND COMMUNITIES: R e s i l i e n t and self-sustaining Workplaces 2015 7.18 communities – free from poverty and inequality free of injury = $3,316m 2016 7.71 and harm 2017 7.49 $808m + $559m + $208m + $26m + $1,715m Government Employees Providers Community Suppliers 2018 4.81 of capital and services Total economic value distributed Fatalities in 2019 2019 3.31 (2018: 3) 1 About AngloGold Ashanti section of the <IR> A l i g n m en t t o S D G s PAGES PAGES PAGES Align ment t o S D G s 18-19 23-26 33-34 HEALTH: SECURITY AND HUMAN RIGHTS: H e a l t h y w o r k p l a c e s, h e a l t h y e m p l o y e e s Noise-induced hearing loss (NIHL) No human rights violations and communities assist in (number of cases) and healthy communities protecting our business 2015 68 19 1.36 0 3 99.5% 2016 147 2017 132 New cases of All occupational disease 2018 39 Voluntary Principles on VPSHR VPSHR training of silicosis in 2019 frequency rate (AODFR) Security and Human Rights allegations security personnel (2018: 47) (2018: 3.29) 2019 20 (VPSHR) incidents (2018: 1) (2018: 98%) (2018: 0) PAGES PAGE Alig nme nt t o S D G s 20-22 A l i g n m en t t o S D G s 37 PAGE 6 PAGE 7 2019 <SR> ABOUT ANGLOGOLD ASHANTI LEADERSHIP MESSAGES OUR STRATEGY MATERIAL ISSUES COMPLIANCE FROM THE CHAIRPERSON FROM THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER ESG OF THE SOCIAL, ETHICS AND S USTAINABILITY COMMITTEE SUSTAINABLE FUTURES Nozipho January-Bardill Chairperson of the Social, Ethics and Sustainability Committee FOCUS Kelvin Dushnisky Chief Executive Officer T A he most useful value of the AngloGold Ashanti accountability is placed at the right level, and when practical ngloGold Ashanti has embraced and worked to integrate displacement, forcing people to seek alternative livelihoods. Artisanal Sustainability Report (SR) is that it presents the strategies are designed. We can never be complacent and that sustainability into its core business from as early as and small-scale mining (ASM) is often the easiest way to replace company an opportunity to meet its statutory and was made very clear in March 2020 when we lost four of our 2012, improving its ability to deal with the increasing lost income and in many cases, it is geology that determines voluntary reporting obligations as well as account to all colleagues in two separate incidents. They were Lucas Maapea, complexity of the operating landscape for mining companies. where displaced people settle. We continue to search for a holistic 41, Xolani Ngqwemese, 31, Mokhethea Johannes Radebe, 47, way to deal with this challenge while recognising the social and its stakeholders, including shareholders, governments, Thabo Rakometsi, 29. The loss is heart-breaking and a stark The year 2019 has been an extraordinary one for listed companies macroeconomic factors that are driving it. Our preferred approach employees, communities, and its peers in the industry. reminder that we have to underline our commitment to safety. to dealing with the challenges that informal mining presents, is the as stakeholders, specifically shareholders, have sharpened their The report also enables the company to assess the effectiveness of The Company is also responding diligently to material challenges focus on the non-operational issues that are now characterised by formalisation of ASM which may offer an opportunity for people to the oversight function of the board and all its sub-committees, and 1 presented by the recent Covid-19 pandemic. the catch-all term Environmental, Social and Governance factors, earn livelihoods, and a way for governments to capture some of the in particular, the Social, Ethics and Sustainability (SES) Committee or ESG. The implications for companies are clear: improve your benefit from the development of a scarce resource. During the year we improved our efforts to involve communities in and its sponsors in the executive and management teams. ESG performance and demonstrate clear strategies for dealing determining the direction of social projects. Meaningful dialogue This is easier said than done. There are a number of factors to with issues or be penalised by the allocators of global capital, and It is a crucial tool in providing evidence of our efforts to has improved community relations and enabled better identification consider, including the safety of small-scale miners, measures to guarantors of your social licence to operate. operate responsibly and our contribution to our bottom line and of risks before they manifest in operational disruptions. limit environmental damage and rehabilitate, and a means to sell to improving society. It highlights those areas where we can and This is a welcome change in emphasis from investors, and is well the gold in a legitimate way, and at a fair price. Each one of these We continued to encourage more women to develop careers in must improve our performance. aligned with AngloGold Ashanti’s operating ethos. We endeavour to is complex, and we will continue to work with stakeholders to the mining sector, both at a site management and executive level. Increasingly the demands of all stakeholders, from shareholders, to We have looked at the recruitment of women and encouraged make positive impacts wherever we operate, with a particular focus find a lasting solution. We’ve seen some promising examples of governments and communities in which we operate, are merging that they are included across the mining value chain. The Human on developing skills in our host communities and spending locally formalisation efforts in Colombia, Ghana and Tanzania, which we for a fair deal and tangible benefits from the development of finite Resources management team reports to the committee on to build capacity in these markets. The drive to hire locals at every will continue to support. natural resources. the representation of women at every level and has adopted a level is important in ensuring lasting benefits for our communities, as well as to increasing diversity across our organisation. It is important to distinguish between ASM and illegal mining, and deliberate approach of setting targets and making sure these are AngloGold Ashanti elevated discussions on environmental, social we will adhere to the strict application of the rule of law in dealing achieved beyond employment legislation policy directives. and governance (ESG) issues from as early as 2012. This has An excellent example of this is the redevelopment of our Obuasi with the latter, which often disrupt and threaten legitimate largematured over the years and the company welcomes the increasing Reporting on the occupational health of our staff has been central Gold Mine, in Ghana. I’m proud to say that Ghanaians comprise scale mining operations. concern of shareholders, investors and fund managers with ESG, to the work of the committee. Similarly, the committee’s role in 96% of the workforce – three quarters of those from the Obuasi as they push companies to address climate change, structural overseeing stewardship over the environment has been rigorous, district. The lion’s share of our capital is going to local companies, This year we recorded another record safety year – passing inequalities, diversity and accountability. especially the health of our tailings dams and the prevention of with around 80 cents of every dollar spent on restarting the mine, 20 months fatality free at the end of 2019 for the first time. water pollution in the mining process. spent in Ghana. Our safety journey provides valuable lessons on how to integrate In 2019 the company doubled its efforts to mainstream sustainability a ‘sustainability’ discipline into an operating framework, notably across all its business units. We successfully located the We work in line with the requirements of the King IV Report by correctly understanding the challenge, developing a strategy You will see in the pages that follow, our efforts across a broad front responsibility for driving sustainability at the center of our strategy, on Corporate Governance, ensuring the company remains with clear milestones, understood by every member of the to mitigate the impacts of our activities on the environment and to investment priorities, operations, on all strategic executive decisions. a responsible corporate citizen. The committee monitors organisation, and the placing of accountability for achieving an leave a positive imprint on society. We have achieved success in Our engineers and accountants must question whether their sustainability practices in the areas of social investment, some places and fallen short in others. We are working to improve. ambitious set of goals. Safety is fully integrated into our business; decisions will improve the overall sustainability of the business, and employment equity, diversity and inclusion, localisation, health of every employee and contractor understand safety is their first strengthen our social license to operate. We also seek to ensure discipline, whistle-blowing and compliance strategies. There is a growing sense that the private sector must take the lead priority and personal accountability. that our efforts are congruent with the environmental, social and in improving its social performance to help turn the tide against As chair of the Social, Ethics and Sustainability Committee for governance objectives of a diverse universe of stakeholders. We nationalism and political polarisation, trends that present a threat Notwithstanding this achievement, we received a heart-breaking the last eight years, I have seen significant progress in many have set targets in safety, diversity and inclusion, localisation and to global economic growth and security. Safety remains our first reminder of the fragility of these milestones. In March we lost four areas. Safety is vastly improved, our efforts to boost local emissions, among others. priority, but there is also an urgency around ensuring environmental colleagues in two separate incidents at our Mponeng mine. The content are gaining traction and we have more women in almost stewardship, addressing income inequality, gender parity, public health first, a large seismic event immediately ahead of the face, caused We believe that level of integration will make our business every area of the business. Our Obuasi mine – for so long the and the needs of the communities in which we operate. Perhaps a massive face ejection and fall of ground, that left three of our vastly more sustainable. In this regard, the Social, Ethics and most pressing of our sustainability challenges – has reopened unsurprisingly, climate change tops the agenda for many investors. colleagues dead. A short time later, in the old TauTona section of Sustainability Committee has created clear, understandable links after a five-year hiatus, with strong support from stakeholders, in the mine, one of our colleagues was killed in a horizontal transport between the sustainability of the business, its overall performance particular the government in Ghana. We have done important work on Climate Change. We achieved our incident. This is a tragic loss that we mourn with the families and and the remuneration and reward of the people responsible for As I bow out from AGA, I thank my colleagues on the board and long-term target – set in 2008 – to reduce our emissions intensity loved ones of the deceased, and it enjoins us to drive ever harder implementing the company strategy. in the executive and the dedicated women and men across the by 30% over 15 years, early. We recognise more work is needed toward our goal for zero harm. AngloGold Ashanti can confidently claim that our approach business. Their unwavering support and robust debate have led to to mitigate our contribution towards the planet’s changing climate. the extraordinary progress we have made together in strengthening This year we will review our Climate Change approach with updated In closing, I commit to placing sustainability at the centre of our has delivered tangible results. The company recorded its first the company, enhancing its reputation and contributing to its value climate models to ensure the business is prepared for a range of business. That goes as much for ensuring we have the appropriate calendar year without a fatal incident, with the total days without through our relentless advocacy for the centrality of sustainability in weather scenarios. We will also continue investments that ensure capital structure to weather any market outcome, as it does an occupational fatality reaching 633 days by the end of the our business. communities are better prepared and will set new emission targets. for investing in the resilience of our host communities. Every financial year. Because safety and the health of our employees department in this company – from our legal and finance teams, is our first priority, this achievement was significant particularly The second-order consequences of a hotter and drier Sahel region in to the mine planning and geology groups – is learning to view their because of the difficult safety journey over the years. It shows 1 http://www.anglogoldashanti.com/covid-19/ North and West Africa, are increasing levels of conflict and population work through a sustainability lens. what can be achieved when clear objectives are set, when PAGE 8 PAGE 9 2019 <SR> ABOUT ANGLOGOLD ASHANTI LEADERSHIP MESSAGES OUR STRATEGY MATERIAL ISSUES COMPLIANCE SECTION 3 OUR OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH Stewart Bailey STRATEGY Executive Vice President, Corporate Affairs and Sustainability S ustainability is a key strategic focus for our To further achieve this aim, and central to our sustainability business. We aim to be responsible stewards of strategy, we have developed what we have called a “Shared the environments in which we operate, the ore Consciousness” dashboard for each operating site. This dashboard bodies entrusted to us by our host communities, and the displays key performance indicators across all sustainability capital provided to us by our shareholders. Improving our disciplines for each site in a near real-time basis, ensuring that the sustainability performance across all areas is central to company’s leadership – at a corporate and site level – will have maintaining our social licence to operate – this includes a clear view of the leading and lagging indicators for each key safety and environmental performance, to engagement with sustainability discipline. This aims to improve visibility of risks and opportunities, while better harnessing the collective expertise of the our communities and effective management of our tailings. company’s managers across jurisdictions in mitigating those risks, We work in a context where stakeholder expectations and resolving sustainability challenges and seizing opportunities where the political landscapes and regulatory environments in which they exist. A strong sustainability we operate are continually changing. As a result, in 2019 we Emerging risks combined a number of disciplines under the Corporate Affairs performance enables and Sustainability banner. The departments of safety, health, One such area of risk is ASM in some of the jurisdictions in which environment, security and human rights, community and we operate, driven by a host of factors from climate change, us to achieve our government relations, external reporting, communications and regional conflict and the lack of alternative economic opportunities, overarching strategy investor relations now come under the Corporate Affairs and among other things. 2 Sustainability umbrella. This creates a structure that we believe will to realise sustainable ensure that we not only understand the needs of our stakeholders, The gold mining industry is dealing with growing numbers of ASM, both legal and illegal, with the higher gold price likely to increase but can address them effectively and make them well integrated improvements to cash within the organisation. This is a vitally important input in ensuring the number of people engaged in this activity globally. This presents challenges that no single company, organisation or government we have a sustainable, long-term business model and will help f l o w a n d r e t u r n s. improve our disclosure. can tackle alone. We are working to strengthen networks with communities and governments to provide paths to sustainable This integration is also aligned with a greater emphasis on ESG livelihoods where possible. We also seek to find to other solutions factors by investors, lenders, regulators and communities the world to improve safety, reduce exploitation, environmental impact and over. We welcome this ESG trend and will strive to meet more help governments receive benefit from the development of these exacting expectations in performance and transparency. natural resources. We support appropriate agreements on the formalisation of ASM. A strong sustainability performance enables us to achieve our overarching strategy, which is to realise sustainable improvements Materiality process to cash flow and returns, throughout the cycle. This report details our sustainability performance across all our operating jurisdictions for the reporting period 1 January 2019 We are also working to ensure that our operators, finance teams, to 31 December 2019 and looks forward to actions in 2020. It is human resource practitioners, supply chain specialists and organised around a set of material issues 3 that were compiled mine planners all view their work through a sustainability lens. following a comprehensive materiality survey across internal By embedding sustainability models across our value chain and and external stakeholders. It identifies the main challenges through all reporting structures, we are building on our goal of and opportunities facing AngloGold Ashanti that are central to deepening integration of sustainability into our business and the our sustainability approach and actions. The Company is also strengthening of connections between our business activities and responding diligently to material challenges presented by the recent the achievement of the UN SDGs. 1 Covid-19 pandemic (see our Company Response) 4 . 1 www.aga-reports.com/18/sdr/strategy/sdg-alignment The process of selecting the material issues for the Sustainability Report is guided by the International Integrated Reporting Council 2 Page 35 – Artisanal and small-scale mining (legal and illegal) (IIRC), the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards and the 3 Page 16 – Material issues AA1000 Accountability Stakeholder Engagement Standard, and has matured over the years. We again hosted an online internal 4 http://www.anglogoldashanti.com/covid-19/ materiality survey which consisted of the following components: Iduapriem PAGE 10 PAGE 11 2019 <SR> ABOUT ANGLOGOLD ASHANTI LEADERSHIP MESSAGES OUR STRATEGY MATERIAL ISSUES COMPLIANCE OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH CON TIN UED We continue to engage with industry groups and work closely with the ICMM, an international body dedicated to a safe, fair A qualitative survey of the challenges and sustainable mining and metals industry, and the World Gold ANGLOGOLD ASHANTI’S BOARD AND COMMITTEES and opportunities using a PESTLE Council, an industry body which counts the world’s largest publicly analysis. This acronym describes the traded gold producers as its members. A number of our discipline The principle role of the board is to provide oversight on the long-term sustainability and success of the business, for the mutual political, economic, social, technological, heads contribute to various working groups, publications, position benefit of all stakeholders. The board is supported by its committees and oversees the implementation of the sustainability strategy. legislative and environmental aspects of papers and guidelines, published and promoted by both groups. The Social, Ethics and Sustainability Committee is responsible for assisting the board in monitoring matters relating to sustainability. our business landscape. We again participated in the Responsible Mining Index (RMI) Audit and Risk Social, Ethics and Remuneration and Human Nominations Investment Assessment. The RMI uses an evidenced-based approach Committee Sustainability Committee Resources Committee Committee Committee and monitors the policies and practices of a number of companies across economic, social, governance and A semi-quantitative rating of the top 10 environmental aspects. The index aims to highlight areas company risks, as well as the material where mining companies are performing well in relation to issues as published during the 2018 EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP sustainability goals while also pointing out failings. Its findings reporting period, establishing their provide companies with a third-party assessment of their Primary responsibility for managing sustainability matters rests with AngloGold Ashanti’s leadership, in particular with current relevance. sustainability achievements, while also reporting on areas where the Executive Vice President: Corporate Affairs who is responsible for executing the sustainability strategy. improvements can be made. In addition to the RMI, we are Executive Vice President: members of the UNGC and other industry initiatives. 5 Chief Executive Chief Financial Executive Vice President: Chief Operating Officer: Group Strategy and Business Officer Officer Group Planning and Technical International Development A qualitative section aimed at identifying Further to our participation in the above, we are committed to transparent and continued communications with our various emerging risks and issues. Executive Vice President: General Executive Vice President: stakeholders. These include employees, investors, host Chief Operating Officer: Executive Vice President: Counsel, Compliance and Company Corporate Affairs and Africa Group Human Resources communities, governments and regulators, business partners Secretary Sustainability (suppliers), non-governmental organisations, interest groups and the media. In the year, we developed fresh guidelines on our We also studied data from external mining risk reports, issues communications approach, promoting frequent and transparent arising from our interactions with other stakeholders and those engagement aligned to our company values. appearing in social and conventional media. This process resulted FUNCTIONAL DEPARTMENTS in a detailed report on the materiality process, survey responses Given the varying nature of our sites, a communications plan and analyses, and gave rise to a prioritisation of material issues, Group Corporate Affairs and Sustainability is responsible for the development of management frameworks and supports is developed for each operation, accommodating the differing which has been confirmed by the Executive Committee. Material the implementation of the sustainability strategy. cultural expectations, as well as the particular media and issues include the economic, environmental and social risks that communications landscapes. Government and could affect our reputation and ability to create value over the short, Security and Community Relations Investor Relations and medium and long term. The top 10 material issues* are presented All engagement is carried out in line with the King IV principles and Safety Health Environment Human Rights and Sustainability Communications on page 16 of this report. these guidelines provide the basis for the way in which we work Reporting from exploration and development and ultimately closure. The In this report, we illustrate the connection between our material board has oversight for stakeholder engagement with discipline issues, our strategy and the actions we are taking – both heads providing project feedback. Further, the board monitors proactively and reactively – to addressing concerns and securing key issues in the sustainability and community sphere through the our licence to operate. The integration of the SDGs remains an Social, Ethics and Sustainability Committee. SITE GENERAL MANAGERS important part of our strategy. An extensive mapping of material issues to the SDGs was undertaken in 2018 and continues to Company values At the highest operating level, general managers, are accountable for on-the-ground feature in this report, allowing continued reporting against the implementation of the sustainability strategy. This year we will refresh and update our company values to identified prioritised SDGs. 4 ensure they are properly understood and adhered to by every employee. In doing so we will further promote our philosophy of * Subsequently condensed to nine material issues by combining integrated a shared consciousness with respect to the sustainability of our closure management with responsible environmental stewardship. business. We aim to ensure everyone understands the importance Actions and industry initiatives of creating the conditions to sustain our business over the long term, and places it at the centre of their work. All disciplines must Through the year, we have continued to develop and maintain ensure their work – and the spirit in which it is done – measures projects and initiatives that work for the benefit of the communities up to AngloGold Ashanti’s values in every respect and contributes that host our operations. These vary in number and approach and to the longevity and prosperity of the company. are premised on carrying out activities that leave communities better off for us operating there. These activities are highlighted in This thinking is as important in the area of mine planning as it is the case studies contained in the material issues section of this to tailings management or to financing. It is as crucial in designing report – see pages 16 to 41. safety systems as it is to the financing of our supply chain. The business must be viewed holistically with an eye to the future. In our work we must pursue measures and projects with the intention 4 www.aga-reports.com/18/sdr/strategy/sdg-alignment of achieving equitable relationships with our host communities and ensuring their interests are advanced. These objectives, in turn, Geita 5 Page 15 – Frameworks and standards must be matched to the expectations of our shareholders. PAGE 12 PAGE 13 2019 <SR> ABOUT ANGLOGOLD ASHANTI LEADERSHIP MESSAGES OUR STRATEGY MATERIAL ISSUES COMPLIANCE STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT FRAMEWORKS AND STANDARDS P A roactively engaging with our ngloGold Ashanti subscribes to a number of external principles, charters and standards that reflect our values stakeholders is fundamental to our and allow external stakeholders to hold us accountable. Our participation in industr y initiatives, in which we business. The input of our employees, often take a leadership role, enables us to inform and influence global standards and practices, as well as gain the members of the communities in which insight into emerging expectations, issues and risks. Some of the more notable ones of which we are a part include: we operate, governments, non-governmental organisations, investors and the media, is key AngloGold Ashanti is a member of the ICMM and is committed to the 10 principles, eight position statements to understanding our operating environment and performance expectations that guide member companies on continuously improving their sustainability and to developing our strategic approach and performance. ICMM member companies commit to reporting on their sustainability performance publicly every business plans. year in line with the standards set by the GRI. www.icmm.com The International Cyanide Management Code (ICMI) for the manufacture, transport, and use of cyanide in the We endeavour to communicate consistently and in production of gold was developed by a multi-stakeholder steering committee under the guidance of the United a transparent manner. Our community engagements Nations Environmental Programme (UNEP) and the then International Council on Metals and the Environment (ICME). are conducted in line with our management www.cyanidecode.org standards which are based on the International Finance Corporation (IFC) Standards. The board The Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) is a global initiative which promotes transparent and Obuasi maintains oversight of material issues concerning accountable disclosure and use of revenues from natural resources. AngloGold Ashanti discloses all information in Extractive Industries stakeholders through the Social, Ethics and Transparency Initiative line with country-specific EITI processes and within annual country-level reports. eiti.org Sustainability Committee. AngloGold Ashanti uses the WGC Conflict-Free Gold Standard as an important tool to ensure the gold we Stakeholder group Key topics and areas of interest produce is conflict-free. 1 As a member of the WGC, we support the Responsible Gold Mining Principles and Supporting resilient and self-sustaining communities Mitigating safety risk, employee wellness commit to full compliance, assured by an independent third party, by 2022. www.gold.org around our operations over the life cycle of the mine and ensuring stable labour relations On 1 January 2016, the 17 SDGs of the United Nations 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development officially came – and beyond – depends heavily on stakeholder communication. Only through constructive dialogue Increasing productivity and maintaining into force. These goals aim to focus efforts to end poverty, fight inequalities and tackle climate change. We have with communities and governments, both national Employees and unions mapped each of our material issues according to these goals to test their relevance to our external landscape and focus on strategic objectives and local, can we properly understand the impact to societal expectations. For more information see Setting our 2030 aspirational goals and prioritising the SDGs. 2 our operations have on our neighbours, determine Encouraging a collaborative approach to www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/sustainable-development-goals their needs and aspirations, and the means through problem solving The UNGC is an example of unprecedented partnerships among businesses, governments, civil society and the which we can best manage these expectations. This Managing expectations, particularly United Nations. This voluntary international corporate citizenship network was initiated to support the participation approach ultimately lies at the heart of our ability to Investment community against strategic objectives in line with of the private sector and other social actors. Its aim is to advance responsible corporate citizenship and universal secure our social licence to operate. (includes providers ESG performance social and environmental principles to meet the challenges of globalisation. The UNGC is the world's largest of financial capital, #UnitingBusiness corporate citizenship initiative with 4,000 stakeholders in over 100 countries. www.unglobalcompact.org Effective communication with key stakeholders shareholders, investors Prioritising financial and sustainability such as women, youth, indigenous people and reporting – periodically and when there These are a set of principles designed to guide companies in maintaining the safety and security of their and financiers) minority groups linked to our business is increasingly are new developments operations within an operating framework that encourages respect for human rights. AngloGold Ashanti annually important. Our dialogue covers all aspects of our reports on its efforts to implement and promote the VPSHR. www.voluntaryprinciples.org Managing expectations, respecting and operations, including, among others, the environment, We aspire to contribute to Agenda 2063, which is aimed at transforming Africa into the global powerhouse of promoting human rights and ensuring job creation, community development, and health Communities the future by delivering on a set of seven aspirations, each with its own set of goals. Agenda 2063 encapsulates security of assets and the community and safety. Given the varying locations of our sites (inclusive of women, Africa’s aspirations for the future, and identifies key flagship programmes that can boost Africa’s economic growth and their differing economic and cultural backdrops, youth, minorities and Establishing mutually beneficial and development and lead to the rapid transformation of the continent. au.int/en/agenda2063/overview the topics of engagement will vary. Nonetheless, indigenous people) partnerships for shared value creation The World Economic Forum’s Mining and Metals Industry community is a high-level group of peers dedicated we always try to determine and understand our and suppliers Working on long-term partnerships and to ensuring thought leadership on the long-term sustainability of the industry and its value to society. AngloGold stakeholders’ unique perspectives and expectations. empowering the local population Ashanti continues to be active in the collaborative dialogue of this forum as it seeks to play its role in, among We work ethically and fairly and in adherence to our others, mitigating the impacts of climate change and integrating ESG considerations in how the industry operates values, relevant rules and regulations, and the treaties Mitigating regulatory and political risk and interacts with its stakeholders. www.weforum.org/communities/mining-and-metals and agreements to which we are a signatory. Appraising governments of new Each of our operations has complaints and developments at operations and projects grievances mechanisms in place which facilitates Governments Engaging proactively in policy Participation in sustainability indices the resolution of complaints and grievances and prevents conflict as part of our stakeholder and regulators development, regulatory proposals and We engage openly with various indices such as the FTSE Russell, conflict resolution the Responsible Mining Index (RMI), the RobecoSAM Dow Jones engagement process. More information is available in our contributing to resilient, self-sustaining Sustainability Index (DJSI) and the Bloomberg Gender-Equality Ensuring the benefits of mining flow communities section. 1 Index, which have rated our sustainability performance. through to the state at national, local and community levels Details of these results and the company’s performance can be Key business risks and how ESG is found in our Integrated Report. 3 Media integrated into business strategy https://thevault.exchange/?get_group_doc=143/15605030941 2018ConflictFreeGoldReport.pdf Coming up with solutions to sector Industry partners challenges or new developments to 2 Page 6 – Our performance in 2019 Page 23 – Contributing to resilient, promote the industry 1 self-sustaining communities 3 www.aga-reports.com/19/ir PAGE 14 PAGE 15 2019 <SR> ABOUT ANGLOGOLD ASHANTI LEADERSHIP MESSAGES OUR STRATEGY MATERIAL ISSUES COMPLIANCE SECTION 4 MATERIAL ISSUES Our material issues identify the main challenges and opportunities facing AngloGold Ashanti, w h i c h a r e c e n t r a l t o o u r a c t i o n s. PAGES PAGES PAGES PAGES PAGES 18-19 20-22 23-26 27-32 33-34 01 02 03 04 05 Employee Employee Contributing Responsible Employee, safety and community to resilient, environmental community and health self-sustaining stewardship* asset security communities PAGES PAGE PAGES PAGES 35-36 37 38-39 40-41 06 07 08 09 Artisanal and Respecting Talent Navigating small-scale human rights management, regulatory and mining (legal skills development political uncertainty and illegal) and employee and risk relations * While 10 material issues were initially identified, these were condensed to nine when integrated closure management was combined with responsible environmental stewardship. Geita PAGE 16 PAGE 17 2019 <SR> ABOUT ANGLOGOLD ASHANTI LEADERSHIP MESSAGES OUR STRATEGY MATERIAL ISSUES COMPLIANCE EMPLOYEE SAFETY Data tables www.aga-reports.com/19/safety#tables Alignment with UN SDGs www.aga-reports.com/19/safety#sdgs This progress is the cumulative impact of a number of All injury frequency rate CASE STUDY interventions over several years, the most recent of which was (per million hours worked) our 2015 strategy, designed with operating teams across our footprint alongside representatives from the executive committee, 2015 8.91 3.35 7.18 management and employees. 2016 9.39 4.09 7.71 To ensure that our strategy remains relevant and focused, we re-assess its safety-related components on a global level every 2017 9.81 3.14 7.49 two years, and involve safety leadership teams from across the 2018 6.56 2.13 4.81 business in that process. This approach provides a platform for the development of uniform safety goals while also allowing operational involvement in realising them. We assess our processes by looking 2019 4.38 2.13 3.31 at risk management, technology and innovation, leadership, people Employees Contractors SAFETY IS and work processes. Cuiabá Safety dedicated to ensuring the action Our safety and health system standards are reviewed and Production Programme plan was applied together with the Ensuring the safety and health of our operation’s controls, with the aim of audited every two years in line with ISO 45001:2018. We have OUR FIRST Fatal injury frequency rate achieving zero fatalities. seen solid improvements in their compliance to those standards employees is AngloGold Ashanti’s first (per million hours worked) across the company. Our Major Hazard Control Standards were value. In order to achieve this, we have The second and third phases will be first developed in 2016 and revisited again in 2018. These are a series of frameworks and guidelines 2015 0.12 0.03 0.09 implemented during 2020 and 2021. mandatory standards and continue to enhance our control regime, that our employees adhere to every day. PRIORITY The second phase, “transformation incorporating technical innovations designed to make our working 2016 0.06 0.05 0.06 areas”, is a series of culture-related While our safety record has shown environments safer. actions focused on improving mining 2017 0.06 0.05 0.06 strong improvement in recent years, we recognise that the margin of error and infrastructure management. The The final step in embedding the Major Hazard Control Standards 2018 0.04 0.03 0.03 for people working in mines and third phase, “project enablers and was defining mandatory critical controls and the monitoring processing plants is razor thin. This sustainers”, will focus on cascading Obuasi capability to proactively identify deviations. Examples include detection systems on vehicles and locomotives, innovative 2019 0.00 4.38 2.13 pushes us to continually look for areas the actions implemented in the of improvement. transformation areas phase to other solutions for otherwise hazardous tasks and tele-remote drilling Employees Contractors T areas of Cuiabá. hroughout the year we have continued to improve operations. The use of technology means a reduced margin for human error and less human exposure. After reviewing the accident history over our safety performance across our global the past five years at our Cuiabá mine As a result of the project’s operations. The board has provided leadership in Brazil, we decided to develop what developments in 2019, the operation’s We have also continued reporting high-potential incidents – ensuring that safety remains AngloGold Ashanti’s these are defined as incidents that have an actual or potential Occupational fatalities has been called the Safe Production all injury frequency rate decreased by first priority and the Social, Ethics and Sustainability (number of fatalities) Programme, which aims to maintain 15% compared to the previous year. consequence of loss of life or permanent disability – enabling us to Committee is rigorous in overseeing the safety strategy. record and analyse the incidents that could have led to fatalities. a zero fatalities rate while achieving a An important breakthrough in visible We pursue and adapt strategies in line with recognised We will continue to analyse the causes of these near misses 2015 10 1 11 further reduction in injury rates. leadership at the operations was also leading practice in global safety standards and systems. and critical control failures. We are learning from this information observed. The participation in the safe These processes underpin our 2030 goal of providing 2016 5 2 7 The three-year project was launched in behavioural observation programme and incorporating these learnings into our safety systems and workplaces free of injur y and harm for our employees and standards to prevent any recurrences. November 2018 and is being carried increased by almost 100%. 2017 5 2 7 contractors. 1 out in partnership with US-based We also adhere to global standards and are rolling out ISO 45001:2018, consultancy DuPont, a world leader Through the programme the leadership 2018 2 1 3 also engaged in what has been called Through the involvement of Senior Managers in the setting of safety which has replaced the OHSAS 18001:2007 series. All our sites in safety practices. The first step in lead risk governance with their teams. practices and giving ownership of our group safety and health standards, guidelines and procedures to our individual operations, are currently OHSAS 18001:2007 certified and three operations, 2019 0.00 4.38 the programme was the creation of a framework to identify improvement This element identified 300 potential highSunrise Dam, Siguiri and Geita, have already converted to the we have seen a growing acceptance of accountability at site level. ISO 45001:2018 standard. Employees Contractors opportunities in the execution and risk occurrences, and measures that were As a result, we have made significant progress towards our goal. application of the operational risk taken to address these. As a result of this As a member of the ICMM, AngloGold Ashanti adheres to the management model related to action, the adherence to high-risk controls As we work to achieve our goal, we can never be complacent, Council’s global guidelines and practices. We were also involved occupational health and safety. rose from 78% to 84%. but there are achievements we should be proud of. By the end in the drafting of the ICMM’s Fatality Prevention: Eight Lessons of the year, Mponeng mine achieved its best-ever injury rate and Learned publication. 2 A corrective action plan was drawn up “Leading the mining team in the Safe High-potential incidents Operation Programme has been a great recorded one-year fatality free. Operations in the Continental Africa (per million hours worked) using data collected through surveys, Region presented their best-ever all injury frequency rates (AIFR) We will again assess our safety strategies across the business in interviews and field evaluations, and experience,” says Rodrigo Fideles, and in Australia, Tropicana mine was a finalist in the 2019 Western 2020. We will continue to work towards workplaces free from injury was aligned with our operational Cuiabá Operations Senior Mining 2015 198 Australia Work Health and Safety Excellence Awards. Tropicana and harm while acknowledging the progress that has been made. excellence programme. Manager. “The team’s engagement also achieved its best-ever AIFR. 2016 210 showed its constant commitment The implementation was divided to maintaining a safe workplace. As This is a significant step change, highlighting the progress that 2017 210 into three phases, the first of which project team leader, my aim is to ensure can be made through company-wide focused initiatives and was completed in 2019. This phase the team is committed to work safely an integrated safety strategy. Our AIFR improved by another 1 www.anglogoldashanti.com/sustainability/safety/ 2018 140 was called “the contention plan” and and that employees follow standardised 31% year-on-year, to the lowest level on record. We also passed addressed seven critical risks. It was processes to ensure safe operations.” 20 months fatality free at the end of 2019 for the first time. 2 www.icmm.com/en-gb/health-and-safety/safety/preventing-fatalities 2019 140 PAGE 18 PAGE 19 2019 <SR> ABOUT ANGLOGOLD ASHANTI LEADERSHIP MESSAGES OUR STRATEGY MATERIAL ISSUES COMPLIANCE EMPLOYEE AND Data tables www.aga-reports.com/19/health#tables COMMUNITY HEALTH Alignment with UN SDGs www.aga-reports.com/19/health#sdgs crucial part in understanding the broader ecosystems in which we visibly demonstrate to communities how we protect and promote CASE STUDY operate, supplemented by research where necessary. their health and wellbeing. Through evidence-based strategies, we can effect long-lasting and meaningful change and improvements. We carry out health baseline studies because the impact of a mine on the natural and social environment brings changes both positive We work to educate employees and communities, and to control and negative. In some instances, we see large influxes of people and treat malaria in all our Continental African sites. We have made where previously there were few, potentially bringing issues relating significant progress across our operations in reducing the number of to nutrition, overcrowding, poverty, sex work and an increased malaria cases particularly through indoor residual spraying. Last year, burden on existing health infrastructure. At the same time, a more however, at Siguiri in Guinea and Geita in Tanzania, we faced some populous environment adds to the burden on water and sanitation challenges in the roll out of these programmes. This led to a disruption and this, too, can alter disease profiles. in the spraying cycle, which ordinarily is completed prior to the rainy season, and as a result we have seen a rise in malaria cases at Siguiri Of particular concern are non-communicable diseases, such as and Geita. The delay to the spraying schedule has been addressed hypertension, diabetes and other life-style related conditions, and we are hopeful cases of malaria will again begin to fall. which are the biggest health issues globally. Mental health is also Court approves settlement of silicosis an important risk worldwide and our operations are currently At Obuasi the infection rate continues to decline. We are part of and TB class action establishing systems to adequately assess this issue. a public-private partnership with the government of Ghana and In 2019, AngloGold Ashanti finalized a legal settlement The Global Fund* to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, and that resolved a silicosis class action suit by a number of In order to better address health issues, we are pursuing a are carrying out an integrated malaria control programme that attorneys acting on behalf of former mineworkers and took preventative approach rather than a reactive one, and in line with includes information and awareness campaigns, indoor residual steps to address certain shortcomings in the state-run that imperative have reviewed our strategic focus areas and our key spraying, chemoprophylaxis for high-risk people, and early compensation system. performance indicators at our mines. “Predictive leading indicators” diagnosis and treatment. All these actions are underpinned by In July 2019, a full bench of the Johannesburg High Court HEALTHY targeting reductions in occupational exposures, are now included comprehensive surveillance and the monitoring actions of key to help us identify problem areas and address them proactively. indicators to demonstrate positive impact. approved the May 2018 settlement agreement. The settlement was between the Occupational Lung Disease Working Group – We have also established a remote formal training programme On the recommendation of the government of Ghana, AngloGold representing African Rainbow Minerals, Anglo American South in collaboration with the University of the Witwatersrand in Ashanti Ghana has been a principal recipient of Global Fund Africa, AngloGold Ashanti, Gold Fields, Harmony and SibanyeJohannesburg to address an acute shortage of local occupational financial awards. It has replicated the control model to 16 districts Stillwater – and the settlement classes’ attorneys, Richard hygiene specialists at our African operations. This programme across Ghana in the Upper West and Upper East, some of which Spoor Inc, Abrahams Kiewitz Inc and the Legal Resources w o r k p l a c e s, h e a l t h y e m p l o y e e s was designed to develop professional occupational hygiene are far from our mines. To do this we have established a subsidiary Centre. On 10 December 2019 the agreement became and healthy communities capacity with minimal staffing disruptions, while reducing company, AngloGold Ashanti (Ghana) Malaria Control Limited, to unconditional with the delivery of the audited report of the optover-reliance on expatriates. So far, four of the six participants administer these donor funds. out process. Only three individuals chose to opt-out, confirming undergoing training have completed their intermediate level the near unanimous approval of the settlement agreement. Obuasi We have been successful because, from the outset, we introduced qualifications as occupational hygiene technicians and are a continuous monitoring process, which has been able to The Tshiamiso Trust, which will implement the agreement over now only a step below professional/advanced level. This is an P demonstrate the success of the project. Since the programme the next 13 years, was established. The trustees are currently roviding healthy workplaces and maintaining the important initiative that dovetails with our strategic objective of started over 10 years ago, we have seen a 90% reduction in developing processes for tracing class members, receiving health and wellbeing of employees and communities developing scarce skills among locals in the countries in which we malaria cases at the mine hospital and a decrease in absenteeism and processing submitted claims, arranging for applicants to are in line with our values and key in sustaining operate, thus contributing to our localisation objectives. caused by malaria. AngloGold Ashanti (Ghana) Malaria Control undergo benefit medical examinations and paying benefits to our business. Limited sprays over a million structures annually, protecting eligible claimants. Occupational health hazard programmes designed to deal with occupational exposures such as airborne pollutants and noise will be approximately a million people from malaria, and creates about During 2019, we reviewed our health strategy to ensure the discipline The payment of compensation benefits on a large scale introduced at our Obuasi mine in Ghana and at Geita in Tanzania as 1,300 local temporary jobs every year. is able to optimally play its role in securing and maintaining our will become possible once the organisation and systems licence to operate. 1 Work plans were created to better integrate it moves underground. Our risk assessments have been expanded * The Global Fund is a partnership designed to accelerate the of the trust have been established. It is anticipated that the health into the business, and to facilitate line management ownership to include both occupational and non-occupational environments, end of AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria as epidemics. first payments will occur in the second quarter of 2020. The of employee and community health. This not only drives productivity while we use bowtie risk analysis – a risk evaluation method that www.theglobalfund.org/en/overview databases of the mines, the client’s attorneys and records of and improves employee wellbeing, but increases the importance of can be used to analyse and demonstrate causal relationships in individuals who have registered an interest in claiming via a call 1 www.aga-reports.com/19/sr/material-issues/health#strategy long-term risk management to the business. high-risk scenarios – to further prioritise and identify necessary critical centre and online have been amalgamated and will provide the controls. (Please see page 30 of our 2015 Sustainability Report 3 2 www.anglogoldashanti.com/malaria-control-programme-in-ghana/ basis for identifying the first group of claimants. Given the diversity of the countries in which we operate, we deal for an explanation on bowtie risk analysis.) We rely on good baseline with a range of complex health issues. These include a variety of 3 www.aga-reports.com/15/download/AGA-SDR15.pdf risk assessment and continuous monitoring programmes to maintain There are 10 classes of claimants. The main ones will fall in diseases as well as the differing social and health systems of our healthy working environments. a category eligible for payments ranging from R70,000 to Integrated host countries. In this context we ensure, at the very minimum, that 4 R250,000, depending on the seriousness of the diseases Malaria Control our activities cause no harm to employees or community members. The proposed sale of our South African assets will alter the health (silicosis and TB) and whether the claimant is an ex-miner or INTEGRATED Programme Ideally, though, our interventions will enhance employee and public profile of the company as currently most of our occupational MALARIA case study a dependant. There is also a R10,000 category for TB with no health where possible. 2 disease issues, such as silicosis (see case study opposite) and proof of the degree of TB. In a limited number of cases of very noise-induced hearing loss, are found in our South African mines. CONTROL PROGRAMME severe silicosis, the settlement trust will be able to raise the We educate around prevention and treatment of disease, and also payment to a maximum of R500,000. do the work to prevent and treat communicable diseases, such Our strategic focus is moving beyond “do no harm” to one as malaria, HIV and Ebola, and raise awareness around various underpinned by a desire to actively improve, where possible, the For more information on the settlement, see priority health issues. Our operations and our communities are environments in which we operate. We manage risk inside and www.silicosissettlement.co.za. 4 www.aga-reports.com/19/sr/stories/ghana-malaria-control interdependent, so our engagements with stakeholders are a outside the mine fence. As a company we understand the need to PAGE 20 PAGE 21 2019 <SR> ABOUT ANGLOGOLD ASHANTI LEADERSHIP MESSAGES OUR STRATEGY MATERIAL ISSUES COMPLIANCE EMPLOYEE AND COMMUNITY HEALTH CON TIN UED CONTRIBUTING TO RESILIENT, Data tables www.aga-reports.com/19/communities#tables SELF-SUSTAINING COMMUNITIES Alignment with UN SDGs www.aga-reports.com/19/communities#sdgs New cases of silicosis Noise-induced hearing loss (NIHL) All occupancy disease frequency rate (AODFR) (number of new cases) (number of cases) (per million hours worked) 2015 142 2015 68 2015 6.62 2016 131 2016 147 2016 7.13 2017 107 2017 132 2017 7.03 2018 47 2018 39 2018 3.29 20 1.36 MAKING A 2019 19 2019 2019 43 New cases of occupational TB DIFFERENCE (2018: 88) CASE STUDY for common good Tropicana implements programme to address sleep disorders W AngloGold Ashanti’s Tropicana gold mine in Australia rolled out a e operate in an environment where communities • In Guinea, working with the United States Agency for programme based on improving health, safety and productivity affected by our activities work with us on the basis International Development, we signed a memorandum of outcomes by identifying and supporting people with sleep disorders. that the relationship be mutually beneficial, and understanding to fund a body called the Siguiri Agricultural These conditions can be debilitating and dangerous for people who that our operations bring sustainable social and economic Development Activity, which supports cashew nut projects by work on mine sites. Since the programme started, there has been a upliftment during and beyond the life of mine. A lack of direct providing seedlings and capacity building for local farmers. 51% reduction in fatigue alarms among haul truck drivers. Melius Consulting was then engaged to work collaboratively in economic opportunity, relative to the size of local populations, Mitigating current and legacy impacts “Fatigue management, particularly for personnel working on a developing a solution to identify, screen and treat individuals with and compounded by low levels of trust and acceptance of the fly-in, fly-out site such as Tropicana, is a key driver when it comes potential sleep disorders in order to return them fit for work. Key As a responsible miner, our approach to social impact management mining industry can lead to increased incidents of community to the health and safety of our employees,” says Stephen Perkins, factors of their solution included: aims to ensure we identify and mitigate past, current and future opposition and conflicts with mining companies. This impacts. All operations have in place grievance mechanisms Tropicana General Manager. “Tropicana’s fatigue management • Reducing fatigue-related risks and incidents heightened risk represents a threat to any company’s social to address complaints and grievances. These complaints and tool is industry leading and the engagement of the workforce was • Reducing the cost reduction of sleep disorder screening licence to operate and highlights that we need to achieve grievances are captured and managed on our Community paramount in its success.” • Expediting turnaround times for the treatment of sleep disorders and maintain a successful sustainability strategy that builds Information Management System (CIMS) and resolved as Melius Consulting was brought on board to work alongside • Minimising the impact to production resilient and self-sustaining communities. expediently as possible. In 2019, complaints and grievances Tropicana and its alliance mining contractor, Macmahon Holdings, lodged across the group varied, though there were certain notable on this intervention. Fatigue data from the DSS was reviewed monthly to identify Building relationships and partnerships themes, namely demands for employment, illegal occupation of individuals who may require sleep disorder screening. These Meaningful engagement is key to building trust with communities company-owned land (mainly in Brazil), and complaints related to The first step in the process was the running of a trial that made people then completed a series of validated sleep questionnaires and other stakeholders. We work to secure and maintain structural damage from blasting activities in Geita and Iduapriem. In use of various technologies to reduce risks to employees, and online, which included general health issues affecting sleep such as our social licence to operate by preserving relationships and Guinea we received complaints related to demands for employment to minimise incidents involving high-risk activities such as mining obstructive sleep apnoea, shift work, insomnia and sleepiness. establishing mutually beneficial partnerships with host communities, and compensation from land access processes. operations and processing. governments and other external stakeholders. The programme also involved a specialist travelling to Tropicana At Geita mine, the remediation process for grievances relating These included a driver safety system (DSS), which was installed periodically to conduct sleep disorder screening. Individuals attended a In 2019, we enhanced our collaborative efforts with different to cracked houses in Katoma and Nyamalembo villages was in the entire fleet of haul trucks to monitor driver fatigue, and the one-hour appointment where a sleep technician attached several spheres of government, finding common ground where we jointly concluded in the final quarter of 2019, in conjunction with the introduction of a wrist-worn device, the Readiband, to measure sleep sensors and wires that the individual then wore overnight. support host countries’ socio-economic development aspirations. relevant authorities and communities. sleep quality and sleep/wake timing. Subsequent analysis of the The sleep disorder screening conducted at Tropicana was more • In Geita, a 2019-2020 memorandum of understanding on the data indicated that employees were experiencing sleep-related commonly referred to as a “home sleep study” or polysomnogram At Siguiri, the ongoing arbitration regarding complaints from mine’s corporate social responsibility (CSR) plan, a requirement issues that affected their alertness during day and night shifts (PSG), the gold standard in assessing an individual for a sleep disorder. community members relating to the Area 1 resettlement in 2015 of the mining code, has been signed. continued under the aegis of the International Finance Corporation’s across our various rosters. Individuals were provided with their results within four days of • In the lead-up to reopening of the Obuasi mine, relations with Compliance Advisor Ombudsman (CAO). The process continues to Some of the key findings were: screening being conducted and those identified with a potential local communities and with various external stakeholders were move forward, with agreements reached in four areas, and constitutes • Approximately 60% of individuals were not obtaining the sleep disorder were provided with a treatment plan and managed strengthened by the development and approval of a detailed a good-faith effort to address concerns from the community. recommended seven to nine hours of sleep per night in accordance with AngloGold Ashanti’s injury management and social management plan. return to work procedures. In Brazil, the voluntary resettlement of the Santos Reis community • Individuals spent 14% of their shift time at an alertness level less • In South Africa, the new social and labour plan for the 2020adjacent to Serra Grande mine saw significant progress during than 70%. This can result in a reaction time equivalent to a person In 2019, this project was a finalist in the Work Health and Safety 2024 period was submitted to the Department of Mineral the year with 32 families moved in 2019. This meant a total of 42 with a blood alcohol concentration of more than 0.08% Excellence Awards, which are organised by the government of Resources and Energy for approval following consultation. families out of 51 were settled in new home. • Some 16% of participants using the Readiband were identified Western Australia’s Department of Mines, Industry Regulation • In Brazil, as part of our CSR, we have developed a sustainable as potentially requiring sleep disorder screening and Safety. partnership programme that promotes local businesses (see the At Iduapriem, we concluded the third phase of the Ajopa and case study on page 25). Mankessim land-for-land compensation, covering 102 farmers. PAGE 22 PAGE 23 2019 <SR> ABOUT ANGLOGOLD ASHANTI LEADERSHIP MESSAGES OUR STRATEGY MATERIAL ISSUES COMPLIANCE CONTRIBUTING TO RESILIENT, SELF-SUSTAINING COMMUNITIES CON TIN UED $27.69 million Socio-economic development CSI focus spend 84% CASE STUDY Sustainable socio-economic development (SED) initiatives (%) Proportion of spend are vitally important if we are to contribute to self-sustaining total CSI spend on local suppliers communities. The ability to demonstrate the positive impacts Social Infrastructure 52% (2018: 78%) from projects is important in obtaining and maintaining our Education and Youth 12% social licence to operate. All operations have implemented social development programmes in line with their own development Health SME Support 5% 8% $2.05 billion of Group total procurement spend imperatives, including the profile and needs of host communities, Environment 1% the resources available for investment and the relevant regulatory Arts Culture and Heritage 2% Total Total requirements, among other things. centrally managed regionally managed Tax Incentives 4% procurement spend procurement spend Donations 16% The SED initiatives implemented were intentionally slanted towards our key community investment focus areas, 3 which 69% 31% $1.41 billion $0.64 billion include social infrastructure, health facilities and services, Brazil’s Sustainable Partnerships Programme $2.05 billion Community investment education, training and skills development, and small, medium (less equity-accounted investments) AngloGold Ashanti has a number of partnerships in place that help us and micro enterprise (SMME) development. For 2019, the group ($ million) to live up to our commitment to make the communities in which we community investment spend totalled $27.69 million as compared of Group total procurement spend operate better off because of our presence. In Brazil, our Sustainable to US$22.25 million in 2018. 2015 15.22 Partnerships Programme is the main platform for our social investment. Total Total centrally managed regionally managed Notably in South Africa, support to SED initiatives, inclusive of 2016 20.16 procurement spend procurement spend Through this programme, we provide subsidies to people to play a alternative livelihoods, continued but yielded variable outcomes. The Masakhisane Enterprise Development Fund, which provides 2017 24.05 69% 31% leading role in their own development. AngloGold Ashanti Brazil invests around $253,376 annually in projects that address social, cultural interest-free loans, continued to support local businesses in 2019. $1.41 billion $0.64 billion or environmental issues that will have positive and lasting effects on 2018 22.25 At Geita mine, the 2018-2019 CSR plan was instrumental in the communities. These projects are selected after an open and transparent refurbishment of schools and medical facilities in the Geita region. At Iduapriem, positive results have been achieved in the implementation 2019 27.69 Strengthening systems and processes application process in which community members play an active role. of various agricultural projects through the AngloGold Ashanti The community affairs discipline is underpinned by robust In addition to receiving financial support, developers of the projects Iduapriem Community Trust Fund.* frameworks, policies, standards, and reliable information selected receive training from qualified consultants, covering topics Community incidents management systems. Activity in this field during 2019 was such as management, finance, marketing, and other skills essential In Guinea at Siguiri, the 30km-long Siguiri-Kintinian road project (number) enhanced by the review of previously approved community for sustaining and growing an emerging business. was completed in partnership with the Guinean government at a policy and management standards, and initiating the cost of $10 million. AngloGold Ashanti contributed $5 million. The 2015 15 The initiatives chosen must be aligned with the programme’s values development of other supporting standards, including project involved tarring the national road, which improved road and contribute to at least one of the United Nation’s SDGs. In the past 2016 2 the non-governmental and civil society organisations conditions, access to the town of Siguiri, and reduced dust levels. nine years, AngloGold Ashanti estimates that this intervention has management standard. 1 The project followed our localisation policy, hiring workers and benefited about 27,000 people through 240 social projects. In 2019 2017 17 procuring material and services locally. In 2019, we also launched phase 2 in the rollout of CIMS. The alone, 24 initiatives from six municipalities in Brazil received support. 2018 26 system will improve performance through the efficient recording AngloGold Ashanti Australia awarded a contract for ore rehandling of all information relating to the development, monitoring and One of the projects selected for the programme was Que Planta, and crusher feed at the Sunrise Dam gold mine to Aboriginal contractor Carey Mining Pty Ltd, continuing a business partnership 2019 32 reporting of social projects and management processes. which is located in the Santa Barbara Municipality. Que Planta is an initiative dedicated to the mapping, cultivating and marketing that began more than 20 years ago. Carey Mining employs 57 Community incidents or events around our operations of seedlings and seeds for agroforestry system development. With people on the Sunrise Dam contract. or as a result of our activities that led to, or may lead to, Total procurement spend AngloGold Ashanti’s contribution, the group was able to build a disruption in communities and/or AngloGold Ashanti’s nursery with an irrigation system and a refrigerated seed bank. It also Local procurement ($ billion) operations, can be self-reported through CIMS. They bought tools and invested in marketing. We continue to forge ahead with the implementation of our can also be reported by third parties through the sites’ 2015 2.10 local procurement policy 4 in all jurisdictions in which we operate, complaints and grievance mechanisms. Que Planta created a site to gather data on plant species, enabling the together with jurisdiction specific legislative requirements. company to map them, and to survey the people who own them and 2016 1.98 An example being, Ghanaian legislation requires mining operations All community incidents are managed in line with AngloGold others who would like to acquire them. The partnership has made it to comply with the Ghana Minerals and Mining (General) Ashanti’s Incident Management Standard. 2 In 2019, 32 2017 2.29 possible to produce a diverse range of seedlings efficiently and to a higher Regulations (L.I.2173) on local procurement. incidents were reported, a 23% increase from 2018. This quality. It also meant Que Planta could increase the reach of its business. 2018 2.06 upward trend started in 2016 and reflects the improved At Geita we held a local business forum to provide information reporting systems across the group. Reported incidents Another project is the Barra Feliz Association, also in the Santa and increase communication and transparency around Geita Gold 2019 2.05 were predominantly related to community disputes over Barbara Municipality. The Barra Feliz Association generates Mine’s sourcing practices, to better prepare Geita vendors to ownership and access to mine dumps in South Africa and employment and wealth through projects that involve traditional compete successfully for our business. demands for tarred roads and local employment in Guinea. handicrafts. The Sustainable Partnerships Programme funds * The Trust was established to make a positive contribution to the development https://thevault.exchange/?get_group_doc=143/1567754176-2019Ma sewing courses and, in 2019, enabled the purchase of items for 3 1 www.anglogoldashanti.com/sustainability/community/ of communities in the vicinity of the Company’s mine at Iduapriem. nagementStandardonSocioeconomicContribution.pdf the manufacturing process, including sewing machines, as well as 4 www.anglogoldashanti.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/Localhttps://thevault.exchange/?get_group_doc=143/1567753956furniture and other workspace equipment. Procurement-Policy_final.pdf 2 2019CommunityIncidentManagementStandard.pdf PAGE 24 PAGE 25 2019 <SR> ABOUT ANGLOGOLD ASHANTI LEADERSHIP MESSAGES OUR STRATEGY MATERIAL ISSUES COMPLIANCE CONTRIBUTING TO RESILIENT, RESPONSIBLE ENVIRONMENTAL Data tables www.aga-reports.com/19/environment#tables SELF-SUSTAINING COMMUNITIES CON TIN UED STEWARDSHIP Alignment with UN SDGs www.aga-reports.com/19/environment#sdgs A primary objective of water management at site level, is to minimise CASE STUDY the volume of imported water, often working towards a site-specific target. We also track performance by monitoring the water recycling PROVIDING TRAINING percentage and the volume of water imported per tonne of ore treated at site level. Another primary water management objective is to prevent the contamination of water resources by our activities. Although we operate some zero discharge sites, operations in wet climates typically treat and release excess water in keeping with regulatory water quality discharge limits. and education in our host communities In aligning our water reporting to the ICMM Consistent Water CONSISTENT Reporting guide, we undertook an analysis of our operating sites’ water context using the WWF Water Risk filter. The results of this analysis were adapted with local site knowledge and are summarised graphically on page 28. In addition, we present a APPROACH group overview of our interactions with water over 2019. In South Africa at our West Wits operations, we continue to manage acid mine drainage (AMD) that flows from the disused neighbouring mines each day. We have carefully managed the risk across our global portfolio of water spilling from the West Wits water circuit by balancing our site water inventories. This somewhat delicate balance has thus Geita far been achieved by accelerated water evaporation technologies and by using the water for the reprocessing of old tailings storage facilities after its acidity has been neutralised. T he nature of mining dictates that air, water and energy management, biodiversity protection and At Geita mine in Tanzania, we have initiated a project where the potential for using bacteria to directly remediate sulphate land rehabilitation will consistently be key focus in groundwater, is being assessed. After a successful proof of areas of our environmental stewardship. The degree to concept field trial, the project is scaling up to a larger scale field which we manage these at each of our operations will be trial. If this in-situ remediation approach succeeds, it has scope to influenced by their different geographies. be applied at other company operations. At an operational level, our work is governed by our Group Tailings Environmental Policy, Standards and Guidelines. 1 Adherence to In response to the Brumadinho Tailings Storage Facility (TSF) failure, these requirements is tested during combined assurance audits. a coalition comprising the ICMM, the Principles for Responsible This overarching architecture aims for a consistent approach Investment (PRI) and UNEP co-convened an independent review of across our global portfolio, while also allowing operations to adapt global tailings management practice. The aim was to establish an Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and representatives from AngloGold Ashanti Ghana, traditional leaders their environment management programmes to varying operational, international standard on TSF management that seeks to eliminate Technology opens an Obuasi campus of the Obuasi area and the municipal assembly, and members of geographical, climate and regulatory settings. catastrophic failures of TSFs. AngloGold Ashanti has helped to facilitate the development the KNUST faculty. Once formed, the group set about planning the development of the university campus. Each operating site’s unique suite of controls is also maintained Professor Bruno Oberle was appointed by the co-conveners as of a satellite Obuasi campus for Ghana’s renowned Kwame through its Environmental Management System (EMS), which independent chair of the Global Tailings Review (GTR) 2 panel. Nkrumah University of Science and Technology (KNUST), which is The campus was launched in 2019 with the enrolment of 343 is certified to the ISO 14001:2015 standard. Collectively, these The GTR panel issued a public consultation draft in November headquartered in the city of Kumasi. Through the provision of training students for the 2019 and 2020 academic year, 105 of whom processes and systems provide the foundation for securing and 2019. AngloGold Ashanti provided comment on the draft standard and education, this move will contribute to the long-term economic are women. A number of Bachelor of Science courses in the enhancing our licence to operate. through the ICMM, which consolidated comments from its 27 viability and resilience of the Obuasi Region. The catalyst for the areas of engineering, science and business are available, members companies. The standard is scheduled to be completed university’s new outpost was the donation of a number of office We continue to progress towards further integration between key including qualifications in geological and metallurgical engineering, in 2020, and if it enjoys the support of all three co-convenors, it will complexes and residential properties at the north Obuasi mine. functions. For example, in preparation for the recommencement environmental sciences and business information. be adopted by the ICMM as a requirement for its members. of operations at our Obuasi mine in Ghana, we developed an The creation of positive and lasting legacies that will endure beyond The Brumadinho TSF failure also resulted in a significant global “Due to the small class sizes, the lecturers are able to assess enhanced management operating system that sets out the the life of our mines depends on developing the skills and nurturing push for increased transparency around tailings facilities, prompting individual needs much better and help us to understand what accountabilities and workflow maps within the environment function the talent of young people in our host communities. The company a coalition comprising the Church of England Pensions Board is being taught,” says Gabriel Owusu Ansah, a metallurgical and between the environment and line functions. It is anticipated has realised that the most effective way to achieve success in this (CofE), the Swedish Council on Ethics and the UN-supported PRI engineering student. “I am excited to be one of the pioneers, and I that this integration will contribute to improved environmental regard – and to breathe life into our value of leaving communities to request that global mining companies publicly disclose essential will work hard to be a good role model for those who come after us.” outcomes for the site. better off – is to partner with specialists in the field of education. information relating to their TSFs. Our response, which will be Both AngloGold Ashanti and the government of Ghana believe Water updated when appropriate, can be found on our mine tailings AngloGold Ashanti Ghana contributed more than half of the disclosure 3 document. $74,155 renovation costs as part of its CSR investment, that the establishment of the university campus will boost the local Water is a valuable and often scarce resource, making water complementing the municipal assembly’s contribution. economy and ensure it continues to thrive beyond the life of the management a vital focus area for the company. Our water is 1 https://www.anglogoldashanti.com/sustainability/environment/ mine. KNUST hopes that the campus will develop into a full-fledged imported from three major sources: utility companies; surface water 2 https://globaltailingsreview.org/ On gaining approval from the government of Ghana to proceed university comparable to the University of Mines and Technology in sources, which include rivers and lakes; and groundwater sources, with the project, a working group was formed comprising Tarkwa, located near some of Ghana’s other major gold mines. which include groundwater draining into mine pits and into deep https://thevault.exchange/?get_group_doc=143/1560011239-AngloG 3 oldAshantiMineTailingsDisclosurecertifiedbytheChairmanandChiefExe underground workings. cutiveOfficer.pdf PAGE 26 PAGE 27 2019 <SR> ABOUT ANGLOGOLD ASHANTI LEADERSHIP MESSAGES OUR STRATEGY MATERIAL ISSUES COMPLIANCE RESPONSIBLE ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP CON TIN UED Site water risk by type Site water opportunity by type CASE STUDY 100% 67% 33% Physical Reputational Regulatory 77% 50% 50% Improved efficiency Cost saving Social licence Quebradona Biodiversity Initiative In Colombia, AngloGold Ashanti is evolving the concept of mining as a tangible tool for social, environmental and economic development, (scarcity or excess) to operate with a ground-breaking plan to create – and integrate -a park and biodiversity centre into its Quebradona copper-gold project, in Colombia’s Antioquia province. This park has been designed to Group site water sources preserve the local environment in the area and to restore elements of and local climate type the eco-system to their natural state. Percentage Percentage ofofsites sitesbyby (%) catchment catchment stress stress category category This project is in line with AngloGold Ashanti’s ambition of reducing – (%)(%) Arid and semi-arid 57% Arid and semi-arid (low quality groundwater) 25% and wherever possible offsetting – impacts on biodiversity. High High stress stress 17% 17% Arid and semi-arid (utility water) 19% Moderate Moderate stress stress 75% 75% Arid and semi-arid (surface water) 13% The initiative is intended to gradually facilitate the regeneration of Low Lowor or very very stress lowlow stress 8%8% Tropical (surface, ground and utility water) 30% more than 2,500 hectares of indigenous tropical dry forest and high and flora. Extensive engagement with local communities took place Dry sub tropical (surface water) 13% mountain forest. The re-introduction of this flora will help regenerate in preparation of the plan, including Jerico, the nearest town to the the area’s unique ecosystem, which has been impacted by farming proposed development site and other land uses. AngloGold Ashanti Colombia believes the Source: WWF Water Risk Filter Park, will incorporate a series of innovative architectural designs and Colombia’s Ministry of Environment has declared tropical dry forests has the potential to attract tourism to the area, complementing the as ‘strategic ecosystems’ because of their role in conserving the development opportunities brought by the mine. biodiversity of plants and animals unique to the area. These forested areas have been steadily denuded from Colombia’s landscape amid “Our environmental legacy will be to improve the connectivity of a growing logging industry and increasing demand for agricultural the region’s ecosystems, developing our project with cutting-edge and grazing land. Today, only 8% of the original land of tropical dry technology and good global practice, that not only respects and forest in Colombia remains, the tropical dry forest of southwest protects biodiversity, but seeks to improve the natural capital of the Antioquia, near Jericó, has practically disappeared. In studies region”, Felipe Márquez, Colombia AngloGold Ashanti Senior Vice conducted by an independent body, the Humboldt Institute, it has President said. been found that these forests can provide an ecosystem capable of supporting more than 2,600 species of plants, 230 species of birds 228,306ML The environmental impact assessment for our Quebradona copper/ gold mine development was submitted in November 2019. The and 60 species of mammals. 21,637ML reused water 76% development of the park is anticipated to take place in 2021 and, The park will include a research centre that focuses on species imported from surface water in a departure from traditional mine development models, will indigenous to the area’s unique ecosystem. As it develops and be integrated into the Quebradona project during construction. 301,890ML integrates with the tropical dry forest of Jericó, the intention is to 1% of the project’s value needs to be invested in environmental reconnect the biological corridor that once existed between a improvement projects and through development of the park, we number of rivers and streams, allowing for the conservation and aim to promote conservation of the region’s water sources, fauna needed to sustain core reused water resurgence of species of plants and animals in the area. 16,380ML operational site tasks of: imported from groundwater Surface and underground mining Energy and climate change 9.3% increase in the South African grid emission factor, managed a Underground mine cooling 67,343ML For more than a decade, AngloGold Ashanti has been proactive in acting on climate change, both through its own strategy and 8.5% reduction in their absolute emissions and a 9.2% reduction in their emissions intensity, compared to 2018. consumed through evaporation, entrainment and other task losses through industry associations. In 2008, the company provided early External investor and consumer pressure around ESG 9,880ML Ore milling and processing leadership when it committed to an ambitious greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity reduction target of 30% by 2022. issues, especially climate change, continues to intensify. imported from water utility suppliers Tailings transport and deposition This has been particularly acute in the past year and among In the context of mining, emission targets become progressively some of AngloGold Ashanti’s largest shareholders. While Dust suppression additional asset sales will naturally lead to further reductions in more challenging to meet, given that mining is by its very nature more Dewatering 6,241ML energy intensive each year. Lower grades mean more rock shifted and as mining progresses further away from infrastructure, so longer emissions intensity, it is crucial for the company to develop a comprehensive new climate change strategy. This will seek to 25,688ML treated and discharged to surface water distances are travelled, requiring more energy. The group target was develop updated emission reduction targets, ensure that we Water Sanitation and Hygiene harvested from rain on process facilities successfully achieved in 2018, ahead of the 2022 target date. insulate our operations against physical climate risks that may (WASH) services impact both our operations and host communities, implement In 2019, we continued to mitigate our carbon footprint, marginally appropriate climate disclosure systems and maximise further increasing our GHG emissions intensity by 1%, 31.8kg (2019) opportunities for cost-saving energy efficiency programmes. versus 32.1kg (2018) of GHG per tonne treated, and kept our We will be guided by, among other things, the ICMM’s updated absolute GHG emissions flat. This was despite a 3.7% increase Climate Change Position Statement 1 and through use of the Water diverted to the environment without being used in production tasks: 17,003ML in the total energy we used to sustain production. These ICMM-hosted Mining Climate Assessment Tool (MiCA), which improvements were led by continued benefits from energy we have already used to model impacts from climate change on efficiency gains at our South African mines, and which despite a TSF design and construction. PAGE 28 1 https://www.icmm.com/website/publications/pdfs/mining-principles/position-statements_climate-change.pdf PAGE 29 2019 <SR> ABOUT ANGLOGOLD ASHANTI LEADERSHIP MESSAGES OUR STRATEGY MATERIAL ISSUES COMPLIANCE RESPONSIBLE ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP CON TIN UED In 2020, we also intend transitioning our primary climate change emphasis on contributing toward resilient and sustainable Total amount of land disturbed disclosure platform, which has historically been done under the communities during the life cycle of the mining operation. and not yet rehabilitated (ha) Carbon Disclosure Project, to disclosing in accordance with the Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate-related Financial We are working to achieve this goal by engaging with our Disclosure (TCFD) recommendations. communities, allowing them to identify the projects they would like 2015 26,946 to see developed in the areas of health, education, agriculture, small Carbon tax business and supply chain development. Simultaneously, we will 2016 27,202 The South African carbon tax was signed into law by President continue to rehabilitate disturbed land as we mine, through this we 2017 26,176 Cyril Ramaphosa and gazetted in May 2019. The first phase of face a number of challenges, which include ASM (see page 35). the act came into effect on 1 June 2019. This phase applies to 2018 26,354 In Mali, the implementation of the Yatela mine’s closure plan remains Scope 1 emitters until 31 December 2022 and contains tax-free on hold while the share purchase agreement with the government of emission allowances. In 2019, our South African operation’s Scope 1 Mali, signed in April 2019 and awaiting ratification, is finalised. 2019 25,738 emissions were under 17Kt and will not attract material carbon taxes for the 2019 period. At Sadiola, mine operations ceased in 2018, while stockpile processing continued. An integrated mine closure plan was Total amount of land rehabilitated submitted to the government in October. In December, (ha) 93% AngloGold Ashanti (AGA) together with its joint venture partner, of sites certified IAMGOLD Corporation (IMG) agreed to sell their interests 2015 4,551 to ISO 14001:2015 in Société d’Exploitation des Mines d’Or de Sadiola S.A. (“SEMOS”) to Allied Gold Corp (“Allied Gold”). SEMOS’ principal 2016 4,787 asset is the Sadiola Mine located in the Kayes region of Western 87% of sites certified to the Mali. AGA and IMG each hold a 41% interest in SEMOS with 2017 4,925 International Cyanide the remaining 18% interest held by the Government of Mali (see Management Code 2018 5,238 press release for more details). 3 Obuasi will initiate processes towards these certifications, once ramped up to full production in 2021. At Geita in Tanzania, the mine submitted an integrated mine 2019 5,063 Corrego do Sitio Mine closure plan to the National Mine Closure Commission in October 2019. Discussions around the posting of a rehabilitation bond, in Integrated closure management the form of a bank guarantee, will start once the mine closure plan There is an increased focus on managing the social aspects of is approved. closure as operations wind down, which is consistent with the 2019 Reportable environmental incidents ICMM’s recently updated guidance on closure management. 2 https://guidance.miningwithprinciples.com/integrated-mine-closureIncident description Our response 2 good-practice-guide/ The social impact of closure is perhaps the most difficult element https://thevault.exchange/?get_group_doc=143/1577096847-AngloGo In early September, the Savuka Gold Plant’s residue tanks Immediate response measures were put in place to stop, monitor of closure to gauge and manage effectively. There is growing 3 ldAshantiagreestosellitsinterestintheSadiolaMine.pdf overflowed due to operational challenges. This resulted in and mitigate the effects of the spill, which impacted an estimated tailings slurry being released into a network of drainage canals surface area of 6,000m2. Potentially affected parties downstream beyond the plant boundary and reaching the Wonderfonteinspruit were notified, as were the Department of Water and Sanitation Energy consumption GHG Emissions GHG emissions intensity watercourse via the Welverdiend canal. and the National Nuclear Regulator. The plant’s residue pumping, (petajoules) (kilotonnes) (kilograms of GHG per tonne treated) and control system was reviewed to ensure that tailings slurry can consistently be delivered to the Savuka Tailings Storage Facility. 2015 29.06 2015 4,162 2015 45 2016 28.55 2016 4,062 2016 48 In late September, a pipeline, conveying tailings from the Mine Pumping operations were suspended and a containment berm was Waste Solutions Plant to the Kareerand Tailings Storage Facility, constructed downstream. Regulators and the landowners adjacent 2017 29.76 2017 3,953 2017 46 failed near the Koekemoerspruit crossing, a stream that flows to the watercourse, were notified of the incident. Recovery of the into the Vaal River. Subsequent water quality monitoring at impacted section of the Koekemoerspruit will be assessed through 2018 25.38 2018 2,571 2018 32 key locations in the Koekemoerspruit and at the Midvaal Water in-stream bio-monitoring by an independent specialist, following 2019 26.32 2019 2,570 2019 32 Company’s intake, downstream in the Vaal River, confirmed its effects were limited to the contained area. clean-up of the watercourse and adjacent surface areas impacted by the spill, an estimated area of 11,000m2. Energy intensity (gigajoule per tonne treated) During October, at Siguiri mine’s process plant, construction work Upon discovery, immediate actions were taken to isolate and 1 Climate change for upgrading of the spillage containment infrastructure was in detoxify the water in the external pond. Regulators and local animation 2015 0.31 progress when operational challenges with reagent make-up was government representatives from Siguiri, were immediately notified. TAKING ACTION ON CLIMATE experienced. This caused cyanide-bearing solution to drain to a 2016 0.33 temporary spillage pond located inside the process plant fence. CHANGE A valve on the pipeline connecting this internal pond to an external 2017 0.35 spillage pond, which served to increase spillage holding capacity, was in the open position. This allowed an estimated 80m2 of the 2018 0.32 cyanide-bearing solution to reach the external pond, causing the death of a cow and 4 birds that consumed the water. 2019 0.33 1 www.aga-reports.com/19/sr/stories/group-climate-change PAGE 30 PAGE 31 2019 <SR> ABOUT ANGLOGOLD ASHANTI LEADERSHIP MESSAGES OUR STRATEGY MATERIAL ISSUES COMPLIANCE RESPONSIBLE ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP CON TIN UED EMPLOYEE, COMMUNITY Data tables www.aga-reports.com/19/security#tables AND ASSET SECURITY Alignment with UN SDGs www.aga-reports.com/19/security#sdgs Illegal and ASM mining activities continued to pose a significant CASE STUDY challenge to our operations throughout 2019 in South Africa, Tanzania, Ghana, Mali, Guinea and Colombia. In South Africa, gold We continue to producers continued to face an escalation in violent crime-related MANAGE OUR TSFs activities as a result of large armed criminal groups and illegal miners intruding into and invading mining areas. As a result, the South Africa Region Mines Crime Combatting Forum (MCCF) eightpillar initiative was launched to address general criminality resulting from the increase of illegal mining activities in the Vaal River area. to ensure that they are safe and well maintained At Siguiri mine, artisanal and illegal mining activities in our concession remain a threat to the operation as small-scale miners demand access to inactive mining areas. In some instances during the year, large numbers of ASM workers simply entered restricted areas on the concession, including dormant mining areas, to extract gold. In those instances our security teams reverted to monitoring only in an effort to reduce the possibility of conflict, while authorities were requested to provide assistance. The number of artisanal and small-scale miners operating in the region continues to increase due to migration into the area by people fleeing drought and armed conflict in the greater Sahel region. We provide a secure environment for our employees and assets and underpinning this is consistent, open dialogue with communities, national, regional and local government. REMOVING Building trust and conducting meaningful engagement with all relevant stakeholders is key to achieving our objective of community-enhanced security, where all citizens share a peaceful PEOPLE environment free from conflict. The success of the community policing forum at Geita mine (see case study on page 34) has been effective in reducing security risk and will likely be extended FROM RISK to our other operations. We act with integrity, promote transparency and good governance and risk from people and work together with governments and communities to codesign sustainable solutions to mitigate security risk. We also work Obuasi with public and private security in countries where we operate, Tailings storage facility management in Brazil We have engaged with concerned communities to demonstrate the with the latter including military assistance in certain jurisdictions. effectiveness of our management systems. In 2019, more the 850 In those cases, any military contingent deployed on our site will be Following the collapse in 2019 of the Vale Feijão Mine tailings T people from our nearby communities participated in visits to TSFs. required to undergo thorough induction in the Voluntary Principles storage facility (TSF) near the town of Brumadinho in Brazil he threats faced across our operational footprint Meetings and training sessions were also held to educate local on Security and Human Rights (VPSHR). 2 In all circumstances that tragically left hundreds of people dead, the Brazilian remain complex with escalated risk evident in most residents and to clarify any doubts or concerns they might have. we will also make clear that we favour dialogue in resolving any government’s regulation of TSFs has become more stringent jurisdictions. This is the result of growing political disputes, and will always seek to de-escalate any confrontation to and obtaining licence approval is increasingly challenging. As instability, poverty, terrorism and the rise of ASM, All our structures have siren alarm systems that notify residents provide the space for peaceful resolution. a result of this changing regulatory environment, we will be both legal and illegal. Our operations, employees and of emergencies. To reassure communities and help them prepare decommissioning Serra Grande’s upstream TSF and AngloGold communities are affected adversely as a result of the rise In all countries in which AngloGold Ashanti operates, threat and for any potential emergency scenario, AngloGold Ashanti Brazil Ashanti Brazil is assessing a change from conventional tailings risk assessments are conducted to determine which security held a number of practice drills, simulating emergency situations. in general criminality and armed conflict. disposal to the dry stacking method. We have also increased resources are required. In Colombia, Mali, Tanzania, Ghana and In 2019, three drills took place: in Crixás, in Nova Lima/Raposos the frequency of third-party TSF reviews so that they now In 2019, the safety and security of our employees and Guinea, risk assessments categorise threats as high and require and in Santa Bárbara. These drills involved people going to public occur biannually. contractors remained our first priority as we implemented our the involvement of state police and/or military units (public security assembly points using designated safe routes. sustainability and security strategies 1 across the group. Our forces) on a near-permanent basis. We have seven tailings dams in Brazil, six in the state of Minas These efforts help to secure our licence to operate, and show we focus was on collaboration and strengthening partnerships with Gerais and one in Goiás: Cocuruto, Rapaunha and Calcinados, Our goal is to be proactive, constantly assessing the risks and, are working in good faith and in compliance with Brazil’s laws and various stakeholders such as governments, business partners, located at the Queiroz Industrial Plant (Nova Lima, MG); CDS I where we see potential threats, we develop and implement regulations. They also emphasise that our first priority is the safety communities and law enforcement agencies, as well as the and CDS II at the Córrego do Sítio business unit (Santa Bárbara, mitigating strategies to address these. and health of our employees and the community members near deployment of fit-for-purpose technology. MG); Cuiabá Complex at the Cuiabá mine (Sabará, MG); and Serra our sites. Grande at the Serra Grande business unit (Crixás, GO). All of our Specific measures are implemented to deal with various challenges structures have robust management and control systems 1 and across the business landscape, most notably reducing injuries to https://thevault.exchange/?get_group_doc=143/1560011239-An we continue to manage our TSFs to ensure they are safe and people, through the application of threat and risk management 1 gloGoldAshantiMineTailingsDisclosurecertifiedbytheChairmanan well maintained. 1 www.anglogoldashanti.com/sustainability/security-and-human-rights/ dChiefExecutiveOfficer.pdf principles. Integral to the security strategy is the security five-point plan, which aims to remove people from risk and risk from people. 2 https://thevault.exchange/?get_group_doc=143/1502453784-VPSHR.pdf PAGE 32 PAGE 33 2019 <SR> ABOUT ANGLOGOLD ASHANTI LEADERSHIP MESSAGES OUR STRATEGY MATERIAL ISSUES COMPLIANCE EMPLOYEE, COMMUNITY AND ASSET SECURITY CON TIN UED ARTISANAL AND SMALL-SCALE MINING Data tables www.aga-reports.com/19/asm#tables (LEGAL AND ILLEGAL) Alignment with UN SDGs www.aga-reports.com/19/asm#sdgs Fatalities to AngloGold Ashanti security Indeed, addressing the issue effectively is a major challenge and CASE STUDY personnel in the line of duty doing so will require creative and sustainable solutions. To date, (number) there are a few examples of solutions that could be scaled up to deal with the rise in ASM amid higher commodity prices, climate 2015 0 change, migration and population growth. 2016 2 This escalation in numbers and the complexity of challenges in some of the jurisdictions where we operate has necessitated a 2017 0 review of mitigation measures. These include additional resourcing 2018 0 and extensive dialogue with all stakeholders. 2019 0 The impacts of illegal mining continue to be felt by both the company and the illegal miners themselves. As a company, ASM means we experience operational disruptions, and the loss of Injuries to AngloGold Ashanti security both gold reserves and production. Further, in instances where personnel in the line of duty previously rehabilitated areas are targeted by ASM, additional (number) rehabilitation costs are incurred. 2015 71 The impacts for illegal miners are mainly safety and health related, with injuries and fatalities a constant risk alongside the negative 2016 2017 35 22 SUPPORTING health effects of the incorrect use of processing chemicals. The increase in ASM activities has also seen a rise in ASM fatalities as a FORMALISATION result of illegal mining activities over the past two years. 2018 30 The countries where AngloGold Ashanti has operations and projects affected by ASM are South Africa, Tanzania, Ghana, Mali, 2019 25 of ASM Guinea and Colombia. We seek harmonious co-existence with legal ASM through a two-pronged approach: providing direct Iduapriem support for the formalisation of ASM and promoting local enterprise 2% development, which contributes to creating alternative livelihoods. In theft We also work with country law enforcement agencies, which assist A and loss SM often proliferates against a complex web in protecting our mining tenements. incidents REDUCTION of social, economic, environmental, legal and governance issues. ASM is a catch-all term that Our approach supports and promotes the concept of ASM formalisation. As reported previously, this is aligned to the comprises artisanal miners who have engaged in manual Intergovernmental Forum (IGF) on Mining, Minerals, Metals and Fatalities to community members related Geita gold mine builds a community policing team digging and subsistence gold production for generations, Sustainable Development 2013 policy framework, and its 2017 to security intervention as well as newcomers to the industr y who are desperate guidance document to help governments implement strategies The establishment of the community policing team at AngloGold Ashanti’s Geita gold (number) to make a living. It also involves criminal networks that to regulate ASM. Successful formalisation requires significant mine in Tanzania is an initiative that fulfills a number or our sustainability objectives. use exploitative practices to produce gold. cooperation and collaboration between governments, communities, 2015 3 civil society, the private sector and international bodies. The concept for the community policing team, which involves hiring and training In all cases, there is little or no burden on these producers to people from communities next to the mine, was conceived in 2015. After close 2016 0 rehabilitate the land they disturb, nor standards that govern how We will continue to work with all stakeholders around the collaboration with the Tanzanian Police Force and local communities, a number they produce their metal. Governments receive no benefit from challenges of ASM and illegal mining. We are working to identify 2017 1 of people who had already been working with the mine’s community observers’ the development of their natural resources. In some cases, the sustainable solutions for the benefit of all stakeholders, in particular programme joined other volunteers in the newly formed community policing team. proceeds from these activities can be used to fund illicit activities, our host communities where many residents are reliant on ASM2018 2 A memorandum of understanding between the communities and Geita, which is such as money laundering or terrorism, raising the stakes in the related income. renegotiated annually, provided the basis for the team’s establishment. 2019 0 search for a lasting resolution. This proactive initiative has involved the community from the start. Members of the policing team are rotated annually, broadening the opportunity for local residents Injuries to community members related Fatalities to community members engaged Injuries to community members engaged to security intervention who wish to be involved to receive training and earn an income. Some trained in illegal activities in illegal activities (number) members have gone on to work for private security firms and some are engaged (number) (number) by local authorities in various government operations. 2015 34 2015 10 2015 8 A steering committee oversees the community policing team, but the Tanzanian 2016 36 Police Force holds ultimate control. Geita sits on the committee and provides 2016 11 2016 5 funding for the project. The community contributed land for the construction of the 2017 32 training centre, while the police force contributed the centre’s building materials. 2017 33 2017 18 2018 40 Given its continued success, we plan to roll out the initiative to more communities 2018 37 2018 9 around the mine. 2019 49 2019 25 2019 20 PAGE 34 PAGE 35 2019 <SR> ABOUT ANGLOGOLD ASHANTI LEADERSHIP MESSAGES OUR STRATEGY MATERIAL ISSUES COMPLIANCE ARTISANAL AND SMALL-SCALE MINING RESPECTING HUMAN RIGHTS Data tables www.aga-reports.com/19/respect#tables (LEGAL AND ILLEGAL) C O N T IN UED Alignment with UN SDGs www.aga-reports.com/19/respect#sdgs A ngloGold Ashanti’s commitment to upholding and CASE STUDY respecting human rights is an expression of our core value of treating ever yone – always – with FORMALISING ASM dignity and respect. We endeavour to ensure that respect for human rights permeates all aspects of our business and have enshrined this commitment in our global Human Rights Policy, 1 which applies to employees, contractors through training and capacity building and other business partners including supply chain, state actors and joint venture partners. DIGNITY Aligned to the United Nation’s Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs), we have due diligence processes in place to identify, prevent, mitigate and report on our impacts on AND RESPECT human rights. We also follow processes to enable the remediation Tropicana of any adverse human rights impacts we may have caused or contributed to. Human rights reported Human rights allegations We have recorded two years without a reported human rights incidents under VPSHR under VPSHR violation in any of our operating jurisdictions. We are mindful that (number) (number) we cannot allow any complacency to creep into our business, particularly given its scale and diverse operating footprint, and must 2015 1 2015 4 continually seek ways to improve our human rights performance. 2016 2 2016 6 Potential human rights violations and allegations are generally self-reported, which emphasises a maturing human rights culture 2017 3 2017 2 in the business. All operations have grievance and independent 2018 0 2018 1 anonymous whistle-blowing mechanisms 2 accessible to internal and external stakeholders. All allegations are rigorously investigated using accepted investigation protocols, and where appropriate, 2019 0 2019 3 investigations are independent. Percentage of 99.5% We participate in the UN Forum for Business and Human Rights, the VPSHR initiative and the UNGC. As a member of the ICMM, security personnel AngloGold Ashanti actively participates in various working groups trained on VPSHR and initiatives designed to promote human rights. and human rights 2018: 98% Gramalote partners with ASM La María hamlet. In July of that year, In another formalisation process in San We continue to conduct group-level human rights due diligence 40% to formalise mining the company, with the support of the Roque, led by the mayor’s office, seven (HRDD) assessments, assessing progress against the 2017 selfPercentage of Secretariat of Mines of the provincial other mining production units near the assessment baselines. In 2019, we initiated group-level HRDD new suppliers The Gramalote project in Colombia, now assessments as part of our ongoing combined assurance process. screened using: government of Antioquia, signed an act of Cristales village are in the process of an equal joint venture between AngloGold This further enhances awareness, raising the conversation about criteria on human mediation with the miners, through which formalisation. rights, labour practices, Ashanti and B2Gold, is supporting a the rights of all stakeholders. a formalisation subcontract would be environment and impact number of ASM formalisation projects. As In La María, formalisation began in March on society* granted and 16 mining production units in many areas in which AngloGold Ashanti The integration of human rights standards throughout our supply legalised in a 15ha area. 2019 when 18 miners signed a contract * In 2019, AngloGold Ashanti fully implemented the enhanced and more operates, ASM has a long tradition in the chain remains an area of focus. We are carrying out work around that established Sociedad Mineros La robust Responsible Sourcing Programme across its Continental Africa area surrounding the proposed mine. Gramalote has since continued its supplier self-assessments and better processes to monitor and María S.A.S. The Secretariat of Mines Region sites. This programme has become part of the vendor screening support for the formalisation processes track performance. This is proving successful in contributing to the process, with assessments being conducted by site-specific discipline of the government of Antioquia, after AngloGold Ashanti believes that elimination of child labour and issues related to modern day slavery. experts who are trained on how to identify and handle possible risks being rolled out by the San Roque inspections, declared nine of the newly formalisation of ASM can be important Municipal Administration, signing seven posed by a supplier. This rollout is enabling us to apply a consistent formed production units viable and these We maintain that through education and creating general in stopping illegal and unsafe smallapproach in respect to our supplier screening process. new subcontracts with 40 miners in have about 60 employees. scale mining. Gramalote Colombia awareness among internal and external stakeholders, and our Cristales, Manizales and El Diluvio. resolute commitment to the respect for human rights, we can is contributing land in support of a A programme was put in place where 3 Responsible achieve our goal of zero harm. In this regard, 11,547 people sourcing number of ASM formalisation projects Material extracted from the recently these artisanal and small-scale miners underwent classroom or online training in 2019. programme in the municipality of San Roque and formalised mines will be processed in a were trained by SENA, the state ANGLOGOLD ASHANTI’S its communities of La María hamlet and Providencia village. mineral processing plant to be built on the Clarita property, also in the San Roque institution committed to community education, on issues related to mining RESPONSIBLE SOURCING PROGRAMME interview with Lindi Maqubela Municipality. Gramalote will help finance safety, good mining practices and Gramalote started a pilot formalisation the plant which is expected to process working in confined spaces. process in San Roque in 2018 with material from all small-scale mines that 1 https://thevault.exchange/?get_group_doc=143/1501583010HumanrightsPolicyStatement.pdf 18 traditional informal miners from the join the formalisation process. 2 www.anglogoldashanti.com/whistle/ 3 www.aga-reports.com/19/sr/stories/group-responsible-sourcing PAGE 36 PAGE 37 2019 <SR> ABOUT ANGLOGOLD ASHANTI LEADERSHIP MESSAGES OUR STRATEGY MATERIAL ISSUES COMPLIANCE TALENT MANAGEMENT, SKILLS Data tables www.aga-reports.com/19/talent#tables DEVELOPMENT AND EMPLOYEE RELATIONS Alignment with UN SDGs www.aga-reports.com/19/talent#sdgs T he human resources discipline in the areas of talent action by some workers from 15 May to 3 June. At Sadiola, against the identified interventions will be provided to the board management, skills development and employee from 11 to 13 September, there was a national strike initiated on an annual basis until the next survey. relations is evolving. Today, this field demands a by the National Union Federation. In South Africa, there was an unprotected strike at Mponeng on 16 August and an unprotected In line with that, as automation in areas of the mining industry more integrated approach through the business as it strike at Mine Waste Solutions on 15 October. becomes a reality, we need to ensure our employees are impacts all stakeholders. Key to this is enhancing gender developing new skills. Looking ahead, higher-skilled positions are equality and inclusion across our operations. Employee engagement likely to be fewer in number. Given the varying work environments Globally we need to show that mining means progress and a In 2019 we undertook an employee engagement survey following at our sites, the adoption of new technology and appropriate long-lasting future through employment, career development and on from the one conducted in 2017. The survey was inspired training programmes will be adapted to the needs of each working with stakeholders to build sustainable communities. by the company’s determination to become a more integrated operation. We will work to build a highly-skilled labour force where organisation, and to demonstrate our commitment to developing individuals can work across a number of disciplines. When it comes to human resources, we are further integrating the company as an employer of choice, and helping to retain and this function into the business and developing skills for the roles in which we will need them. We are working with local educational TALENT attract critical and scarce skills. Diversity and MANAGEMENT institutions to develop local talent, continuing with our mentorship Despite the challenging business landscape in which the company 1 programmes, providing career development, and catering for the operates, overall employee engagement remained favourable at inclusivity at 76%, similar to 2017, and still 6% above the industry benchmark. Quebradona well-being of our employees and the communities we operate in. As automation in areas of the mining industry becomes a reality, we need to ensure our employees are developing new skills. preparing future leaders The overall engagement results were shared with the board and executive committee and subsequently the regions. Human Given the varying work environments at our sites, the adoption resource business partners supporting the regions and business of new technology and appropriate training programmes will be areas, analysed the results with the respective leadership teams, adapted to the needs of each operation. We will work to build a These informed the Diversity and Inclusion Framework, the 10 key identifying and implementing relevant interventions for areas that highly-skilled labour force where individuals can work across a pillars of which guide managers on how to achieve a truly diverse required attention to address highlighted shortcomings. Progress 1 www.aga-reports.com/19/sr/stories/quebradona-diversity-inclusion number of disciplines. workforce. The aim is to build a workforce free of inequality and to go beyond what is required by legislation. Talent management Indicative of the commitment from leadership, the Social, Ethics Key to our integrated talent management strategy is the Chairman’s CASE STUDY and Sustainability Committee of the board sponsors diversity and Young Leaders Programme (CYLP), which saw eight candidates inclusion initiatives, with the current focus being on gender equality graduate in November 2019. The programme nurtures young AngloGold Ashanti is helping to improve globally. This entails understanding regional legislation, the needs of talent to feed into the long-term talent pipeline across a range diversity and inclusion across the company women and the barriers that prevent many from joining and actively of disciplines. The accelerated development offered by the participating in mining across our global footprint. In 2019, the Global Diversity and Inclusion Framework was programme prepares the participants for leadership and critical drafted and implemented to guide managers to achieve a truly positions in the future. In a move to achieve diversity, we are introducing unconscious bias diverse workforce. awareness training. The company’s leadership teams have started Since its launch in 2016, 34 candidates from a variety of disciplines the process, which will then be rolled out across the business. The aim is to go beyond what we are compelled or legislated have graduated, 53% of them women. Approximately 90% were We have also launched a Global Women’s Forum allowing for to do, and embrace diversity across all our sites. We have promoted or have been given a broader scope of work and 91% discussion around gender issues. thousands of employees, and understanding and respecting have stayed with the company. diversity is one of our key values. In Australia, AngloGold Ashanti participated in the Perth Gay Pride Our Future Leaders Mentorship Programme was launched in march, and in Brazil we set up a diversity committee to work with the The framework has 10 key pillars, including organisational culture 2018. It provides the foundation for establishing structured One initiative underway to help in achieving diversity is unconscious country’s legislation that aims to support people with disabilities. and management style, and was devised following global gender mentor/mentee relationships aimed at skills transfer and bias awareness training, which AngloGold Ashanti views as an assessments across all operations to determine regional diversity accelerated career development. To date, 20 candidates from the AngloGold Ashanti supports the international campaign for 16 Days ongoing process. The company’s leadership teams were the first to needs. It is aligned with the principles of the UNGC and our CYLP have been matched and assigned to members of senior of Activism against Gender-based Violence, encouraging staff to sign receive training, which is now being rolled out across the business. group objectives, and highlights the importance of fostering the leadership as mentors across the organisation. up and support the He4She movement, an initiative of UN Women. empowerment of all staff, irrespective of race, gender, disability, In another boost for the diversity and inclusion programme, We continue to develop the leadership succession pool and ethnicity, religion and sexual orientation. Employee relations AngloGold Ashanti has been included in the 2020 Bloomberg have put in place strategies to attract, motivate and retain a Gender Equity Index (GEI). The GEI looks at several metrics that In the field of employee relations, we work with partners both In South Africa, 33% of leadership roles in the business are held skilled workforce through fair, responsible, transparent and companies report on, including whether women are likely to in and outside the company, building positive relations through by women, roughly double the representation across the global competitive remuneration. The attraction and retention of suitable remain employed at companies following parental leave (82%), the engagement. More than 90% of our employees are trade union AngloGold Ashanti workforce. local candidates to replace expatriates are done through labour availability of on-site lactation rooms (69%) and the sponsorship members and we are committed to engagement with our planning processes, recruitment from the local market, and bursar The Social, Ethics and Sustainability Committee of the Board of science, technology, engineering and mathematics education employees’ organised labour representatives. and graduate trainee schemes. The group talent and succession sponsors the company’s diversity and inclusion initiatives, programmes for women (64%). AngloGold Ashanti is one of 325 management processes, and training and development processes Also in Ghana, at Iduapriem, we work with two trade unions with currently focusing on promoting gender equality globally. This companies headquartered across 42 countries and regions that is at all of our operations ensures we address localisation across our which we have positive relations and the same can be said for our entails understanding legislation in each country, the needs of included in the index. The GEI tracks the financial performance of global footprint. work with two unions at our Geita mine in Tanzania. women, and the barriers to joining a mining company across our public companies committed to supporting gender equality through global footprint. We initiated projects such as our global gender policy development, representation and transparency. This lays a Diversity and inclusion At our Siguiri operation in Guinea, we worked to reset the assessments, unconscious bias workshops, and mentoring strong foundation for the company to improve its efforts towards Regional gender assessments were conducted globally to provide relationships with the local union there, establishing clearer programme during the course of 2019. promoting gender equity, diversity and inclusion. added impetus to our drive to foster diversity across the business. boundaries around areas of responsibility, following illegal strike PAGE 38 PAGE 39 2019 <SR> ABOUT ANGLOGOLD ASHANTI LEADERSHIP MESSAGES OUR STRATEGY MATERIAL ISSUES COMPLIANCE NAVIGATING REGULATORY AND Data tables www.aga-reports.com/19/uncertainty#tables POLITICAL UNCERTAINTY AND RISK Alignment with UN SDGs www.aga-reports.com/19/uncertainty#sdgs P olitical and regulator y uncertainty and finding In 2019, we continued to proactively respond to and manage Furthermore, to make it easier to report incidents, and to facilitate ways to navigate this risk remains a key material our socio-political risks, using the adopted systematic approach an improved and streamlined reporting process, we have made issue for AngloGold Ashanti. Rapid changes in the for evaluating comparative socio-political risks across different a whistle-blowing desktop shortcut available to all AngloGold global economy have resulted in increased expectations operations. We continue to assess and track risk profiles through Ashanti employees on their work computers. This new shortcut on mining companies and the sector to play a more our six strategic focus areas: directs employees who want to make an anonymous report constructive and developmental role in economic, social, directly to the third-party service provider’s whistle blowing service environmental and governance issues. We aim to promote webpage. The anonymity of all whistle-blowers is guaranteed and deeper cooperation with all our stakeholders and build on all whistle-blowing reports are rigorously investigated in line with the company’s Code of Business Principles and Ethics. 4 INCREASING our foundation as a responsible and fair partner. In the year, elections took place in the major mining markets Our code is the defining document on our values and ethics, and it Societal contribution as a Value chain strengthening of Argentina, South Africa and Australia, and in 2020 provides a framework and sets requirements for the implementation COOPERATION responsible citizen and local procurement elections are planned in Guinea, Mali and Ghana. of key corporate policies and guidelines. Among other areas, it addresses fraud, bribery and corruption, conflicts of interest, gifts, Regulatory uncertainty hospitality and sponsorships, the use of company assets, privacy In South Africa, the industry, through the Minerals Council, is challenging aspects of the September 2018 Mining Charter III. The with government and confidentiality, disclosures and insider trading, all of which are elements that lead to whistle-blowing incidents. main issue is non-recognition of the continuing consequences of and communities Leveraging off existing Innovative business and capabilities for economic previous black empowerment transactions in respect of mining Several preventative initiatives continued in the year, with Obuasi operating model design succession right transfers and renewals. While agreement through engagement workshops for compliance champions held in the Americas, with is the preferred approach by the industry, the Minerals Council the Growth and Exploration team, and in the South Africa and lodged a legal application for a review of the aforementioned issue Continental Africa Regions. government level, and the socio-economic challenges of poverty and two other aspects of the Mining Charter III in March 2019. and unemployment, resulted in compromised relations between Duty of care training was presented to members of the Growth and A court date is expected during 2020. communities and the mining industry. Incidents of community Skills development, Exploration team from both the United States and Australia. The South America experienced a wave of political volatility fuelled opposition and grievances related to employment and land access localisation and talent Meaningful communication training included a focus on anti-bribery and anti-corruption, as well were prominent (see the contributing to resilient, self-sustaining management and engagement by a long-term decline in living standards, and exacerbated by as compliance with corporate policies such as conflicts of interest. global trends of high economic inequality and declining faith in communities section). 2 democratic institutions. The rise of anti-establishment politics Tax management Increasing community and NGO activism and scrutiny continued Regulatory compliance continued to swing between leftand right-wing governments, Tax management and the appropriate paying of taxes is integral in to escalate tensions and we saw in some areas increasingly AngloGold Ashanti is a responsible corporate citizen and promotes creating some political turbulence in the region. We will continue compliance. In the year, we exercised diligence and transparency volatile environments where stakeholders are demanding a greater transparency and respects the rule of law where ever it operates. to engage with the relevant government and external stakeholders in line with our group Tax Management Policy. This involved share of the benefits from resources. In Guinea, the mediation Our Group Compliance function continues to carry out compliance to mitigate this risk. promoting open and transparent reporting based on ICMM process, under the auspices of the CAO regarding human rights risk assessments across the group and provides guidance when principles and its position statement on transparency of mineral Heightened regulatory uncertainties remained a key investor abuse allegations related to the Area 1 Resettlement at Siguiri, possible breaches are found. Group Compliance reports to our revenues, the EITI and relevant mandatory reporting of payments risk in sub-Saharan Africa, where several countries have made continued and four agreements were signed in 2019, which are Social, Ethics and Sustainability Committee that aligns itself to to governments. changes to mining legislation in recent years. However, it is being implemented. and monitors the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and worth noting that in March 2020 Geita Gold mine received the Development’s recommendations on corruption and the 10 We are a member of the ICMM tax working group and are Increasing pressure from host governments and communities on consent of the Minister of Minerals to change the mining method principles set out by the UNGC. committed to adopting the GRI tax reporting standards which mining companies to overhaul local procurement processes and under our Special Mining License from open pit to underground come into play in 2020. We have complied with country-by-country systems remains a key challenge to the industry. We are committed We also comply with the Business Leadership South Africa’s method, subject to the requisite terms and conditions. In addition, reporting obligations (for more information see IR page 149) and to implementing our localisation policies and strategies. Business Integrity Pledge, which requires its members to actively challenges in some parts of the region include slow remittance of have developed in-country tax management policies to comply with value-added tax refunds and administrative fees introduced by combat corrupt practices wherever encountered and to have zero the specific requirements in several countries. 5 Major mining markets across Africa continued to face growing risks various government agencies. tolerance for corruption. from ASM and illegal mining activities in 2019, exacerbated by the We continue dialogue with our partners in the Democratic Republic stronger gold price and deteriorating socio-economic conditions. Whistle-blowing process In Brazil, two catastrophic collapses of TSFs in recent years have of Congo, where we have a stake in the Kibali joint venture with We continued to engage with governments and other stakeholders heavily influenced the shift in global environmental management We enlisted the services of an independent law firm to conduct Barrick Gold about the repatriation of funds held in the country. on our ASM formalisation programmes (see the ASM section). 3 regulations, which will inevitably lead to increased compliance and an external legal review of both the whistle-blowing policy and operational costs. The Brazilian operations continued to accelerate Our actions the broader whistle-blowing process. This was to ensure that our the transition towards compliance with the requirements of new whistle-blowing policy is aligned with international best practice. In We continue to proactively manage the complex and evolving local laws and regulations (for more information, please see the response to the Australian Whistle-blowing Act, Group Compliance legislative and political landscape in order to ensure AngloGold https://www.anglogoldashanti.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/07/ AngloGold Ashanti TSF disclosure). 1 and our Legal team in Australia drafted a whistle-blowing policy (in 4 Ashanti is a reliable partner in its working relationships with its key COE_A4ENGLISH.pdf line with the group policy), to address the specific requirements of In 2019, increasing socio-political risk and community disruptions stakeholders. Using a common government relations framework 5 www.aga-reports.com/18/ir the Australian Act. continued to escalate globally. Political instability at a local that is actively translated into relevant actions and outcomes remains a key business driver. WE PROMOTE TRANSPARENCY https://thevault.exchange/?get_group_doc=143/1560011239-AngloG In our endeavour to understand global normative frameworks, 1 oldAshantiMineTailingsDisclosurecertifiedbytheChairmanandChiefExe cutiveOfficer.pdf key national legislative policies, political environments and their current and future impacts on our business, we have reviewed our 2 Page 23 – Contributing to resilient, self-sustaining communities government relations operational model and strategic frameworks 3 Page 35 – Artisanal and small-scale minine (legal and illegal) to further strengthen our engagement with governments. a n d r e s p e c t t h e r u l e o f l a w w h e r e e v e r w e o p e r a t e. PAGE 40 PAGE 41 2019 <SR> ABOUT ANGLOGOLD ASHANTI LEADERSHIP MESSAGES OUR STRATEGY MATERIAL ISSUES COMPLIANCE INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE REPORT for selected sustainability disclosures and key performance indicators reported in SECTION 5 AngloGold Ashanti Limited’s Sustainability Report for the year ended 31 December 2019 COMPLIANCE To the directors of AngloGold Ashanti Limited reference to the International Council on Mining and Metals Our Conclusion Sustainable Development Framework: Assurance Procedure (ICMM Information Disclosure Requirements) and the Global Reasonable assurance Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards; and In our opinion,: • AngloGold Ashanti’s’ assertion that the Report is in accordance • In relation to the selected sustainability KPIs and related with the core-level Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards. disclosures identified in the subject matter paragraph below (the sustainability information), the sustainability information as This engagement was conducted by a multidisciplinary team presented in AngloGold Ashanti Limited’s (AngloGold Ashanti’s) including environmental, social and assurance specialists with Sustainability Report for the year ended 31 December 2019 relevant experience in sustainability, carbon footprint reporting and (the Report), is prepared, in all material respects, in accordance sustainability reporting assurance. with AngloGold Ashanti management’s internally developed measurement and reporting criteria applied to prepare Subject matter that information. Reasonable assurance • In relation to AngloGold Ashanti’s reporting in relation to the Our reasonable assurance engagement was performed in respect of ICMM Information Disclosure Requirements for Subject Matter 3, the following sustainability information as presented in the Report: AngloGold Ashanti has implemented systems and approaches • Sustainability information disclosed with reference to the ICMM We e n g a g e d E r n s t & Yo u n g to manage its material sustainable development risks and Requirements for Subject Matter 4 (AngloGold Ashanti’s reported opportunities in respect of the sustainability information in all performance for a selection of identified material Sustainable to undertake an assurance material respects. Development (SD) risks and opportunities), as set out in engagement for selected and Annexure A and prepared in accordance with management’s criteria; and sustainability key performance Limited assurance • The ICMM Information Disclosure Requirements in respect of Based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence Subject Matter 3 (Existence and status of implementation of indicators (KPIs) and related we have obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes systems and approaches that AngloGold Ashanti is using to disclosures in the AngloGold us to believe: manage selected identified material SD risks and opportunities’). • In relation to the selected sustainability KPIs and related Ashanti Sustainability disclosures identified in the subject matter paragraph below Limited assurance Our limited assurance engagement was performed in respect of the Report 2019. This was done (limited assurance sustainability information), that the limited assurance sustainability information as presented in the following limited assurance sustainability information as presented in the Report: with reference to ICMM Report is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with AngloGold Ashanti management’s internally developed • Sustainability information disclosed with reference to the ICMM requirements contained measurement and reporting criteria applied to prepare Requirements for Subject Matter 4 (Reported performance that information. for a selection of identified material risks and opportunities), in the ICMM Sustainable • In relation to AngloGold Ashanti’s reporting in relation to the as set out in Annexure A and prepared in accordance with Development Framework: ICMM Information Disclosure Requirements for Subject Matter management’s criteria. 1, that AngloGold Ashanti’s sustainability policies are not aligned • The ICMM Information Disclosure Requirements in respect of: Assurance Procedure in all material respects to ICMM’s 10 SD Principles and any • Subject Matter 1 (Alignment of AngloGold Ashanti’s mandatory requirements set out in ICMM Position Statements. (ICMM Requirements) and sustainability policies to ICMM’s 10 SD Principles and any mandatory requirements in ICMM Position Statements); and • In relation to AngloGold Ashanti’s reporting in relation to the t h e G R I S t a n d a r d s. ICMM Information Disclosure Requirements for Subject Matter • Subject Matter 2 (AngloGold Ashanti’s material SD risks and 2, that AngloGold Ashanti has not disclosed, in all material opportunities based on its own review of the business and the respects, its material risks and opportunities based on its own views and expectations of its stakeholders’). review of the business and the views and expectations of its • AngloGold Ashanti’s self-declared assertion that the Report is stakeholders In relation to AngloGold Ashanti’s self-declared “in-accordance with” the core-level GRI Standards. assertion on page 11 of the Report that the Report is presented “in accordance with” the core-level GRI Standards, that This sustainability information and limited assurance sustainability AngloGold Ashanti has not complied in all material respects information is presented in the Report marked with the symbols with the relevant GRI Standard requirements for making or respectively on the relevant pages of the Report where they that assertion. appear. Management’s criteria applied to report the information are set out in the Report can be found at www.aga-reports.com/19/sr Ernst & Young Inc. (EY) has undertaken an assurance engagement in respect of the following information as reported in AngloGold The scope of our work was limited to the matters stated above, Ashanti Limited’s (AngloGold Ashanti’s) Sustainability Report for the and did not include coverage of data sets or information unrelated year ended 31 December 2019 (the Report): to the data and information underlying the specified sustainability • The sustainability information and limited assurance sustainability information; nor did it include information reported outside of the Cerro Vanguardia information described below and in Appendix A, presented in Report, comparisons against historical data, or management’s the Report in accordance with management’s criteria and with forward-looking statements. PAGE 42 PAGE 43 2019 <SR> ABOUT ANGLOGOLD ASHANTI LEADERSHIP MESSAGES OUR STRATEGY MATERIAL ISSUES COMPLIANCE INDEPEND ENT ASSURANCE REPORT CON TIN UED Directors’ Responsibilities Auditors issued by the Independent Regulatory Board for Auditors, and experience of AngloGold Ashanti’s sustainability/sustainable the AngloGold Ashanti’s external reporting on material You are responsible for the selection, preparation and presentation which includes independence and other requirements founded on development performance. sustainability issues: of the sustainability information and the limited assurance fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence • Governance and accountability arrangements for and due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour. Limited Assurance sustainability information in the Report in accordance with the reporting the sustainability information, including adoption Our responsibility is to perform our limited assurance engagement criteria that management has specified as the basis for reporting of governance practices aligned to the King IV Code In accordance with International Standard on Quality Control 1, to express our conclusion on whether anything has come to our that information, and for ensuring those criteria are made available Principles and recommended practices for ensuring the Quality Control for Firms that Perform Audits and Reviews of attention that causes us to believe that the limited assurance to the Report users as applicable in each case. integrity of external reports; Financial Statements, and other Assurance and Related Service sustainability information described above is not prepared, in all Engagements, we maintain a comprehensive system of quality material respects, in accordance with management’s criteria for • Governance oversight of management’s process to identify You are also responsible for the identification of stakeholders, control including documented policies and procedures regarding those KPIs and in relation to management’s assertion that the AngloGold Ashanti’s material sustainability issues, and stakeholder information requirements, material issues and commitments with respect to sustainability performance; for the compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and Report is in accordance with the core-level GRI Standards. to establish performance targets for AngloGold Ashanti’s selection of appropriate criteria as the basis for reporting that applicable legal and regulatory requirements. material sustainability issues and monitor progress made to We have performed our limited assurance engagement in achieving those targets; sustainability information; and for the design, implementation Our Responsibility accordance with the terms of reference for this engagement agreed and maintenance of effective internal controls sufficient to enable • Management’s processes for reporting progress on We have performed our assurance engagement in accordance with with AngloGold Ashanti, including performing the engagement preparation and presentation of the selected sustainability KPIs and AngloGold Ashanti’s sustainability issues to the AngloGold the terms of this engagement as agreed with AngloGold Ashanti, in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance related disclosures in the Report free from material misstatement, Ashanti’s Board and internal assurance applied, including including performing the engagement in accordance with the Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised), Assurance Engagements whether due to fraud or error. for the sustainability information; International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information (Revised), Assurance Engagements other than the Audits or Reviews and ISAE 3410 Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas • The basis of preparation used for reporting the In relation to application of the GRI Standards to preparation of the Report, the directors are responsible for ensuring that the Report is of Historical Financial Information and ISAE 3410, Assurance Statements, issued by the International Auditing and Assurance sustainability information, including criteria, and reporting prepared in accordance with the GRI Reporting Principles and the Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements, both issued by Standards Board. This Standard requires that we plan and perform definitions applied; and core-level GRI Standards. the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. These our engagement to obtain limited assurance about whether the • The control environment, information systems and relevant Standards require that we plan and perform our engagement in limited assurance sustainability information as presented in the control activities applied to compiling information from Inherent limitations relation to the matters described above to obtain assurance (either Report is free from material misstatement. relevant data sources for reporting the sustainability Inherent limitations of assurance engagements include use of limited or reasonable assurance, as applicable) that, as presented in information, and for monitoring the integrity of the A limited assurance engagement undertaken in accordance with judgement and selective testing of data, which means that it is the Report, they are free from material misstatement. information presented in the Report (but not for purpose ISAE 3000 (Revised) and ISAE 3410, involves assessing the possible that fraud, error or non-compliance may occur and not be of evaluating the design of particular control activities, Reasonable assurance suitability in the circumstances of AngloGold Ashanti’s use of the detected in the course of performing the engagement. Accordingly, obtaining evidence about their implementation or testing Our responsibility is to perform the reasonable assurance criteria specified as the basis of preparation used for the limited there is some risk that a material misstatement may remain their operating effectiveness); engagement to express our opinion on the sustainability information assurance sustainability information presented in the Report, undetected. Further, our assurance engagement is not designed to identified above. assessing the risks of material misstatement thereof, whether due • Evaluated whether the sustainability information within detect fraud or error that is immaterial. to fraud or error, responding to the assessed risks as necessary in the engagement scope, as presented in the Report are Carbon emissions quantification is subject to inherent uncertainty A reasonable assurance engagement in accordance with ISAE the circumstances, and evaluating the overall presentation of the consistent with our overall knowledge and experience because of incomplete scientific knowledge used to determine 3000 (Revised) and ISAE 3410 involves assessing the suitability sustainability information in the Report. of sustainability management and performance at emissions factors and the values needed to combine emissions of in the circumstances of AngloGold Ashanti’s basis of preparation AngloGold Ashanti. and management criteria applied to report the sustainability A limited assurance engagement is substantially less in scope than a different gases. • Based on results obtained from our procedures performed information as disclosed in the Report. The engagement also reasonable assurance engagement in relation to both risk assessment procedures, including the understanding of internal control, and the (see below for reasonable and limited assurance elements There are additional inherent risks associated with assurance involves performing procedures to obtain sufficient, appropriate procedures performed in response to the assessed risks. of the engagement), prepared our assurance statement engagements performed for non-financial information given the evidence about the quantified sustainability information presented for inclusion in the Report. The format and content of characteristics of the subject matter and associated with the in the Report in accordance with the basis of preparation and Summary of work performed our assurance statement aligns with the requirements of compilation of source data using definitions and methods for applicable management criteria, including reasonableness of the The procedures we performed were based on our professional ISAE3000 (Revised) and ISAE3410. determining, calculating, and estimating such information that are estimates and assumptions used by AngloGold Ashanti. The developed internally by management. nature, timing and extent of the procedures selected depend on judgement and included inquiries, observation of processes Reasonable assurance the practitioner’s judgement, including assessment of the risks of performed, inspection of documents, analytical procedures, evaluating • Sustainability information (per Appendix A): The absence of a significant body of established practice on material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error and responding the appropriateness of quantification methods and reporting policies, which to draw, allows for the selection of different but acceptable and agreeing or reconciling with underlying records. • Conducted physical site visits at and remote reviews of to the assessed risks as necessary in the circumstances. In making measurement techniques which can result in materially different selected AngloGold Ashanti operations to understand how those risk assessments we considered internal control relevant to measurements and can impact comparability. The precision of Given the circumstances of the engagement, we completed the site level data was collated and reported to the Group. AngloGold Ashanti’s preparation and presentation of the sustainability different measurement techniques may also vary. Qualitative following procedures as part of the work we performed as the basis information in the Report for the purpose of determining the nature • Interviewed management and senior executives to obtain interpretations of relevance, materiality and the accuracy of data for our assurance statement: and extent of our assurance procedures. Our consideration of an understanding of the internal control environment, risk are subject to individual assumptions and judgements. In particular, internal controls was solely for the stated purpose, and did not assessment process and information systems relevant to • Procedures for both the reasonable and limited assurance where the information relies on factors derived by independent third extend to assessing the effectiveness of those internal controls for reporting the sustainability information as well as identified elements of the engagement: parties, our assurance work has not included examination of the any other purpose. Accordingly, we do not express any opinion or SD risks and opportunities; derivation of those factors and other third-party information. • Reviewed AngloGold Ashanti’s activities, processes and conclusion on the effectiveness of those internal controls. • Tested the processes and systems used to generate, documents at group-level that support the assertions and Our Independence and Quality Control claims made in the Report, including in respect of the collate, aggregate, monitor and report the sustainability A reasonable assurance engagement also involves evaluating the We have complied with the Code of Ethics for Professional overall presentation of the selected sustainability KPIs and related sustainability information that is within the engagement scope; information by: Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for disclosures in the Report, and whether the information presented • Interviewed management and senior executives to obtain • Testing the application of management’s criteria to the Accountants as well the Code of Professional Conduct for Registered in the Report is consistent with our findings, overall knowledge an understanding of the following matters as relevant to reported sustainability information on a sample basis; PAGE 44 PAGE 45 2019 <SR> ABOUT ANGLOGOLD ASHANTI LEADERSHIP MESSAGES OUR STRATEGY MATERIAL ISSUES COMPLIANCE INDEPEND ENT ASSURANCE REPORT CON TIN UED • Documenting process and controls in place to prevent Other Matters Appendix A: misstatement of data and testing these processes and controls Information relating to prior reporting periods has not been subject List of the selected sustainability disclosures and Key Performance Information (KPIs) that are within the scope of the on a sample basis; to assurance procedures. Our report does not extend to any assurance engagement • Performing analytical procedures to evaluate the relevant disclosures or assertions relating to future performance plans and/ data generation and reporting processes against or strategies disclosed in the Report. GRI Level of management’s criteria; Category Selected KPIs* disclosure assurance The maintenance and integrity of AngloGold Ashanti’s website • Inspecting supporting documentation on a sample basis Type of injury and rates of injury (including Injury Severity Rate) and is the responsibility of AngloGold Ashanti’s management. Our Employee safety 403-2 to corroborate the statements of management and senior number of work related fatalities procedures did not involve consideration of these matters and, executives in our interviews; accordingly we accept no responsibility for any changes to either • Evaluating the reasonableness and appropriateness of Occupational diseases (number of new Silicosis / TB / NIHL cases) 403-2 the sustainability information/limited assurance sustainability Employee and community significant estimates and judgements made by the directors information presented in the Report or to our independent in preparing the sustainability information; health issues Workers with high incidences or high risk of diseases related to their assurance report that may have occurred since the initial date of 403-3 • Established the existence of and documented the status of occupation (number of new Malaria cases & MLTIFR) presentation on AngloGold Ashanti’s website. implementation of systems and approaches that AngloGold Ashanti is using to manage selected identified material SD risks Restriction on use and liability Community investment (CSI) 201-1 and opportunities (ICMM Subject Matter 3). Our work has been undertaken to enable us to express our Contributing to Proportion of Senior Management hired from the local community at opinions and conclusions on the matters stated above in our report resilient, self-sustaining 202-2 Limited assurance significant locations of operation provided to the directors of AngloGold Ashanti in accordance with communities • Limited assurance sustainability information (per Appendix A): the terms of our engagement, and for no other purpose. Our report Proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant • Conducted physical site visits at and remote reviews of 204-1 is intended solely for the Directors of AngloGold Ashanti and should locations of operation selected AngloGold Ashanti operations to understand how site not be used by any other parties. level data was collated and reported to the Group. Energy intensity 302-3 To the fullest extent permitted by the law, we do not accept or • Interviewed management and senior executives to obtain assume liability to any party other than the Directors of AngloGold an understanding of the internal control environment, risk Ashanti, for our work, for this report, or for the conclusion we have Total water withdrawal by source 303-1 assessment process and information systems relevant to reached. We agree to the publication of this assurance report in reporting the limited assurance sustainability information as AngloGold Ashanti’s Sustainable Development Report for the year Operational sites owned, leased, managed in or adjacent to well as identified SD risks and opportunities; ending 31 December 2019, provided it is clearly understood by protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside 304-1 • Documented the processes and systems used to generate, recipients of the Report that they enjoy such receipt for information protected areas collate, aggregate, monitor and report the limited assurance only and that we accept no duty of care to them whatsoever in sustainability information by: respect of this report. Total greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 305-1 • Testing application of management’s criteria on a sample basis; Responsible 305-2 • Documenting the process and controls in place to prevent environmental misstatement of data; stewardship GHG emissions intensity 305-4 • Performing analytical procedures to evaluate the relevant data generation and reporting processes against management’s criteria; Total water discharge by quality and destination 306-1 • Inspecting supporting documentation on a sample basis to corroborate the statements of management and senior Total number and volume of significant spills 306-3 executives in our interviews; • Evaluating the reasonableness and appropriateness of Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonsignificant estimates and judgements made by the directors monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws 307-1 in preparing the limited assurance sustainability information; and regulations • Examined the GRI content index prepared by management to Total amounts of overburden, rock, tailings, and sludges and their assess whether management has complied with all the GRI MM3 associated risks Standards requirements for presenting the Report in accordance with the core-level GRI Standards, to obtain limited assurance about management’s assertion to that effect; • Reviewed AngloGold Ashanti’s policies and management Ernst & Young Inc. standards to determine their alignment with the ICMM’s 10 SD Dawid Petrus Venter Principles and Position Statements (ICMM Subject Matter 1); and Director • Evaluated processes to understand how AngloGold Ashanti Registered Auditor performs its own review of the business and of the views of tis 102 Rivonia Road stakeholders to assess its material SD risks and opportunities Sandton to inform its sustainable development reporting (ICMM Subject Matter 2). 27 March 2020 PAGE 46 PAGE 47 2019 <SR> ABOUT ANGLOGOLD ASHANTI LEADERSHIP MESSAGES OUR STRATEGY MATERIAL ISSUES COMPLIANCE INDEPEND ENT ASSURANCE REPORT CON TIN UED ADMINISTRATION AND CORPORATE INFORMATION GRI Level of AngloGold Ashanti Limited Directors Share Registrars Category Selected KPIs* disclosure assurance Registration No. 1944/017354/06 Executive South Africa Incorporated in the Republic of KPM Dushnisky§ (Chief Executive Officer) Computershare Investor Services (Pty) Limited Amount of land (owned, or managed) disturbed or rehabilitated MM1 South Africa KC Ramon^ (Chief Financial Officer) Rosebank Towers, 15 Biermann Avenue, Integrated closure Rosebank, 2196 planning Share codes: Non-executive (Private Bag X9000, Saxonwold, 2132) Number of operations with closure plans MM10 ISIN: ZAE000043485 SM Pityana^ (Chairman) South Africa JSE: ANG AM Ferguson* Telephone: 0861 100 950 (in SA) Number (and percentage) or company operating sites where ASM NYSE: AU AH Garner# Artisanal and small-scale Fax: +27 11 688 5218 takes place on, or adjacent to, the site; the associated risks and the MM8 ASX: AGG R Gasant^ mining (legal and illegal) E-mail: queries@computershare.co.za actions taken to manage and mitigate these risks GhSE: (Shares) AGA NP January-Bardill^ Website: www.computershare.com The extent to which grievance mechanisms were used to resolve GhSE: (GhDS) AAD NVB Magubane^ disputes relating to land use, customary rights of local communities MM7 M Ramos^ Australia JSE Sponsor: Employee, community and Indigenous Peoples, and the outcomes MDC Richter# Computershare Investor Services The Standard Bank of South Africa Limited and asset security RJ Ruston~ Pty Limited Sites where resettlement took place, including number of Auditors: JE Tilk§ Level 11, 172 St George’s Terrace MM9 households affected Ernst & Young Inc. Perth, WA 6000 * British § Canadian #American (GPO Box D182 Perth, WA 6840) Percentage of security personnel trained in the organisation’s Offices ~ Australian ^South African Australia policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights 410-1 Telephone: +61 8 9323 2000 Registered and Corporate (VPSHR) that are relevant to operation Officers Telephone: 1300 55 2949 76 Rahima Moosa Street Newtown 2001 Executive Vice President: General Counsel, (Australia only) Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject 412-1 Compliance and Company Secretary Fax: +61 8 9323 2033 to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments (PO Box 62117, Marshalltown 2107) South Africa ME Sanz Perez Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labour Ghana 414-1 Telephone: +27 11 637 6000 Respecting human rights practices / human rights impacts criteria Investor Relations contacts NTHC Limited Fax: +27 11 637 6624 Martco House Sabrina Brockman Number of grievances about human rights impacts / impacts on Off Kwame Nkrumah Avenue Australia Telephone: +1 646 880 4526 society filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance 103-2 PO Box K1A 9563 Airport AMP Building, Mobile: +1 646 379 2555 mechanisms Accra 140 St George’s Terrace E-mail: sbrockman@anglogoldashantina.com Ghana Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in Perth, WA 6000 Telephone: +233 302 235814/6 the supply chain and actions taken (3rd party incidents / injuries / 414-2 Yatish Chowthee (PO Box Z5046, Perth WA 6831) Fax: +233 302 229975 fatalities related to security interventions) Telephone: +27 11 637 6273 Australia Mobile: +27 78 364 2080 ADR Depositary Telephone: +61 8 9425 4600 Number of strikes and lockouts exceeding 1 weeks duration, E-mail: yrchowthee@anglogoldashanti.com MM4 Fax: +61 8 9425 4662 BNY Mellon (BoNY) Talent management, by country BNY Shareowner Services skills development and Fundisa Mgidi PO Box 30170 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning that Ghana employee relations Telephone: +27 11 637 6763 College Station, TX 77842-3170 support the continued employability of employees and assist them 404-2 Gold House, Mobile: +27 82 821 5322 United States of America in managing career endings Patrice Lumumba Road E-mail: fmgidi@anglogoldashanti.com Telephone: +1 866-244-4140 (PO Box 2665) Royalties and taxes paid to government in terms of Extractive (Toll free in USA) or 201-1 Accra, General e-mail enquiries Navigating regulatory Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) Principles +1 201 680 6825 (outside USA) Ghana Investors@anglogoldashanti.com and political uncertainty E-mail: ICMM Telephone: +233 303 773400 and risk Material SD risks and opportunities and views and expectations of shrrelations@cpushareownerservices.com Subject Fax: +233 303 778155 AngloGold Ashanti website stakeholders Website: www.mybnymdr.com Matter 2 www.anglogoldashanti.com Global BuyDIRECTSM * Note: AngloGold Ashanti’s measurement and reporting criteria applied to report this sustainability information in the 2019 Sustainable Development Report Company secretarial e-mail BoNY maintains a direct share purchase can be viewed at the following website link: http://www.rair-dev.co.za/AGA/sr/overview/this-report Companysecretary@anglogoldashanti.com and dividend reinvestment plan for ANGLOGOLD ASHANTI Telephone: +1-888-BNY-ADRS 4482/19 PAGE 48 PAGE 49 FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain statements contained in this document, other than environmental approvals, fluctuations in gold prices and exchange statements of historical fact, including, without limitation, those rates, (including as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic), the concerning the economic outlook for the gold mining industry, outcome of pending or future litigation proceedings, and business expectations regarding gold prices, production, total cash costs, and operational risk management. For a discussion of such risk all-in sustaining costs, all-in costs, cost savings and other operating factors, refer to AngloGold Ashanti’s annual reports on Form 20-F results, productivity improvements, growth prospects and outlook filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. of AngloGold Ashanti’s operations, individually or in the aggregate, These factors are not necessarily all of the important factors that including the achievement of project milestones, commencement could cause AngloGold Ashanti’s actual results to differ materially and completion of commercial operations of certain of AngloGold from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. Other Ashanti’s exploration and production projects and the completion unknown or unpredictable factors could also have material adverse of acquisitions, dispositions or joint venture transactions, AngloGold effects on future results. Consequently, readers are cautioned not Ashanti’s liquidity and capital resources and capital expenditures and to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. AngloGold the outcome and consequence of any potential or pending litigation Ashanti undertakes no obligation to update publicly or release any or regulatory proceedings or environmental health and safety issues, revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events or are forward-looking statements regarding AngloGold Ashanti’s circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events, except to the extent required by applicable law. operations, economic performance and financial condition. These forward-looking statements or forecasts involve known and unknown All subsequent written or oral forward-looking statements risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause AngloGold attributable to AngloGold Ashanti or any person acting on its behalf Ashanti’s actual results, performance or achievements to differ are qualified by the cautionary statements herein. materially from the anticipated results, performance or achievements expressed or implied in these forward-looking statements. Although Non-GAAP financial measures AngloGold Ashanti believes that the expectations reflected in such This communication may contain certain “Non-GAAP” financial forward-looking statements and forecasts are reasonable, no measures. AngloGold Ashanti utilises certain Non-GAAP assurance can be given that such expectations will prove to have performance measures and ratios in managing its business. Nonbeen correct. Accordingly, results could differ materially from those GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not set out in the forward-looking statements as a result of, among as an alternative for, the reported operating results or cash flow other factors, changes in economic, social and political and market from operations or any other measures of performance prepared conditions, (including as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic), in accordance with IFRS. In addition, the presentation of these the success of business and operating initiatives, changes in the measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures other regulatory environment and other government actions, including companies may use. www.anglogoldashanti.com www.aga-reports.com
