2019 Environment, Social and Governance (ESG) Report Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix About Scotiabank Scotiabank is a leading bank in the Americas. We are guided by our purpose, for every future . TM We help our customers, their families and their communities achieve success through a broad range of advice, products and services, including personal and commercial banking, wealth management and private banking, corporate and investment banking and capital markets. With a team of more than 100,000 employees and assets of over $1 trillion (as at October 31, 2019), Scotiabank trades on the Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX: BNS) and New York Stock Exchange (NYSE: BNS). For more information, please visit www.scotiabank.com and follow us on Twitter @ScotiabankViews. How we create value: (as at October 31, 2019) Employees Customers Shareholders 100,000+ employees $592 billion in loans 13.9% Return on Equity $8.44 billion salaries and benefits $3 billion committed to women$4.2 billion in dividends led businesses in Canada in the first $78.1 million invested in training three years of The Scotiabank Women and development InitiativeTM, launched in December 2018 Communities Environment Suppliers Nearly $100 million community Commited to mobilize $100 Purchase goods and services investment through donations, billion by 2025 to reduce the from approximately 15,000 sponsorships and other forms of assistance impacts of climate change suppliers globally $3.8 billion total taxes paid 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 2 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix We are here for every future TM A future where our customers and employees have opportunities to reach their fullest potential, and communities and the natural world are healthy and vibrant. We know that the long-term success of our Bank is fundamentally intertwined with the futures of those around us. When the world around us thrives, we are better positioned to create economic, social and environmental value. And that, in turn, benefits everyone. Since our founding in 1832, we have enabled progress. Today we are a leading Bank in the Americas. The size and scope of our international operations gives us a greater opportunity than ever to help shape the future of our world. We focus on areas where Scotiabank can have the biggest impact – enabling customers, employees and communities to realize their futures, mobilizing finance to address important social and environmental challenges and building trust by acting with integrity in everything we do – in order to create a more sustainable world. 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 3 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix Contents Introduction ESG at a Glance. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 About This Report. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 Messages from Our CEO and Chair. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 Global Trends . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 ESG Performance. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 Sustainable Development Goals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 ESG Awards and Recognition. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 Environment Our Climate Commitments. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 ESG Focused Lending and Investment. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22 Social Investing in Our Employees. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27 Empowering Our Customers. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32 Investing in Our Communities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38 Governance Trust from the Top of Our Business. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48 Advancing Human Rights. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51 Protecting Our Customers. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55 Appendix Material ESG Topics and Stakeholder Engagement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59 Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Index . . . . . . . . . . . 62 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Index. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63 Sustainable Development Goals and Target Index. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64 Global Reporting Initiative Index. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65 Sustainability Accounting Standards Board Index . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 4 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix ESG at a Glance Throughout 2019, we continued to improve our environmental, social and governance (ESG) practices. ENVIRONMENT y Announced Scotiabank’s Climate Commitments, including our commitment to mobilize $100 billion by 2025 to reduce the impacts of climate change y Issued USD$500 million Green Bond of which proceeds are used to fund eligible assets under the Scotiabank Green Bond Framework, including renewable energy, green buildings and public transportation y Reduced our greenhouse gas emissions by 17% from a 2016 baseline, achieving our target of 10% early; established a new target of 25% by 2025 y Implemented a Climate Change Risk Assessment tool in corporate and commercial lending to assess the physical and transition risks clients may face due to climate change SOCIAL y 35% of VP+ roles held by women globally, and 39% in Canada y Employee engagement score increased to 81% y Launched three new programs to help upskill and reskill employees for the digital economy: LinkedIn Learning, Pluralsight and the Digital Discovery Zone y Committed $3 billion in capital over the first three years of The Scotiabank Women Initiative (launched in December 2018) to advance TM women-led businesses in Canada y Made over 500,000 follow-up calls to retail customers across Canada, the Caribbean, Chile, Colombia, Mexico, Peru, Uruguay and Central America through our customer experience and Net Promoter System – The Pulse y Contributed nearly $100 million globally in communities where we operate in the form of donations, sponsorships and other forms of assistance GOVERNANCE y For the second consecutive year, ranked by the Dow Jones Sustainability Index as within the top 1% of global financial institutions for corporate governance y 38% of directors on our Board are women y Strengthened our commitment to Human Rights by being the first Canadian bank to sign onto both the UN LGBTI Standards of Conduct for Business and the UN Women’s Empowerment Principles y Published a new Privacy Commitment that formalizes the principles of our approach to using customer information responsibly and keeping customers’ data safe 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 5 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix About This Report Scotiabank’s 2019 Environment, Social and Governance (ESG) Companion Documents Report outlines our performance related to ESG factors that The following documents are companion are important to our stakeholders. We continue to engage pieces to the ESG report: with stakeholders on these topics to inform our approach to ESG and will continue to report on our progress. Scotiabank has used the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) framework for this annual report since 2005. This report is prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards, fulfilling the requirements of 2019 Annual 2020 Management a Core report. This report marks the first time we are voluntarily Report Proxy Circular linking our ESG reporting to the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) standards. Scotiabank reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. This report also constitutes our UNGC Communication on Progress and describes the actions we are taking to integrate the Ten Principles into our 2019 Public Accountability Statement business strategy, culture and operations. Fundamental to this 2018 Employment 2019 Public commitment is our global Human Rights Statement and approach. Equity Narrative Accountability www.scotiabank.com/sustainability Report – Canada Statement (PAS) – Canada Scope of Reporting ESG Reporting Indexes: • Task Force on Climate-related The scope of this report and associated GRI Index includes Financial Disclosures information for fiscal 2019 (November 1, 2018 October 31, 2019) for Scotiabank and its fully owned or major operating subsidiaries • UN Global Compact Communication globally, unless otherwise stated. All currency is stated in Canadian on Progress dollars unless otherwise noted, and may be subject to currency • Global Reporting Initiative exchange rate fluctuations. • Sustainability Accounting Standards Board We are supporters, signatories or members of the following: * *1832 Asset Management, MD Financial Management and Jarislowsky, Fraser Limited are signatories of PRI 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 6 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix A Message from Our President and CEO Since the Bank’s founding in 1832, Scotiabankers have aspired to enable a better, more prosperous future for our customers and the communities in which we live and work. In fact, we recently rearticulated our Bank’s purpose to reflect our commitment to delivering for every future. It is a responsibility that we take seriously. In particular, over the past year, we have undertaken many critically important efforts that demonstrate our dedication to sustainable business practices. Scotiabank’s Climate Commitments are a good example. They are our pledge to all of our stakeholders to proactively address the challenges of our changing climate and the opportunities that will arise from a transition to a low-carbon economy. One of our commitments is to mobilize $100 billion by 2025 to reduce the impacts of climate change. To that end, we issued Scotiabank’s first Green Bond, allocating USD$500 million over three-and-ahalf years toward environment-related assets including renewable energy, green buildings, and public transportation. In addition, we report annually to the CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project) and continue to implement the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) in both this report and our 2019 Annual Report. I am also proud to recognize our support for women-owned, women-led businesses in Canada through The Scotiabank Women InitiativeTM, launched in December 2018. We believe that all business leaders should have access to the capital and advice they need to build a thriving business. By any measure, this initiative has been a tremendous success. We have committed $3 billion in funding for women-led businesses in the first three years of the program. We are also committed to women within Scotiabank’s business. Globally, 35% of our VP+ leaders, and 39% in Canada are women. We continue to make progress in this area and will maintain our focus on enabling women to succeed in each of the countries where we operate. Our commitment to diversity was further demonstrated by signing onto the UN LGBTI Standards of Conduct for Business, which support the Bank’s efforts to honour the human rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual, trans, and intersex people. These initiatives support Scotiabank in operationalizing our Human Rights Statement, which was updated in 2019. I want to close by sincerely thanking all Scotiabankers for their generosity over the past year. In 2019, Scotiabankers contributed more than 350,000 volunteer hours to causes they care deeply about, and Scotiabank contributed nearly $100 million globally through donations, sponsorships and other forms of assistance. Looking forward, we will continue to be a leading and positive force in our communities for every future. Brian J. Porter President and Chief Executive Officer 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 7 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix A Message from Our Chair The Bank’s purpose, for every future, articulates how we approach decision-making across Scotiabank, including the decisions made by your Board of Directors. The Board’s deliberations reflect an acute awareness of the positive impact that Scotiabank has on the communities in which we operate, including as an employer of more than 100,000 Scotiabankers. Positioning the Bank for success requires us to carefully balance the interests of our diverse stakeholders so that we can continue to drive long term value for the Bank. Governance and oversight of the bank’s economic, environmental and social impacts and risks is a shared Board responsibility and is also overseen by each Board committee, a reflection of the complexity and inter-connectivity of these issues. The Board dedicated a significant amount of time to ESG issues in 2019. Not only do ESG issues permeate decision-making at the Bank, they also present opportunities for Scotiabank to proactively demonstrate how we are addressing related challenges and opportunities in society more broadly. The Board and its committees have been involved each step of the way, including reviewing the Bank’s renewed purpose and our strategic ESG priorities. Scotiabank has taken leading positions on climate change, diversity and inclusion, and the promotion and safeguarding of human rights. Through all of its decisions, the Board is committed to safeguarding the trust placed in Scotiabank as a leading bank in the Americas, including keeping the Bank safe and having strong governance processes that foster robust decision-making. Taken together, these actions will enable our customers, employees and communities to thrive. We are for every future. As we face the challenges and embrace the opportunities that the next decade brings, your Board remains anchored by the same belief that has guided Scotiabank since its founding days – we are stewards of the trust our stakeholders have placed in us. Aaron W. Regent Chair of the Board of Directors 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 8 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix Global Global trends are transforming our business – how we serve our customers, how we work and how we interact with communities and the environment. The scale Trends and complexity of these global trends present both opportunities and challenges for sustainable development. By prioritizing and taking action on these issues, our business can drive economic growth and positive social impact. Guided by our Climate Commitments, we aim to play an active role in supporting the transition to a low-carbon, more resilient economy by accelerating climate solutions through our core business activities and enabling our customers, employees and communities to thrive. We are committed to building and Our mission is to be a digital leader, which protecting trust by acting with integrity means we have a tremendous opportunity in everything that we do. With every to bring relevant, appropriate solutions to decision we make, we consider the Climate customers across our footprint. Our focus corresponding environmental, social change on digital transformation builds value for and economic impacts. both our Bank and our customers. Climate change is significantly impacting natural systems and communities across the globe. Efforts to address climate change Rising will require a significant Digital mobilization of capital. expectations transformation of corporations Technology continues Stakeholders expect to transform many facets of businesses to demonstrate a daily life and banking has been higher purpose and create especially affected by the Trends positive impacts advent of digital in society. technologies. shaping our Emerging business The economies opportunity gap The opportunities available Economic influence in many communities is shifting with a rapidly remain unequal despite growing middle class in emerging markets. Shifting global economic growth. demographics The average age of populations in the developed world is rising. Socially conscious To respond to global shifts in economic Millennials are now of voting By providing access to financial influence, we are equipping people in age and constitute much products, services and advice, we can emerging economies with tools, training of the labour force. help customers improve their financial and knowledge to build their financial futures, grow their businesses and futures. By doing so, we are helping build support the financial well-being of a better, more inclusive economy. individuals, families and communities. When young people in the community succeed, families, businesses and entire societies are positioned to benefit for years to come. In order to attract and retain clients, access top talent and enhance the Bank’s reputation, we must demonstrate socially responsible business practices. 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 9 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix ESG Performance We aim to track, monitor and report on ESG performance metrics most relevant to our business and to our stakeholders. ENVIRONMENT Metric 2017 2018 2019 Target Capital mobilized towards reducing the n/a n/a $16 billion $100 billion by 2025 impacts of climate change % decrease in Scope 1 and 2 GHG Exceeded target of 10% by 2021 7.74 8.87 17.40 emissions from 2016 (Global) New target of 25% by 2025 Greenhouse gas emissions (Global, tonnes CO2e) Scope 1 15,527 15,729 15,221 Scope 2 114,183 111,990 99,393 Scope 3 18,060 20,020 20,168 Total emissions (Scope 1, 2, 3)1 147,770 147,740 134,782 Increase to $30 per tonne CO2e Internal Carbon Price $15 $15 $15 in 2020, rising to $60 by 2022 SOCIAL Metric 2017 2018 2019 Target INVESTING IN OUR EMPLOYEES Employee engagement score (Global, %) 79 79 81 ≥74 (Financial Services Norm) % of women in Executive roles 32 35 34 (1 or 2 reporting lines from the CEO) % of women in Senior Management (VP+): Global 33 34 35 ≥37% in 2021 Canada 39 39 39 ≥45% in 2021 International (excludes Canada) 20 21 24 % of employees with disabilities (Canada)2 3.8 (2016) 3.7 (2017) 3.4 (2018) % of visible minority employees (Canada)3 28.4 (2016) 26.7 (2017) 24.1 (2018) % of Aboriginal people employees (Canada)4 1.2 (2016) 1.1 (2017) 0.9 (2018) Total investment in employee training and 70 74 78 career development (millions) Voluntary employee turnover rate5 13 16 12 % of employees that think Scotiabank is 88 86 92 socially responsible 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 10 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix ESG Performance SOCIAL Metric 2017 2018 2019 Target EMPOWERING OUR CUSTOMERS Increase in Small Business loans (% year9.2 11.4 8 Increase by 14% in 2020 over-year growth in value authorized; Canada) Increase in access to banking for Aboriginal communities (% year-over-year customer 7 10 10.6 Increase by 11% in 2020 growth; Canada) Customer Experience – Number of follow-up calls made to retail customers 200,000 430,000 525,000 (approximate) Increase in access to banking – Number of Scotiabank Peru customers with Billatera 90,000 104,000 104,500 Movil (BIM) product (enabling mobile banking 6 free from cell and data charges) (approximate) Increase in access to banking – Total Colpatria 366,897 403,612 448,000 Zero-Fee accounts opened in Colombia INVESTING IN COMMUNITIES Direct 70% of community % of community investment to support 60 70 70 investment toward young young people (Global) people in the community Total value of community investment $80 $80 $100 (approximate, millions)7 Total number of hours volunteered 403,500 371,000 350,595 by employees GOVERNANCE Metric 2017 2018 2019 Target Gender diversity of the Board (% women)8 33 38 38 At least 30% each gender % of employees that attested to the 100 100 100 100% Scotiabank Code of Conduct9 Inclusion in the Dow Jones Sustainability Not met Achieved Achieved Maintain inclusion in the Index (DJSI) North America DJSI North American Index Board independence 13 of 15 14 of 16 12 of 13 (# of independent directors)10 1  alculated in accordance with GHG Protocol of the World C 6 As of November 12 Resources Institute and the World Business Council for Sustainable 7 T  hrough donations, sponsorships and other forms of assistance. Development, including emissions factors for electricity purchases, In 2019, we updated the methodology to include non-cash natural gas and fuel. Scope 2 emissions are calculated using a investments and other cash investments not previously included. location-based method. Scope 3 emissions include business travel. Refer to pp. 18 and 72 in the GRI index for additional data and notes. 8 As of October 31 2,3,4  ata from previous year’s Employment Equity Report, available D 9 As of December 2. Excludes approved exceptions. on our website. Representation is disclosed on a voluntary survey 10 As of October 31 basis and is reflective of Canadian-based employee population responses only. 5 V  oluntary employee turnover rate includes Resignations and Retirements and excludes casual staff and affiliates and subsidiaries where breakdowns are not available due to different reporting systems. 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 11 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix The 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and associated targets, adopted by all UN member states in 2015, collectively create an agenda to transform the world by overcoming barriers to economic, social and environmental progress by 2030. Of the 17 SDGs, we identified six toward which we can make the greatest contribution. How We Contribute TARGET 1.2 We develop and offer financial products, services, education and training to meet and respond to the unique needs of a diverse customer base. This includes no or low-fee TARGET 1.3 accounts in several key markets to promote financial inclusion among low-income, TARGET 1.4 seniors, students and the underbanked. We also make charitable contributions to a variety of organizations who are working to address the root causes of financial hardship. TARGET 3.2 We provide benefits and resources to help our employees and their families lead healthy, balanced lives. We promote long-term mental and physical health in our communities, TARGET 3.4 directing 70% of our philanthropic contributions toward investments in young people, TARGET 3.8 and we encourage employee volunteering and donations with matching programs. TARGET 4.1 We work to promote financial knowledge and education across our international footprint, both directly with customers and in partnership with other organizations. TARGET 4.3 By educating our employees, customers and youth about financial responsibility today, TARGET 4.4 we seek to enable everyone to realize their financial goals. Thousands of training TARGET 4.5 offerings are available to our employees, and we provide financial support to a variety of academic institutions across our international footprint. TARGET 5.1 We actively work to remove barriers for women in the workplace and have set targets to ensure the advancement of women in leadership, including representation in VP+ roles TARGET 5.5 globally and in Canada. Across our key markets including in Canada, Colombia, Chile and Peru, we lead initiatives to support the advancement of women in business and the economy. TARGET 8.2 Through salaries, benefits and taxes paid, Scotiabank makes a significant contribution to employment and economic growth across our footprint. From 2018, we have TARGET 8.3 committed to invest $250 million over 10 years to provide employees with the tools TARGET 8.5 and opportunities they need to adapt and thrive in the digital economy. For our TARGET 8.6 business customers of all sizes, we offer products, services and solutions designed to help them grow prosperously in their communities. We also have measures in place to TARGET 8.7 address equal pay for equal work, increase youth employment, protect labour rights in TARGET 8.8 our business and supply chain (including modern slavery and human trafficking) and improve access to financial services. TARGET 8.10 TARGET 13.1 Scotiabank’s Climate Commitments outline five areas that the Bank is focused on to address climate change. These commitments position us to play an essential role in the TARGET 13.2 transition to a low-carbon, more resilient economy and help accelerate climate solutions TARGET 13.3 through our core business activities. Learn more about how we are making progress toward the SDGs and associated targets. 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 12 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix ESG Awards and Recognition Scotiabank is proud to be recognized for our ESG performance through awards, inclusion on global sustainability indices and other recognitions. Great Place to Work Awards Awards and Recognition in Canada and Abroad Named Bank of the Year by The Banker magazine in Canada, the Bahamas and Trinidad and Tobago Scotiabank was recognized internationally as a Great One of 30 companies recognized with the Place to Work in 2019 Socially Responsible Company Award granted by the Mexican Center for Philanthropy (CEMEFI) Best Diversity Program, as well as the Absence Top 25 Best Workplaces in the World Management Award, recognized by Benefits #6 Best Workplace in Latin America Canada’s 2019 Workplace Benefits Awards (for the Multinational category) 3rd on the 2019 LinkedIn Top Companies #4 in Peru (For companies with more than in Canada 1,000 employees) #1 Best Mobile Banking App experience from One of the Best Workplaces in Financial Services JD Power Canada and Insurance in Canada 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 13 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix Environment Published in late 2019, Scotiabank’s Climate Commitments are the Bank’s formal pledge to our stakeholders to proactively work with the risks and opportunities presented by our changing climate. We are well underway on our journey to mobilize $100 billion by 2025 to reduce the impacts of climate change through lending, investing, financing and advisory, as well as investments in the Bank’s direct operations and communities. Scotiabank is committed to transparency on climate-related risks and will continue to align our climate-related disclosures with the recommendations of the Task Force on Climaterelated Financial Disclosures (TCFD). We have taken steps this year to further integrate climate change risks into the credit process. Scotiabank is working to decarbonize our own operations, this year doubling our internal carbon price and increasing our emissions reduction goal. Finally, we are committed to collaboration and dialogue within and beyond our business to increase the level of cooperation and ambition for climate action. We are here for every future, to enable our clients and partners to navigate the climate challenge and seize the opportunities that lie ahead. Daniel Moore Group Head & Chief Risk Officer 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 14 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix Environment for the future of our planet 2019 Highlights Announced Scotiabank’s Climate Commitments, including our commitment to mobilize $100 billion by 2025 to reduce the impacts of climate change Issued USD$500 million Green Bond of which Looking Forward proceeds are used to fund eligible assets under Continue to operationalize Scotiabank’s the Scotiabank Green Bond Framework, including Climate Commitments including establishing renewable energy, green buildings and public a Climate Change Centre of Excellence transportation Increase our internal price on carbon to $30 per Reduced our greenhouse gas emissions by 17% from tonne of CO2e in 2020, from $15, and further a 2016 baseline, achieving our target of 10% early increase to $60 by 2022 Implemented a Climate Change Risk Assessment Reduce greenhouse gas emissions by our new target tool in corporate and commercial lending to assess of 25% by 2025 (from 2016) the physical and transition risks clients may face due to climate change 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 15 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix Our Climate Commitments Why it Matters Climate-related factors are significantly impacting natural systems and communities across the globe and pose one of the most significant risks to the global economy and society as a whole. As a Bank, we have both a responsibility and an opportunity to act. Our Approach By financing solutions that support the transition to a low-carbon economy, factoring climate-related risks and opportunities into lending and investment decisions and reducing our own environmental and carbon footprint, we are helping lay foundations that will sustain our business for generations to come. Climate Strategy Governance and Reporting Scotiabank supports the principles of the At Scotiabank, both the Board and Paris Agreement, which brings the global management have a role to play in ensuring community together to take collective action our Climate Commitments are met. Several to mitigate climate impacts and adapt to new Board committees provide ongoing oversight climate realities. including the Risk Committee, Corporate Governance Committee and the Audit and In 2019, we developed an enterpriseConduct Review Committee (please refer to wide climate strategy and announced the p. 70 of the 2019 Annual Report for more Bank’s five Climate Commitments. The information on the role of each committee). Commitments outline how we will continue to support our customers in the transition to In 2019, the full Board approved the Bank’s a low-carbon economy and decarbonize our climate strategy and Climate Commitments, own operations. Assessing and appropriately which helped formalize work underway across managing environmental and climate risks is the Bank. critical to our long-term operations, customer relationships and business success. Scotiabank’s Climate Commitments Ensure robust climate-related Enhance integration of climate risk 1 Mobilize 2 governance and transparency 3 assessments in our lending, financing $100 billion in our reporting. and investing activities. by 2025 to reduce Decarbonize our own Establish a Climate Change Centre of the impacts of 4 operations and find innovative 5 Excellence to mobilize internal and climate change. solutions to reduce the Bank’s external collaboration, dialogue and impact on the changing climate. information sharing and contribute to the global conversation on climate change. 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 16 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix Our Climate Commitments industry-wide approaches for climate Board of Directors scenario analysis in bank lending portfolios. We are also a participant in the Canadian Bankers Association’s Climate Change Chief Executive Officer Disclosure Working Group, which is focused on developing consistent methodologies and metrics for TCFD reporting. Each year we report third-party verified Chief Risk Officer data on our operational energy use and carbon footprint through our ESG report. We participate in the annual CDP Climate Change Climate Change Advisory Committee reporting process – our submission covering fiscal 2018 is available on our website. Our Climate Commitments Climate Change Risk Management In 2019, we developed an enhanced due diligence process for assessing the risks our At the management level, climate-related risk corporate and commercial clients may face is overseen by the Group Head & Chief Risk due to climate change. The Climate Change Officer, who reports directly to the CEO and Risk Assessment (CCRA) process evaluates has unfettered access to the Risk Committee both the physical (acute and chronic) and of the Board. This is aided by a Climate Change transition (reputational, market, technology, Advisory Committee made up of senior officers legal and compliance) risks a client may face, across business lines and control/stewardship and their awareness level of such risks. The functions. The Advisory Committee meets CCRA is conducted at the transaction level quarterly and is accountable for monitoring and helps to inform credit decisions. This progress against targets. process will also support data collection to Scotiabank supports the recommendations enable the Bank to effectively mitigate and of the Financial Stability Board’s (FSB) manage risk across sectors, and will support Task Force on Climate-related Financial stress testing and scenario planning of Disclosures (TCFD). In addition to this report, our loan book. Banking officers and credit our approach to climate-related governance, adjudicators participated in mandatory strategy, risk management and metrics and training on assessing climate-related risk to targets have been included in our 2019 ensure effective implementation of the CCRA. Annual Report on pp. 104-105. A TCFD Index Through our participation in the Canadian is included on p. 62 of this report. Bankers Association’s Climate Change Disclosure Working Group, we led a workshop in 2019 on the development of a sector sensitivity methodology for climate change that identifies key physical and transition risk We participate in both global and national drivers to determine potential materiality and initiatives focused on furthering the adoption opportunities. The results were embedded of the TCFD recommendations among into the risk profiles of the 28 main industry financial institutions. In 2019, we joined a pilot sectors to which the Bank lends. project led by the UN Environment Programme Finance Initiative focused on harmonizing 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 17 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix Our Climate Commitments Decarbonizing Our Operations In 2019, we achieved a reduction of Scope 1 Our GHG emissions are verified on an and 2 GHG emissions of 17% from a 2016 annual basis by an independent third party, baseline, achieving our target of 10% two and a verification statement can be found on years early. This is due to energy efficiency our website. initiatives at the Bank, as well as lower emission energy sources in some of the countries We have increased our internal carbon price where we operate. We have set a new target in 2020 from $15 to $30 per tonne of CO2e, of a 25% reduction from the 2016 baseline and it will rise to $60 by 2022. The proceeds by 2025. We aim to achieve this target by from this initiative totaled nearly $2 million expanding many of our ongoing efficiency in 2019, and are allocated to projects that upgrades and targeting heating, ventilation may require higher upfront costs in order to and air conditioning (HVAC) retrofits at several secure longer-term energy and emissions international locations, including in Mexico, reductions. For example, a portion of Chile, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, South these funds supported solar photovoltaic and East Caribbean, Jamaica, the Bahamas installations at select branches in Jamaica and Panama. In 2019, Scope 3 emissions from in 2019. business travel remained consistent with the previous year. GHG Emissions (tonnes CO2e)* 2016 2017 2018 2019 Canada Scope 1 13,262 14,985 15,184 14,961 Scope 2 44,106 42,431 38,880 36,485 International (excludes Canada) Scope 1 438 542 545 260 Scope 2 80,947 71,752 73,111 62,908 Global Scope 1 13,700 15,527 15,729 15,221 Scope 2 125,053 114,183 111,990 99,393 Scope 3 15,445 18,060 20,020 20,168 Total 154,198 147,770 147,740 134,783** * Calculated in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol of the World Resources Institute and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (www.ghgprotocol.org), including emission factors for electricity purchases, natural gas and fuel. Scope 2 emissions are calculated using a location-based method. ** The completeness and accuracy of our GHG emissions has been verified by an independent verifier. In 2019, proxy data amounting to 8% of our Scope 2 emissions was not subject to verification. Note: As per the GHG Protocol, Scope 1 emissions for 2016-2018 have been restated to reflect a change in our reporting methodology. These figures replace previously published data. 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 18 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix Our Climate Commitments Other operational efficiency initiatives Reducing Paper Use We have reduced that contributed to our overall emissions our Scope 1 and 2 Scotiabank’s strategic focus on digital GHG emissions by reduction in 2019 include: products and customer adoption continues 17% since 2016. to help reduce the amount of paper usage HVAC retrofits at 190 locations across our Canadian branch network across the Bank. By driving customer awareness about the benefits of digital Energy retrofits across our international banking and electronic statements, network, including HVAC retrofits at Scotiabank delivered over 400 million digital main building locations in Peru and statements in 2019 in Canada, representing lighting retrofits at office locations in a 10% reduction in paper statements from Mexico, Costa Rica and Peru 2018 (or 4.5 million fewer paper statements). Several building system upgrades in progress at our head office locations in Mobilizing Capital the Bahamas, Dominican Republic and Jamaica, which include cooling towers, Scotiabank is committed to mobilizing heat exchangers, and elevators $100 billion by 2025 to reduce the impacts of climate change. This includes lending, Densified head office space standards investing, financing and advisory, contributions and adopted new workplace strategy to the Bank’s direct operations and support that includes flexible, unassigned for communities where it operates to reduce workstations climate-related impacts. It also includes the Thermostat replacement program to creation of new products and services that will upgrade to internet-enabled devices enable capital to be directed toward climate that automatically adjust temperatures change mitigation and adaptation initiatives. All new branches in Canada now go through the Green Globes certification process – a nationally recognized green building assessment and certification. There are currently 46 branches in Canada with Green Globes certifications, 11 of which were certified in 2019. Our major office locations with environmental accreditations include: Scotiabank Plaza in Toronto, Canada – LEED Platinum Broadgate Tower in London, United Kingdom – BREEAM certified Brookfield Place in New York, USA – LEED Gold Brookfield Place in Calgary – LEED Gold Major office in Winnipeg – LEED Gold 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 19 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix As of October 31 2019, Scotiabank has mobilized $16 billion toward our commitment of $100 billion by 2025 to reduce the impacts of climate change.1 This includes lending, finance and advisory services aligned to our Green and Transition Taxonomy, which covers renewable energy, green buildings and clean transportation, among other categories. Below are some recent examples that contribute to our target: November 2018: Scotiabank acted as a Joint 2018 Bookrunner for Duke Energy Carolinas USD$1 billion Green Bond. Proceeds were used to pay or reimburse December 2018: Scotiabank acted as the payment of existing and new Eligible Green Administrative Agent and Joint Lead Arranger Expenditures, including solar energy and energy for a USD$190 million term loan refinancing for storage investments. Smoky Mountain Holdings LLC, a portfolio of four hydroelectric power generation facilities with net installed capacity of 392MW and 86 miles of December 2018: Scotiabank acted as Joint Lead transmission lines located in Tennessee and North Arranger and Joint Bookrunner for a $150 million Carolina and owned by Brookfield Renewable term loan financing for Mississagi Power, a portfolio Partners L.P. and institutional investors. of four hydroelectric power generation facilities with installed capacity of 488MW, located on the Mississagi River in Ontario and owned by Brookfield Renewable Partners L.P. 2019 July 2019: Scotiabank issued its USD$500 million Green Bond of which proceeds were used to fund September 2019: Scotiabank acted as the Joint assets aligned to the Scotiabank Green Bond Bookrunner to International Finance Corporation’s Framework. This includes the categories of Renewable (IFC) $750 million five-year Green Bond. IFC is a Energy, Clean Transportation and Green Buildings. member of the World Bank Group and this was their first Canadian dollar green bond. The proceeds were used for projects such as renewable energy, green October 2019: Scotiabank acted as Global buildings, sustainable forestry and energy efficiency. Coordinator and Joint Bookrunner for Chilean company ARAUCO’s USD$1 billion two tranche sustainable issuance. ARAUCO is a global, diversified October 2019: Scotiabank acted as a Sole Lender to forestry company offering a wide variety of Consumers Energy Company (CEC) on a USD$250 sustainable, quality products mainly for the paper, million sustainability-linked revolver. CEC owns construction, packaging and furniture industries. and operates electric generation, transmission and Proceeds will be allocated according to the Company’s distribution facilities; and gas transmission, storage Sustainability Bond Framework. and distribution facilities. The sustainability-linked revolver includes an annual pricing mechanism that provides preferential pricing based on the company’s October 2019: Scotiabank was a Joint Bookrunner sustainability performance, as measured by a) total on MidAmerican Energy’s USD$850 million 30-year GWh generated and/or purchased from renewable Green Bond deal. Proceeds from this offering were sources and b) percentage of total energy generation used to fund the costs of renewable resources coming from renewable sources. such as MidAmerican’s Wind XI, Wind XII, and repowering projects. December 2019: Scotiabank acted as Joint Bookrunner and Joint Lead Agent on Mississagi December 2019: Scotiabank has a USD$200 million Power’s $628 million Green Bond Private Placement. commitment to the Meridiam Infrastructure North Mississagi Power has over 60 years of operating history. America Fund III (MINA III) capital call facility. MINA III’s investment mandate includes investing in impact driven infrastructure projects in North America December 2019: Scotiabank acted as a Participant and other non-European OECD countries, in three on the new $1 billion 5-year secured revolving key sectors: mobility of people and goods, energy credit facility for The AES Corporation (AES). transition and social infrastructure. The Fund plans AES generates and distributes electric power in to invest in sustainable and climate resilient assets in 13 countries through gas, coal, renewables, oil and accordance with Meridiam’s ESG policy, with the aim other sources. The revolving credit facility includes a of benefitting local communities. sublimit for ‘Green’ borrowings (e.g. investments in renewable energy projects) which receive a discount on the drawn margin. 1 Since November 1, 2018 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 20 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix Our Climate Commitments Environmental Policy Climate Change Centre of Excellence Scotiabank’s Environmental Policy governs our approach Our Climate Change Centre of Excellence will to managing our impact on mobilize internal and external collaboration, the environment. The Policy dialogue and information sharing and applies to both Canadian and contribute to the global conversation on international operations, as climate change. For example: well as to all wholly owned or controlled subsidiaries of In June 2019, Scotiabank hosted its the Bank. Our Environmental inaugural ESG Conference in Toronto, Principles shape our Environmental Canada in order to contribute to the Policy and define our approach to dialogue on ESG within capital markets. managing our direct and indirect The conference included topics such as environmental impacts. how conscious investing can create a better society; climate change, energy transition, and environmental stewardship in a global context; and theory and Environmental Principles practices of ESG while investing for alpha. 1 Comply with applicable Scotiabank is participating in the environmental laws and Scotiabank’s Climate Canadian Standards Association Technical regulations and voluntary Change Centre of Committee to develop a Canadian-specific standards and initiatives Excellence will help adopted by the Bank. National Standard of Canada for “Green contribute to the and Transition Finance” which will define global conversation 2 Contribute to operational on climate change ‘Green’ and ‘In Transition’ sectors, enabling efficiency that is consistent by encouraging these sectors to be recognized in global with reducing environmental collaboration, green and transition financial instruments. impacts and promoting dialogue and information sharing. We supported the Intact Centre on responsible actions. Climate Adaptation at the University 3 Incorporate environmental of Waterloo in Canada on a research risk assessment and report about how climate risk affects mitigation criteria into risk investments. The report identifies top management procedures. physical climate risk factors per industry sector that portfolio managers should 4 Contribute to ongoing consider as most material to affect a dialogue with relevant company’s performance. stakeholders, such as customers, employees, government, NGOs and industry associations. 5 Measure and report publicly on the Bank’s environmental performance on at least an annual basis. 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 21 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix ESG Focused Lending and Investment Why it Matters Lending and investment support economic progress, allow people to pursue ambitions and create more widespread future opportunities. Applying a sustainable lens to finance and investment activities helps us mitigate risks, enhance returns and enable a better, more sustainable future for both Scotiabank and our stakeholders. Our Approach As an international financial institution and asset manager, we base our finance and investment decisions on a number of factors, including risks and opportunities related to environmental and social considerations, and offer tools to help direct investors do the same. Environmental and Social Risk Management Responsible Investment In addition to Scotiabank’s enhanced due As an international financial institution, diligence processes to address climate-related Scotiabank’s asset management businesses risks, we maintain robust processes to address are committed to responsible investing. environmental and social risks in our credit Incorporating ESG factors into investment lending and due diligence processes. These processes helps to enhance returns and activities are guided by a suite of policies manage risks, ultimately helping to deliver including our enterprise Environmental Policy on our commitment to clients. and credit risk policies, as well as formal escalation processes for deals with higher 1832 Asset Management environmental and social risks or that are One of Canada’s largest asset managers related to higher-risk sectors or geographies. with approximately $140 billion in assets under management, and wholly-owned Scotiabank’s Environmental and Social Risk by Scotiabank, 1832 Asset Management team collaborates with credit and lending has considered ESG factors throughout teams across our business, including its investment process for many years. Corporate, Commercial, International, Small Its commitment to responsible investing Business and Wealth Management, helping was formalized in 2018 when it became a them to assess environmental and social signatory to the UN-supported Principles risks for transactions in diverse sectors. In for Responsible Investment (PRI), and 2019, this team responded to more than published its Responsible Investment 1,100 internal requests for technical advice Policy, available on our website. 1832 and counsel on loan transactions involving Asset Management is also a member of the real estate as security, and guidance on Canadian Coalition for Good Governance procedures or methods for conducting sound (CCGG) and an active member of its due diligence and adhering to the Bank’s Environmental and Social Committee. environmental and social risk processes. 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 22 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix ESG Focused Lending and Investment 1832 Asset Management uses multiple has deep sector expertise and long-term sources of ESG research across the relationships with companies, which allows fundamental equity and credit investment for a differentiated view of ESG risks and teams when conducting fundamental opportunities. Proprietary tools developed research on existing and prospective by Jarislowsky Fraser’s Sustainable investment securities. This information is Investment and Investment Strategy incorporated into the risk-return assessment Committees ensure ESG integration is of each security. In 2019, a specific ESG consistent, robust and systematic. Proxy section was added into investment reports voting decisions are made in-house and fully and quarterly review processes to formalize integrated into the investment process with the integration of ESG considerations. research analysts responsible for reviewing and recommending all proxy votes to the Direct engagement between investment Investment Strategy Committee. professionals and the investee companies is a key component of the investment As part of their overall approach to climate process, enabling better, more informed risk management, Jarislowsky Fraser investment decisions. Meetings with measures and reports the carbon footprint company management are leveraged to ask of its portfolios. This process is used to questions on a range of themes, including compare both the overall and sector level those that are ESG-related. In 2019, key emissions versus benchmarks, as well as ESG themes for 1832 Asset Management identify the highest emitting companies included greenhouse gas emissions, electric (to the extent that data is available) in the vehicle transition, renewable power mix, portfolio. The information is included as part labour relations, board independence, of the internal quarterly risk review process executive compensation and its alignment and helps to inform the Investment Strategy with stakeholders, regulatory exposure and Committee’s awareness of the climate legal liabilities. risk exposure in each portfolio. Broadly speaking, the carbon intensity of Jarislowsky Jarislowsky Fraser Fraser’s portfolios is materially lower than As one of Canada’s largest institutional their respective benchmark indices. More money managers, Jarislowsky Fraser, information on portfolio carbon footprinting acquired by Scotiabank in 2018, has built a and Jarislowsky Fraser’s approach to reputation as a long-term investor in quality assessing climate risk can be found in the businesses. It is a signatory to the PRI and a firm’s 2019 Climate-Related Financial founding member of the CCGG. Jarislowsky Disclosures report prepared in alignment with Fraser’s President and CEO Maxime Menard the TCFD recommendations. was appointed to the CCGG’s board in In addition to engaging with companies in 2019, serving on both the Public Policy and its portfolios on a range of material ESG Finance/Audit committees. issues, Jarislowsky Fraser also participated Jarislowsky Fraser applies a fully integrated in several PRI-led collaborative engagements approach to sustainable investing across on topics related to methane, cybersecurity all investment mandates through ESG and climate change transition. In 2019, the integration in investment analysis, firm acted as the lead investor on three engagement, and proxy voting. ESG PRI-coordinated engagements with oil and analysis, as part of the firm’s fundamental gas producers in Canada and the United research process, provides an additional States that helped drive improved company lens to identify sustainable business models understanding and disclosure on ESG and and mitigate risk. The investment team climate change impacts. 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 23 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix ESG Focused Lending and Investment ESG Investment Products Sustainable Investing for Retail Investors Scotiabank provides several specialized Scotia iTRADE offers sustainable investing investment products to clients who have tools for direct investors in Canada who a desire to manage their exposure to want to combine financial investments fossil fuels and other ESG factors. Notably: with positive social impact. In partnership The ESG Equity Guided Portfolio is a fossilwith Sustainalytics, comprehensive ESG fuel-free global equity guided portfolio performance ratings are provided for over that also excludes weapons, tobacco and 1,200 companies on the Toronto Stock alcohol companies that was launched in Exchange and Russell® 1000 Index. Users 2019 through Scotia Wealth Management can choose to focus on specific issues such Global Portfolio Advisory Group (GPAG). as deforestation, water scarcity, labour ESG rankings are applied to securities that standards and governance issues to help are included in the GPAG’s core equity identify companies to invest in. In 2019, over guided portfolios. 20,000 users interacted with the sustainable investing tool. Jarislowsky Fraser launched a suite of actively managed fossil-fuel-free funds in In 2019, we continued to deliver an online 2017 in response to growing client interest series of learning modules for customers in diversified products that exclude the interested in learning more about sustainable energy sector, with the exception of certain investing. In these online modules, renewable energy entities, as well as nonsector experts from Sustainalytics and energy sector companies that own significant Scotia iTRADE explain the importance of fossil fuel reserves or have material revenues understanding ESG risks and opportunities related to fossil fuels. The funds aim to and demonstrate how clients can strengthen deliver a materially lower carbon footprint the alignment of their investment portfolio than their relevant benchmarks and to their personal values. To promote further provide increased exposure to green education and awareness, clients have bonds as an important mechanism to access to additional content and videos on finance energy transition. sustainable investing through the Scotia iTRADE website. MD Financial Management, also a PRI signatory and acquired by Scotiabank in Sustainable Finance for Green Vehicles 2018, launched the MD Fossil Fuel Free In 2019, Scotiabank in Mexico continued to Fund suite in 2016. The MD Fossil Fuel TM offer customers an incentivized credit plan Free Bond Fund and the MD Fossil Fuel Free to purchase an electric or hybrid vehicle Equity Fund are unique in that they screen through the CrediAuto’s Green Credit out companies with the largest fossil fuel Program. The program offers benefits like reserves in the world and also eliminate all a preferential interest rate and a cash-back exposure to the extraction, processing and “environmentally friendly bonus” to make transportation of fossil fuels. The funds also cleaner-running vehicles accessible to look to invest in innovative businesses that more people. provide solutions to climate change and help reduce energy use, leading to sustainable, long-term returns for clients. In 2019, a survey conducted by MD with more than 150 physician clients indicated significant client interest in sustainable investment solutions, with climate change representing the greatest area of interest. 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 24 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix Social We know that a sustainable future is good for business. Scotiabank’s success is fundamentally intertwined with the futures of those around us. When our customers and employees can reach their fullest potential, and communities are healthy and vibrant, we are better positioned to create economic, social and environmental value. This year we have made progress in providing more access to financial products and services that serve those who need them most. Most notably, through The Scotiabank Women Initiative , TM launched in December 2018, we have committed to provide $3 billion in financing to women-led businesses in Canada over the program’s first three years. Along with mentorship and education, the funds will support many women to unlock the potential of their businesses. Engaged Scotiabank employees who feel a sense of belongingness in their workplace and communities are the key to our success. In 2019, our formal endorsement of the UN Women’s Empowerment Principles and UN LGBTI Standards of Conduct for Business are further signals of our commitment to create a safe and inclusive workplace for all. Scotiabank contributed almost $100 million dollars globally in 2019 to the communities where we operate. About 70% was directed to young people, helping them reach their infinite potential. Also, we are proud that Scotiabankers contributed over 350,000 volunteer hours to a variety of causes close to their hearts. Meigan Terry Senior Vice President, Global Communications and Social Impact 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 25 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix Social for the future of our employees, customers and communities 2019 Highlights 35% of VP+ roles held by women globally, and 39% in Canada Employee engagement score increased to 81% Looking Forward Committed $3 billion in capital over the first Continue to make progress toward increasing the three years of The Scotiabank Women Initiative , TM percentage of women in VP+ roles to a minimum of launched in December 2018, to advance women-led 37% globally and 45% within Canada by 2021 businesses in Canada Continue to grow the value of loans authorized to Made over 500,000 follow-up calls to retail Small Business customers in Canada by another customers across Canada, the Caribbean, Chile, 14% in 2020, having achieved 8% growth in 2019 Colombia, Mexico, Peru, Uruguay and Central America through our customer experience and As part of our $250 million reskilling initiative, Net Promoter System – The Pulse continue the roll-out of three new exciting programs to help upskill and reskill employees for the digital Contributed nearly $100 million globally in economy: LinkedIn Learning, Pluralsight and the communities where we operate in the form Digital Discovery Zone of donations, sponsorships and other forms of assistance 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 26 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix Investing in Our Employees Why it Matters Our most important investment is the one we make in our people. Our customer focus starts with taking care of our employees around the world. Working to grow and diversify talent and engage employees helps promote our performance-oriented culture and ensure opportunities for every future. Our Approach We continuously strive for higher levels of engagement, foster an internal culture of diversity, trust and well-being and invest in knowledge and skills for the ongoing transition to the digital economy. By doing these things, we seek to enable all employees to build their future. Employee Engagement Talent Development In 2019, we launched a new, more agile We strive to offer our employees a positive, In 2019, our employee employee experience program called passionate, performance-driven culture engagement score ScotiaPulse in order to transform how we as with opportunities for growth. In 2019, increased to 81%. an organization receive and action feedback. over 18,000 employees moved into new The ScotiaPulse survey is completely roles in the Bank in Canada, filling 43% voluntary and confidential. of all vacancies. Our employee engagement score increased As part of our reskilling initiative, we launched to 81%, from 79% in 2018, with balanced three exciting programs for employees: results among women and men. Results LinkedIn Learning, Pluralsight and the Digital indicated that the strong score is linked to Discovery Zone. First announced in 2018, our employee confidence in leaders to make reskilling initiative includes a commitment the right decisions and create an inspiring to investing $250 million over 10 years vision, having clear performance objectives to provide employees with the tools and and the Bank’s strong customer focus opportunities they need to adapt and thrive and commitment to social responsibility in the digital economy. and inclusion. Employee 2016 2017 2018 2019 Engagement Index Scotiabank 77% 79% 79% 81% Industry Average* 74% 74% 75% 74% *External benchmark provided by Qualtrics/IBM Kenexa World Norms and based on 3-year rolling global average benchmarks of the Financial Services industry. 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 27 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix Investing in Our Employees LinkedIn Learning Scotiabank invested $78.1 million in employee training and development, LinkedIn Learning provides a modern, an increase from 2018 that reflects our multilingual learning experience for growing employee population. Employees employees with relevant, constantly updated participated in over 2.6 million courses in content for today’s modern world. It was 2019 across the various learning channels rolled out to more than 90,000 employees and platforms offered at Scotiabank. globally, and in its first month, nearly 10,000 employees logged in and viewed Our annual performance and development more than 120,000 videos. cycle is an essential part of supporting our employees. It enables employees to set, Pluralsight align, track and report progress against Pluralsight is a learning platform that their performance and development goals supports the upskilling of employees in and provides a consistent measurement the digital, analytics and IT space of our framework that allows managers to business. Pluralsight was first rolled out effectively recognize and reward high in 2019 as a pilot to approximately performance. In 2019, 95% of eligible 6,400 full-time employees in five countries employees received a performance and and will be expanded to reach a larger career development review. audience in 2020. The Scotiabank Digital Discovery Zone Promoting a Culture of Diversity The Scotiabank Digital Discovery Zone and Inclusion curates multi-channel digital content and live speaking events featuring Scotiabank We believe an environment that champions 92% of talent, industry experts and thought leaders diversity of thought, provides equal opportunity employees in digital technology. Events are webcast for advancement and allows diverse believe that with real-time Spanish closed caption employees to achieve their fullest potential Scotiabank is building translation and archived so that employees helps make our Bank stronger – allowing us to an inclusive workplace can experience sessions at their convenience. attract and retain the very best talent. – a top driver for employee engagement Over 60 sessions were offered and attended by nearly 8,000 employees. The Scotiabank Inclusion Council is chaired Bank-wide. by our President and CEO Brian Porter and Scotiabank also continues to deliver is comprised of senior leaders from across our global management and leadership the Bank. In 2019, the Council met seven development program iLEAD, which provides times and completed the formalization of the skill building and development tools at key Bank’s Inclusion Framework. The framework transition points in an employee’s career. will help teams across the Bank to align In 2019, employees participated in over as an organization on inclusion goals, 50,000 leadership courses. while also allowing for adaptation based on regional needs. Employee Training 2016 2017 2018 2019 Total training investment (millions) $71.5 $69.9 $73.9 $78.1 Average training hours per full-time employee 29 33 42 40 (including compliance training) Average training hours per full-time employee 22 25 33 27 (excluding compliance training) 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 28 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix Investing in Our Employees Our Inclusion Pillars are: Advancing Women in Leadership Grow an Environment to Thrive In 2019, Scotiabank became a signatory of the UN Women’s Empowerment Principles, Check your biases demonstrating the Bank’s commitment to Be a champion for inclusion year round advancing women while aligning well with other women-focused efforts underway at the Bank. Attract the Very Best We continue our focus on advancing women Promote inclusive hiring practices in leadership and have established a target Cultivate future leaders to increase the percentage of women in Vice President roles or higher (VP+) to a minimum In 2019, we developed an inclusive hiring of 37% globally and to 45% within Canada practices guide and implemented monitoring by 2021. and tracking for senior executives to reinforce diverse hiring practices. We also introduced Regional women’s networks help adapt a mandatory Conscious Inclusion training our inclusion framework to address gender module for all employees globally. We inclusion issues to local contexts. Scotiabank launched the Humans of Scotiabank series has over 30 women’s groups or networks internally to highlight stories and celebrate globally, ranging from the Gender Network diverse employees from all walks of life. – Asia Chapter to the Women in Leadership Please refer to p. 51 for more information on network in Canada. gender identity and accommodation. In 2019, Scotiabank Chile launched the In 2019, Scotiabank supported 13 formal Women in Leadership program, consisting of Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) and two main initiatives to advance more women over 69 global and national chapters. into management and executive positions at Activating nearly 30 inclusion campaigns the Bank. The first initiative was executed in in 2019, these employee-led groups help partnership with the Chilean organization, establish grassroots initiatives that amplify Mujeres en Alta Dirección, and consisted of our inclusive culture and develop a sense of personal and professional development community amongst employees. workshops and mentoring sessions for women at the Director and Vice Presidentlevels. The second initiative focused on career design and personal brand workshops for managers and senior managers, and was carried out in partnership with Woom Up, a professional development organization for women in Chile. This year Scotiabank Peru also launched programs to provide opportunities for emerging women leaders to strengthen leadership and networking skills, including events featuring women leaders from outside the Bank and the Empowering Women meeting series to provide employees with opportunities to meet with senior leaders at the Bank. Please refer to p. 52 for more information on equal pay. 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 29 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix Investing in Our Employees Women in Leadership (as of October 31, 2019) 2019 Percentage of women in executive positions 34% (1-2 reporting lines from CEO): Global Percentage of women in VP+ roles: Global 35% Canada 39% International (excludes Canada) 24% Percentage of women in all management positions, including junior, middle and senior management (of total management workforce): Global 46% Canada 47% International (excludes Canada) 45% A Focus on LGBT+ Inclusion In 2019, Scotiabank was the first Canadian our customers and employees. This online bank to sign the UN LGBTI Standards of course focuses on the importance of taking an Conduct for Business, complementing the active role as an LGBT+ Ally at Scotiabank and efforts of Scotiabank Pride, our employee-led provides ways that Scotiabankers can be active group dedicated to ensuring everyone feels supporters to each other and our customers. safe and open to be their true selves. Please refer to p. 52 for more details. We implemented several steps to help ensure LGBT+ inclusion in the workplace, including a new global LGBT+ Ally certification program, launched in collaboration with IBM, to help create and maintain welcoming spaces for 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 30 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix Investing in Our Employees Scotiabank Pride Connection Scotiabank is a member of Pride Connection, a network of companies that seeks to promote inclusive work spaces for sexual and gender diversity and generate ties to attract LGBT+ talent. Scotiabank Pride employee resource groups have expanded across Canada, Chile, Colombia, Dominican Republic, Peru, Puerto Rico, Uruguay, Asia and the United States. In 2019, over 2,500 Scotiabankers marched in Pride parades and attended flag raisings, including in our key markets: Canada: In 2019, Scotiabank was the lead sponsor and host for the Pride at Work Canada, workplace inclusion conference, sending an important signal to Scotiabankers about the importance of workplace inclusion. Chile: As a member of the Pride Connection Chile Network, Scotiabank was present at the Pride Parade in Santiago for the first time in 2019. Scotiabank Chile also held internal talks on sexual diversity and nondiscrimination to emphasize the importance of all employees being agents of change in creating more inclusive environments. Colombia: Colpatria (a Scotiabank subsidiary in Colombia) participated in the Pride parade for the first time in 2019. As part of the Pride Connection Colombia Network, we ran a campaign to raise awareness during Pride month and held a forum on the benefits of diversity for businesses and the economy. Colpatria also formed a partnership with the Camara de Comercio LGBT+ (Chamber of Commerce LGBT+) in Colombia to promote a more open forum with the LGBT+ community on diversity and inclusion. Mexico: In Mexico, Scotiabank is part of the organizing committee for the Pride Connection Summit, and sponsored this year’s fourth annual event. Scotiabank Mexico was also designated by the HRC Foundation (a non-profit organization) as a “Best Place to Work for the LGBT+ Community.” Peru: Scotiabank Peru is an active founding member of Pride Connection Peru. Scotiabank Peru celebrated Pride through the #ScotiabankProud awareness campaign, the #BienvenidosTodos video, and by lighting up the main office building with the Pride colours. 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 31 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix Empowering Our Customers Why it Matters Providing access to financial services and an understanding of how to use them is an essential part of building a more inclusive society for everyone. Financial inclusion is an enabler of many of the Sustainable Development Goals. Our Approach By advancing financial education and literacy, expanding access to financial services and offering helpful, relevant products and services, we enable customers to achieve their financial goals. With proper financial education and tools, customers can build skills and confidence to manage their financial futures. Customer Experience At Scotiabank, our goal is to be a leader in dedicated teams to fix pain points and customer experience across our footprint. To root causes in Peru, Colombia and Mexico; help improve customer experience, we utilize enhanced and broadened employee training The Pulse, our customer experience system in all markets with a focus on main customer which leverages Net Promoter Score (NPS) as issues; and leveraged feedback during the primary metric, enabling a global acquisitions to quickly react to customer’s consistent approach for gathering realneeds in those markets. In 2020, our focus time feedback and acting on it to improve will be on building omni-channel experiences customer experience. through our key customer journeys. The Pulse is fully live across our retail branches, contact centres and digital Low and No-Fee Banking channels in Canada, the Caribbean, Chile, Colombia, Mexico, Peru, Uruguay and Central Some customers may avoid joining the America, with nearly 15 million survey formal financial system because of fees. invitations sent to retail customers in 2019, At CreditScotia, Scotiabank’s subsidiary and over 500,000 follow-up calls made. The in Peru, The Free Account allows free Pulse for our commercial customers is now transactions throughout the country, as well live across Mexico, Peru, Chile, Colombia as withdrawals without commissions from and Canada. Nearly 12,000 responses were automatic banking machines of allied banks received from commercial customers and abroad. The account requires no minimum over 6,000 follow-up phone calls were made. opening balance and does not charge fees for transfers. The Free Account aims to provide This year we closed the gap to the customer customers with an easy and secure option experience market leader in three of our to make deposits and payments instead five key markets. For example in 2019, we of relying on cash, and allows customers launched new digital products in all markets, to access funds at no additional cost from including a new digital onboarding process locations outside of the country. In 2019, over for branches in Colombia; established 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 32 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix Empowering Our Customers 790,000 new Free Accounts were opened and In honour of International Women’s Day approximately 48% of these clients were new in March, we launched campaigns in both to banking entirely. Colombia and Peru to raise awareness of the gender pay gap. For the month of March, CreditScotia’s Mobile Wallet – known as Colpatria offered a lower interest rate to Billetera Movil, or BIM – is a cell phone-based women who applied for a consumer loan in banking tool that makes sending and receiving order to raise awareness of inequalities in money easier, without incurring cell phone gender pay while also recognizing the fees or using data. As of the end of 2019, over significant role women play as engines of 100,000 BIM accounts have been registered, economic development. In Peru, the totalling an approximate average of over Scotiabank Premio Igualitario (Scotiabank 4,600 monthly transactions. Equal Prize) was launched to raise awareness that on average, women need to work an At Colpatria, our subsidiary in Colombia, additional 156 days per year to receive the the Zero Fee account eliminates traditional same compensation as men. Launched in transaction fees, minimum deposit amounts partnership with El Comercio, PWC, Aequales and consultation fees for customers. In 2019, and Wunderman Thompson, the initiative more than 44,000 Zero Fee accounts were invites other organizations to join and commit opened, reaching 448,000 total accounts since to fighting gender pay inequality in Peru. the product launched. Approximately 75% of these new accounts were opened through To celebrate Plan International’s International digital channels, including mobile applications. Day of the Girl in August, four young women shadowed four of Scotiabank’s senior leaders Other examples of access to financial products including Brian Porter, President and CEO of and services available in Canada can be found Scotiabank, as well as the President and CEO in Scotiabank’s 2019 Public Accountability of Tangerine Bank, Country Head of Statement at www.scotiabank.com. Scotiabank in Peru, and the President of Colpatria in Colombia. Each of the four “Girl Ambassadors” spent the day participating in Supporting Women in Business meetings with senior management and attending and speaking at townhalls. Scotiabank is committed to equality for During the month of women to help grow and strengthen the March, in honour of global economy. We do this through education International Women’s and awareness, partnership and by offering Growing Small Business Day, we offered a tailored products and services. lower interest rate to Access to financing continues to be a key women in Colombia ingredient in the creation, growth and In Chile, Scotiabank’s annual Women’s who applied for a Advancement Award for Entrepreneurship productivity of smalland medium-sized consumer loan, in recognizes successful entrepreneurs for their businesses. We strive to support our business order to recognize the important role women leadership, dedication and financial customers’ long-term success through play in economic responsibility. In 2019, six outstanding specialized products, programs development. businesswomen were selected for recognition and partnerships. with the finalist receiving a cash prize to In Canada, we introduced the Virtual Advice support her business and six months of Team – a new, convenient way for select small business mentorship. Scotiabank also business customers to access expert business sponsored the Women in Commerce in banking advice and solutions virtually, the Digital Age forum in Chile, in which regardless of where they operate. We also approximately 400 women participated expanded our Specialty Business Banking in talks and workshops. teams to further enhance our ability to 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 33 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix Empowering Our Customers The Scotiabank Women Initiative Commits TM $3 Billion to Women-led Businesses On December 5, 2018, we launched The Scotiabank Women Initiative, a comprehensive program supporting women-led, women-owned businesses in Canada through three key pillars: Access to Capital, Mentorship and Education. Women are a growing economic force in Canada and there is a real opportunity to ensure we are empowering women by prioritizing equality and providing solutions to help them take their businesses to the next level. Women-owned businesses represent over $117 billion of economic activity in Canada1 and employ over 1.5 million Canadians,2 however, women-owned enterprises receive only 4% of venture capital investment dollars in Canada.3 Recognizing the opportunity to support women with the many challenges they face on their path to success, we wanted to build a viable and holistic program that offers tangible benefits to our clients. The program is designed to challenge existing stereotypes, and help women take their businesses to the next level through a range of tailored offerings. It also aims to raise awareness of unconscious bias and address the systemic areas in financial services that impact the growth potential of women-led businesses. We aspire to become the banking partner of choice for women-led businesses and contribute to the overall growth of the economy. We have achieved several notable milestones, including: Committed to deploy $3 billion in capital to women-led businesses in our first three years Engaged more than 1,500 women through Un-Mentorship Boot Camps , regional mini boot camps and TM group mentorship sessions across Canada Formed The Scotiabank Women Initiative Advisory Board of Scotiabank executives, who provide expertise to help women grow their businesses through facilitated small group mentorship sessions Developed an online Knowledge Centre for self-directed learning Announced four partnerships including Disruption Ventures, Forum for Women Entrepreneurs, She’s Next, Empowered by Visa and Réseau des Femmes d’affaires du Québec. Announced the initiative would be expanded to Global Banking and Markets clients, and completed research focused on entrepreneurs in Canada To ensure the program is continuously evolving and meeting the needs of women business leaders, strategic partnerships will continue to be identified to expand our offerings and provide additional, practical solutions to women-owned and women-led businesses. Visit scotiabankwomeninitiative.com to learn more. 1. The Canadian Taskforce for Women’s Business Growth, 2011 2. Startup Canada 3. Ottawa To Address Startups’ Gender Gap, The Globe and Mail, November 16, 2016, p. 78, www.globeinvestor.com/servlet/ArticleNews/story/GAM/20161109/ RBCDWOMENENTREPRENEURS 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 34 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix Empowering Our Customers deliver expert advice to key customer corporate governance, bringing the total segments including Agriculture, Healthcare to over 400 clients since its initial launch. and Franchisees. We also host an annual workshop series in the Dominican Republic for small business, We continue to value our longstanding providing seminars and workshops to over partnership with the Canadian Federation of 500 local businesses in 2019. Independent Business, supporting members In Mexico, we with exclusive discounts on banking products Small agribusinesses are an essential part helped develop the IDEA Agribusiness and services for their personal, small of the economic fabric of rural parts of Incubator, an business and commercial needs. We Mexico. In partnership with the Chapingo entrepreneurial continued to simplify our credit approval University Foundation, Scotiabank developed program that processes and enhanced our digital business the IDEA Agribusiness Incubator – an promotes small onboarding platform to refine the process of entrepreneurial program for students – to agribusinesses, an opening a business account and include the encourage students to launch their own essential part of rural ability to apply for a small business credit successful agribusinesses. 2019 marked Mexico’s economy. card. In response to our focus on customers, the program’s second year, reaching more small business loans grew by 8% year-overthan 5,000 students in Texcoco, Mexico. year and our Small Business Net Promoter Scotiabank volunteers participated as Score improved by 12.3%. mentors to the young entrepreneurs and served as judges in pitch competitions, in In Chile, Scotiabank piloted a series of which finalists were awarded seed capital to workshops for smalland medium-sized grow their ventures. enterprise clients hosted by Scotiabank Chile’s chief economist. In 2019, 80 business In Jamaica, Scotiabank continued its clients participated in the pilot, with future partnership with ActionCoach to provide workshops planned across the country a 17-week coaching program to a select in 2020. group of small business clients through the Scotiabank Vision Achiever program. In the Dominican Republic, we continued Supporting 17 small business clients in the Mi Empresa (My Company) project in 2019, the program has been expanded partnership with the Barna Management to include non-Scotiabank customers as School providing training to over 55 small part of a strategic decision to encourage business clients on financial decisionthe development of more small businesses making, marketing, human resources and in Jamaica. Newcomers to Canada Scotiabank’s StartRight program addresses the unique banking needs of Newcomers in Canada and helps them establish a firm footing to reach their financial goals. In 2019, we expanded our Scotiabank Student GIC program to students from Pakistan wishing to study in Canada. Through this program students from abroad can open an account and transfer funds before moving to Canada to help secure their study permit and make their transition to Canada easier. We established an offer for No Monthly 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 35 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix Empowering Our Customers Account Fees for one year for new Permanent intergenerational trauma caused by the Residents and Foreign Workers who have residential school system in Canada, while landed within three years to help ease their increasing engagement on the path toward transition as they settle in Canada. We also reconciliation. Scotiabank is the only financial reduced the down payment requirement institution to have a Legacy Space that is to 10% (previously 25%) for Permanent open to the public, which is located at a retail Residents interested in purchasing a vehicle. branch in Toronto city centre. In 2019, Scotiabank continued its support Scotiabank was also invited to be a member of Canada InfoNet (previously CanPrep), of the Canadian Chamber of Commerce Task a national pre-arrival program delivered by Force on corporate/Indigenous engagement, JVS Toronto in partnership with Toronto with the goal of developing opportunities for Region Immigrant Employment Council and Indigenous and non-Indigenous businesses other Canadian community organizations. to collaborate more effectively. Canada InfoNet provides career and employment preparation guidance to To best serve our Aboriginal customers, immigrants who have been granted visas we recognize that we must stay informed but have not yet arrived in Canada. about the cultures, histories and traditions As part of this program, a Virtual Employment of Aboriginal communities. In 2019, we Connections Fair was held in 2019 with launched Scotiabank’s Aboriginal Financial more than 1,000 job-seekers registering for Services Cultural Competency Program a webinar helping Newcomers with their job for employees – featuring new educational search. Scotiabank also made a multi-year materials released each quarter, workshops, pledge to a Canadian non-profit organization traditional teachings and community events. called Pathways to Education to help provide Newcomer youth with the resources, opportunities and guidance they need. Financial Education and Awareness This year, we created a new financial literacy We work to advance financial literacy in a presentation for Scotiabank Financial variety of ways across our footprint. We Advisors to help educate Newcomers and continue to offer the Scotiabank Retirement students about banking in Canada and help Savings Calculator and Money Finder them better manage their finances. Calculator free online to help customers plan for their future financial success. We celebrated Financial Literacy Month Aboriginal Banking in Canada in November 2018, with an employee awareness campaign and customer program In 2019, Scotiabank operated 27 Aboriginal using the hashtag #InvestInYou. Banking Centres across Canada – including four on reserves – to provide Aboriginal In Colombia, Colpatria has established a communities and businesses with our full Financial Education Committee to equip range of banking services. We proudly align to both customers and employees with the the Canadian Council for Aboriginal Business’ information and tools necessary to make Progressive Aboriginal Relations review good financial decisions. In 2019, the Bank process and maintained our prestigious Gold launched a series of free webinars covering a Level standing. range of topics from the Colombian economy to personal finance. Also in 2019, Scotiabank opened a second Gord Downie & Chanie Wenjack Legacy In Chile, Scotiabank provided financial Space to spread awareness about the education workshops and an online learning 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 36 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix Empowering Our Customers course directed at employees of business In Peru, we completed a partnership with clients and local university students. CARE Peru to help improve the economic The training focused on financial health, situation of families living in poverty. responsible use of credit and cybersecurity. Scotiabank provided funding and volunteers In total, over 700 people participated in and to date, more than 3,500 small business workshops and the online course in 2019. representatives have received training to help grow their business. In 2019, nearly 60% of In Costa Rica, as part of a government small businesses who participated were led More than 3,500 initiative to promote financial education, by women. representatives from three lectures were delivered by Scotiabank small businesses in volunteers at the Latin American University Please see p. 41 for more information. Peru have received of Science and Technology (ULACIT) to training to help grow their businesses approximately 1,200 students. We also through our organized financial knowledge seminars partnership with with nearly 1,500 employees from over CARE Peru. 40 different companies in the country on subjects such as budgeting, saving, and reducing debt. 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 37 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix Investing in Our Communities Why it Matters When communities thrive, customers, families, businesses and entire societies do too. Unlocking a future of sustained success depends on healthy, resilient communities. Our Approach We have a long history and strong culture of investing in the communities where we operate. Communities are a critical part of the economic and social fabric of the world. By investing in communities, we are helping build a more vibrant, prosperous future. Community Investment and Social Impact In 2019, we contributed nearly $100 million led employee volunteer days. Through the globally in communities where we operate Scotiabank Employee Volunteer Program and through donations, sponsorships, the Scotiabank Team Community Program, volunteerism and other forms of assistance. we encourage Scotiabankers to raise funds for charities that are important to them by Scotiabank employees volunteered matching a portion of the funds raised. over 350,000 hours through employee volunteering programs and through BankIn 2019, Scotiabank pledged $15 million over five years to the United Way Greater Toronto, in addition to employee-raised funds. At the time of the announcement, the donation was the largest corporate commitment in United Way Greater Toronto’s history. In 2019, Scotiabank donated nearly $500,000 to support disaster relief, including a $100,000 donation to the Red Cross to support communities in the Bahamas and surrounding areas in the wake of Hurricane Dorian. 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 38 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix Investing in Our Communities Young People in the Community Our focus on Young People in the Community seeks to encourage positive youth development by directing resources toward six areas that help youth thrive: education, family, body, community, living space and mind. Education Family Improve the quality of Provide resources and and access to education support to the family home Mind Body Improve mental health Young Improve physical and foster the development People health and encourage of positive behaviours a healthy lifestyle Living Space Community Build a living space that is Create a vibrant, inclusive safe, resilient and toxin free and nurturing community Body In 2019, we offered Scotiabank Girls In the Caribbean, we continued our HockeyFest in six cities across Canada. support for the SickKids Foundation Available at no cost to young girls, Scotiabank with an additional $1 million donation to Girls HockeyFest provides onand off-ice support their SickKids-Caribbean Initiative. skills training, advice for healthy living and The program is committed to providing encouragement from elite athletes who want outstanding pediatric care, research and to help inspire a new generation of girls and education for children living with cancer and young women to reach their goals both on blood disorders in the Bahamas, Barbados, and off the ice. Jamaica, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines and Trinidad and Tobago. In 2019, nearly 600 children in Dominican Republic took part in the Scotiabank Little Mind League Classic baseball tournament, In 2019, Scotiabank committed to invest promoting values like effort, teamwork, $100,000 to the Skylark Foundation companionship and respect. More than – helping provide high-quality mental 4,000 children have benefitted since its healthcare services to children, youth creation in 2014. and their families in Toronto, Canada. 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 39 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix Investing in Our Communities Scotiabank Futbol Club Uses Soccer to Encourage Youth Development The game of soccer is an important part of Latin American culture. The Scotiabank Futbol Club (SFC) is a regional community grassroots platform that focuses on the development of children and youth through sports. SFC positively impacts ten Latin American countries and four Caribbean countries by promoting values like leadership, respect, integrity, teamwork, discipline and responsibility among youth. Since its inception six years ago, SFC has impacted more than 450,000 children through a variety of programs, partnerships and sponsorships, including: FutbolNet Festivals: For the past three years, we have run a series of FutbolNet Festivals as part of a partnership with FC Barcelona and the Barça Foundation. Each four-day FutbolNet Festival brings together boys and girls from marginalised communities across Latin America and uses a sports-based methodology to teach them positive values such as respect, integrity, teamwork and conflict resolution. In 2019, we led a series of six FutbolNet Festivals and supported more than 6,000 boys and girls across five countries. More than 200 Scotiabankers volunteered their time. In total, more than 18,000 children have benefited from FutbolNet Festivals. NextPlay Cup: The Scotiabank Concacaf NextPlay Cup provides boys and girls in the Caribbean with an opportunity to learn, practice football skills and develop values like hard work, fair play, teamwork and respect. The community-oriented grassroots program works together with the public school system to use football as a tool for education and positive social change. The first edition of the NextPlay Cup impacted more than 1,600 kids across over 160 schools in the Bahamas, Barbados, Jamaica and Trinidad and Tobago. Campeonato Infantil: The Campeonato Infantil program (or children’s national soccer tournaments) runs throughout the year and supports several remote regions and marginalized communities, spanning seven countries in Latin America. The winning teams of each tournament are awarded a life-shaping trip to Barcelona – where they participate in a sports and cultural program with FC Barcelona, taking part in training clinics with FCB legends, friendly matches with FCB Academy teams, attend an FC Barcelona match at the legendary Camp Nou Stadium and visit the city’s most iconic attractions. Now in their sixth year, the tournaments span seven countries and impact over 30,000 boys and girls each year. 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 40 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix Investing in Our Communities The Skylark Foundation helps young people into lesson plans and how to support and their families overcome the effects of their students with developing formal mental health challenges. business plans. A group of 24 business plans were recognized by the Scotiabank In 2019, we completed the final year of our Entrepreneurship Award and received an 5-year, $150,000 donation to the Pacific average of approximately $1,200 in seed Autism Family Centre Foundation (PAFC) in capital. Since its inception, this program British Columbia, Canada, which seeks to has helped more than 136,000 primary bring together research, information, learning, and secondary school students and assessment, treatment and support resources 5,400 teachers in the Lima and Piura regions for individuals with Autism Spectrum Disorder build their financial and entrepreneurial skills. (ASD) and their families. Funds have been used to deliver Autism Awareness Training to Scotiabank has committed $300,000 to more than 3,500 first responders. Teach For Canada to help dedicated teachers succeed and improve the lives of students Education in northern First Nations communities We renewed our partnership with Junior in Canada. Teach For Canada provides In 2019, we renewed Achievement (JA) Americas and will invest support to help teachers drive impact both our partnership with in the classroom and community through more than $1.3 million over two years into Junior Achievement a youth-focused programs. In 2019, these extracurricular programs, community activities Americas and will be investing $1.3 million programs reached more than 41,000 young and mentorship to First Nations youth. over the next two people. Student surveys indicated that In 2019, we supported two different youth years to advance 80% of students increased their financial financial education challenges with Enactus, an organization knowledge after participating in the program. among youth. that seeks to rally the energy of students to 90% of students reported that JA taught use business to address important social them how to manage their money, and 80% issues across Canada. The Scotiabank Youth reported that JA made them realize the Empowerment Challenge and the Scotiabank importance of staying in school. Environmental Leadership Challenge In partnership with the 2019 Global Money encourage post-secondary students to Week campaign in Colombia, Colpatria develop real-life solutions to challenges volunteers led a workshop with more facing young people and the environment. than 70 students to help build knowledge In 2019, over 2,800 students volunteered about money management, savings and approximately 130,000 hours in their entrepreneurship. In Mexico, we again communities through these programs. partnered with the Nemi A.C. Foundation to host Calculate your Future with Community Scotiabank, an educational event for high The Bank made a $250,000 commitment school-aged youth. Over the last three years, over three years to CivicAction in Toronto, 119 Scotiabank volunteers presented youth Canada to promote children’s safety in 18 states across Mexico with information and well-being. Scotiabank’s Senior Vice on savings, budgeting and setting financial President and Chief Auditor serves as one goals – helping empower these youth to of the co-chairs of the CivicAction Anti-Sex become agents of change in their community. Trafficking Champions Council, comprised of more than 25 senior leaders from across In Peru, we continued our support of Plan the region who are committed to preventing International’s Formando Emprendedores sex trafficking. Scotiabank is leveraging our del Mañana (Forming the Entrepreneurs financial, data and anti-money laundering of Tomorrow) program. Teachers received expertise to help address the problem. training on how to integrate entrepreneurship 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 41 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix Investing in Our Communities Across Mexico, in partnership with our work with Relay, we help educate over 11 not-for-profit groups, we are committed 18,000 kids and adults every year about to supporting over 8,000 Indigenous renewable energy and energy conservation. youth through donations of approximately We also sponsor Relay’s Green Collar Careers $1 million from 2018-2020. The participants program that builds awareness and capacity receive access to various educational and in Aboriginal youth to pursue careers that health-related programs, with a focus on positively impact the environment. conserving Indigenous languages. Family In Costa Rica, we continued to strengthen In 2019, Scotiabank continued its signature our partnership with FUNDEICO, a non-profit partnership with the Canadian Foundation organization with more than 20 years of for Economic Education (CFEE). CFEE’s experience in the educational and social annual Talk With Our Kids About Money development of the country’s Indigenous program provides parents and teachers populations. In 2019, we formalized with activities and resources to encourage a contract that repurposes the Bank’s conversations between parents and children computers and technology for computer about money and finance. The program and entrepreneurship classes for three reached over 8,000 schools and engaged groups of Indigenous women. Scotiabankers over 750,000 students in 2019. also participate in delivering the classes. In Chile, the María Ayuda organization Living Space helps children who live in situations of In Mexico, in alliance with the United Way violence, abuse and abandonment. In 2019, and other partners, we took part in five Scotiabank committed to donate over reconstruction projects to help rebuild $900,000 to the organization through to communities affected by natural disasters. 2021, in order to help youth heal ties with For example, in Jojutla, with the help of their families and integrate back into their Happy Hearts Mexico A.C., we built the communities. Funds will be used to support Narciso Mendoza rural elementary school, a portfolio of 18 programs across 13 cities in which serves approximately 150 children. Chile, providing child protection residences, In the municipality of Pantelhó, Chiapas, we outpatient treatment programs and training rehabilitated two existing classrooms and for those who work directly with youth. built three more weather-resilient classrooms for the Joaquín Miguel Gutiérrez high school, benefiting over 230 young people. Academic Partnerships Scotiabank continued the second year of In 2019, Scotiabank invested more than Through our its three-year partnership and $300,000 partnership with $6 million in over 60 different academic commitment to Covenant House Vancouver’s institutions across Canada, the United Teach For Canada, we have committed to Building Futures for Vulnerable Youth Capital States, Chile, Mexico and Peru. Scotiabank donate $300,000 to Campaign in Canada. Youth and staff moved has engaged some of the best and brightest help teachers working into a brand-new residence, with a second minds in academia to solve some of the Bank’s in northern First building in progress, and a third planned for greatest digital challenges and enhance, Nations communities. renovation. In total, the number of beds will amplify and highlight the impact of digital increase from 79 to over 130. technologies on society. Supporting top educational institutions has given students Scotiabank is proud to be the National Youth the opportunity to participate in innovative Programs Sponsor for Relay Education programs, while strengthening the Bank’s in Canada, whose mission is to educate, pipeline for talent. inspire and assist people in building a 100% renewable energy future in Canada. Through 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 42 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix Investing in Our Communities Scotiabank Commits Over $3 Million to Support Big Brothers Big Sisters of Canada In 2019, Scotiabank committed $3.1 million to Big Brothers Big Sisters of Canada to support mentoring programs that will provide children with caring relationships that help build resiliency and help them become successful and contributing members of our communities. For over a century, Big Brothers Big Sisters has served the diverse and ever-changing needs of Canada’s marginalized and underserved communities. Their work is proven to help break the cycle of poverty, drugs and violence by encouraging healthy lifestyles, furthering education and accelerating engagement into society for Newcomers. According to research by the Boston Consulting Group, one-to-one mentoring has a Social Return on Investment of $23-to-1 when it comes to the long-term economic, health and social outcomes for youth in the most vulnerable situations.* The donation by Scotiabank will accelerate one-to-one mentoring relationships, directly changing the lives of hundreds of youth and their families in communities across Canada. The donation will also build the capacity for youth mentorship through support for volunteer recruitment and impact measurement initiatives. It is estimated that at least 15,000 young people are currently waiting for a Big Brothers Big Sisters mentor across Canada, and our donation will enable life-changing mentoring relationships that ignite youth potential through guidance, support and role modeling. Visit bigbrothersbigsisters.ca to learn more. *To assess the economic benefits of Big Brothers Big Sisters programs, The Boston Consulting Group completed a study that compared the outcomes of children who participated in community one-to-one programs with those that did not. 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 43 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix Investing in Our Communities Scotiabank entered into 15 new and renewed We support more than $3 million in partnerships in 2019. For example, we scholarships that enable young individuals have committed to provide $500,000 over who do not have the financial means to pursue five years to the British Columbia Institute of post-secondary education. The Scotiabank Technology to support inter-disciplinary, techLatin America Scholarships at Rotman focused education in business, computing, Business School invests $75,000 per year to financial fraud and cyber security. Our gift three students from Latin America who wish to to Tecnológico de Monterrey in Mexico of pursue a Master of Financial Risk Management USD$285,000 over one year will be used to at the University of Toronto. The Scotiabank support Factory A, an acceleration program Scholarship in Digital Innovation at the to assist 10 startups that will develop Universidad del Pacifico in Lima, Peru provides products and services for banking. We have $20,000 a year to two students to attend a committed USD$1.25 million over five years post-secondary institution on an international to Universidad Tecnica Federico Santa Maria exchange in Canada and participate in a in Chile to support the launch of Scotiabank three-month internship on their return at Center for Digital Transformation, which will Scotiabank’s Digital Factory in Peru. execute projects, courses and events in the areas of cybersecurity, cloud computing, software development and human-centred computing. Our gift to Wilfred Laurier University will provide $850,000 over four years to support Laurier’s User Experience Design program, through experiential learning, competitions and internships. We donated more than $900,000 to the María Ayuda organization in Chile to help children living in situations of violence, abuse and abandonment. 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 44 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix Investing in Our Communities Scotiabank Supports Access to Finance for Survivors of Human Trafficking At the 2019 UN General Assembly, the Liechtenstein Initiative’s Finance Against Slavery and Trafficking (FAST) launched their report entitled, Unlocking Potential: A Blueprint for Mobilizing Finance Against Slavery and Trafficking. In accordance with the Sustainable Development Goals Target 8.7, the Blueprint provides a framework for the whole financial sector, and professional service providers, to accelerate action to end modern slavery and human trafficking. The Blueprint includes a first-of-its-kind international initiative, The Financial Access Project, aimed at providing financial access for survivors of human trafficking. With over a dozen international banks invited to participate, the Project sought to promote basic banking services to survivors with no prior financial access or to restore access to those whom might have had their accounts compromised by their traffickers. Through a successful collaboration with front-line survivor service provider Deborah’s Gate (part of the Salvation Army’s Anti-Human Trafficking Programs), Scotiabank is the first bank to design, implement and successfully pilot the Liechtenstein Initiative’s Financial Access Project, providing financial services to survivors of human trafficking. Our pilot program, developed with a trauma-sensitive approach to (re-)establishing access to the financial system, offered free, unlimited chequing and savings accounts for 12 months. The program also offered survivors financial literacy, including a detailed review of the features and functionality of their new accounts and, depending on specific needs, either a refresher or first-time overview of the fundamentals of banking. Overall, our goal was to provide the financial support and resources required in a survivor’s journey to economic independence. At Scotiabank, we are committed to fostering safer communities, and with this project we welcomed survivors of human trafficking and established new relationships with our community members. We are confident that with continued efforts, in collaboration with survivor service providers, we can make a real and lasting difference for survivors across our global footprint. 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 45 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix Governance Good corporate governance is a critical part of Scotiabank’s culture and fundamental to our long-term success. It provides proper oversight and accountability, strengthens internal and external relationships, builds trust with our stakeholders and protects the long-term interests of the Bank. Since its establishment in 2014, our Corporate Governance Office has advised on our corporate governance strategies, practices and policies at the Bank and throughout our footprint as part of our subsidiary governance framework, with direct oversight from our Board of Directors. Scotiabank’s leadership in this area has again been recognised by the Dow Jones Sustainability Index; for the second year in a row, our Bank was recognised as being in the top 1% of global financial institutions for corporate governance practices. With a forward-looking approach to emerging governance practices, our policies, procedures and practices support the Board in its oversight of the Bank and managing itself in a sound and strategic direction. A solid foundation of openness, integrity, continuous improvement and accountability is key to maintaining strong, enduring relationships with our diverse stakeholders – shareholders, customers, employees and the broader communities in which we operate. Scotiabank’s commitment to strong corporate governance practices and our continued focus on being at the forefront of leading practices remains a key aspect of our culture, and an attribute that we consider critical as we continue to build longterm value for the Bank. Julie Walsh Senior Vice President, Corporate Secretary & Chief Corporate Governance Officer 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 46 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix Governance for the future of our Bank 2019 Highlights For the second consecutive year, ranked by the Dow Jones Sustainability Index as within the top 1% of global financial institutions for Corporate Governance 38% of directors on our Board are women Looking Forward Roll-out the first bank-led certification program for Strengthened our commitment to Human Rights employees focused on ethics in artificial intelligence by being the first Canadian bank to sign onto both in partnership with the Smith School of Business the UN LGBTI Standards of Conduct for Business and and the IEEE the UN Women’s Empowerment Principles Continue to progress our Human Rights strategy Published a new Privacy Commitment that through the execution of our commitments to formalizes the principles of our approach to UN LGBTI Standards of Conduct for Business and using customer information responsibly and UN Women’s Empowerment Principles initiatives keeping customers’ data safe Continue to invest in our capabilities to combat money laundering and terrorist financing, and its abuse of the financial system 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 47 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix Trust from the Top of Our Business Why it Matters Integrity and accountability at the highest level of Scotiabank – the Board of Directors – is vital to our success. A solid approach to governance enables us to protect the interests of shareholders and maintain the trust of all stakeholders. Our Approach We take a principled approach to corporate governance and are committed to leading practices to protect the long-term interests of our stakeholders. Our strong risk culture and ethical conduct are the foundation of our business and key to our success. We are committed to conducting ourselves in a way that maintains the trust and confidence of our employees, customers, shareholders and communities. Board Diversity Scotiabank’s Board of Directors and A strong risk culture promotes behaviours management team actively invest to develop, that align to the Bank’s values, supports promote and recruit leaders that reflect the sound risk taking and enables employees to diversity of our footprint and the customers identify risk-taking activities that are beyond we serve. Board directors are regional, the established risk appetite. national and international business and The Bank’s Risk Culture Program is based on community leaders who contribute worldfour indicators of a strong risk culture: class expertise across a variety of disciplines. We are proud of the gender, age, ethnic Tone from the Top – Clear and and global diversity reflected by our Board. consistent communication on risk Twelve of our 13 Directors are independent, behaviour expectations, the importance and five Board members (38%) are women. of Scotiabank’s values, and fostering an environment where everyone has ownership and responsibility for “doing Risk Culture the right thing” Effective risk management requires a strong, Accountability – All employees are robust and pervasive risk management accountable for risk management. culture where every Bank employee is There is an environment of open a risk manager and is responsible for communication where employees feel managing risks. The Bank’s risk culture is safe to speak up and raise concerns influenced by numerous factors including without fear of retaliation the interdependent relationship amongst the Bank’s risk governance structure, risk Risk Management – Risk taking activities appetite, strategy, organizational culture and are consistent with the Bank’s strategies risk management tools. and risk appetite. Risk appetite 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 48 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix Trust from the Top of Our Business considerations are embedded in key Scotiabank is committed to responsible decision-making processes business and sales practices, and our advisors are focused on the needs of our customers. People Management – Performance We do not compromise ethics for the sake and compensation structures encourage of meeting sales, profit or other targets or desired behaviours and reinforce the goals. This core value is stated clearly in the Bank’s risk culture Code and is also articulated by our Global Sales Principles. We continually monitor and enhance sales practices and processes to Responsible and Ethical Conduct ensure we consistently meet our customers’ needs. We value hearing from our customers The Scotiabank Code of Conduct (the about what we can do better and actively Code) enables us to protect our values and seek feedback. If a customer is unable to reputation in everything we do. We require resolve a concern at their local branch or all employees, officers and directors to through our contact centre, they can raise the acknowledge compliance with the Code issue to the Office of the President or to the on an annual basis. We formally review the Office of the Ombudsman. Code every two years at a minimum. After a full review in 2018, we revised the Code in 2019 to improve clarity and alignment with other Scotiabank policies. Scotiabank’s Global We encourage all employees to raise workplace concerns. The Bank provides Sales Principles employees with several options to address concerns: 1 Put our customer first. Raise concerns directly with a manager and/or supervisor, with an option to 2 Be an ambassador for escalate to senior management directly the Bank. Contact a human resource representative online or via telephone 3 Be transparent with Seek support from the Staff Ombuds our customers. Office, which provides anonymous assistance with work-related issues 4 Always get our customer’s Submit a report anonymously through consent and protect a third-party and independent hotline, their information. accessible 24/7 in all countries where the Bank operates 5 Keep our customers As stated in both the Code and and our Bank safe. Whistleblower Policy, the Bank will protect any Scotiabanker, including contingent 6 Act honestly and workers, who raises issues or reports with integrity. concerns in good faith from retaliation. Retaliatory behaviour and actions are not tolerated. 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 49 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix Trust from the Top of Our Business Governance of Environmental and Social Issues Oversight of our ESG impacts is a shared In addition, the Audit and Conduct Review responsibility of the Board of Directors, Committee of the Board oversees our and specific areas are addressed by climate-related disclosure as part of our individual Board Committees. financial reporting and assists the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities for The Corporate Governance Committee of setting standards of conduct and ethical the Board has primary oversight of our ESG behaviour, and the oversight of conduct strategy and reporting, including evaluating risk management. our environmental and social performance and discussing best practices for nonThe Human Resources Committee of financial disclosure. The Committee reviews the Board has oversight for diversity and current ESG trends and how they relate inclusion, leadership, succession planning to the Bank’s ESG strategy and it reviews and total rewards, which includes ensuring the annual ESG report. The Corporate our compensation programs are consistent Governance Committee acts in an advisory with our risk management programs. In capacity through a continuing assessment of 2019, they oversaw the leadership strategy the Bank’s approach to corporate governance and succession planning process, which and makes policy recommendations, includes key accountabilities for increasing including on topics such as human rights. the representation of women at senior management levels. The Risk Committee of the Board retains primary oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities, as well as any climaterelated natural disasters. Climate-related risks are captured in a quarterly Enterprise Risk Management report. In 2019, the Risk Committee reviewed the potential impacts of climate factors across Scotiabank’s business. The Risk Committee also assists the Board by providing oversight to risk management, anti-money laundering / anti-terrorist financing and sanctions functions. This includes periodically reviewing and approving the Bank’s key risk management policies, frameworks and limits and satisfying itself that management is operating within the Bank’s Enterprise Risk Appetite Framework. 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 50 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix Advancing Human Rights Why it Matters All business enterprises have a responsibility to respect, protect and promote human rights wherever they operate, and to address human rights impacts through prevention, mitigation and remediation. For Scotiabank, human rights are a central tenet of sustainability, the success of our business and the trust of our stakeholders. Our Approach We are committed to upholding the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, which provide a clear framework for businesses to embed human rights considerations into our value chains. Our strategy extends across the organization and involves stakeholders throughout the Bank. It is underpinned by our global Human Rights Statement and builds upon existing policies and programs. Commitment to Human Rights Respect for Human Rights is at the heart our initial human rights impact assessment, of our core values and guides the way we including discrimination, equal pay, do business. Our Human Rights Statement accommodation and supply chain (including was adopted at the highest level of our modern slavery and human trafficking). organization in 2016 and it articulates our In May 2019, Scotiabank was the first approach to fulfilling the commitments we Canadian bank to sign onto two important have made as an employer, financial services United Nations initiatives: the UN LGBTI provider, business partner and community Standards of Conduct for Business and member. As part of a subsequent review of the UN Women’s Empowerment Principles our statement, we noted we could be more (WEPs). Participation in these initiatives explicit by stating we acknowledge and further demonstrates the Bank’s continued respect the rights of Indigenous Peoples, commitment to diversity and inclusion consistent in the countries where we operate. and alignment to the Bank’s approach to In recognition of our respect for human rights sustainable business. and the rights of Indigenous Peoples, we updated our Human Rights Statement to this effect in 2019. Gender Identity We continue our commitment to integrate human rights considerations into all aspects We undertook numerous projects to of our business to ensure we have a positive strengthen our commitment to our impact on our employees, customers and the employees’ right to not be discriminated communities in which we operate. We made against based on gender identity and progress on several priority areas identified in gender expression in the workplace. 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 51 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix Advancing Human Rights Recent progress includes: A thorough review of our Canadian business was conducted in 2019 as part of our focus Enhanced our global human resources on human rights. system to enable employees to voluntarily self-identify gender identity In order to ensure a like-for-like comparison, and personal pronoun preference in we reviewed total median remuneration their employee profiles by gender for roles at the same level in Canada. As the table below demonstrates, Added a mandatory learning module the analysis found less than a 4% variance about gender identity and gender predominantly as a result of demographic expression into inclusion training for all and role differences. Overall the position employees globally remained broadly flat year on year and we maintained a variance of 1% within junior Executed customer-focused gender roles, our largest employee population, identity and expression inclusion training and saw a slight improvement within for staff in Global Contact Centres and Management – Seasoned Professional roles, Canadian Branches our second largest employee population. Launched global Gender Identity and While we have seen an improvement for Gender Expression Toolkit and resources some roles, we recognize we have more hub on our employee intranet to do to continue to close this gap across our employee population and remain Launched a global LGBT+ Ally committed to ensuring remuneration design certification program in collaboration and decision making is fair, transparent and with IBM to create and maintain based on performance in role. welcoming spaces for our customers and employees Enhanced benefits for employees or Total Median their dependants who are transitioning Remuneration2 their gender Role1 Women % Created Gender Transition in the Relative to Men Workplace Guidelines and training for managers to support employees who Vice Presidents, are transitioning their gender Senior Vice 97% Presidents Made physical improvements to workspaces to become more inclusive, Management including the addition of gender– Seasoned 96% neutral and accessible washrooms Professional in some locations Professional, Administrative 99% Equal Pay and Operational As part of our commitment to diversity and 1 To ensure a like-for-like comparison, all employees in full-time roles within Canada were included, excluding those in front-line sales or inclusion, and discrimination-free decision participating in specialized incentive plans making, we review and analyze information 2 Total remuneration includes base salary, short-term incentives and long-term incentives (where applicable) in relation to gender and remuneration. 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 52 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix Advancing Human Rights As part of our annual review, we also members from the acquisition of BBVA in assessed the allocation of base salary the country. In 2019, the working group adjustments, incentive awards and individual helped introduce a new benefit program performance assessments for 2019 across aimed at improving quality of life for people women and men. We identified a marginal with disabilities. The program includes difference overall in favour of women allowances, reimbursements, permits and compared to men, except at the managerial benefits for service animals. level where the variable pay results were marginally in favour of men due to the higher We advanced our work on accommodation representation of men in speciality/technical in Canada by creating and delivering a fields. The proportion of employees receiving mandatory accommodation training for an incentive award was the same for both leaders at our Contact Centres across the men and women. country. The trainings raised awareness on accessibility and accommodation, and We continue to provide line managers with promoted an environment where employees By investing in training and tools to support bias-free are comfortable asking questions about innovative digital decision making and continue our efforts in human rights and how it impacts day-totools and working to accelerating the advancement of women into day responsibilities. We created formalized improve workplace and customer senior roles. We believe addressing the lower processes for providing accommodations accommodations, we representation of women in senior roles is consistently across Canadian Contact Centre are fostering inclusion key to addressing the variance at this level. locations that meet the needs of employees among employees We recognize there are some areas within and customers with various abilities, and customers the Bank that are less balanced on gender disabilities and demographics. with disabilities. than others, and we have several programs in place to increase diversity and inclusion We also used a range of new digital tools across the Bank. By strengthening our talent to continue fostering inclusion among pipeline and ensuring all employees have employees and customers. We redesigned equal access to advancement opportunities, the Scotiabank mobile banking application we aim to build a high performing team to be more accessible for everyone. The and be recognized as a leader in business application was designed with inclusivity performance. Please see p. 29 for more on at its heart; barrier-free banking means the these efforts. application is made to be accessible for people with a range of sight, mobility, hearing and cognitive needs. Workplace and Customer We also piloted the LanguageLine application Accommodation for employees that are hard of hearing. This tool provides video conferencing technology In Chile, we continued to make progress that allows for on-demand interpreting on our three-year plan focused on services through a mobile phone or tablet. accommodation. A disability working group This new technology allows employees who was convened to promote the increase and are deaf or hard of hearing to participate fully inclusion of people with disabilities working in daily activities, including team meetings at Scotiabank in Chile. The working group and trainings, creating a more accessible and is comprised of executives from different inclusive environment. areas of the Bank who meet monthly to develop goals and actions to improve In 2019, we were proud to be recognized inclusion for people with disabilities. It with a Workplace Benefits Award for absence reports to Chile’s Inclusion Committee, management from Benefits Canada. This which was renewed in 2019 to include new award was in recognition of our focus on 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 53 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix Advancing Human Rights completely reviewing our disability policies We also published our Global Procurement and overall absence management program, Policy to streamline and ensure a consistent in which we looked at both longand shortapproach to third-party arrangements. The term disability and administrative practices. Policy governs all procurement activities Our renewed approach is driven by data and Bank-wide including all countries where we analytics and focused on supporting total operate. Among other updates, the Policy well-being when it comes to absenteeism and identifies specific scenarios where the helping employees get back to work quickly Global Procurement Services (GPS) team and safely. The Award recognized both our must be engaged and serve to strengthen approach to providing employees at work and clarify the requirements for due with accommodation supports to allow them diligence and ethical conduct for new and to stay in the workplace, as well as preparing prospective suppliers. employees on leave for their return to work. In the first full program year in 2018, we For example, rules have been bolstered experienced a 14% reduction in short-term around mandating refreshed risk disability duration, and a decrease in cases assessments, due diligence and approvals transitioning to long-term disability by 42%. following any significant changes to existing suppliers; the enterprise-wide sanctions policy has been expressly integrated; lines of accountability and the scope of GPS ESG in the Supply Chain involvement in the procurement process As an international bank, Scotiabank are more clearly defined; and direction on partners with thousands of suppliers globally. specific steps to be taken to maintain the Our Supplier Code of Conduct helps to integrity of the procurement process are communicate our expectations to all current better articulated. and prospective suppliers on issues related to ethical and responsible business conduct, human rights and environmental topics. Scotiabank’s Supplier Spend, by Category 8% 29% 17% n IT, HR and Marketing........................................................ 29% Professional Services.......................................................26 % n Banking Operations..........................................................20 % n Real Estate..........................................................................17 % n Corporate Services............................................................... 8 % n 20% 26% 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 54 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix Protecting Our Customers Why it Matters Trust is the foundation that allows us to bank. Protecting our customers’ money, privacy and data, and managing risks associated with financial crime helps ensure responsibility in our banking capacities and is critically important to enhancing customer trust. Our Approach We earn our stakeholders’ and customers’ trust and maintain our reputation through effective financial crimes risk management, customer privacy protection, cybersecurity enhancement, and ensuring an ethical approach to the use of artificial intelligence. Combating Financial Crime Scotiabank is strictly opposed to entering crime. As one of Canada’s largest financial relationships with businesses or individuals institutions, we continue to be supportive engaged in illegal activities, or with of government efforts to improve the businesses engaged in improper, quasi-legal effectiveness of the anti-money laundering or inappropriate activities. We are committed (AML) and anti-terrorist financing (ATF) to sustaining secure financial systems regime in Canada. In partnership with in the countries in which we operate by academic institutions and the broader taking the necessary action and using a financial technology ecosystem, we are risk-based approach. exploring innovative data encryption techniques and leveraging the power of We continually look for new ways to innovate artificial intelligence and analytics to advance to address the constantly evolving methods our capabilities to predict, detect and deter used by criminals to take advantage financial crime. of the banking sector through money laundering, cyber-attacks, fraud and other financial crimes. We continue to invest in Data Privacy and Security strengthening our defenses, while learning more about our customers by asking the Scotiabank has established a robust privacy right questions so that we can discover their program that is designed to protect the needs, improve data and risk intelligence personal information entrusted to us. sharing, leverage integrated technology In 2019, Scotiabank published a new and processes, enhance our capability Privacy Commitment that guides the Bank’s to detect and deter crimes and report approach to privacy, including the need suspicious behaviour. for employees to be accountable, safe, respectful, useful, adaptable and transparent Collaboration is paramount to combating when it comes to collecting and using new and traditional types of financial personal information. 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 55 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix Protecting Our Customers The Bank’s Privacy Risk Management through the Canadian Bankers Association, Framework was reviewed and updated in such as Canada’s Office of the Privacy 2019 and our Privacy Risk Management Commissioner’s consultation on transfers for Policy was finalized. The new policy outlines processing personal data. the principles, policies and procedures that form our global privacy standards. We also reviewed and updated our Privacy Incident Cybersecurity and Breach Management Procedures and finalized new Privacy Impact Assessment Scotiabank employs teams of cybersecurity procedures to help ensure privacy is specialists across its global operations accounted for when we engage with a new to identify and protect the Bank’s third-party or develop new or redesigned critical infrastructure and data. We have products and services. New Guidelines for processes in place to detect and respond the Use of Personally Identifiable Information to any occurrence of cyber or information (PII) in digital initiatives were published security risks or threats, and well-defined to provide an overview of the privacy strategies to help mitigate these risks at implications that must be considered when various levels throughout the organization. devising a digital initiative that involves PII. We have established a Board-approved In particular, the guidelines assist Scotiabank cybersecurity strategy to protect the Bank employees to distinguish between and its customers and prepare for emerging permissible and impermissible uses of cybersecurity threats. PII from a privacy perspective. In 2019, we finalized a new Cybersecurity In Canada, we refreshed our Canadian Policy that enhances our approach to As formalized in Privacy Agreement and the Canadian Digital protecting customer data. We implemented the Bank’s Privacy Privacy and Interest-Based Advertising Policy multi-factor authentication as part of the Commitment, (formerly the Cookies Policy) that describes new mobile application for Canadian retail employees must be accountable, safe, how Scotiabank uses cookies and other customers, increased our focus on the Bank’s respectful, useful, technologies on its website (for example, to critical information assets, developed a adaptable and deliver more relevant advertising) to provide secure platform for cloud-based computing transparent when it greater transparency and clarity for our and broadened cyber training and awareness comes to collecting customers. It describes how the Bank treats across the Bank. and using personal personal information in Canada – including information. In 2019, we promoted annual Cybersecurity the types of personal information we collect, when and why we collect and use personal Awareness Month to employees in each information, and the circumstances when we of our major markets. Examples of topics share and disclose it. addressed included cloud security, application security, social media cyber In 2019, Privacy Awareness Week was risk, cybersecurity and risk management in promoted in all six of our major markets banking, data loss prevention, identity theft to drive awareness that all employees play and cybersecurity while traveling. a critical role in ensuring customer and employees’ personal information is safe. All employees are required to complete online privacy training annually as part of the global mandatory training program. In 2019, we also collaborated with government and industry associations to improve privacy protection in the industry 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 56 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix Protecting Our Customers Ethics in Artificial Intelligence and Technology Artificial Intelligence (AI) is defining a new age understanding of ethical principles in in customer service and risk management, business decision making, AI applications and we have an unprecedented opportunity and processes. to re-imagine how AI can transform how we do business at Scotiabank. Our statement on In 2019, we established partnerships with responsible interactive AI development plays academic institutions focused on better a significant role in anchoring AI development understanding the costs and benefits of AI with our core AI values: and technology, including: Be useful Scotiabank is providing $750,000 to the University of Ottawa in Canada to Be transparent support The Scotiabank AI & Society Initiative to help enhance the Bank’s Be respectful understanding of ethics in technology. Be safe We made a $1.25 million donation to the University of Alberta in Canada to Be accountable fund the Scotiabank Artificial Intelligence Be adaptable Research Initiative in the Department of Computing Science. This initiative aims to understand and build practical tools and predictive models for fraud We launched a two-day training program detection and speech to text analytics. to support employees in applying ethical principles to Artificial Intelligence applications and processes. At Scotiabank, our investment in AI goes beyond the smart implementation of new tools and technologies; we are committed to being leaders in the development of principles, guidelines and training for the ethical application of this powerful technology. In 2019, Scotiabank launched the first Trusted Data & AI for Canadian Business certification in Canada. In collaboration with the Smith School of Business at Queen’s University and the IEEE, the world’s largest technical professional organization advancing technology for humanity, the two-day program is designed specifically for Scotiabank employees to develop foundational knowledge and 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 57 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix Appendix Material ESG Task Force UN Global Topics and on ClimateCompact Stakeholder related Financial Communication Engagement Disclosures on Progress Index p. 59 p. 62 p. 63 Sustainable Global Reporting Sustainability Development Initiative Index Accounting Goals and Target Standards Board Index Index p. 64 p. 65 p. 82 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 58 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix Material ESG Topics and Stakeholder Engagement We strive to address the ESG topics that matter most to our business and stakeholders, and those on which we stand to have the greatest positive impact. In 2017, we completed a stakeholder engagement process and materiality ENVIRONMENT assessment in which stakeholders were asked to rank the importance of y Environmental footprint (e.g. GHG emissions, paper use) ESG topics. Responses were collected y Environmental/social risk management in lending globally from employees, customers, investors, government, non-government y Creation of products with environmental benefits organizations (NGOs), philanthropic partners and academic partners. Understanding which topics are material SOCIAL to stakeholders helped shape our approach to ESG. y Financial education/literacy We continuously engage with both y Innovation/digitization internal and external stakeholders on a y Financial inclusion/access regular basis in order to understand the y Creation of products with social benefits ESG issues that matter most to them and our business. We use a variety of formal y Diversity and equal opportunity and informal channels and methods in y Employee health and well-being order to maintain strong relationships y Community investment and philanthropy and open communication. y Health and well-being and education of youth y Customer service y Talent attraction, engagement and development GOVERNANCE y Governance of operations y Corporate structure y Transparency of operations and services y Human rights y Fair labour practices y Data privacy and security y Fair design and sale of responsible products and services y Sustainable/responsible procurement supply chain y Commitment to external sustainability/CSR initiatives 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 59 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix Material ESG Topics and Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder How We Interact ESG Topics of Interest in 2019 Group Customers y Public engagement y Community involvement and events y In-person at community events or meetings y Community investment and philanthropy y Customer feedback through The Pulse survey y Corporate social responsibility initiatives and follow-up calls y Cybersecurity and data privacy y Branch network y Customer experience improvement y Contact Centres opportunities y Social media y Conference attendance y Community investment programs y Annual meeting Employees y Online through internal social networking y Opportunities for continuous learning platform, email and intranet and development of new skills, with a y Town halls and team meetings focus on digital and technology y Regular engagement through new employee y Diverse and inclusive work environment experience survey – ScotiaPulse y Human rights in the workplace y Knowledge and tools to enable even greater customer focus y Opportunities to connect with local communities through support and volunteerism Shareholders, y Hosted Investor Day in Santiago, Chile, in y Acquisitions, divestitures and investors, January 2020 repositioning of the business rating y Management participation in investor conferences y Share performance and valuation agencies y Shareholder proposals and enquiries y Canadian housing and consumer and research y Annual general meeting and quarterly earnings indebtedness analysts update calls y Geopolitical and macroeconomic issues y Over 400 one-on-one investor meetings y Digital transformation y Social media y Financial instruments to support sustainability, e.g. Green Bonds y ESG issues across the Americas and our global footprint y Task Force for Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) y Human Rights and Aboriginal relations y Gender equality and equal pay y Executive compensation y Lending activities to energy sector 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 60 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix Material ESG Topics and Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder How We Interact ESG Topics of Interest in 2019 Group Government y Dialogue with policy makers and government y Cybersecurity and financial crime officials y Digital finance and data privacy y Public submissions to government consultations y International trade y Member of joint public-private sector Sustainable y Diversity and inclusion Finance Working Group of the Institute of y Sustainable Finance and climate change International Finance y Payments modernization in Canada y Canadian Standards Association Technical Committee for the development of a Green and Transition Finance taxonomy for Canada Suppliers y Procurement procedures y Supplier Code of Conduct y Sustainability assessment of prospective suppliers y UK Modern Slavery Act and human rights y Third Party Management Program y Environmental and social risk y Global Procurement Policy NGOs, y Community partnerships y Helping young people thrive community y Conferences, events and webinars y Financial literacy and education development y Employee volunteerism y Support to local communities organizations y Investment in academic partnerships and academia and academia y Work with Business for Social Responsibility on human rights Global and y Public support of the Financial Stability Board’s y Transparency on ESG risks national Task Force for Climate-related Financial y Climate change and carbon pricing sustainability Disclosures (TCFD) y Sustainable Development Goals organizations y Participant in Signatory to the UN Global Compact y Gender equality y Signatory of the UN Women’s Empowerment y LGBT+ inclusion Principles y Signatory of the UN LGBTI Standards of Conduct for Business 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 61 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Index S  cotiabank recognizes that climate change is one of the biggest challenges of our time. Scotiabank supports the Financial Stability Board (FSB) Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and remains committed to the implementation of the recommendations across the Bank. Theme and Area Reference Page Governance a) Board Oversight 2019 Annual Report, p. 104 2019 ESG Report, pp. 16-17 b) Management Role 2019 Annual Report, p. 105 2019 ESG Report, p. 17 Strategy 2019 Annual Report, p. 105 a) Risks and Opportunities 2019 ESG Report, pp. 16-19 b) Impact of climate risk and opportunities for business 2019 Annual Report, p. 105 2019 ESG Report, pp. 16-19 c) Resilience of corporate strategy, considering climate scenarios 2019 Annual Report, p. 105 2019 ESG Report, pp. 16-19 Risk Management 2019 Annual Report, p. 105 a) Process to identify and assess climate risks 2019 ESG Report, pp. 16-19 b) Managing climate risk 2019 Annual Report, p. 105 2019 ESG Report, pp. 16-19 c) Integrating climate risk into overall risk management 2019 Annual Report, p. 105 2019 ESG Report, pp. 16-19 Metrics and Targets 2019 Annual Report, pp. 105-106 a) Metric used to assess climate-related risks and opportunities 2019 ESG Report, pp. 18-22 b) GHG disclosure for Scope 1, 2, 3 2019 ESG Report, p. 18 c) T  argets used to manage climate-related risks and opportunities 2019 Annual Report, pp. 105-106 and performance 2019 ESG Report, pp. 18-22 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 62 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Index Scotiabank reaffirms its support of the UN Global Compact and the 10 Principles. The Index below serves as our Communication on Progress, where descriptions of our actions toward UN Global Compact principles can be found. UN Global Compact Principles Relevant Section and Page Reference Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and Investing in Our Employees (pp. 29-30), Empowering Our respect the protection of internationally Customers (pp. 32-34), Investing in Our Communities (p. 45), proclaimed human rights. Trust from the Top of Our Business (pp. 48-49), Advancing Human Rights (pp. 51-54), GRI 102-8, 102-9, 102-12, 102-16, 102-14, 102-41, 201-3, 205-2, 401-1, 401-2, 402-1, 403-2, 406-1, 412-1, 414-1 Principle 2: Businesses should make sure they Advancing Human Rights (p. 54) are not complicit in human rights abuses. GRI 102-9, 406-1, 412-1, 414-1, FS13, FS14 Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the Investing in Our Employees (pp. 28-31), freedom of association and the effective Advancing Human Rights (pp. 51-54) recognition of the right to collective bargaining. GRI 102-41, 401-2, 402-1 Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the Advancing Human Rights (p. 54) elimination of all forms of forced and GRI 412-1 compulsory labour. Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the Advancing Human Rights (p. 54) effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the Investing in Our Employees (pp. 28-31), elimination of discrimination in respect to Advancing Human Rights (pp. 51-54) employment and occupation. GRI 102-8, 401-1, 401-2, 403-2, 404-1, 404-2, 404-3, 405-1, 406-1, 412-1 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support Our Climate Commitments (pp. 16, 21), a precautionary approach to ESG Focused Lending and Investment (pp. 22-24) environmental challenges. GRI 102-11, 308-1, FS11 Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives Our Climate Commitments (pp. 16-21) to promote greater environmental responsibility. GRI 302-1, 302-4, 303-5, 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4, 305-5, FS8 Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the Our Climate Commitments (pp. 18-20) development and diffusion of environmentally GRI 302-4, 305-5, FS8 friendly technologies. Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against Trust from the Top of Our Business (p. 49), corruption in all its forms, including extortion GRI 102-16, 205-1, 205-2 and bribery. 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 63 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix Sustainable Development Goals and Target Index Out of the 17 SDGs, we have the greatest positive impact on six of the Goals and associated targets through our ESG priorities. Summary of SDG Target Relevant Reference SDG 1: No Poverty 1.2 Reduce at least by half all people living in poverty Empowering Our Customers (pp. 32-33), Investing in Our Communities (pp. 38-45), GRI 413-1, FS13, FS14 1.3 Social protection systems for the poor and vulnerable Empowering Our Customers (pp. 32-33), and Advancing Human Rights (p. 51) 1.4 Equal rights to economic resources Empowering Our Customers (pp. 32-37), GRI 413-1, FS13, FS14 SDG 3: Good Health and Well-being 3.2 End preventable child mortality by supporting primary healthcare Investing in Our Communities (pp. 39, 41), GRI 401-2 3.4 Promote mental health and well-being Investing in Our Communities (p. 41), GRI 401-2 3.8 Achieve universal health coverage Investing in Our Communities (pp. 39, 41), GRI 401-2 SDG 4: Quality Education 4.1 Free primary and secondary education for all girls and boys Investing in Our Communities (pp. 41-42) 4.3 Ensure equal access for all to technical and tertiary education Investing in Our Employees (pp. 27-28), Investing in Our Communities (p. 44), GRI 404-1 4.4 Increase youth and adult vocational skills for employment Investing in Our Employees (pp. 27-28), Investing in Our Communities (pp. 41-42), GRI 404-1, 413-1 4.5 Eliminate gender disparities in education GRI 404-1 SDG 5: Gender Equality 5.1 E nd all forms of discrimination against all women and Investing in Our Employees (pp. 29-30), Empowering Our Customers girls everywhere (pp. 33-34), Advancing Human Rights (pp. 52-53), GRI 201-1, 401-1, 405-1, 406-1, 412-1 5.5 Ensure equal opportunities for leadership at all levels Investing in Our Employees (pp. 29-30), Empowering Our Customers (pp. 33-34), Advancing Human Rights (pp. 52-53), GRI 102-18, 405-1 SDG 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth 8.2 I ncrease economic productivity through diversification Empowering Our Customers (pp. 32-35), GRI 201-1, 404-1, 404-2 and innovation 8.3 Promote job creation and entrepreneurship Empowering Our Customers (pp. 33-37), Investing in Our Communities (pp. 41-42) 8.5 Full and productive employment for all people with equal pay Investing in Our Employees (pp. 27-30), Advancing Human Rights (pp. 52-54), GRI 102-8, 201-3, 401-1, 401-2, 404-1, 404-2, 404-3, 405-1, 412-1 8.6 Reduce youth unemployment through education or training Investing in Our Communities (pp. 41-42), GRI 401-1 8.7 E radicate forced labour, end modern slavery, human trafficking Investing in Our Communities (p. 45), Advancing Human Rights (p. 54), and all forms of child labour GRI 412-1 8.8 Protect labour rights and safe working environments Investing in Our Employees (pp. 27-31), Trust from the Top of Our Business (pp. 48-49), Advancing Human Rights (pp. 53-54), GRI 102-41, 403-2 8.10 Expand access to banking for all Empowering Our Customers (pp. 32-33), GRI 102-4, FS13, FS14 SDG 13: Climate Action 13.1 Strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity Our Climate Commitments (pp. 18-20), GRI 201-2, 203-1, 302-1, 302-4, 303-5, 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4, 305-5 13.2 Integrate climate change measures Our Climate Commitments (pp. 16-21), ESG Focused Lending and Investment (pp. 23-24), GRI 201-2 13.3 Improve climate change education Our Climate Commitments (p. 21), Investing in Our Communities (p. 42), GRI 102-11, 201-2 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 64 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix Global Reporting Initiative Index GENERAL DISCLOSURES 102-1 Name of the Organization The Bank of Nova Scotia (Scotiabank) 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services p. 3 102-3 Location of Headquarters The head office of the Bank is located at 1709 Hollis Street, Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada and its executive offices are at Scotia Plaza, 44 King Street West, Toronto, Canada. 102-4 Location of Operations In fiscal 2019, we operated in: North America: Canada, Mexico, United States; Central and South America: Belize, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guyana, Panama, Peru, Uruguay, Venezuela; Caribbean: Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Aruba, Bahamas, Barbados, Bonaire, British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands, Curacao, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Grenada, Jamaica, Puerto Rico, St Kitts and Nevis, St Lucia, St Maarten, St Vincent and the Grenadines, Trinidad and Tobago, Turks and Caicos Islands, U.S. Virgin Islands; Asia Pacific: Australia, China, Hong Kong SAR, India, Japan, Malaysia, Singapore, South Korea, Thailand; Europe: Ireland, United Kingdom 102-5 Ownership and legal form The Bank is a Schedule 1 bank under the Bank Act (Canada) and is publicly traded on the Toronto Stock Exchange and New York Stock Exchange. The Bank is widely held with no person or group being permitted to hold more than 10% of any class of shares of the Bank. 102-6 Markets served p. 3 102-7 Scale of the organization p. 3 102-8 Information on employees and other workers A. Total Workforce by Employment Contract and Gender (Headcount) Gender Permanent Contract Total Women 46,151 3,618 49,769 Men 36,671 2,375 39,046 Non-binary 102 19 121 Prefer not to respond 54 6 60 Total 82,978 6,018 88,996 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 65 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix GENERAL DISCLOSURES 102-8 B. Total Workforce by Employment Contract and Region (Headcount) (cont’d) Region Permanent Contract Total Americas 81,947 5,971 87,918 Asia 631 39 670 Europe 387 8 395 Oceania 13 0 13 Total 82,978 6,018 88,996 C. Total Workforce by Employment Type and Gender (Headcount) Gender Full-time Part-time Total Women 44,194 5,575 49,769 Men 37,466 1,580 39,046 Non-binary 92 29 121 Prefer not to respond 52 8 60 Total 81,804 7,192 88,996 Notes: Headcount as of October 31, 2019. Excludes casual staff and affiliates and subsidiaries where breakdowns are not available due to different reporting systems. Please see the Annual Report (p. 20) for disclosure on the number of Full-Time Equivalent employees. 102-9 Supply Chain p. 54 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain There have been no significant changes to the organizational structure, size or ownership of Scotiabank or its supply chain during 2019. Scotiabank announced divestitures in non-core markets and businesses, including selected eastern Caribbean countries, Puerto Rico, El Salvador and Thailand. 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Our Environmental Policy explains our precautionary principle approach. See p. 21 for a summary of our Policy. 102-12 External initiatives Equator Principles, United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), United Nations Environmental Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI), United Nations Guiding Principles on Business Conduct and Human Rights, UN LGBTI Standards of Conduct for Business, UN Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs), Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition, Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI), Task Force for Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 66 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix GENERAL DISCLOSURES 102-13 Membership of associations Business Council of Canada Canadian Bankers Association Canadian Chamber of Commerce Institute of International Finance Toronto Financial Services Alliance Responsible Investment Association 102-14 Statement from the senior decision maker pp. 7-8 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour Scotiabank’s Values are: Respect, Integrity, Passion and Accountability. See p. 49 102-18 Governance structure p. 50 and 2019 Management Proxy Circular, pp. 30-31 102-40 List of stakeholder groups pp. 60-61 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements As of October 31, 2019, 12% of the total employee population at Scotiabank was covered by a collective bargaining agreement. There is a slight decrease in unionization because of operational and workforce efficiency exercises in the unionized jurisdictions, as well as an overall increase in the total number of employees worldwide. 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders; Approach to stakeholder engagement; Key topics 102-43 and concerns raised 102-44 pp. 59-61 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Please see list of principal subsidiaries in annual report, pp. 223-224 as of October 31, 2019. 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries Material Management Evaluation Boundary 103-1 Topics 103-2 103-3 Environment Material inside and outside pp. 16-24 Benchmarking, p. 59 Scotiabank, for employees, future ESG rankings, employees, customers, investors, customer and communities and wider stakeholders. employee feedback. Social Material inside and outside pp. 27-45 Benchmarking, p. 59 Scotiabank, for employees, future ESG rankings, employees, customers, investors, customer and communities and wider stakeholders. employee feedback. Governance Material inside and outside pp. 48-57 Benchmarking, p. 59 Scotiabank, for employees, future ESG rankings, employees, customers, investors, customer and communities and wider stakeholders. employee feedback. 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 67 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix GENERAL DISCLOSURES 102-47 List of material topics pp. 59-61 and GRI 102-46 102-48 Restatements of information There are no material effects from restatements referenced in this report. 102-49 Changes in reporting p. 6 102-50 Reporting period Fiscal 2019 (November 1, 2018 to October 31, 2019), unless otherwise stated. 102-51 Date of most recent report The 2018 Sustainable Business Report was published on March 14, 2019. 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual, on fiscal year 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report csr@scotiabank.com 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards The 2019 ESG Report was prepared in accordance with GRI Standards Core guidelines. 102-55 GRI content index p. 65 102-56 External assurance An independent service provider verified our greenhouse gas emissions data. The report content is approved by Senior Vice Presidents and reviewed by senior Bank executives and by the Corporate Governance Committee of the Board. ECONOMIC Economic Performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed See p. 3, and the Annual Report, p. 11 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change See pp. 18-20, and the Annual Report, pp. 104-105 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 68 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix ECONOMIC 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations A. Estimated Value of Liabilities $4,882,485,000 as of November 1, 2018 B. Extent to which the scheme’s 116% funded on a Going Concern Basis at liabilities are estimated to November 1, 2018 be covered C. Funding strategy Follows Canadian legislative requirements for funding pension plans. D. Employee Contributions 4% of salary if employee participates in the Contributory portion of the plan or 0% to 4% if the employee participates in the Defined Contribution portion of the plan. The employer contributes the remaining amount needed to pay the pension benefit and matches the employee contributions into the Defined Contribution portion of the plan. E. Plan participation 32,812 (plus 3,810 in the waiting period) as of November 1, 2018 Indirect Economic Impacts 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported See p. 20 Anti-Corruption 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 100% of 604 Assessable Units (AUs) assessed risks related to corruption, 13%, or 79 AUs, assessed residual risk as High or Very High through the risk assessment. 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures Adherence to the Scotiabank Code of Conduct (the Code) is a condition of employment at Scotiabank. All employees, directors and officers are required to receive, read and comply with the Code and any other applicable Scotiabank policies, and affirm their compliance on an annual basis. Scotiabank Code of Conduct training is provided to all new hires and annually to existing employees. This course covers the six Principles as set out in the Code along with content relating to other key employee conduct policies. One of the six Principles directly addresses bribes, payoffs and other corrupt practices. The course was rolled out to all employees globally during the 2019 Mandatory Learning Cycle. In addition to the Code training, a separate Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption (ABAC) course, was rolled out to all employees. This course is assigned to employees through the me@scotiabank learning platform, the International Learning Centre or local learning platforms. The Board of Directors reviews and approves the Scotiabank Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy. A total of 103,232 employees completed the ABAC course throughout 2019, out of a total of 103,551 employees assigned the training, a 99.7% participation rate. 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 69 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix ECONOMIC 205-2 By Region: (cont’d) Region Completed Assigned % Complete Asia 678 678 100% Caribbean and Central America 12,389 12,407 99.9% Europe 395 395 100% Latin America 45,368 45,652 99.4% North America 44,402 44,419 99.96% Total 103,232 103,551 99.7% By Employee Category: Employee Category Completed Assigned % Complete Casual 1,463 1,477 99.1% Contract 4,860 4,964 97.9% Regular 80,829 81,026 99.8% Student 408 409 98.8% Not Specified* 15,672 15,675 99.98% Total 103,232 103,551 99.7% *Employees who do not have access to Scotiabank’s centralized Learning Management System (LMS). Training completion records are tracked outside the LMS, but without the Employee Category attribute. ENVIRONMENT Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Type of Energy Canada International (excludes Canada) Electricity (MWhs) – Scope 2 215,351 177,329 Heat (GJs) – Scope 2 186,310 N/A Fuel Purchases (GJs) – Scope 1 292,268 3,818 Total Electricity and Fuel (GJs) 1,253,841 642,204 The above information was collected from the best available data and methodologies, which includes information directly captured from invoices processed for payment from various utility vendors. Utility consumption figures are collected directly from invoices when entered for payment. Consumption entries are then subject to monthly audits by Real Estate and an energy consulting firm. These figures are then subject to a final audit by an independent third party for verification. The audited and verified consumption figures are then used by both thirdparty suppliers and Real Estate in comparing technical specifications for facilities projects and weighted average consumption estimates based on actual portfolio consumption to determine energy savings associated with any given initiative. 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 70 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix ENVIRONMENT 302-1 Our Canada data is based on 953 owned and leased retail locations and the space (cont’d) occupied by the Bank in 131 office buildings across Canada, representing approximately 1,049,770 square metres. Our International data is based on 1,909 owned and leased retail locations and the space occupied by the Bank in 136 office buildings outside of Canada, representing approximately 1,263,440 square metres. 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption See p. 19 Water 303-5 Water consumption Canada International (excludes Canada) Total Use Water Use Intensity Total Use Water Use Intensity (cubic metres (cubic metres per (cubic metres (cubic metres per of water) square metre) of water) square metre) 2017 719,778 0.67 430,331 0.88 2018 696,067 0.65 326,099 0.72 2019 754,611 0.72 216,682 0.57 Note: The above information was collected from the best available data and methodologies, which includes information directly captured from invoices processed for payment from various water vendors. We continue to expand the geographic scope of our reporting boundary with the objective of reporting total consumption. When necessary, some buildings were estimated using consumption data found in similar regions and building types. In 2019, our Canada figures are based on a combination of owned/leased retail locations and office buildings occupied by the Bank across Canada, representing approximately 1,049,770 square metres. This represents the full Canadian portfolio. The increase in total water use and intensity from 2018 to 2019 in Canada is mainly attributed to more accurate estimated data for some large office buildings. Our International figures are based on a combination of owned/leased retail locations and office buildings occupied by the Bank in countries where data is available, representing a sample of the International portfolio, equal to approximately 378,193 square metres. GHG Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions See p. 18 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions See p. 18 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions See p. 18 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 71 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix ENVIRONMENT Emissions factors Canadian Provincial Emissions Factors* Generation Emission Factor for Province Intensity (Tonnes Natural Gas (Tonnes Other fuel factors** CO2e per MWH) CO2e per cubic meter) Fuel Type Factor Units Newfoundland and Tonnes CO2e 0.0000400 0.0019010 Oil 0.003 Labrador per Litre Prince Edward Tonnes CO2e 0.0000140 0.0018870 Propane 0.002 Island per Litre Nova Scotia 0.0006700 0.0019010 **Reference: GHG Protocol V4.1 2015 Release New Brunswick 0.0003100 0.0019010 Quebec 0.0000012 0.0018870 Ontario 0.0000170 0.0018880 Manitoba 0.0000019 0.0018860 Saskatchewan 0.0006500 0.0018290 Alberta 0.0007500 0.0019280 British Columbia 0.0000090 0.0019260 *Reference: Canada’s 2019 National Inventory Report 1990-2017: Green Gas Sources and Sinks Canada, Environment and Climate Change Canada 305-4 GHG emissions intensity International GHG Intensity Metric Canada Global (excludes Canada) Tonnes CO2e per FTE* 1.31 1.01 1.13 Tonnes CO2e per square metre of 0.049 0.050 0.050 real estate occupied Note: Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions are included in the intensity ratio. CO2, CH4, N2O are gases included in the calculation. *The intensity metric is based on the number of employees (full-time equivalent) as reported on p. 21 of the 2019 Annual Report. The methodology used to calculate the GHG and energy intensity was updated in 2019. 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions See pp. 18-19 Waste 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method For paper reduction initiatives, see p. 19. 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 72 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix ENVIRONMENT Supplier Environmental Assessment 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria New and existing suppliers invited by Global Procurement Services to participate in formal Request for Proposals were assessed and evaluated based on a set of quantitative and qualitative criteria, which includes ESG factors. See p. 54 SOCIAL 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover A. Total number and percentage of new employee hires during the reporting period (by age group, gender and region). Number of Region Percent employees Americas 16,105 98.83% Asia 119 0.73% Europe 70 0.43% Oceania 1 0.01% Number of Age Group Percent employees Under 30 years 9,071 55.67% 30 to 50 years 6,423 39.42% Over 50 years 801 4.92% Number of Gender Percent employees Women 8,709 53.45% Men 7,442 45.67% Non-binary 99 0.61% Prefer not to respond 45 0.28% B. Total number and percentage of employee turnover during the reporting period, by age group, gender and region. Region Number of employees Percent Americas 18,835 99.1% Asia 104 0.5% Europe 65 0.3% Oceania 0 0.0% 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 73 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix SOCIAL 401-1 (cont’d) Age Group Number of employees Percent Under 30 years 8,604 45.3% 30 to 50 years 8,361 44.0% Over 50 years 2,039 10.7% Gender Number of employees Percent Women 9,997 52.6% Men 8,900 46.8% Non-binary 52 0.3% Prefer not to respond 55 0.3% 2017 2018 2019 Voluntary employee 13% 16% 12% turnover Notes: Headcount as of October 31, 2019. Excludes casual staff and affiliates and subsidiaries where breakdowns are not available due to different reporting systems. Voluntary turnover includes Resignations and Retirements. 401-2 Benefits that are provided to full-time employees vs. benefits provided to part-time and temporary employees Temporary Benefit Full Time Part Time (Contract) Life Insurance ✓ ✓ ✓ (1 year) Health Care ✓ ✓ ✓ (1 year) Disability and invalidity N/A for LTD ✓ ✓ coverage ✓ (1 year) for STD Parental leave ✓ ✓ ✓ Retirement provision ✓ ✓ N/A Stock ownership ✓ ✓ N/A Other: Optional Benefits Optional Life, AD&D, Out ✓ ✓ ✓ (1 year) of Province/Country Health Insurance, Critical Illness Labour/Management Relations 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes A. Minimum number of weeks’ notice typically provided to employees and their representatives prior to the implementation of significant operational changes that could substantially affect them: 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 74 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix SOCIAL 402-1 In unionized locations in the English Caribbean, the following notice periods apply: (cont’d) Antigua and Barbuda: Scotiabank consults with the Union three months in advance of lay off due to lack of work. Barbados: The Bank shall consult with the Union three months in advance of lay off due to lack of work. Additionally, consultation with employees or the Union is required at least six weeks before any dismissals which will result in a reduction of 10% or another significant number. Grenada: The Bank shall notify the Union 90 calendar days in advance of lay off due to lack of work. Meetings are to be convened within 30 days of the Union receiving notice of position redundancies. St. Lucia: One week of notice is required if the period of employment is more than 12 weeks but less than two years; two weeks of notice is required if the period of employment is two years or more but less than five years; four weeks of notice is required if the period of employment is five years or more but less than 10 years. St Vincent: Scotiabank shall consult with the Union three months in advance of lay off due to lack of work. Jamaica: Reasonable notice is required based on the circumstances of each case of an employment lay off. In the unionized locations of Latin America the following notice periods apply: Mexico: Scotiabank’s general practice to maintain positive labour relations is to socialize the operational change in advance with the Union. Peru: At least eight days of notice is required when there are changes related to work schedules. Also, at Crediscotia, eight weeks of notice is required for changes in work schedules. Uruguay: Scotiabank’s general practice to maintain positive labour relations is to socialize the operational change in advance with the Union. Brazil: Four weeks of notice is required. In the unionized locations in Asia Pacific, notice periods apply in the following jurisdictions: Singapore: Scotiabank’s general practice is to communicate with employees and their representatives (Union) prior to the implementation of significant operational changes that could substantially affect their employment terms and conditions. Malaysia: A minimum of three months is required. B. Notice period and provisions for consultation and negotiations where Collective Bargaining Agreements exist. In the Caribbean the following notice periods apply: Antigua and Barbuda: Scotiabank will call a meeting with the Union if the Union Officials request within 14 days of getting notice of lay offs. Barbados: The Bank shall consult with the Union three months in advance of lay off due to lack of work. Grenada: The Bank shall notify the Union 90 calendar days in advance of lay off due to lack of work. St. Vincent: Notice is to be given within a reasonable timeframe. Scotiabank will call a meeting with the Union, if the Union Officials request within 14 days of getting notice of lay offs. Jamaica: Local legislation provides for periods of notice based on years of service. Trinidad and Tobago: Not less than 60 days’ notice is required. Scotiabank ensures compliance with local legal provisions. 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 75 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix SOCIAL 402-1 In the unionized locations in Latin America, notice periods to Unions are not included in the (cont’d) collective bargaining agreement with respect to changes that affect employees in the form of lay offs and severance and redundancies. Local labour legislation establishes the standards for terminations including notice and severance calculations. With respect to notice to bargain each jurisdiction has its own regulations. Scotiabank ensures compliance with local legal provisions. Note: Effective October 31, 2019, the Bank officially sold its business operations in the following jurisdictions: Grenada, St. Vincent & the Grenadines, St. Lucia 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism and number of work-related fatalities A. Injuries by Type Region Minor Injury* Disabling Injury** Total Canada 269 93 362 * Minor Injury refers to a workplace injury where the employee has no lost time from work ** Disabling Injury refers to an injury where the employee has lost time from work Note: In previous years the categorization of injury types was reflective of federal health and safety reporting requirements in Canada. As Scotiabank is a global employer, the injury types have been modified to reflect future data collection from each of the countries we operate in, while remaining consistent in reporting of other financial institutions in Canada. B. Injuries by Gender Region Male Female Canada 71 291 C. Lost Time* (Days) by Gender Region Male Female Total Canada 426 2,407 2,833 *Lost-Time refers to time missed from work due to a workplace injury D. Absentee Rate Unit 2018 2019 Percentage of total days Employee Absentee rate 4.0% 2.6% scheduled in Canada Canadian employees as Data coverage a percentage of global 42.7% 43.6% employees Due to different reporting systems globally, we are unable to report on international data. There were 250 working days in Canada during 2019. 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 76 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix SOCIAL 403-2 Among the resources we offer are: (cont’d) Topic Scotiabank’s Offering Human Resource Our new AskHR online repository makes it easier to find policies policies and on wellness, benefits, occupational health and safety, flexible work procedures arrangements and other workplace accommodations. Traumatic We provide resources and support to any employee in Canada who mental stress witnesses a traumatic mental stress event in the workplace and screen for indicators of mental stress. Work injuries We partnered with an impartial work injury service provider in Canada to ensure employees impacted by a work injury are given support for a safe return to the workplace. Ergonomics Our Ergonomic Policy outlines Scotiabank’s commitment to and workplace providing optimal working conditions. We adhere to recognized standards* for office illumination, noise levels, air quality, humidity and temperature. Stress The Employee and Family Assistance Program in Canada supports management employees and their families through times of personal challenges training through short-term counselling services. Employee health Core benefits coverage is provided to all regular-status employees and well-being and contract employees after one year of continuous service in Canada. We also give these employees the option to allocate benefit credits to healthcare and well-being spending accounts. Flexible Our Flexible Work Options Policy gives employees a variety of work working hours arrangements, including flextime, compressed work week, job sharing, working from alternate locations, phased retirement and part-time arrangements. Childcare facilities Employees are provided with a paid membership to a Canada-wide or contributions provider of daycare and back-up childcare for children up to age 12. Parental leave Employees on maternity leave in Canada are eligible to receive a supplementary top-up to their employment insurance benefits for a six-week period. *The standards we adhere to in Canada are IESNA for lighting and ASHRAE for temperature control, as well as all relevant government standards and regulations. 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Including Excluding Including Excluding Employee Gender compliance compliance compliance compliance Category training training training training Female 36.9 24.4 Casual 35.4 18.6 Male 43.1 30.3 Contract 21.2 9.8 Average 39.5 26.9 Regular 40.8 28.3 Student 35.2 9.3 For more information on employee training and investment, see pp. 27-28. Average 39.5 26.9 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 77 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix SOCIAL 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs See p. 27 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 95% of employees who were eligible to participate received a performance and career development review in 2019. See p. 28 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees A. A s of October 31, 2019, for the Board B. All Employees of Directors: Age Group Percent Age Group Percent Under 30 years 0% Under 30 years 27.4% 30 to 50 years 7.7% 30 to 50 years 55.6% Over 50 years 92.3% Over 50 years 17.0% Gender Percent Gender Percent Women 38.5% Women 55.92% Men 61.5% Men 43.87% Non-binary 0.14% Geography (residence) Percent Prefer not to respond 0.07% Canada 69.2% Note: Headcount as of October 31, 2019. Excludes casual staff, and affiliates and subsidiaries where US 23.1% breakdowns are not available due to different reporting system Other/International 7.7% The Board is diverse in experience, expertise, geographic background and personal characteristics as noted in our written board diversity policy which forms part of the Board’s corporate governance policies. Each director has a wealth of experience in leadership and strategy development. The combination and diversity of their skills, experience, location and gender are key as they bring unique perspectives to the Board. 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken In the context of disclosure, an “incident of discrimination” refers to an official legal action filed with the governing authority of the jurisdiction or a complaint filed through Scotiabank’s internal complaints procedures where the claim of discrimination is found, either through judicial proceedings or internal formal investigation and fact-finding procedures and processes, that there is a breach or non-compliance with established corporate policies, governing statutes or regulatory regimes. Substantiated cases of sexual harassment were included within the reporting data of an “incident of discrimination.” During 2019, the Bank had, across all jurisdictions, 29 substantiated incidents of discrimination, six of which related to customer complaints. 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 78 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix SOCIAL 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments In 2015-2016, Scotiabank commissioned a human rights assessment to understand how the Bank impacts the human rights of its employees, customers, contractors, business partners and community members in both positive and negative ways. Scotiabank engaged two external human rights experts to conduct the assessment and develop recommendations for the Bank: The Danish Institute for Human Rights and Business for Social Responsibility (BSR). The assessment was conducted in our key markets: Canada, Mexico, Peru, Chile, Colombia and Caribbean. In February 2019 Scotiabank updated our human rights statement to more clearly define how we address Indigenous Peoples’ rights in our due diligence processes. The revised version also explicitly states that we acknowledge and respect the rights of Indigenous Peoples, consistent with the laws in the countries where we operate. In addition, in 2019 we made progress on priority areas identified in the human rights impact assessment, including discrimination, accommodation and equal pay. Key projects included: the formation of a disability working group in Chile that aims to improve inclusion and increase labour participation among people with disabilities; a gap assessment which led to accommodation training at Canadian Contact Centres; and Scotiabank’s adoption of the UN Global LGBTI Standards of Conduct for Business and the UN Women’s Empowerment Principles. For more information see pp. 51-54. 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments and development programs 100% of the markets where we do business are actively engaged in local community development programs. Year-end reports from our community partner organizations are provided annually, and we are increasing our focus on evaluating and comparing metrics to measure and further drive more meaningful impact through our community investment initiatives. 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria New and existing suppliers invited by Global Procurement Services to participate in formal Request for Proposals were assessed and evaluated based on a set of quantitative and qualitative criteria, which includes ESG factors. For more information see p. 54. 415-1 Political contributions In Canada, political contributions are not permitted federally, municipally and in many provinces. In an effort to be consistent across all our operations, Scotiabank made the decision in 2016 to end political contributions in all areas of operations. 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data We reported 11 privacy breaches to regulators internationally in 2019 that met regulatory reporting thresholds. However, none of these reported privacy breaches caused significant economic, environmental and social impacts; or substantively influenced the assessments and decisions of stakeholders. Of these privacy events: i. E  leven (11) complaints came from outside parties and were substantiated by Scotiabank in 2019. ii. N  one of these complaints came from regulatory bodies in 2019. iii. O  utside party complaints: Canada (one theft, six leaks), Colombia (three leaks) and Cayman Islands (one leak). 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 79 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix Financial Sector Indicators FS8 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific environmental benefit for each business line broken down by purpose See p. 24 FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental or social screening The total number of project finance loans and project-related corporate loans that reached financial close during 2019 was seven. The breakdown is as follows: Project Finance Category A Category B Category C Sector Mining 0 0 0 Infrastructure 0 0 1 Oil & Gas 1 0 0 Power 0 1 1 Others 0 0 0 Region Americas 1 1 2 Europe, Middle East & Africa 0 0 0 Asia Pacific 0 0 0 Country Designation Designated Country 1 1 2 Non-Designated Country 0 0 0 Independent Review Yes 1 1 2 No 0 0 0 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 80 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix Financial Sector Indicators FS11 Project-Related Corporate Loans (cont’d) Category A Category B Category C Sector Mining 0 1 0 Infrastructure 0 0 0 Oil & Gas 0 2 0 Power 0 0 0 Others 0 0 0 Region Americas 0 3 0 Europe, Middle East & Africa 0 0 0 Asia Pacific 0 0 0 Country Designation Designated Country* 0 3 0 Non-Designated Country 0 0 0 Independent Review Yes 0 2 0 No 0 1 0 Category A – Projects with potential significant adverse environmental and social risks and/or impacts that are diverse, irreversible or unprecedented. Category B – Projects with potential limited adverse environmental and social risks and/or impacts that are few in number, generally site-specific, largely reversible and readily addressed through mitigation measures. Category C – Projects with minimal or no adverse environmental and social risks and/or impacts. *Designated Countries (previously named High-Income OECD Countries) are those countries deemed to have robust environmental and social governance, legislation systems and institutional capacity to protect their people and the natural environment. For the list of Designated Countries, go to: http://www.equator-principles. com/index.php/ep3/designated-countries FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas by type See pp. 36-37 FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged people See pp. 32-33 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 81 Introduction Environment Social Governance Appendix Sustainability Accounting Standards Board Index This report marks the first time Scotiabank has voluntarily linked our current ESG reporting to the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) standards. We will continue to evaluate additional industry standards and metrics in the future. Unless otherwise noted, all data and descriptions apply to our entire firm, not just the businesses within the industries identified by SASB. All data is as of or for fiscal 2019, unless otherwise noted. Topic Metric SASB Code Relevant Reference (1) Number of data breaches, FN-CB-230a.1 See p. 79 of this report: GRI 418-1 discloses (2) percentage involving number of privacy breaches reported to regulators FN-CF-230a.1 personally identifiable internationally in 2019 that met regulatory information (PII), (3) number of reporting thresholds. Data account holders affected Security Description of approach to FN-CB-230a.2 See pp. 55-56 of this report, and pp. 75, 78 and identifying and addressing 102-103 of the 2019 Scotiabank Annual Report. FN-CF-230a.3 data security risks 1) Number and (2) amount of FN-CB-240a.1 See pp. 34-35 of this report for information loans outstanding qualified to on programs and initiatives to support small programs designed to promote business, including our commitments through small business and community The Scotiabank Women InitiativeTM. More development. information specific to Canada, including specific information related to authorized debt financing, is also included on pp. 17-19 of the 2019 Public (1) Number and (2) amount of FN-CB-240a.2 Accountability Statement. past due and nonaccrual loans qualified to programs designed to promote small business and community development Financial Inclusion & Capacity Number of no-cost retail FN-CB-240a.3 See pp. 32-33 of this report for information on Building checking accounts provided our no and low-fee banking products globally. to previously unbanked or More information specific to Canada is underbanked customers also included on p. 12 of the 2019 Public Accountability Statement. Number of participants in FN-CB-240a.4 See pp. 36-37, 41-42 and 44 of this report financial literacy initiatives for for information on programs and initiatives to unbanked, underbanked or support financial education and awareness among underserved customers customers, employees and young people. More information specific to Canada is also included on pp. 13-14 of the 2019 Public Accountability Statement. Percentage of gender and racial/ FN-AC-330a.1 See pp. 29-30 of this report for disclosures ethnic group representation for on the percentage of women in executive and Employee (1) executive management, non-executive management globally, in Canada, Diversity and (2) non-executive management, and internationally (excludes Canada). Inclusion (3) professionals, and (4) all other employees CB = Commercial Banks Sustainability Accounting Standard CF = Consumer Finance Sustainability Accounting Standard AC = Asset Management & Custody Activities Sustainability Accounting Standard 2019 Scotiabank ESG Report | 82 ® Registered trademark of The Bank of Nova Scotia. TM Trademark of The Bank of Nova Scotia.
