Sustainability Report 2019 highfieldresources.com.au geoalcali.com Sustainability Report 2019 Contents Page Letter from the Chairman and Acting CEO 2 About this Report 5 Sustainability Focus 9 Sustainability Mapping 15 Performance 25 The Group 61 Communication on Progress Report 67 GRI Index 75 1 Sustainability Report 2019 Letter from the Chairman and Acting CEO Dear Readers, It is appropriate to consider the Company’s stance in This is the Group’s fifth annual report on Sustainability. respect of the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals Today, our team is more united than ever and I would like to which seek to encourage measures to build a sustainable believe that one of the aspects key to the development of the world. This year, our Company has once again worked Muga Project has been to instil in the whole team a strong towards this vision by committing to implement a large commitment to our CREA core values, being Commitment, project with integrated initiatives that contribute to those Respect, Excellence and Attitude. I am a strong advocate of objectives, with special emphasis on our social and natural the concept that navigating as a team with clearly articulated environment. This report sets out these initiatives and corporate values is the foundation for success of any highlights those that we have developed internally through business. I am convinced that our values have contributed our Living Values programme to embed our corporate to the development of a strong and effective team, with an values in our daily work. It also highlights our actions unwavering commitment to high ethical, safety, social and within the community, including information events such environmental standards, capable of facing the challenges as the Open Doors event which attracted more than 400 that will undoubtedly confront us in the future. people with whom we had the opportunity to interact and reaffirm our conviction to develop a project that respects Today the world is changing rapidly, accelerated by the our communities. In addition, our Foundation continued to impacts of climate change. The whole world faces greater support initiatives which contribute to the well-being and challenges to sustain our current environment, to turn back development of our nearby communities. Also noteworthy, the clock on the negative impacts to date and to contribute have been our efforts to raise awareness within our team, to a sustainable world for future generations. Mining projects communities, suppliers and people in the industry regarding of the magnitude of Muga must be examined, implemented the importance of health and safety and to this end we and monitored with the utmost rigour as we have done at organised presentations by the Central Mining Rescue Highfield. I am extremely proud of the achievements made Brigade, as well as school competitions under the heading by the team to date culminating in early June 2019 with the of Safety Belongs to Everyone, But It Is My Responsibility. announcement of the DIA award, the major environmental permit for the Muga Project. This tremendous outcome was This year the Company was a major player in the Navarra the result of years of dedicated and professional work by the Government’s MinerÉtica initiative, a joint initiative with local Highfield and Geoalcali team and our consultants. This result mining industry that was undertaken to raise awareness is a demonstration of the Group’s unwavering commitment about the importance of the sector and the reality of the to the highest environmental and social standards. I never strategic importance of projects such as Muga Mine at local, had any doubt that it would be achieved, nor do I have regional and national levels, especially when they are being any doubt that we will obtain the Mining Concessions and developed under the highest standards of protection of the construction permits, it is only a matter of time. environment and the community. I am confident that Muga 2 Sustainability Report 2019 Mine will be an international example of modern mining at the forefront of sustainability. The fertiliser industry, of which Muga will be a part, helps us to achieve the ecological transition that our planet needs. As a future potash producer, I would like to share statements from the International Fertilizer Association, that “the use of fertilisers, firstly, contributes to the forestallment of deforestation, as they allow for increased productivity on arable land. Secondly, they also increase the carbon sequestration potential of agricultural soils by contributing to the buildup of soil organic matter. In fact, 89% of the potential for mitigation in the future of agriculture is based on the carbon sequestration of the soil. Carbon sequestration in cultivated soils can be increased by adding organic and mineral nutrients, on the one hand, but they can also optimise the use of soil, leaving space to increase biomass production”. From a global perspective, potash is a great mineral ally in the battle against climate change. Richard Crookes Chairman and Acting Chief Executive Officer 3 Sustainability Report 2019 4 Sustainability Report 2019 About this Report 5 Sustainability Report 2019 This is our fifth Sustainability Report which comprises all sustainable activities carried out during 2019 by Highfield Resources Limited (the “Company” or “Highfield” or “Highfield Resources”) and its Spanish subsidiary Geoalcali SLU (“Geoalcali”), together “the Group”. This Sustainability Report 2019 has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. GRI is an international independent organisation that helps businesses, governments and other organisations understand and communicate the impact of business on critical sustainability issues such as climate change, human rights, corruption and many others. This year the Group also continued with the integration of the Sustainability Development Goals (“SDGs”) into its corporate reporting by using the Business Reporting on SDGs Guideline developed by GRI. In addition since becoming a signatory member of the United Nations Global Compact we have also incorporated the Basic Guide Communication on Progress of United Nations Global Compact. These international guidelines are the most widely adopted frameworks and contribute to the Group’s commitment to transparency and accountability. We want to preserve our high standards in sustainability performance. This will require effort in all areas of the Group’s activities, and will include adopting international frameworks which provide a universal language for corporate responsibility for all businesses regardless of size, complexity or location. We firmly believe that adopting these guidelines will help us assess, define, implement, measure and communicate our sustainability strategy and will contribute to the Group’s long-term success. Sustainability reports offer an opportunity for our stakeholders to review the Group’s performance and to contact us with suggestions or comments on the content in the report. Development, implementation and disclosure of responsible corporate practices are the key to our business. This report outlines our Sustainability Focus and our Performance Highlights which describe the main actions that have been undertaken in the following areas: Our Business, Our Environment, Our People, and Our Community, because that is how the Group articulates its Sustainability Framework. For further information visit: https://www.highfieldresources.com.au/sustainability-reports/ Or contact: Susana Bieberach at s_bieberach@geoalcali.com 6 Sustainability Report 2019 7 Sustainability Report 2019 8 Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability Focus 9 Sustainability Report 2019 “As the Chairman of the Board of Directors of Highfield Resources, I believe our duty to shareholders is to protect their investment from any potential downside risk both over the short and long-term time horizons. The best way to achieve this is to understand and manage not only technical, financial and external risk, but increasingly ESG factors, as an integrated part of the strategy and management of the Company. The overall aim is to protect and enhance project commercial value by achieving positive political and stakeholder outcomes, within a robust governance framework” Richard Crookes Chairman, Highfield Resources 10 Highfield Resources Limited 31 December 2019 Annual Sustainability Report 2019 Report to Shareholders Our Journey for Sustainability The Group understands that the implementation of corporate sustainability strategies is critical for business success. Since its inception, the Group has implemented Environmental, Social and Governance factors by adopting a broad view of issues and impacts in order to be able to address every aspect that is key for a successful outcome. In order to understand where sustainability efforts should be concentrated, the Group undertakes internal and external analysis to identify those issues that have the biggest impact and are most relevant to the business and to stakeholders. The Group has engaged actively with its stakeholders and keeps innovating via different communication channels to maintain a constant dialogue. Identifying key environmental, social and governance issues through engagement methods for each stakeholder group has helped the Group define commitments and goals in order to drive the Company´s efforts towards minimising negative impacts and at the same time seize opportunities to maximise benefits. These commitments and goal setting are backed up by specific systems and detailed processes that are monitored and tracked to allow the Group to detect areas for improvement. This is summarised in the graphic on the next page, where the Group’s vision and core values form the centre of our strategy. The Group divides its sustainable focus in four main areas: Our Business, Our Environment, Our People and Our Community – these combined, form our Sustainability Framework. 11 Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability Framework 12 Sustainability Report 2019 Vision and Values The Group’s vision is “to build a successful, sustainable, potash business with respect for stakeholders and the environment”. The vision of the Company is encompased by its core values CREA Commitment, Respect, Excellence, and Attitude which lay the foundations of the eight principles of our sustainable roadmap outlined below: 1. 2. 3. 4. Integrate an ethical Adopt best practices Ensure the best Encourage the management in health and safety environmental participation and that considers with the aim of results, optimising communication of risk analysis to guaranteeing the energy use and our communities guarantee the best protection of our the responsible to ensure that results for our employees and our management of their expectations stakeholders communities resources and needs are considered 5. 6. 7. 8. Uphold the Look for continuous Always act with Adopt an approach principles of improvement integrity, honesty that is consistent diversity to ensure through and equanimity with with our vision and that equality is part measurement all our stakeholders corporate values in of our corporate mechanisms with our decision-making culture the aim of achieving processes, as the excellence in all our main drivers to activities generate value and a sustainable outcome 13 Sustainability Report 2019 14 Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability Mapping 15 Sustainability Report 2019 Stakeholders Process The Group has several mechanisms in place to communicate is acceptable to the majority of stakeholders, especially with its stakeholders and will continue to do so throughout local communities. The information received and the media the life of the Project. At this early stage of the Project, monitoring of our activities form the basis of our stakeholder regular consultation is essential to ensure that requirements plan refinement and will contribute to continuous are agreed upon, and a delivery solution is negotiated that improvement of our stakeholder engagement. Material Topics Identified Business Development Environmental Topics Safety Issues Sustainable Approach Receipt of necessary Ensure employee health 1 6 Water management 2 10 Community involvement permits and safety Anti-corruption Prioritise health and 3 8 Waste management 5 measures safety in the community 4 Wealth creation 9 Restoration of the area Generation of quality 7 employment 16 Sustainability Report 2019 Materiality Matrix Figure: Materiality assessment matrix 17 Sustainability Report 2019 Stakeholder Type How Frequency Material Topics Physical suggestion boxes located in the Local Communities Monthly 4 7 10 communities involved in the Project Online access through the “We want to listen to you” tab for suggestions, Local Communities Daily 1 4 6 7 8 consultations and questions from citizens and residents of the area Local Communities Events and forums Twice a year 1 4 6 7 8 Local Communities Monitoring Press Daily 3 5 6 8 Town Councils Official application process Weekly 1 6 8 Town Councils Regular meetings Monthly 1 4 Physical suggestion boxes located in the Town Councils Monthly 10 communities involved in the Project Directly involvement with relevant Suppliers Daily 1 4 7 department Government Official application process and regulatory Weekly 5 8 9 Organisations affairs Online access through the “We want Non-Governmental to listen to you” tab for suggestions, Organisations and Daily 1 consultations and questions from citizens Local Organisations and residents of the area Non-Governmental Organisations and Information events Twice a year 5 6 8 10 Local Organisations Non-Governmental Organisations and Monitoring press Daily 1 3 5 8 Local Organisations Local Organisations Regular meetings Quarterly 4 7 Interaction with Investor Relations Investors Weekly 1 Department and senior management 18 Sustainability Report 2019 19 Sustainability Report 2019 Goal Setting, Monitoring and Disclosing The Group continues monitoring its performance with Goals have been simplified and categorised under the regards to the Specific Goals that were set to support the Company´s sustainable framework dimensions: Our Company´s Strategic Objectives established in 2017. An Business, Our Environment, our People and Our Community. improvement from previous reporting is that the Specific Material Strategic Objective Specific Goals Topics Dimensions To secure all necessary Ministerial approval of Ministerial approval of Approval of all environmental, construction and Environmental Permit the Mining Concession construction and other operating permits “DIA” permits required Geoalcali successfully Geoalcali is working Geoalcali is advancing in 1 received approval in June closely with the all other permitting that 1 Our Business 2019 Authorities who have is required confirmed the high quality of documentation Progress submitted in March 2020 To build and to successfully Continue with the operate the first phase of the improving and refining of Muga Mine (0.5 Mtpa MOP) the Project 2 4 Our Business 2 Muga Project 5 6 enhancements included as Our part of the environmental 7 8 Environment permitting requirements Progress post DIA award To develop the plans and Continuing with the financing for the second phase of development of the the Muga Mine (to 1 Mtpa MOP) financing strategy 4 7 Our 3 The Company continues to Business analyse the best options 10 Progress for funding the Project To build, operate and maintain a Building a strong safety Enhancements of safety high level of workplace health and culture protocols Our safety People The Group increased H&S The Group continues to 4 training and awareness implement improvements 2 5 Our campaigns for staff and in its safety procedures Community Progress other stakeholders To conduct our business with Strive for best Generate environmental Minimise potential regard to all environmental environmental outcomes conciousness among environmental impacts regulations and best practice in the design of Muga our staff Project Our Environment The Group has The Group continues The Group continues to 6 8 5 included environmental working to raise implement improvements improvements to the awareness about in its environmental 9 Our Project environmental and management programme People sustainability matters and has reported zero Progress accidents or incidents To work diligently with the various Increase dialogue and Efficient involvement in communities close to the mine to interaction with the host communities initiatives optimise our social performance communities and thereby secure and maintain 3 5 support for Our Project Geoalcali increased Geoalcali continues Our 6 number of attendees working actively with 6 7 Community and positive feedback in the communities in key information sessions projects to promote 8 10 Progress sustainable communities 20 Sustainability Report 2019 Material Strategic Objective Specific Goals Topics Dimensions To work with the various The Company will government departments and continue to work Our regulators in a transparent and diligently with the 2 3 Business engaging manner to secure Authorities in all project their trust and enable them phases 5 6 Our 7 Community to supervise our activities appropriately Geoalcali obtained key 8 9 environmental approval DIA. 10 Our Progress Environment To secure all necessary funding Continuing with the for the first phase of the Muga development of the Project and have plans and financing strategy commitments in place for the The Company continues to Our 8 implementation of the second analyse the best options 4 10 Business phase for funding the project Progress To comply fully with all pertinent Improve understanding legislation of, and preparation in respect of, applicable legal requirements Our 2 3 Business 9 The Company has increased its efforts by 5 6 Our engaging with external 8 9 Environment expert consultants for each phase of the Progress permitting process. To develop plans and studies for The Group continues the potential implementation of investigating the upside future projects within the Group’s potential of Muga and current tenement holding other tenement areas 1 4 Our 10 Business Optimisation of 7 10 tenement holding Progress continues To become the Employer of choice Uphold high ethical Create a positive work within our sector and environment standards in the environment workforce 2 3 Our People 11 Increased awareness The Group continues to 4 7 initiatives to reinforce the promote healthy habits, Our Company’s core values diversity and inclusion 10 Community CREA through various staff Progress initiatives To return value to our Optimised Project Strong ESG focus to add Our Business shareholders financials long-term value Our The Group continues The Group continues to Environment optimising the Project to integrate ESG factors 4 12 build a more sustainable across all departments Our People business policies and procedures Progress Our Community 21 Sustainability Report 2019 We have incorporated international sustainability guidelines Therefore, this report includes the section Communication that help us assess and measure our performance and that on Progress (COP) in order to comply with Global Compact have been aligned in accordance with our strategic goals. guidelines. The Group also supports and seeks to actively contribute to As a summary, the following graphic shows how the Group the achievement of the SDGs. Geoalcali has been admitted has integrated its strategic objectives, aligning them with as a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact on the identified material topics resulting from the stakeholder March 2020. engagement process and its impact on the SDGs. Strategic Objective Material Aspect Environmental SDGs To secure all necessary environmental, 1 1 construction and operating permits To build and to successfully operate the 2 4 5 6 2 first phase of the Muga Mine (0.5 Mtpa MOP) 7 8 To develop the plans and financing for 3 the second stage of the Muga Mine (to 1 4 7 10 Mtpa MOP) To build, operate and maintain a high level 4 2 5 of workplace health and safety To conduct our business with regard to 5 all environmental regulations and best 6 8 9 practice To work diligently with the various communities close to the mine to 3 5 6 7 6 optimise our social performance and thereby secure and maintain support for 8 10 our Project To work with the various government departments and regulators in a 2 3 5 6 7 transparent and engaging manner to secure their trust and enable them to 8 9 10 supervise our activities appropriately To secure all necessary funding for the first phase of the Muga Project and have 8 4 10 plans and commitments in place for the implementation of the second phase To comply fully with all pertinent 2 3 5 6 9 legislation 8 9 To develop plans and studies for the potential implementation of future 10 1 4 7 10 projects within the Group’s current tenement holding To become the Employer of Choice within 2 3 4 11 our sector and environment 7 10 12 To return value to our shareholders 4 22 Sustainability Report 2019 Employee / Worker SDGs Community / Society SDGs 23 Sustainability Report 2019 24 Sustainability Report 2019 Performance Highlights 25 Sustainability Report 2019 Our Business DIA Award Confirms High Environmental Standards of Muga Project Geoalcali received its environmental permit approval (DIA) in June 2019. This is one of the Company’s greatest achievements after a comprehensive and rigorous process that involved a vast number of stakeholders and entities which analysed the Project, evaluating environmental aspects and their impact in order to determine its compatibility with the environment. All entities and stakeholders had the opportunity to put forward suggestions and the Project has incorporated optimised measures as a result of this process. Muga Project Enhancements Enable a More Sustainable Project The Company continued working on the optimisation of the operations by bringing forward the scheduled commencement of the backfilling process to enhance residue management. This has resulted in the reclassification of costs for the backfilling equipment from sustaining capital to up-front capital. In addition, improvements in the process plant equipment were incorporated, as well as significant improvements in recovery, bringing forward production of commercial vacuum salt, and earlier commencement of residue management and treatment of by-products. As a result, the Muga Project will start treating waste at a very early stage and the by-product management and commercial plan will increase the Project profitability. These technical enhancements deliver a number of value adding and improved environmental outcomes and achieve improved compliance with the DIA environmental permit issued by the Ministry for Ecological Transition (Ministerio para la Transición Ecológica, or “MITECO”). 26 Sustainability Report 2019 Continuing the Development of a Sustainable Potash Business During this year the Company continued making progress as outlined below: — Completion of metallurgical test work and process plant design resulting in a recovery increase to over 90% meaning the operation will be much more efficient; — The Company signed a Non-binding Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with Ameropa AG for the sale of up to 250,000 tonnes of MOP per annum from the Muga Potash Mine; — Continued exploration work on our Vipasca area of interest with encouraging results; — Muga Project updated to incorporate DIA environmental enhancements that included revised capital costs, operating costs and estimated financial outcomes resulting in significantly improved Project economics; — Award of a number of detailed design and construction packages; — Continued advancing the Mining Concession and the construction permits processes which are the next permits necessary to progress the Project into the construction phase; and — Continued our strong focus on ESG by engaging with multiple stakeholders to maintain continuous communications and address in an ethical manner, any area of concern. This work ensures that the Company will be prepared for the next steps of the Muga Project development. 27 Sustainability Report 2019 Strong Governance The Board of Directors of Highfield Resources has established high standards for the Company’s employees, officers and directors. It is the duty of the Board of Directors to oversee the management of the Company’s business and to ensure the Group as a whole and the Group´s representatives behave in a manner that aligns with the Company´s high standard of corporate and social responsibilities. The Group periodically reviews its procedures and policies and implements changes to ensure high ethical standards are met. This year the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics included enhancements in the Whistleblower Policy and the Continuous Disclosure Policy. The Group publishes its corporate governance policies, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and its Board and committee charters on Highfield’s website at https://www.highfieldresources.com.au/corporate-governance/ 28 Sustainability Report 2019 Core Focus on ESG The Group understands that focusing on ESG is a driver of long-term performance and value. It is also a key risk management tool which the Group uses to define its business strategy by assessing material aspects to all stakeholders in order to implement preventative measures and mitigation strategies. The Group also considers that international, regional, and local ESG guidelines as well as international norms integrated in its management system enable a sustainable outcome in its daily operations. The Group is aligned with the following standards: — ISO 9001 Quality Management — ISO 14001 Environmental Management — UNE 22480 Sustainable Mining Management — OHSAS 18001 Health and Safety Management — ISO 26000 Stakeholder Management — IFC and Equator Principles — Ten Principles of the United Nations and SDGs 29 Sustainability Report 2019 Recognitions and Awards InnovaRSE Certificate RSA 2020 Certificate Receipt of the Reporting Award as a result of our efAragón Social Responsibility Seal for the fourth forts in implementing sustainable management. consecutive year. Bonus 2018 Industrial Foundation of Reconcilia Navarra Award Geoalcali received the Bonus 2018, Seal, for being an inclusive company. a health and safety recognition for The Human Resources Department having a low accident rate. of Geoalcali received a recognition award by the Industrial Foundation of Navarra for sharing their best practices in order to achieve a ‘stronger and more competitive’ industrial community. #PorelClima Geoalcali is also part of this initiative designed to fight global warming. Association of Foundations of Navarra Award Award by the Association of Foundations of Navarra in the Culture Category for the Project Roman Heritage as a Tourist and Development Resource in Liédena, a tourism and cultural initiative aimed at discovering and publicising the wealth of the Roman heritage that surrounds the local area of Navarra and that, at the same time, culturally links the people with their neighbours from nearby Aragonese towns. 30 Sustainability Report 2019 Partnerships for the SDGs and Strengthen Industry Relationships “Essential Minerals for a Sustainable Future” exhibit at Environmental Education Museum During this year Geoalcali joined other mining companies, mining associations and the Mines Department of the Government of Navarra to raise awareness of how responsible mining and minerals help us achieve a more sustainable world, by launching the MinerÉtica forum. MinerÉtica was part of the celebration of European Minerals Day, a European initiative to bring the minerals world closer to society. As well as distribution of information materials in Navarra, exhibitions, workshops, visits to mining activities and conferences have been programmed. Among the activities included in the forum was the inauguration of the Company´s mineral exhibition “Essential Esther Lasheras with MinerÉtica organisers Minerals for a Sustainable Future” in which people had the opportunity to learn about the Sustainability Development Goals and how they relate to the mineral resource industry. “Essential Minerals for a Sustainable Future” was displayed in the Environmental Education Museum of Pamplona (Museo de Educación Ambiental de Pamplona). Numerous organisations and institutions throughout Spain have shown interest in showcasing this exhibit, which emphasises the importance of minerals in our daily lives and the value of sustainability as the cornerstone of mining today. The inauguration event included a conference on the use of minerals in daily life delivered by Esther Lasheras, chemistry professor and head of the rock and mineral collection of the Students during minerals workshop in MinerÉTICA Science Museum of the University of Navarre. A mineral workshop also took place at the Environmental Education Museum, as part of the MinerÉtica forum activities. Visitors were able to learn to differentiate some of the most used minerals, their main properties and to find out in which products they are used, in a fun and educational way. Geoalcali also participated in the Social Innovation forum, organised by Más Humano Foundation, La Caixa Foundation and Caja Navarra Foundation. The Social innovation objective is a “speed dating” event between companies and social associations to seek partnerships with the aim of support the SDGs focused on reducing inequalities and gender equality, among others. 31 Sustainability Report 2019 Participation in Forums Mining Metals Hall (MMH) Seville 2019 At this international event in Sevilla, Sheila Maqueda, Geoalcali’s technical engineer of mines, presented the Design and Planning of the Muga Mine, during the technical sessions organised by Cominroc, in a seminar entitled “Overview of the industrial minerals sector”. Geoalcali’s Director of External Relations, Ricardo Pérez Merino, also participated as a speaker at a roundtable dedicated to mining and investment policies to discuss the social aspects of the Project. The MMH brought together more than 800 delegates, about 150 exhibitors, 70 speakers and around 6,000 visitors. Navarra with a Future Navarra with a Future is an intergenerational, intersectoral and inclusive forum that seeks to present jobs of the future, that are already a reality in the most innovative companies of Navarre, Spain and across the world. Javier Olloqui, Director of Human Resources of Geoalcali, participated in a one-on-one talk about employment opportunities. Geoalcali also hosted an exhibit area for the Muga Project, which will help address the problem of depopulation in its local communities. The Company also attended the following conferences: 121 Mining Hong Kong 121 Mining London IFA Montreal Argus Fertilizer Conference Malta IMARC Melbourne 121 Mining Sydney Mines and Money London Mining Journal Select London 32 Sustainability Report 2019 University Engagement Memberships Seminar on Industrial Minerals of Aindex The Group continues to be a member of: (a Spanish mining association) — CONFEDEM – The Spanish mining confederation; Geoalcali contributed with a presentation titled ‘The Social — AEMA an association of mining businessmen of Factor in the Muga Project’ to share its experience in CSR Aragón; with mining engineering students of the Universidad Politécnica de Madrid. This educational forum aims — AEMINA – an association of mining companies of to bring mining companies experiences to students Navarra; throughout the different stages of the mining value chain. — ASBA The business association of Australia in Spain; — PDAC Prospectors and Developers Association of Canada; Organisation of I Sustainability Forum — IFA International Fertilizer Association; with the Universidad de Navarra The Company also worked collaboratively with the — Navarra Chamber of Commerce, an association of Universidad de Navarra in the organisation of “Mazingira” Navarran companies; the I Sustainability Forum in which members of the World — AINDEX a Spanish mining association; Business Council for Sustainable Development among other sustainability leaders shared their vision about — ANEFA a Navarra mining association; and future trends with students, mining professionals and — FIN – The Industrial Foundation of Navarra is a business representatives. non-profit organisation created by the Official College of Industrial Engineers of Navarra and the Association of Industrial Engineers of Navarra The Geoalcali Foundation continued to be a member of Internship Programmes Association of Foundations of Navarra. This association is The Company also participates in the internship comprised of the main non-profit associations in Navarra, programme of the Universidad de Navarra by offering an both public and private. internship position within its communications department. As a Group we are continuously looking for ways to partner with companies, universities, organisations and other entities with a special focus on the sustainable development of our business. 33 Sustainability Report 2019 Our Business – SDGs Contribution Key Performance Highlights DIA Award Confirms High Environmental Standards of Muga Project Muga Project Enhancements Enable a More Sustainable Project Our Business Continuing the Development of a Sustainable Potash Business Strong Governance Recognitions and Awards Partnerships for the SDGs and Strengthen Industry Relationships SDG impact The Muga Mine will operate in a highly depopulated region where socio-economic development is perceived Positive Impact as a key solution to address this issue. Muga Mine will contribute to the socio-economic development of the region with the creation of approximately 800 quality jobs. Muga Mine will bring not only the direct benefit of the generation of employment, but also indirect benefits via taxes raised, social programmes, and business development opportunities within the local communities in a sustainable manner. Therefore, from a very early stage, the Group has applied international, national, regional, and sectorial principles in order to integrate ESG (Environmental, Social and Governance) factors into the Company’s strategy. This includes adherence to regional CRS programmes, contributing to SDGs partnership initiatives, and constant alignment of the Group’s policies and procedures with the aim of building a project that will serve as a reference in sustainable mining. The best way to achieve this is to understand and manage not only technical, financial, and external risk, but increasingly ESG factors, as an integrated part of the strategy and management of the Company within a robust governance framework. Mitigation Strategy Mining projects, like Muga, have an impact on the environment. Bearing this in mind and as part of our commitment to build a sustainable business the Company continued working on the optimisation of the Project as well as introducing improvements in its operations. These technical enhancements deliver a number of value adding and improved environmental outcomes and achieve improved compliance with the DIA environmental permit issued by MITECO. Muga Mine is being developed under European, Spanish and regional legislation which is rigorous and comprehensive, setting high standards for Muga and the mining industry. 34 Sustainability Report 2019 35 Sustainability Report 2019 Our Environment Enhancing our Environmental Consciousness Staff training and awareness campaigns are fundamental In addition, and with the aim of reducing our plastic so that our actions are carried out under environmental consumption, a policy of ceasing to purchase single-use protection criteria, and that these criteria are also transferred plastic utensils was established. to the appropriate external suppliers and consultants. Training plays a very important role, focusing efforts on One of the measures implemented was the installation of the avoidance of waste generation and secondly, on its organic waste collection on a voluntary basis, before being recycling. legally required. This measure was implemented both in Geoalcali’s main office and in the Company’s core sheds in Beriain and Sangüesa. 36 Sustainability Report 2019 Staff Awareness Campaigns Talks and Events Internal Communications Waste Management Strategy at Muga Mine. 7 communications in intranet “World Environmental Day”, focusing on the problem of air polution. 3 awareness posters A week long “Challenge to reduce air pollution” in which all workers proposed daily actions throughout the week, in order to raise awareness and make those actions become habits. Awareness event about Climate Change given by an external guest expert in meteorology who presents meteorological information on radio and in newspapers and magazines, as a speaker in events for National Geographic and the University of Barcelona and by presenting weather information in El País Digital, Telemadrid and TVE programme “Aquí la Tierra”. We learned the differences between climate and meteorology, and what Climate Change means, and discusses the impact of human activity as a factor in increasing natural climate change. 37 Sustainability Report 2019 Effective Environmental Management Prior to the commencement of each field work programme, whatever its purpose or dimensions, the Geoalcali’s Environmental Department carries out, based on updated Protocols in the event of an official cartography, an environmental evaluation to detect environmental accident which natural elements could be affected in order to mitigate any potential negative impact. Geoalcali is committed to the prevention of environmental accidents, by implementing With regard to mining exploration drilling activities, a preventive measures to minimise the environmental preventive measure has been the implementation of impact in all the Muga Project phases as well as watertight containers at the drilling site for the temporary in its headquarter office and field work during storage of water and drilling muds until they are removed, exploration activities. acting as a reservoir to contain potential excess rainwater. However, in the event of an environmental accident, During drilling activities, platforms are prepared with Geoalcali has established a protocol that describes waterproof sheets that allow for the collection of any the steps to be taken (Contain, Warn and Remedy) accidental spill of oils or saline water without these reaching and a directory of contacts required for the ground or ground water. each situation. In addition, the earth extracted for the preparation of the site and for the excavation of the ponds is used to build a barrier under the ponds that will act as a protection barrier against liquid spills. All waste generated during the design phase and exploration activities are managed in accordance with the legislation and delivered to authorised and official waste management entities. In the office and in its core sheds, organic waste is already being managed. Although this is not yet a legal obligation in Navarra, it is a commitment to good environmental practices. 38 Sustainability Report 2019 Intensified Environmental Protection Measures in Muga Project The Group understands that environmental protection is a that its actions should go beyond the immediate vicinity of fundamental pillar on which its entire business is based, not its facilities. It is therefore committed to the development only in terms of minimising any potentially negative impacts of several initiatives that, together with the international of its industrial activity, but also in terms of conserving the SEO/Bird Life organisation, will be carried out in the area of natural environment on which it is built and its surroundings. the mine as well as more widely within the communities of interest from the start of the construction phase and will be Geoalcali understands that the protection of the ecosystems maintained throughout the life of the mine. and habitats in which animal and plant species live requires Monitoring and controls Water management Waste management In 2019, the Muga Mine Environmental The Muga Mine Water Management During the year the Mining Waste Monitoring Programme was updatSystem, designed under the principle Management Plan has been updated ed according to the requirements of non-contamination of the water and incorporated into the Restoration included in the DIA. The monitoring environment, has also been updated. Plan, as required by the DIA. The salt programme establishes an exhaustive The construction plan for the ramps waste volumes on surface during the control over potentially contaminating now includes specific waterproofing production phase will be lower and factors, the form of measurement, the using the jet-grouting technique to will be completely removed during the parameters measured, and the maxireduce drainage and therefore the final restoration of the mine, with no mum thresholds established. It also volume of water stored in the ponds. waste remaining on the surface after serves to verify the effectiveness of the dismantling and restoration proThe process plant is designed to use the preventive actions adopted and, cess is finalised. water of variable salt concentration where necessary, to improve them or and to recirculate the process water in establish new measures. such a way as to minimise the use of water. During this year, a local company specialising in hydrogeology has optimised the design of the water environment control network, which includes surface and groundwater control points in the area of the Muga process plant, downstream and area of the potash deposit. This network provides information to detect any variation in the qualitative and quantitative parameters of the water, ensuring appropriate measures can be carried out as may be necessary. 39 Sustainability Report 2019 Environmental Performance in Numbers The Group has a firm commitment to reducing its environmental impact. Therefore, a set of indicators and mechanisms are in place to monitor the Company´s performance during mining drilling activities. These indicators monitor material aspects that have been assessed by the Company´s Materiality Matrix described on page 17. Some material aspects are not monitored because the Company is currently not in mining operations. The Company currently monitors: — Environmental accidents and incidents; — Environmental awareness campaigns; — Water usage in exploration activities; — Amount of soil disturbed and subsequently Environmental accidents rehabilitated; — Use of toxic substances in exploration activities; — Energy consumption in workplaces, vehicles and ex0 ENVIRONMENTAL INCIDENTS ploration drilling works; The Company has achieved, for its sixth consecutive — Drilling muds generated in mining exploration work; year, a performance of zero environmental accidents. — Non-hazardous waste generated in mining research work; and — Hazardous waste generated in mining research work. Environmental accidents Since 2018, Geoalcali has measured the effectiveness of its detection of hazards that could result in environmental incidents, before drilling activities occur. The best outcome in environmental management is the detection of potential environmental hazards before they cause an environmental impact. In the two years since monitoring began, 14 potential hazards of different degrees related to drilling activities have been registered and resolved, avoiding a potential environmental incident or accident. 40 Sustainability Report 2019 Environmental Awareness Campaigns Geoalcali continues to carry out environmental awareness campaigns for staff. These campaigns cause a positive impact resulting in increased consciousness year after year towards environmental preservation and protection. Environmental Awareness Campaigns to Staff Water Management Water Consumption The Group maintains its commitment to minimise the use of water during its drilling works. The water usage varies according to a number of factors including geological and hydrogeological characteristics of the terrain, the diameter of the borehole, the drilling depth, and whether or not hydrogeological characterisation tests are conducted. Our monitoring systems show that the water consumption trend shows a slight decrease over the years due to the reuse of brine, an optimisation to reduce water consumption, as shown in the graph. Soil Rehabilitation Soil Rehabilitation The appropriate restoration after drilling activities continues to be satisfactory with 100% of each area restored in accordance with the legislation. 41 Sustainability Report 2019 Energy Consumption Energy consumption is measured as the sum of the energy are expected to increase in the construction and operations sources used, both in the work centres (from the electricity phase. Control of consumption and atmospheric emissions grid) and in the use of fuel by vehicles and contractor will be maintained and managed under the principle of energy drilling machines. These consumptions are currently low, efficiency and minimization of environmental impacts. as construction of the Muga Mine has not yet started, and Waste Management Generation of Non-Hazardous Waste (“NHW”) All waste generated in the corporate offices and drilling activities is managed in accordance with the legislation and managed by authorised external entities. In the office and core sheds, organic waste is already being managed, as a commitment to good environmental practice, although this type of recycling is not yet mandatory. Training staff is critical in order to decrease generation of waste and improve its recycling. Geoalcali carries out strict control of waste inventory describing the type of waste and how it is managed and a register in which the quantities generated and their delivery to an authorised waste manager are recorded. All the waste generated is managed by authorised managers, Generation of Hazardous Waste (“HW”) who are responsible for transporting and managing to the final destination which is recycling or disposal in appropriate landfill. The chart below shows the amount of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes and drilling muds generated during drilling activities. The generation of hazardous waste is variable and very low, depending on the drilling campaigns. The waste is a mixture of cutting oil and degreaser (used to cut core samples for analysis in an accredited laboratory) that is stored in the area set aside for the storage of hazardous waste until it is removed and managed by an authorised waste manager. The drilling mud generation indicator is measured by weight in tonnes per 100 metres of drilling. As with water consumption noted above, its generation per linear metre drilled depends on several variables, both geological and technical. Plastics from HDPE sacks and sheets from ponds built to store borehole water are part of the quantified non-hazardous waste. This indicator is more stable as it depends directly on the number of holes and thus on the number of ponds built. 42 Sustainability Report 2019 Our Environment – SDGs Contribution Key Performance Highlights Our Environment Key Performance Highlights Enhancing our Environmental Consciousness Staff Awareness Campaigns Effective Environmental Management Intensified Environmental Protection Measures in the Muga Project SDG Impact Environmental and sustainability criteria are taken into account in the selection of any supplier. This includes drilling activities, project design, construction, and operations. The Company’s corporate values include maintaining a high level of environmental awareness and respect for the environment. To this end, several annual awareness campaigns are carried out as well as various environmental protection and pollution prevention initiatives in corporate offices, core sheds and during drilling and other exploration works, to improve our environmental performance and culture. Positive Impact Environmental management applied to the Muga Project by the Company is fundamental to achieving the highest standards of sustainable performance. Muga will leave no salt waste [or other] residue after the end of the mine’s production activities, setting a benchmark for global potash operations. Instead it will minimise waste by processing part of these residues into commercial products for sale and reusing the remainder as underground backfill. In addition, it will minimise waste generation, including by reducing the consumption of products that generate waste or other type of contamination, and will maximise reuse of materials wherever possible. In addition, energy efficiency and water management are key to the Project design, which, together with a wide range of preventive and corrective measures and a comprehensive Environmental Monitoring Programme, will allow mining operations to be carried out in accordance with the highest environmental protection standards. The innovation applied to the backfilling process entails the custom design of equipment and processes through technical innovation resulting in the improvement of the environmental outcome. The Company has extensive knowledge of the environment in which the Muga Mine will be built, which will be continuously monitored by specialised internal teams and environmental conservation organisations in compliance with the Environmental Monitoring Programme which is supervised by the Government. Prior to all drilling activities, an environmental assessment is carried out to prevent negative impacts on the natural environment and cultural heritage. Mitigation Strategy The environmental footprint of Muga Mine has been evaluated in a rigorous permitting process resulting in the DIA award. The DIA established a list of recommendations that have been incorporated into the Project. In addition, the Company is continuously working on the optimisation of the Project, with mitigation and compensation strategies that will be implemented in the future with the aim to reduce its carbon footprint as much as possible. 43 Sustainability Report 2019 Our Community Reinforcing our Community Engagement After the DIA award, in July 2019 the Company hosted an Later, in September 2019, the Company hosted a two-day information session in Javier, welcoming 13 mayors and Open Doors information event. The Company welcomed 17 other representatives from our local communities, as around 400 visitors from nearby communities. The attendees well as five members of public institutions. The feedback included people from local schools, retired persons clubs, collected during the event indicated that 97% of the local companies, local and regional suppliers, local citizens, attendees support the Project. Topics dealt with included mayors, government representatives and ecologists. water management, traffic and environmental monitoring. During the year the Company increased community The Company had the opportunity to explain these topics participation as well as positive feedback as indicated in as well as other queries around employment and community the chart below. opportunities. The feedback collected from the community representatives was used to design an information event for others in the community. 2016 2017 2018 2019 H1 H2 H1 H2 H1 H2 H1 H2 In favour 4 0 16 54 73 31 17 97 Not in favour 0 0 1 4 1 2 0 1 No opinion but more info requested 0 0 3 25 4 5 0 7 44 Sustainability Report 2019 Zero grievances from local communities Grievance Mechanism Depopulation Exploration activities may cause issues related Geoalcali participated in a Depopulation theme radio to land access, environmental disturbances or programme, to discuss this issue of great relevance potential impacts on cultural heritage or sacred for the local communities of Muga. The programme sites. Therefore, Geoalcali has set up a formal involved local mayors, local businessmen, government grievance procedure making available, through and university experts who addressed the issue with notices in the local town councils and at drilling the aim of raising awareness and speeding up solutions. sites, a formal channel to address any complaint or The conclusion was that employment opportunities, concern. Geoalcali treats any such communications such as those that Muga will bring to the community, very seriously and keeps track of the commitments it are a key factor, but that other socio-economic and has made in response to ensure proper stakeholder technical developments are necessary to ensure engagement. existing residents and newcomers remain committed to the area for the long term. The broadcast had around The Company has also installed suggestions boxes 37,000 local listeners. in local town halls to ensure communications with local residents that do not have access to online Also, it is worth noting that Cederna Garalur (the rural channels. development organisation of Sangüesa) expressed its gratitude to Geoalcali as a company which demonstrates a spirit of continuous collaboration. Depopulation Radio Programme at Sos del Rey Católico Town Hall 45 Sustainability Report 2019 Supporting the Through our Foundation, the Company continued supporting local initiatives with a special focus on Quality Communities’ Initiatives Education, Social Integration, Sustainable Communities and Protection of the Environment. Quality education Donation of sound equipment to the Luis Gil Public Donation of Digital white board to the Isidoro Gil School de Jaz Public School February 2019 February 2019 The Association of Fathers and Mothers of the Luis Gil The Geoalcali Foundation contributed to the acquisition School, carrying out the idea of the school’s management of a digital white board for the Isidoro Gil de Jaz Public of providing the centre with sound equipment for the School of Sos del Rey Católico. subjects of physical education, psychomotor skills, dance The Isidoro Gil de Jaz School is located in the municipality and body expression, conveyed this idea to the Geoalcali of Sos del Rey Católico in the northwest region of the Foundation which supported the initiative. This initiative province of Zaragoza in Aragón. This area is called Altas will aid in improving the development of classes and Cinco Villas and is very close to the border with Navarra increase the number of activities carried out by the centre. and is currently one of the most depopulated regions in The Luis Gil Public School of Sangüesa is a regional centre Spain. that welcomes students not only from Sangüesa but also from nearby towns including Liédena, Yesa, Eslava, Gallipienzo, Javier, Aibar and Cáseda. Subsequently, most of the students continue their studies at the Sangüesa Institute and the IES Sierra de Leyre. 46 Sustainability Report 2019 School transport service in Undués de Lerda Donation of school supplies for the Babyteca September 2019 October 2019 The Geoalcali Foundation maintained its support for the The Geoalcali Foundation understands that the integration transportation service for children in the town of Undués de of rural women into the workforce is a fundamental pillar Lerda who study at the Sangüesa Institute, thus improving for sustainable development in the region. Therefore, it the quality of life of residents and helping working parents continues to actively support the maintenance of the with children who need to travel to school. Babyteca facilities of Sos del Rey Católico, by contributing part of the costs of the school supplies which are needed The service is also open to all residents of the town, to provide a proper service. especially those of older age, in order to facilitate their daily transportation needs. The Babyteca of Sos welcomes children everyday between the ages of 0 and 3 years old. There is no other Located at an altitude of 633 meters, with just over 50 service provided in the region for this age range. With 400 registered residents, Undués de Lerda continues fighting residents and a notably aged population, Sos seeks to tirelessly against depopulation, a great peril that afflicts maintain its own service in order to attract young families most of the towns and villages of the region. to the town. 47 Sustainability Report 2019 Social integration Sponsorship of the Conference on the Hospital Sponsorship of the Project Convivium Yesa Order of Saint John of Jerusalem August 2019 September 2019 In an effort to support local traditions and healthy habits, The Geoalcali Foundation supported this conference the Geoalcali Foundation worked jointly on the organisawhich focused on the era of splendour of the Order, its tion of training activities aimed at prevention of disease beneficial work and its military activities. and bad health and promotion of equality, creativity and This conference was organised by the City Council of imagination in the town of Yesa. Castiliscar, the Association of Friends of the Museum of The Convivium Yesa, named after the town that gives the Order of Saint John of Jerusalem, and the Castilliscar its name to the reservoir located between Navarra and “Encomienda”, historic association and was hosted by the Aragon, offers activities such as the restoration of utensils president of the Royal Academy of Fine Arts of San Luis, with great tradition and reception such as the Zezenzusko Domingo Buesa. or “Torico de Fuego”, a metal framework in the shape of a The conference, whose attendance provided university bull, on whose spine a frame with pyrotechnic elements credits to the students, featured several presentations is placed and in front of which children and adults run, given by experts and was inaugurated and closed, usually during the celebration of local festivities. respectively, by the University and Culture Council of the Government of Aragón. This type of activity raises awareness of Aragonese heritage, as well as attracting tourism and students to a region with highly depopulation rates. Financial support to the VII Edition of the Roman Festival October 2019 The Geoalcali Foundation, in its commitment to boost cultural assets in the local communities, supported the City Council of Liédena in the dissemination of its Roman heritage, including guided visits to the Museum of Santa Criz de Eslava and the Musas de Orellano. During its Roman Festival event, Liédena and its Roman villa were transformed into a stage for theatre, music, artisans, and street entertainment in a Roman ambience setting. 48 Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainable Communities Donation of exercise equipment to the elderly Financial support to build a playground in May 2019 Rocaforte May 2019 With the help of the Geoalcali Foundation, the Liédena City Council started a series of activities during the year aimed The Geoalcali Foundation has contributed to the at the physical wellbeing and health care of its residents. construction of a small playground where children can enjoy their free time, with modern swings and a slide, on a The Geoalcali Foundation contributed to the acquisition rubber floor which creates a safe environment for games of exercise equipment suitable for the elderly of the town. and entertainment in this small village in the surroundings of Sangüesa. Workshops on memory and how to age in a healthy way, as well as zumba or yoga classes, make up the majority of the activities offered and promoted by the Liédena town hall. 49 Sustainability Report 2019 Protection of the Environment Sponsorship of the Juan Migueliz Leyre Trail Race in aid of the reclamation of local trails October 2019 The Geoalcali Foundation collaborated with the Trotecuto Mountain Club in the recovery of two trails, which in addition to being used in the Juan Migueliz Leyre Mountain Trail sports event, will be kept clear and marked for the use and enjoyment of neighbours and tourists throughout the year. The sporting event is organised by the Trotecuto Mountain Club, and takes place in a privileged landscape and cultural environment, as it runs through enclaves such as the Sierra de Leyre, the Foz de Arbayun and the Yesa Reservoir. With a start and finish at the Monastery of Leyre, it goes through places such as the Cañada Real de los Roncaleses, Paso del Oso and the top of Arangoiti, among others. This is one of the most popular events that bring together most of the communities of interest of Muga Mine. 50 Sustainability Report 2019 Volunteer Programme: I Commit (Me Comprometo) The Group considers that fostering good relations with the community is one of the key elements to the success of its business project, but it is also aware that participating in experiences that involve helping others has a positive impact on the personal growth of each staff member. For this reason, as part of its social responsibility policy, this initiative is not only part of a purely philanthropic activity but also an initiative that generates shared value for the employee, the Company and the community. The programme was launched in December 2019 with several initiatives available to all staff throughout the year. Community Day Employees from Geoalcali and Bovis, the Company’s project management partner for the Muga Mine, volunteered in the decoration of a Christmas Tree of Undués de Lerda access roundabout and donated articles for the Social Services entity of Cinco Villas region of Aragón. 51 Sustainability Report 2019 Community Engagement in Numbers Attendance to public information events in the Periodic bulletin Newsletter subscribers have community has increased increased Open Doors Attenders Year Newsletter Subscribers 2017 200 2017 2827 2019 400 2019 3734 100 % Zero grievances queries have been responded to received Social Media Engagement has increased +1,500 followers 52 Sustainability Report 2019 Our Community – SDGs Contribution Key Performance Highlights Our Community Reinforcing our Community Engagement Zero Grievances from Local Communities Supporting the Communities’ Initiatives SDG Impact Positive Impact The Group is aware that in order to obtain and maintain social acceptance of its Project, it is crucial to establish communication mechanisms to listen to the communities’ concerns. Engaging with the communities provides the relevant information to understand what is critical or material for them and address those issues by committing to rational solutions that are broadly accepted by our local stakeholders. These issues are social concerns that can easily relate to several SDGs which the Company considers critical in terms of contributing positively to the development of a mining project in a responsible manner. The rationale behind the creation of the Geoalcali Foundation is to actively contribute to sustainable initiatives to enhance the Muga communities’ well-being. The Foundation’s strategy and governance protocols explicitly align with SDGs 4, 10, 11, 13 and also contribute positively to other SDGs. Mitigation Strategy One of the key issues mining projects address in social terms, is the socio-economical dependency generated by a mine. Geoalcali is conscious of this issue and its social responsibility policy is therefore focusing on projects that will generate independent benefits not only in parallel with the mining activity, but also after the mine has ceased operations. 53 Sustainability Report 2019 Our People Upholding Highest Standards in Ethical Performance in the Workplace During the year the Company launched its “Living Values” programme with the objective that our core values of Commitment, Respect, Excellence and Attitude will become ever more present in the daily work of all staff members, as guiding principles in their decisions and actions. All members of the staff were divided into groups and tasked to prepare different activities to raise awareness on how each of the values should be incorporated in our daily work. These activities included hosting talks by inspirational speakers that are living examples of each of these values: Jesus Cia, founder of Josenea, an organic producer located in the Muga area that employs COMMITMENT workers at risk of social exclusion with the aim of reincorporating them into the workforce. Alberto Undiano, a famous Spanish football referee that is publicly acknowledged for his selfRESPECT control and respectful attitude under stressful situations even in the highest profile matches. Maider Esparza, is a former Olympic gymnast who faced demanding training from a very young EXCELLENCE age which successfully led her to the Olympic games with the Spanish national team. David Ruiz and Daniel Oteiza, local firemen helped us understand the importance of maintaining ATTITUDE a positive attitude even in the most dangerous and demanding situations. The programme also included a team building day during which staff members put into practice the CREA values by interacting with team members in outdoor and indoor activities. The experiences and learnings from the Living Values programme have been included as part of the Company’s annual employee performance review, reflecting the importance of the values in everything we do. 54 Sustainability Report 2019 Striving for Excellence in Work-Life Balance and Diversity Inclusion The Association of Women Entrepreneurs and Managers of Navarra (AMEDNA) held a working session in November 2019 to exchange good practices in the field of work-life balance. Geoalcali was chosen as a “Good Practice Example”. Estíbaliz García, from the Human Resources department, was the guest speaker who explained the policies implemented by Geoalcali to 17 companies and entities of Navarra, including the Regional Government. Geoalcali is aware of the importance of diversity inclusion. Several activities were undertaken to raise awareness Number of Employees during International Women´s Day , notably hosting a video conference talk by Anna Tudela, former Vice President of Year Female Male Diversity, Regulatory Affairs and Corporate Secretary of GoldCorp, a large Canadian gold producer and an active role model in the defence of good corporate governance 2019 13 22 practices, especially in diversity issues. The Company also contributed to #MiningTogether initiative, 2018 12 21 a three-month video storytelling campaign, sponsored by Anglo American and De Beers Group to promote gender equality and inclusion in the mining sector. Employee Hire and Turnover The Company is committed to implement initiatives to attract and retain female talent which currently represents Two employees left the Company (1 male and 2 female) 37% of the staff. and 5 people have joined over 2019 (3 female and 2 male). A Healthier Workplace “I have a very strong As part of integrating our core values CREA in our daily belief that the more work, the Company has implemented a Healthy Living programme, making fresh fruit available in the office and balanced the gender providing mindfulness sessions to encourage healthy life habits for a healthy workplace. ratio, the better the The Company also supports employees who have sporting hobbies by sponsoring contests and races with conversations we a special focus on those sport events that are held in the communities near Muga. have and the better An example is the “Javierada” pilgrimage, a popular decisions we make as Navarran tradition that is celebrated every year by participants trekking or cycling to the village of Javier. A a team.” group of Geoalcali staff took part in this initiative that is part of the cultural heritage of this region in Spain. The Company has in place an Employee Benefit Programme Richard Crookes that gives access to an extensive health insurance plan at Chairman, Highfield Resources a beneficial rate. 55 Sustainability Report 2019 Building a Strong Safety Culture Health and safety at work are a top priority, as well as a The event highlighted the importance of the experience legal and social obligation. The Group is aware that taking and knowledge accumulated by the Central Mining Rescue its health and safety obligations seriously and promoting Brigade of Asturias, and the selflessness and social best practice in these aspects, at all levels, is not only key to commitment of this professional body. preventing injuries but also contributes to the development The Company is also making efforts to promote a health of a responsible and healthier society. and safety culture in the Muga communities. Several talks As part of the celebration of the World Day for Safety and in local schools were organised in order to engage with the Health at Work, Geoalcali invited the Central Mining Rescue future generations. Brigade of Asturias, a prestigious rescue group with 107 The Company and the Geoalcali Foundation also organised years´ experience, to address its employees. a Health and Safety contest titled “Are you Safe?” where all The event, under the heading of Safety Belongs to Everyone, schools in the region entered in a competition to design a But It Is My Responsibility, was attended by all the Geoalcali Health and Safety Awareness campaign. The winning school staff, as well as by former potash miners of Navarra from received financial support to invest in preventative measures the Santa Bárbara Brotherhood in Beriain, members of to guarantee safe conditions in their facilities. Promoting the Navarra Civil Guard Command, mining technicians a Health and Safety culture in our local communities is from the Government of Navarra, other mining and related not only key to prevent injuries and illnesses, but it also companies, representatives from AEMINA (Business contributes to the development of a more conscious and Association of Miners in Navarra), as well as representatives healthier society for everyone. from municipalities close to the Muga Mine Project. Health and Safety Manager, Pelayo Iglesias, in the local Mining Rescue Brigade of Asturias visits Geoalcali school of Sangüesa. 56 Sangüesa students participated in the Company´s contest “Are you safe?” Sustainability Report 2019 H&S Training First Aid Course (Mutua Navarra) 10 Hours training 2HRS. 5 EMPLOYEES for new employees on H&S manual (2hrs. 5 employees) Programme for the improvement of the preventive culture based on “Human and Organisational Performance (HOP)” + 3 Hours training delivered by Prevencontrol. in H&S manual for fieldwork works to one employee Several modules: Safe driving course (Tecdrive) 1. Leadership management 11hrs. 16 Employees 8HRS. 13 EMPLOYEES 2. Awareness middle management 3hrs. 11 Employees 3. Workers’ awareness 6hrs. 15 Employees 4. Workshop HOP 3hrs. 9 Employees 5. Operational learning workshop 6hrs. 7 Employees 6. Workshop “design thinking” 3hrs. 6 Employees ZERO ACCIDENTS* *Two minor incidents were registered of employees that were either travelling to or from work A step further in Health and Safety management During 2019, Geoalcali engaged Audinor, a specialised The audit analysed both the procedures and systems in health and safety auditor with the aim of ensuring that all place today and also assessed areas of improvements in the health and safety management systems and protocols are future protocols that will be put in place in the next phases being considered. This audit was a voluntary measure the of the development of Muga. Company established in order to achieve best practices in an area which is key for the Company´s success today and in the future. 57 Sustainability Report 2019 Our People – SDGs Contribution Key Performance Highlights Upholding Highest Standards in Ethical Performance in the Workplace Our People Striving for Excellence in Work-Life Balance and Diversity Inclusion A Healthier Workplace Building a Strong Safety Culture A Step Further in Health and Safety Management SDG Impact Positive Impact In order to achieve a higher productivity, efficiency and high standards of safety, environmental and social performance, the Group has implemented key initiatives to promote its core values CREA, which are values that are aligned with the philosophy of the SDGs. The Company contributes actively to the promotion of diversity, inclusion, work-life balance and healthy habits through different initiatives with the aim of developing a “bestwork environment” and the Company thereby becoming a preferred employer of choice and talent retainer. Mitigation Strategy The Company is aware that mines can often present different hazards than other regular industrial activity. In order to minimise and contribute to a safe environment, the Group has put in place various initiatives for both employees and leaders, to place safety as a priority in all activities. This includes simple initiatives such as safety topics in all the Company´s meetings, awareness campaigns, staff training, but it also includes initiatives to raise awareness on safety in the Muga communities and society. The Company also upholds diversity as a key ingredient for driving success. Mining is typically a male industry and Geoalcali is contributing to female empowerment by participating in external and internal programmes to raise awareness on diversity matters. 58 Sustainability Report 2019 59 Sustainability Report 2019 60 Sustainability Report 2019 The Group 61 Sustainability Report 2019 Highfield Resources Limited Highfield Resources Limited is a potash company listed on — The proximity to key markets, located in a potash the Australian Securities Exchange (“ASX”) in 2012. Through consuming region with good access to large Brazilian, its wholly owned Spanish subsidiary Geoalcali S.L.U., it has North African and US Markets, driving high margins; a 100% interest in three tenement areas located in Spain. — The deposits are at a relatively shallow depth suitable Highfield’s Muga-Vipasca, Pintanos, and Sierra del Perdón for conventional underground mining (room and pillar) potash tenement areas are located in the Ebro potash with a decline access; producing basin in Northern Spain, covering an area of around 277km2. — Access to first class infrastructure with a direct connection to national electricity grid and close to ports The Company’s flagship Muga Project, in the Muga-Vipasca and access to road systems; tenement area is the most advanced. Muga received a positive environmental permit in 2019. Following this — Experienced management team located in Spain and milestone, Highfield has now submitted the required Mining Board with extensive mining delivery experience; Concession documentation and is continuing to work on the relevant construction permits necessary to take the Project — Robust financials with strong IRR, based on extensive into the construction phase. optimisation with industry leading consultants; and Given the location and nature of the deposits, the main — Strong environmental credentials and strong support competitive advantages of the Muga Project are: from the local communities. 62 Sustainability Report 2019 Geoalcali S.L.U. Geoalcali S.L.U., Highfield Resources’ 100% subsidiary, was incorporated in 2011 with national and international capital, with the mission of developing a potash business. Geoalcali S.L.U. is a Spanish mining company that has continued exploring the potash deposits after discovering historical evidence of the location of these types of deposits in the Ebro Basin. Geoalcali S.L.U. is composed of a variety of professionals, including experts in mining and geology, environmental technicians, administration staff and field operators. Its team has the experience and commitment to carry out a project that can serve as an example of sustainable mining development. For further information visit: www.geoalcali.com and www.highfieldresources.com.au 63 Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Directory Directors Registered Office Richard Crookes – Chairman 169 Fullarton Road Peter Albert CEO until January 2020* DULWICH SA 5065 Pauline Carr – Independent Non Executive Director Australia Roger Davey – Independent Non-Executive Director PO Box 377 Jim Dietz – Independent Non Executive Director KENT TOWN SA 5071 Brian Jamieson – Non-Executive Director Australia Isaac Querub – Independent Non-Executive Director Telephone: +61 8 8133 5000 Donald Stephens – Company Secretary Facsimile: +61 8 8431 3502 64 Sustainability Report 2019 Spanish Head Office Securities Exchange Listing Avenida Carlos III Nº 13 – 1°B Highfield Resources Limited shares are listed on the 31002 PAMPLONA Australian Securities Exchange, the home branch being Spain Perth, Western Australia Telephone: +34 948 050 577 ASX code: HFR Facsimile: +34 948 050 578 Note: Highfield Resources announced its new CEO, Mr. Ignacio Salazar, on ASX release 20 April 2020. Share Registry Advance Share Registry Pty Ltd 110 Stirling Highway NEDLANDS WA 6009 Telephone: +61 8 9389 8033 Facsimile: +61 8 9389 7871 65 Sustainability Report 2019 66 Sustainability Report 2019 Communication on Progress Report 67 Sustainability Report 2019 Geoalcali continues to make efforts in strengthening its commitment to ESG best practices, becoming the first Spanish junior mining company to join the United Nations Global Compact, the largest corporate sustainability initiative in the world that brings together more than 13,500 signatory entities and is present in over 165 countries. Geoalcali joined in March 2020 and has decided to voluntarily include its Communication on Progress report for 2019. 68 Sustainability Report 2019 Period covered From: 1 JANUARY 2019 To: 31 DECEMBER 2019 Statement of Continued Support by Chairman of Highfield Resources Limited (Parent Company of Geoalcali S.L.U.) June 05 2020 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Geoalcali S.L.U. reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Richard Crookes Chairman, Highfield Resources Limited. 69 Sustainability Report 2019 Human Rights Human Rights Principles Implementation Measurement of Outcomes Assessment, Policy Grievance Mechanisms Grievance Mechanisms and Goals Local Communities: Local Communities: The Code of Business Conduct The Company’s current exploration No formal complaints raised. The and Ethics (“Code”) estabphase could give rise to typical grievCompany registers and keeps track of lishes policies aimed at enances related to land access, enviall communication with local stakeholdsuring the values of the ronmental disturbances or potential er. More information in section “Our Company are aligned with impacts on cultural heritage or sacred Community” on page 45. the principles of the Global sites. Therefore, Geoalcali has set up Compact, the ILO (International a formal grievance procedure makInternal Mechanisms: Labour Organisation) and ing available, through notices in local International Mining Council The Company registered 1 recommentowns councils and at drilling sites, a and Metals and it is published dation which was a suggestion , subformal channel to address any comon our website to make sure mitted anonymously, regarding a recent plaint or concern, Geoalcali managour position is clear for all teambuilding experience with a recomes these communications and keeps our suppliers, employees and mendation for any future teambuilding track of commitments made to ensure consultants. exercises. proper stakeholder engagement. The Code includes specifThe Company has also installed sugic policies such as a Human gestions boxes on local town halls to Revision and Communication Rights Policy, A Whistleblower Protection Policy, a Diversity receive communications from resiof the Code dents that do not have access to inPolicy and a Corporate Social During the year, the Company introduced ternet or online channels. Responsibility Policy that set minor adjustments to the Whistleblower the ethical behaviour standProtection Policy and Continuous Internal Mechanisms: ards expected of employees, Disclosure Policy based on the suppliers and consultants. The Company also has a formal grievAustralian Securities Exchange Corporate ance procedure to ensure all staff Governance Council’s “Principles of members have an anonymous and/ Good Corporate Governance and Best or direct channel to submit formal Practice Recommendations” with 2019 complaints. Amendments (4th Edition). Revision and Communication of the Code During the year, the Company revised its Code, in both English and Spanish, to ensure it remains clear and up to date. If changes occur, these are communicated to staff in formal weekly meetings. 70 Sustainability Report 2019 Labour Labour Principles Implementation Measurement of Outcomes Assessment, Policy Grievance Mechanisms Grievance Mechanisms and Goals Internal Mechanisms: Internal Mechanisms: The Code includes specifThe Company has a formal grievance ic policies such as a Labour The Company has a formal committee to procedure to ensure all staff members Policy, a Diversity Policy, a address these complaints. have an anonymous and/or direct Health and Safety Policy, a channel to submit formal complaints. Whistleblower Protection Policy, and a Remuneration Health and Safety Policy to ensure that all our Health and Safety Performance on health and safety topics activities respect the rights of are disclosed in page 56 of this report. our staff and set the ethical During this year, the Company conbehaviour standards expecttinued its efforts in implementing a ed of all staff, senior managestrong health and safety culture by Staff Well-Being ment and Board members. carrying out training programmes, awareness initiatives, and a strong Performance on staff well-being can be internal communication strategy to found in section “Our People” in page 55 integrate healthy topics into daily of this report. activities. Staff Well-Being The Company continued its Healthy Living programme to promote healthy habits. During the year the Company launched a programme for all employees to promote its core values CREA with the aim of further embedding the Company’s culture. This programme seeks to embed ethical behaviours in daily activities to generate a cohesive values driven work-force 71 Sustainability Report 2019 Environment Environmental Principles Implementation Measurement of Outcomes Assessment, Policy Awareness Campaigns Awareness Campaigns and Goals Several campaigns have been Performance on environmental topics are The Code includes specommunicated to staff with the aim of disclosed on page 37 of this report. cific policies such as an raising awareness of the importance Environmental and Social of minimising our environmental and Management Policy and social impact and striving for continual Environmental Management Corporate Social Responsibility improvement in respect of our Performance on environmental topics are to promote environmentally environmental and social management disclosed on page 36 of this report. friendly and socially comperformance. These measures include mitted practices to ensure performance indicators to monitor our we are accepted and welenvironmental impact with the aim of comed within the commuestablishing protective and mitigation nities in which we operate. measures. Environmental Management The Company continuously incorporates improvement measures that not only meet legal requirements but also go beyond our goal of developing a sustainable project. 72 Sustainability Report 2019 Anti-Corruption Anti-Corruption Principles Implementation Measurement of Outcomes Assessment, Policy Procurement Practices Procurement Practices and Goals The Company has in place a No negative reports have been identified The Code includes speProcurement policy and procedure to with regards to unethical procurement cific policies such as an ensure a transparent tendering and practices. Anti-Bribery and Corruption awarding process of all services and Policy, Procurement Policy, products acquired by the Company. and a Whistleblower The procedure includes protocols to Whistleblower Protection Protection Policy to conensure that all our goods and services No reports have been notified. duct business with integare procured in an ethical manner, to rity and endeavour to have achieve the optimum balance of price the highest anti-bribery and and quality and minimise risk. anti-corruption standards. Whistleblower Protection The Company has in place a procedure to ensure protection and support the dignity, well being, career and good name of anyone reporting wrongdoing. 73 Sustainability Report 2019 74 Sustainability Report 2019 GRI Index 75 Sustainability Report 2019 COP1/ Page number(s) and/ Omission GRI Standard Disclosure or URL(s) SDG2 GRI 101 : Foundation 2016 General Disclosures 102-1 Name of the organization Page 62 Reported 102-2 Activities, brands, products Page 62 Reported and services 102-3 Location of headquarters Page 62 Reported 102-4 Location of operations Page 62 Reported 102-5 Ownership and legal form Page 62 Reported None of Highfield projects are None of Highfield projects are currently currently under production. under production. The Company does 102-6 Markets served The Company does not serve not serve any market with product or any market with product or service service 102-7 Scale of the organization Page 62 Reported 102-8 Information on employees Page 55 Reported and other workers None of Highfield projects are None of Highfield projects are currently currently under production. under production. The Company does 102-9 Supply chain The Company does not serve not serve any market with product or any market with product or service service None of Highfield projects are None of Highfield projects are currently currently under production. 102-10 Significant changes to the under production. The Company does The Company does not serve organization and its supply chain not serve any market with product or any market with product or service service 102-11 Precautionary Principle or Pages 28 29 Reported approach ALL SDG 102-12 External initiatives Pages 30 33 and 44 51 Reported SDG 17 102-13 Membership of Page 33 Reported SDG 4 associations GRI 102: General CEO COP 102-14 Statement from senior Pages 2 and 69 Reported Disclosures 2016 Statement decision-maker 102-16 Values, principles, Pages 9 13 Reported standards and norms of behaviour 102-18 Governance structure Page 28 Reported 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Pages 16 18 Reported 102-41 Collective bargaining All employees are collectively Reported agreements represented 102-42 Identifying and selecting Pages 16 18 Reported stakeholders 102-43 Approach to stakeholder Pages 16 18 Reported engagement 102-44 Key topics and concerns ALL SDG Pages 16 18 Reported raised Visit latest Annual Report 2019 at https://www. highfieldresources. 102-45 Entities included in the com.au/wp-content/ Reported consolidated financial statements uploads/sites/2/2020/03/ HFRAnnualReport2019-27. pdf 102-46 Defining report content Pages 6 and 10 23 Reported and topic Boundaries All SDG 102-47 List of material topics Page 16 Reported 102-48 Restatements of No restatements Reported information 102-49 Changes in reporting Pages 6 and 2223 Reported 102-50 Reporting Period Page 6 Reported 102-51 Date of most recent report Page 6 Reported 76 Sustainability Report 2019 COP1/ Page number(s) and/ GRI Standard Disclosure Omission SDG2 or URL(s) 102-52 Reporting cycle Page 6 Reported 102-53 Contact point for Page 6 Reported questions regarding the report 102-54 Claims of reporting in Page 6 Reported accordance with the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index Page 74 Reported This report has not been 102-56 External assurance Reported externally assured Material topics Emissions 103-1 Explanation of the material GRI 103: ManagePages 10 23 Reported topics and its Boundaries ment Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach Pages 2 and 1023 Reported and its components Generation of Wealth Visit latest Annual Report 2019 at https://www. highfieldresources. 203-1 Infrastructure investments com.au/wp-content/ Reported and services supported uploads/sites/2/2020/03/ HFRAnnualReport2019-27. GRI 203: Indirect pdf Economic Impacts Visit latest Annual Report 2019 at https://www. highfieldresources. 203-2 Significant indirect com.au/wp-content/ Reported economic impacts uploads/sites/2/2020/03/ HFRAnnualReport2019-27. pdf Anti-corruption 205-1 Operations assessed for Highfield currently owns one Reported risks related to corruption project GRI 205: AntiCorruption 205-2 Communication and training COP AC about anti-corruption policies and Page 73 Reported procedures Water Management SDG 6 SDG 9 SDG 12 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Page 41 Reported SDG 13 SDG 15 COP E GRI 303: Water SDG 6 SDG 9 SDG 12 303-2 Water sources significantly Page 41 Reported SDG 13 affected by withdrawal of water SDG 15 COP E Waste Management SDG 9 SDG 12 GRI 306: Effluents 306-2 Waste by type and disposal SDG 13 Page 42 Reported and Waste method SDG 15 COP E GRI 307: SDG 13 307-1 Non-compliance with Environmental SDG 15 environmental laws and Page 42 Reported Compliance COP E regulations Quality Employment SDG 8 401-1 New employee hires and Pages 54 55 Reported COP L employee turnover GRI 401: SDG 3 401-2 Benefits provided to Employment SDG 5 full-time employees that are not Pages 54 55 Reported SDG 8 provided to temporary or part-time COP L employees 77 Sustainability Report 2019 COP1/ Page number(s) and/ GRI Standard Disclosure Omission SDG2 or URL(s) Occupational Health and Safety 403-2 Types of injury and rates SDG 3 of injury, occupational diseases, SDG 8 Pages 56 57 Reported GRI 403: lost days, and absenteeism, and COP L Occupational number of work-related fatalities Health and Safety SDG 3 403-3 Workers with high incidence SDG 8 or high risk of diseases related to Pages 56 57 Reported COP L their occupation Health and Safety in the Community SDG1 SDG 2 SDG 3 SDG 4 413-1 Operations with local SDG 9 community engagement, impact Pages 44 53 Reported SDG 10 assessments, and development SDG 11 programs SDG 13 SDG 15 GRI 413: Local COP E Communities SDG1 SDG 2 SDG 3 SDG 4 413-2 Operations with significant SDG 9 Highfield currently owns actual and potential negative Reported SDG 10 one project, Muga impacts on local communities SDG 11 SDG 13 SDG 15 COP E 1 COP Communication on Progress COP HR – Disclosure on Human Rights Principles COP L – Disclosure on Labour Principles COP E – Disclosure on Environmental Principles COP AC – Disclosure on AntiCorruption Principles 2 SDG Sustainability Development Goal SDG 1 – No Poverty SDG 2 – Zero Hunger SDG 3 – Good Health and Well-Being SDG 4 – Quality Education SDG 5 – Gender Equality SDG 6 – Clean Water and Sanitation SDG 7 – Affordable and Clean Energy SDG 8 – Decent work and Economic Growth SDG 9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure SGD 10 – Reduce Inequalities SGD 11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities SDG 12 – Responsible Consumption and Production SDG 13 – Climate Action SDG 14 – Life Below Water SGD 15 – Life on Land SGD 16 – Peace, Justice and Institutions SGD 17 – Partnership for the Goals 78 Sustainability Report 2019 79 highfieldresources.com.au geoalcali.com
