2019-2020 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report FUTURING SMART ENERGY Opening the Future of Smart Energy 02 Overview About This Report About This Report 2019 HIGHLIGHT This is LS ELECTRIC’s sixth sustainability report. We have pubChairman’s Message lished such reports each year since 2015 to reach out to our stakeholders. In so doing, not only do we disclose our progLS ELECTRIC at a Glance ress and performance made in the areas of economy, environCompany Profile ment and society in a balanced and transparent manner, but Corporate Governance also we strive to become a company that heeds the voice of stakeholders for sustainable growth and development. Stakeholder Value Chain Map Global Business Reporting Period Business Overview This report spans the period between January 1, 2019 and December Product Overview 31, 2019, and this extends to the first quarter of 2020 for a portion of the data. Core Issues Integrated Sustainability Reporting Scope Management This repor t outlines the key information identified through the Materiality Assessment materiality assessment process. While this report primarily focuses Ethics Management on LS ELECTRIC’s domestic worksites, it also includes its overseas Customer Satisfaction worksites on a selective basis when deemed necessary. Safety and Environment Reporting Standards Shared Growth This report was prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards and the Employees UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Local Community Assurance Appendix This report was assured by the Korea Management Registrar as an Financial Statements independent third-party assurance provider for its objectivity and Safety and Environment credibility. Employees Contact Information Shared Growth and Social This report is freely accessible on our corporate website (w w w. Contribution lselectric.co.kr). For inquiries or feedback, please contact us through Third Party’s Assurance the following: Statement GRI Standards Index Address LS Tower, 127, LS-ro, Dongan-gu, Anyang City, Gyeonggi Province, Korea Website www.lselectric.co.kr UNGC, Memberships and Awards Phone +82-2-2034-4123 2019-2020 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report 2019-2020 02 03 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report Overview About This Report 02 2019 HIGHLIGHT 04 Chairman’s Message 06 LS ELECTRIC at a Glance Company Profile 10 Corporate Governance 12 Stakeholder Value Chain Map 14 Global Business 16 Business Overview 18 Product Overview 22 Core Issues Integrated Sustainability Management 28 Materiality Assessment 30 Ethics Management 32 Customer Satisfaction 40 Safety and Environment 50 Shared Growth 56 Employees 64 Local Community 70 Appendix Financial Statements 76 Safety and Environment 77 Employees 78 Shared Growth and Social Contribution 79 Third Party’s Assurance Statement 80 GRI Standards Index 82 UNGC, Memberships and Awards 85 2019 HIGHLIGHT 04 Feb Mar Jun Overview Named a ‘Top 100 Global Innovator’ by Clarivate Completed an 18MW Hanamizuki Mega Solar About This Report Analytics for eight consecutive years (Feb. 2019) Power Plant in Japan (Mar. 2019) 2019 HIGHLIGHT LS ELECTRIC was named a Top 100 Global Innovator by Clarivate AnaLS ELECTRIC completed an 18MW Hanamizuki Mega Solar Power Plant Chairman’s Message lytics for eight consecutive years. We were recognized for our top-tier for nearly JPY 4.6 billion (KRW 46 billion) in project cost. As our third performance in such qualitative aspects as patent citations as well as in mega-scale photovoltaic (PV) power generation project undertaken in LS ELECTRIC at a Glance quantitative aspects including the ratio of patent applications to patent Japan, this successfully resulted in the construction of a cutting-edge Company Profile grants and the percentage of patents filed in four major regions of the PV power plant within just 18 months to demonstrate our global comCorporate Governance globe in the intellectual property sector. petitiveness in smart energy technology. Stakeholder Value Chain Map Global Business Business Overview Product Overview Core Issues Integrated Sustainability Management Materiality Assessment Ethics Management Customer Satisfaction Safety and Environment Shared Growth Employees Local Community Appendix Financial Statements Safety and Environment Employees Shared Growth and Social Contribution Third Party’s Assurance Statement Launched ‘Tech Square’ as Korea’s first Won a 93MW PV power plant project in Youngam GRI Standards Index smart factory open platform (Jun. 2019) (Jun. 2019) UNGC, Memberships and LS ELECTRIC unveiled ‘Tech Square’ as Korea’s first-ever smart factory LS ELECTRIC was chosen as a contractor for a large-scale ESS*-conAwards open platform, and fully launched its business to build smart factories nected PV power generation plant to be built in Youngam-gun, South with a focus on Korean SMEs. Tech Square is open to anyone, including Jeolla Province, Korea. As the world’s single largest PV power generation industry or academic experts as well as consumers and suppliers, and project valued at KRW 184.8 billion, the power plant, once completed, is is capable of analyzing customer data for the most optimal matching expected to generate green power to contribute to mitigating roughly between sector-specific companies and corresponding customers to 56,000 tons of GHG emissions. deliver improved economic feasibility and efficiency such as reduction * ESS : Energy Storage System 2019-2020 in factory development costs. LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report 2019-2020 04 05 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report Jul Aug Dec Won a 50MW Morioka Became Korea’s first to achieve KSGA’s ‘PCS CertifiPV power plant project in Japan (Jun. 2019) cation Edition 3.0’ for ESS applications (Jul. 2019) LS ELECTRIC was chosen as an EPC contractor for a 50MW ‘Morioka LS ELECTRIC’s new 750kW and 1.4MW PCS*s, developed to help the photovoltaic (PV) power plant’ to be constructed in Morioka City, Iwate Company move ahead of the competition in the PV-connected ESS marPrefecture, Honshu, Japan, for JPN 15 billion yen (KRW 161.3 billion) in ket, became Korea’s first to achieve ‘PCS Certification Edition 3.0’ pubproject cost. Winning the fourth mega solar power project in Japan lished by the Korea Smart Grid Association (KSGA) as PCS performance alone, LS ELECTRIC’s extensive business experience and technologirequirements for ESSs. This represents the highest-level certification cal reliability were demonstrated yet again. Following its completion, granted by the KSGA as PCS group certification for ESS applications, and the PV power plant is set to generate and supply electricity for nearly is recognized for strengthened consumer safety and product reliability. 16,000 households through the Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) * PCS : Power Conditioning System signed with Tohoku Electric Power. Created the world’s largest Won a project to develop an integrated railway ‘Self-Sufficient DC Energy Island’ (Aug. 2019) operation solution in Thailand (Dec. 2019) LS ELEC TRIC transformed Seogeochado into the world’s largest In cooperation with Thailand’s largest railway construction company ‘Self-Sufficient DC Energy Island’ that exclusively uses direct current ITD, LS ELECTRIC was chosen as a joint contractor in the THB 2.4 billion (DC) for both power generation and distribution in conjunction with (KRW 94.4 billion) project awarded by the State Railway of Thailand to the Korea Electric Power Research Institute and Jindo-gun, South Jeolla develop a signal and communication control system for the dual-track Province. This project was initiated in June 2016 to help remote island Northeast Route in the country. As Phase 9 of Thailand’s railway infraregions resolve their chronic power shortages and to stay ahead of structure modernization initiative (ST9), this project aims to convert a the competition in developing core technology on DC power distributotal of 132km route to a dual track railway line and replace the more tion. Power losses that occur when converting DC into AC power were than 20-year-old outdated system in an effort to develop the northeastreduced to result in a more than 10% improvement in energy efficiency. ern region of the country and expand its freight and passenger capacity. Chairman’s Message 06 Dear respected stakeholders, Let me extend my heartfelt gratitude for your unwavering interest in and encouragement Overview for LS ELECTRIC during the course of last year. About This Report In this year’s sustainability report, we extend greetings under the new name 'LS ELECTRIC' as we have boldly decided to 2019 HIGHLIGHT leave behind the company name that had represented us for the past 33 years. This embodies our firm commitment to Chairman’s Message spearheading the development of future energy technology, emerging as a dominant player in the global market, and establishing an even stronger identity as a company. LS ELECTRIC at a Glance The energy market is evolving into one fueled by digital transformation and smart connectivity as a way to pursue transCompany Profile formation and innovation. As such, LS ELECTRIC is shifting its focus from devices to solution platforms, ranging from the Corporate Governance convergence of manufacturing and information and communications technology to Industry 4.0 solutions and smart power Stakeholder Value Chain Map transmission/distribution technology, with an aim to move beyond the domestic market to emerge as a global leading Global Business company. To this end, we committed to laying the basis for a new growth era in 2018, and set a new record in our business Business Overview performance since our inception. While the economic slowdown of the year 2019 drove down our growth rate, we endeavored to weather the challenging business conditions at home and abroad and eventually reaffirmed our aspiration to move Product Overview towards a new growth era. Moving into 2020, a range of economic indicators are at the bottom of the curve amid the Core Issues COVID-19 pandemic, and it is widely believed that the global economic crisis may sustain for an extended period of time. Still yet, we won’t be overly focused on short-term performance but rather take actions as follows to lay a strong foundation for Integrated Sustainability Management our sustainable growth for the next decade to come and beyond. Materiality Assessment Ethics Management First, we will build a stable basis for our global business operations. Customer Satisfaction We will maximize our performance in the domestic market while consistently securing overseas infrastructure Safety and Environment and making inorganic investment to build a solid basis for our global operations for the upcoming decade. Shared Growth Second, we will pave the way for our digital transformation business. Employees We will digitalize our experience and know-how accumulated over the years Local Community to develop digital products and solutions. Third, we will establish a corporate culture as a growth-driven company. Appendix Financial Statements We will maximize our capabilities based on digital operation and management, Safety and Environment and establish an agile corporate culture across the board. Employees Shared Growth and Social Dear stakeholders, Contribution LS ELECTRIC vows to fulfill its role and responsibility as a corporate citizen through sustainability management that values Third Party’s Assurance society and the environment in addition to the pursuit of economic profits. We will also leverage our sound corporate Statement culture to actively reach out to stakeholders and usher in the future of smart energy that brings greater value to our life and GRI Standards Index society at large. UNGC, Memberships and Awards We look forward to your continued encouragement and support in the years ahead. Thank you. Ja-Kyun Koo CEO & Chairman 2019-2020 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report 2019-2020 06 07 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report Making a fresh new start as ‘LS ELECTRIC’, we will emerge as a company that takes the lead in developing future energy technology and as a trendsetter in Korea and in the wider global market. 08 LS ELECTRIC at a Glance Overview About This Report 2019 HIGHLIGHT Chairman’s Message LS ELECTRIC at a Glance Company Profile Corporate Governance Stakeholder Value Chain Map Global Business Business Overview Product Overview Core Issues Integrated Sustainability Management Materiality Assessment Ethics Management Customer Satisfaction Safety and Environment Shared Growth Employees Local Community Appendix Financial Statements Safety and Environment Employees Shared Growth and Social Contribution Third Party’s Assurance Statement GRI Standards Index UNGC, Memberships and Awards 10 Company Profile 12 Corporate Governance 2019-2020 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report 22 16 Product Overview Global Business 18 Business Overview 14 Stakeholder Value Chain Map Company Profile 10 Spearheading the development of Korea’s industrial power and automation solution sector, LS ELECTRIC is now taking a leap forward as a global leading company conducting smart energy and other convergence businesses in the fast-changing landscape of the 4th Industrial Revolution. Established as Lucky Packaging back in 1974, the Company was renamed Goldstar Industrial Systems in March 1987, LG Industrial Systems Overview in 1995, and LSIS in 2005, and finally declared its new corporate identity as LS ELECTRIC in March 2020. About This Report LS ELECTRIC will shift its focus from devices to solution platforms. Such solution platforms include the con2019 HIGHLIGHT vergence of manufacturing and information and communications technology to Industry 4.0 solutions and Chairman’s Message smart transmission/distribution technology. LS ELECTRIC will continue with its endeavors to seek Evolution beyond Revolution so as to emerge as a leader in Korea and in the wider global market. LS ELECTRIC at a Glance Company Profile Organizational Chart Company Profile Summarized Financial Data for 2019 (on a consolidated basis) Corporate Governance Company name LS ELECTRIC Co., Ltd. Stakeholder Value Chain Map Chairman Sales KRW 2,347 billion Date of Global Business July 24, 1974 establishment Digital Business Vision Department Chairman Ja-Kyun Koo, Vice Operating income KRW 169 billion Business Overview Department CEO President Yong-Sang Park, Product Overview Vice President Ki-Won Nam Executive Director Executive Director Total assets KRW 2,538 billion of Business/DT of Business LS Tower, 127, LS-ro, Core Issues Administration Head office Dongan-gu, Anyang City, Gyeonggi Province, Korea Total liabilities KRW 1,175 billion Integrated Sustainability Employees 3,347 persons Management Global E&A E&A Research China Business Business & DevelopBusiness AAin corporate bond, A1 in CP Total equity KRW 1,363 billion Materiality Assessment Credit rating Group Group ment Group Group (Korea Investors Service) Ethics Management Customer Satisfaction Safety and Environment Shared Growth Corporate 1974-1995 1996-2007 History Employees Era of Beginning We pioneer the power Era of Challenge We become the leader in the and automation industries. Korean power and automation sectors. Local Community Jul. 1974 Established Lucky Packaging Co., Ltd. Apr. 1997 Established a production subsidiary in Vietnam Appendix Mar. 1987 Renamed Goldstar Industrial Apr. 1997 Merged with LG Metal Co., Ltd. Systems Co., Ltd. Jun. 2000 Completed a plant in Dalian, China Financial Statements Jul. 1994 Held an initial public offering of Aug. 2000 Power Testing & Technology Institute designated Safety and Environment Goldstar Industrial Systems Co., Ltd. as a certified testing organization Employees Feb. 1995 Renamed LG Industrial Systems Co., Dec. 2003 Separated from LG Group Ltd. Shared Growth and Social Mar. 2005 Renamed LSIS Contribution Sep. 1995 Merged with Goldstar Instrument & Sep. 2005 Completed a plant to produce electric power & Electric Co., Ltd. and Goldstar Electric Third Party’s Assurance automation equipment in Wuxi, China Machinery Co., Ltd. Statement Feb. 2007 Established the sales subsidiary LSIS (ME) FZE in Dubai, UAE GRI Standards Index UNGC, Memberships and Awards 2019-2020 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report 2019-2020 10 11 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report Vision and Strategy Management Philosophy Strategy 01 Boosting our market position as a power solutions provider 02 Leading new markets through convergence and combination 03 Expansion of global markets 04 Securing operational excellence Mission Vision Opening the Future of Smart Energy Core Value Collaboration Execution Creativity Integrity 2008-2014 2015-2020 Era of Growth and Innovation Era of Value Management We take off as a global leader. We open up the future of smart energy. Apr. 2008 Relocated the Head Office to LS Tower in Anyang Jan. 2015 Declared the guiding principles of value management Oct. 2009 Established a sales subsidiary in Europe Mar. 2015 Completed R&D Campus Oct. 2009 Incorporated LS Mecapion as a subsidiary Mar. 2016 R&D Campus achieved Korea’s first BEMS certification Feb. 2010 Established LS Sauter Sep. 2016  Received the Presidential Citation for outstanding achievement for FTA Apr. 2010 Completed a plant in Busan Sep. 2016  Became Korea’s first to deploy ESS for emergency power supply at R&D Campus Apr. 2010 Spun off the Metal Processing Business Unit Mar. 2017  Listed on the Top 100 Companies based on patent applications made in Europe (current LS Metal) Jun. 2017 Awarded as Korea’s Best Enterprise for 10 consecutive years Oct. 2010 Established Japan Sales Corporation Sep. 2017  Awarded the Industry, Trade and Energy Minister’s Prize in Strategic Trade CP Oct. 2011 Completed a HVDC plant in Busan Nov. 2017 ACE Club received the SMEs and Startups Minister Citation Nov. 2011 N  amed one of the 500 Fastest Growing Companies in the supplier association category by Fortune Korea Nov. 2018 Won the Grand Prize in the efficiency sector May 2012 Completed an EV relay plant in Cheongju at the ‘Power Demand Management Awards’ Dec. 2012 Established a sales subsidiary in the U.S. Dec. 2018 Won the Minister’s Prize at the Korea Technology Awards May 2013 Signed a contract for HVDC technology transfer Dec. 2018  Acquired the ESS business of the U.S.-based company Parker-Hannifin and manufacturing with KAPES and GE Feb. 2019  Named one of the world’s Top 100 Innovative Companies Nov. 2013 Received the USD 500 Million Export Tower for eight consecutive years Nov. 2013 Awarded at the 39th National Quality Management Jul. 2019  Became Korea’s first to achieve KSGA’s PCS Certification Edition 3.0 Competition for ESS applications May 2014 Received the Gold Tower Order of Industrial Service Aug. 2019  Completed the world’s largest Self-Sufficient DC Energy Island Merit on Invention Day in Seogeochado Mar. 2020 Renamed LS ELECTRIC Co., Ltd. Corporate Governance 12 Composition and Operation of the BOD LS ELECTRIC’s Board of Directors consists of seven directors in total BOD and Subcommittee Operations in 2019 Overview three inside directors and four outside directors – in accordance with No. of meetings Items for Items for applicable regulations and the Articles of Incorporation. Under the Organization Attendance convened decision reporting About This Report BOD are the three subcommittees of the Audit Committee, the Outside BOD 5 100% 18 items 13 items 2019 HIGHLIGHT Director Nomination Committee and the Internal Transaction Committee. Audit Committee 4 100% 5 items 20 items Chairman’s Message Outside Director Subcommittees of the BOD Nomination 1 100% 1 items LS ELECTRIC at a Glance Committee Audit Committee The Audit Committee is composed of four outside Internal TransacCompany Profile 3 100% 4 items directors, and is responsible for supervising and assisting senior mantion Committee Corporate Governance agement in making informed decisions through checks and balances. Stakeholder Value Chain Map The committee reviews operating results and financial statements Global Business on a quarterly basis or more often, and is authorized to audit general accounting operations and the status of corporate assets when deemed Business Overview necessary. Product Overview Total remuneration of the BOD in 2019 Outside Director Nomination Committee The appointment of (limit set at KRW 5 billion) Core Issues outside directors follows fair and transparent procedures through the Integrated Sustainability Management Outside Director Nomination Committee. This committee consists of two outside directors and one inside director. KRW 4.99 billion Materiality Assessment Internal Transaction Committee The Internal Transaction CommitEthics Management tee aims to oversee related party transactions and improve the transCustomer Satisfaction parency of business operations through the establishment of a fair trade compliance system. The committee consists of four outside directors. Safety and Environment Shared Growth Employees Local Community Composition of the BOD As of Mar. 24, 2020 Appendix Director Name Position Career Date of appointment Financial Statements (current) Chairman & CEO, LS ELECTRIC Chair of the BOD, Ja-Kyun Koo (former) Professor at Graduate School of International Mar. 24, 2020 (reappointed) Chairman & CEO Safety and Environment and Public Affairs, Korea University Employees Inside (current) Executive Director of Business/DT, LS ELECTRIC Yong-Sang Park Vice President & CEO (former) Executive Vice President of China Business Group, Mar. 24, 2020 (reappointed) Shared Growth and Social directors (3) LS ELECTRIC Contribution (current) Executive Director of Business Administration, Mar. 20, 2018 Third Party’s Assurance Ki-Won Nam Vice President & CEO LS ELECTRIC (newly appointed) (former) Vice President & CEO, LS Metal Statement (current) Professor of electrical engineering, GRI Standards Index Outside director/ Seoul National University Seung-Ill Moon Mar. 24, 2020 (reappointed) Audit Committee member (former) President of the Korea Electrical Engineering UNGC, Memberships and and Science Research Institute Awards Outside director/ (former) Professor of accounting, Mar. 20, 2018 Won-Chang Lee Outside Audit Committee member Chungnam National University (newly appointed) directors (4) Outside director/ (former) 51st Second Vice Minister of Food, Agriculture, Mar. 26, 2019 Jung-Kyu Oh Audit Committee member Forestry and Fisheries (newly appointed) (current) Professor at Graduate School of Public Outside director/ Mar. 24, 2020 2019-2020 Jong-Won Choi Administration, Seoul National University Audit Committee member (newly appointed) (former) Outside director at SK Hynix LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report 2019-2020 12 13 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report Shareholder/Investor Status Since LS Group shifted into a holding company structure in 2018, Shareholder returns (dividends) We pay above-the-marketLS Holdings has been our largest shareholder with 46% in ownership. average dividends to our shareholders and investors. The second largest shareholder, the National Pension Service of Korea, owned approximately 12% of LS ELECTRIC as of December 31, 2019. Dividends Paid | Total dividends | | Dividend per share | Shareholder Relationship Type of Share No. of Shares Ownership (unit: KRW 1 billion) (unit: KRW) Largest LS Holdings Common share 13,800,000 46% shareholder 1,200 1,200 35.2 35.2 1,100 Treasury shares Common share 674,974 2% 32.3 National 5% or more Institutional Pension in ownership Common share 3,575,178 12% investors Service Others Common share 3,754,985 13% Foreign investors Common share 5,407,110 18% Individual investors Common share 2,787,753 9% 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 Total Common share 30,000,000 100% Dividend payout ratio 1) Share ownership 2 2017 34.0 9 32.2 46 (%) As of Dec. 31, 2019 2018 29.5 (unit: %) 2019 32.2 18 Dividend yield 2) 2017 1.7 ■ LS Holdings 46 2.2 (%) 2018 2.4 ■ Institutional investors 25 2019 2.2 ■ Foreign investors 18 ■ Individual investors 9 25 ■ Treasury shares 2 Note 1) D  ividend payout ratio: Total Dividend/net income (on a non-consolidated basis) Note 2) D  ividend yield: Dividend per share/year-end closing price (please refer to data from the Korea Exchange) Communication with shareholders and investors In addition to Assessment by Korea Corporate Governance Service LS ELECTRIC quarterly earnings release meetings, we also host overseas conferences was rated overall A in the ESG assessments performed by Korea Corpoand a range of IR events to reach out to even more investors at home rate Governance Service (KCGS) in 2019 in recognition of its outstandand abroad and to improve our corporate value in so doing. ing sustainability management system. KCGS has been renowned for its transparency and expertise in evaluating businesses for their corporate governance, and also conducts annual Environment, Society and GoverEvent Note 30th~31st (Organized by Hannance (ESG) assessments that consider social responsibility and enviJan. 2018 Q4 earnings release NDR* wha Investment & Securities) ronmental management on Korea’s listed companies for their level of 2nd~7th (Organized by Hana May 2019 Q1 earnings release NDR Financial Investment) sustainability management. We will maintain and further improve our Regular rating through continued interest and efforts in the upcoming years. Aug. 2019 Q2 earnings release NDR 1st~2nd (Organized by Kiwoom) Oct. 30th~Nov. 1st (Organized by Oct. 2019 Q3 earnings release NDR Hanwha Investment & Securities) Overall assessment Apr. Shinhan Investment Corporate Day Environmental Society Governance Ad-hoc Apr. KB Securities Corporate Day Nov. Shinhan Investment Corporate Day 21st~22nd (Organized by NH Overseas May Hong Kong NDR Investment & Securities) * NDR : Non-Deal Roadshow Stakeholder Value Chain Map 14 Creating Value with Stakeholders LS ELECTRIC creates value with stakeholders throughout its entire business Overview and shares such values with them. We will join hands with our stakeholders to generate and share even greater value in the years ahead. About This Report 2019 HIGHLIGHT Chairman’s Message LS ELECTRIC at a Glance Company Profile Corporate Governance 1 2 3 Stakeholder Value Chain Map Global Business Business Overview Supplier Employee Local Community Product Overview Core Issues We take a multifaceted approach to We provide a range of programs for We leverage our business capabilipromoting sustainable growth with the work & life balance of our employties to pursue shared growth with local Integrated Sustainability Management our business par tner s today and ees to improve their quality of life. communities in order to generate social tomorrow, and help disseminate and value and give back to society. Materiality Assessment establish a culture of shared growth. Ethics Management Customer Satisfaction Safety and Environment Shared Growth Employees Local Community Win-Win Growth Team HR Team Public Relations Department Appendix Communication channel Communication channel Communication channel Financial Statements ACE Club | Meetings for shared Communicator | LinkerS | Surveys | Meetings with local communities | Safety and Environment growth and innovation | LS ELECTRIC Magazine | WeLS Direct communication with the person Employees Performance sharing meetings | in charge | Meetings with senior Shared Growth and Social Management seminars | management | Surveys Contribution TOPS (internal portal for shared Third Party’s Assurance growth) | ACE innovation networking Statement GRI Standards Index Raw materials Salary and welfare & Donations made UNGC, Memberships and benefits expenses paid 5.6 billion and parts purchased KRW 1,139 billion 313.9 billion Awards KRW KRW Employees participating in New recruitment social contribution programs Financial support provided (permanent) KRW 11.8 billion 87 persons 6,076 persons (including redundancies) 2019-2020 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report 2019-2020 14 15 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report 4 5 6 Shareholder and Investor Environmental Organization Customer We use diverse channels to communiWe recognize the important role that To live up to the expectations and trust cate with shareholders and investors we play as a company in the environof our customers to ultimately deliver to fully reflect their expectations and mental sector, and make sustained cus tomer satis fac tion, we do our requirements in our business operainvestments to emerge as a green utmost in improving the quality of our tions. We will continue with such comcompany. products, developing new products, munication to further improve our corand establishing optimal processes. porate value. Treasury Team Safety & Environment Team Marketing Team Communication channel Communication channel Communication channel NDR Regular meetings Exhibitions and seminars | Company visits Company website Meetings with customers | Company website Direct communication Meetings with distributors | with the person in charge Customer service center Dividends and interSafety and environment Advertising expenses paid est expenses paid investments made KRW 9.7 billion KRW 51.1 billion KRW 23.8 billion Customer seminars 803 cases Global Business LS ELECTRIC set a mid/long-term vision for respective overseas markets to broaden its global business presence. Not only do we pursue the evolution of existing businesses but also we identify new business opportunities and strengthen the basis of business operations in order to take a tailor-made approach to each of our local markets. 16 Overview About This Report 2019 HIGHLIGHT Chairman’s Message LS ELECTRIC at a Glance Company Profile Corporate Governance Stakeholder Value Chain Map Global Business Business Overview North America Amsterdam Product Overview Accelerating growth through the expansion of market channels Core Issues Chicago Integrated Sustainability Management Irvine Charlotte Materiality Assessment Ethics Management Customer Satisfaction Safety and Environment Shared Growth Employees Local Community Appendix Financial Statements Safety and Environment Employees Shared Growth and Social Contribution Third Party’s Assurance Statement GRI Standards Index UNGC, Memberships and Head Office Awards Seoul Office Domestic worksite Domestic R&D centers Overseas production subsidiaries Overseas sales subsidiaries Overseas branches 2019-2020 Global R&D centers LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report 2019-2020 16 17 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report China Strengthening capabilities in power equipment and system businesses Moscow Shenyang Beijing Dalian Qingdao Tokyo Chengdu Wuxi Shanghai Dubai Guangzhou Hanoi Seoul Office (Yongsan) Bangkok Head Office Ho Chi Minh R&D Campus Cheonan plant Automation R&D center Cheongju plant 1 and 2 Electronic power R&D center Jakarta Power Testing & Technology Institute Southeast Asia Strengthening sales bases and channels as well as product line-ups Busan plant HVDC R&D center Domestic Subsidiary Manufacturing Manufacturing Selling BAS/IBS copper tubes industrial electronic and and GBS systems and STS pipes automation equipment Anyang City, Gyeonggi Yongsan-gu, Seoul, Korea Dalseo-gu, Daegu, Korea Province, Korea Business Overview 18 Power Solutions Business LS ELECTRIC delivers total solutions that ensure safety and efficiency throughout the entire process from power generation to final consumption. Our flagship products are categorized into ‘transformers’ and ‘circuit breakers’: transformers change Overview voltages to desired levels, and circuit breakers provide opening and closing of the current carrying contacts to isolate and About This Report protect an electrical circuit from damage caused in the event of overloads or short circuits. Recent additions to our power 2019 HIGHLIGHT solutions portfolio include the High Voltage Direct Current (HVDC) system designed to minimize energy losses while maxChairman’s Message imizing efficiency in electricity transmission, the Energy Storage System (ESS), the Energy Management System (EMS), and the Power Conversion System (PCS) for ESS applications. LS ELECTRIC at a Glance Company Profile 2019 Performance in Power Solutions Business (on a non-consolidated basis) Corporate Governance Stakeholder Value Chain Map Ratio of Ratio of the Global Business Sales overseas sales total business Business Overview Product Overview KRW 1,488 billion 28 % 82 % Core Issues Integrated Sustainability Key Power Products Management Materiality Assessment Ethics Management Electric Power Transmission Customer Satisfaction Switchgear Safety and Environment Shared Growth High Voltage Direct Current(HVDC) Employees Converting alternating Local Community current (AC) to direct current (DC) for transmission Appendix Financial Statements Housing circuit breakers and other monitoring & controlling devices Safety and Environment ESS for FR* applications Gas Insulated within an enclosed molded case Employees Switchgear (GIS) to monitor the power system and Protecting power plants perform protective controls Shared Growth and Social and substations from power Contribution line overloads, earthing or Third Party’s Assurance short circuits Statement GRI Standards Index UNGC, Memberships and Awards Power Transformer Photovoltaic module ESS* for the grid connection (HVTR) of renewable energy Providing stable voltage/ current transformation either through a step up or step down in voltage 2019-2020 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report * FR: Frequency Regulation 2019-2020 18 19 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report Smart Energy LS ELECTRIC conducts photovoltaic power generation and Energy Storage System (ESS) businesses on the strength of its power solutions technology and power electronics automation technology. Our smart energy offerings span the entire business spectrum from the individual products and turnkey systems to EPC contracts. Plans for 2019 Performance in 2019 Plans for 2020 Expand total solutions Laid the basis for business Generate synergy through collabofor power distribution systems expansion through the entry ration with automation business into the KEPCO FACTS market Place a stronger emphasis on overseas Landed orders for large-scale Diversify the business portfolio markets with strategic importance smart energy projects by tapping into new markets Develop new products for the global Won large-scale plant projects Diversify the available market market in alignment with global business Molded Case Vacuum Circuit Distribution Air Circuit Circuit Breaker Breaker (VCB) Transformer (TR) Breaker (ACB) (MCCB) Protecting lives and equipment Transforming the level of AC Protecting lives and equipment Interrupting the flow of currents by interrupting the circuit in voltages or currents through by interrupting the circuit in either through manual or electrical a vacuum state in the event the use of electromagnetic the event of abnormal currents operation, and automatically of abnormal currents flowing induction equipment flowing along the low voltage performing such function in the along the high voltage distribution line event of overloads or disconnections distribution line Industrial ESS Residential ESS Building ESS * ESS: Energy Storage Systems (ESS) promote the efficiency of energy consumption by saving electricity supplied in real time and using it at a later time when power supply falls short. Business Overview 20 Automation Business LS ELECTRIC provides a wide array of automation solutions, from single unit machines to process controls, for the efficient operation of the industrial facilities. Our flagship products include PLC for effective equipment control, AC Drive for motor Overview speed regulation, Servo for equipment precision control, and HMI for real-time equipment monitoring. We are also develAbout This Report oping smart factory solution business to leverage plant automation solutions in order to identify IT solutions that meet cus2019 HIGHLIGHT tomer needs and transform them into platforms to support efficient business operations. Chairman’s Message 2019 Performance in Automation Business (on a non-consolidated basis) LS ELECTRIC at a Glance Company Profile Ratio of Ratio of the Sales overseas sales total business Corporate Governance Stakeholder Value Chain Map KRW 323 billion 32 % 18 % Global Business Business Overview Plans for 2019 Performance in 2019 Plans for 2020 Product Overview Expand dominance in Facilitated direct sales Expand the entry into Core Issues the domestic market in Korea strategic domestic markets Integrated Sustainability Intensively target Diversified overseas Broaden global partnerships Management overseas markets business channels Materiality Assessment Expand the development Developed new LVD Focus R&D resources of new products products on localization projects Ethics Management Customer Satisfaction Safety and Environment Shared Growth AC Drive Employees (Inverter) PLC Servo Local Community Appendix Financial Statements Converting the frequency of electricity from Serving as a universal controller to operate Delivering high-precision motor Safety and Environment commercial supply sources to control the machinery according to the programmed operation according to feedback from Employees speed or torque (rotational force) of a motor, orders and conditions to meet varying upper-level devices on the specific reducing energy consumption in so doing process automation purposes position and speed Shared Growth and Social Contribution Third Party’s Assurance Statement Motion Decelerator HMI GRI Standards Index UNGC, Memberships and Awards Transmitting the reduced velocity and Allowing users to perform real-time Providing precision position increased torque as a result of load touchscreen-based monitoring on the opercontrol over equipment as through connection to the motor shaft to ational status of manufacturing equipment the system desires deliver efficiency performance for a and to control and take immediate action variety of industrial applications when deemed necessary 2019-2020 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report 2019-2020 20 21 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report Railway Infrastructure LS ELECTRIC offers total solutions on manufacturing, installation, commissioning and maintenance based on cutting edge control equipment required for the safe operation and increased efficiency of trains. As a railway system leader with the most extensive experience in domestic projects, we are recognized for our technological prowess in the global market. Power Supply System Signaling System Our power supply system provides electricit y to Our signaling system deploys all-encompassing train trains, stations and other relevant railway facilities, control (signaling and communication) systems and and ensures the stable operation of the entire railway engineering technology to handle train intervals and equipment while protecting the safety of trains against routes as well as their operational security and inforany accidents that may occur. matization equipment through the use of varying signaling and communication equipment that caters to distinctive railway characteristics. DC Relay The rapid development of the electric vehicle and eco-friendly vehicle segments is fueling the continued market growth of DC relays that serve to ensure the stable supply and interruption of automotive power. LS ELECTRIC’s DC relays are renowned for their exceptional electrical durability, compactness and low-noise performance. EV Relay Industrial Relay EV relays are installed between the electric vehicle batHigh voltage relays are normally used for renewable tery and the load to ensure the stable supply and interenergy and transportation systems, and serve to supruption of power. ply and interrupt power for batteries and DC loads. EV Relay Industrial Relay Product Overview 22 Overview Eco-friendly Gas Insulated Switchgear(GIS) About This Report We successfully developed the world’s first-ever eco-friendly 170kV 50 kA Gas Insulated 2019 HIGHLIGHT Switchgear (GIS) to respond to the global climate change agreement intended to mitigate Chairman’s Message GHG emissions in our key business area of ultra high voltage GIS. With an aim to emerge as a leading player in the eco-friendly GIS sector, we have been constantly conducting LS ELECTRIC at a Glance basic technology research and developing products for green GIS solutions such as vacCompany Profile uum circuit breakers and dry air insulated switchgears. basic technology research and developed products on vacuum circuit breakers, dry air insulated switchgears and other Corporate Governance green GIS solutions. Stakeholder Value Chain Map Global Business Business Overview EcoCompact High High Product Overview Performance friendly Design Reliability Design Core Issues Integrated Sustainability 40% reduction in 88% reduction in Configuration Reduction in SF6 gas Management installation space operational energy of mechanical consumption compared to through the adoption interlocks to (334kg ⇨ 170kg) Materiality Assessment conventional GIS of the hybrid prevent faulty Ethics Management extinction method operation Customer Satisfaction Safety and Environment Shared Growth Employees Local Community Appendix Financial Statements Safety and Environment Employees Shared Growth and Social Contribution Third Party’s Assurance Statement GRI Standards Index UNGC, Memberships and Awards 2019-2020 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report 2019-2020 22 23 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report Smart LV Solution As LS ELECTRIC’s distinctive smart power distribution panel solution, Smart LV Solution combines Internet of Things (IoT) and digital technology to deliver strengthened measuring and monitoring performance, and maximizes the stability of power equipment and systems, management convenience, and the efficiency of operation and energy consumption. High Convenience Efficiency Reliability Prevention of Improvement Reduction accidents affecting in maintenance in energy power equipment, convenience, consumption and reduction in and reduction and expenses loss costs in commissioning Product Overview 24 Fan and Pump Drive (H100) Overview Our H100 drive solution is renowned for its eco-friendliness and outstandAbout This Report ing energy saving benefits in the HVAC and water treatment industries, 2019 HIGHLIGHT and contributes to implementing fan and pump systems. Chairman’s Message LS ELECTRIC at a Glance Company Profile Compact High Corporate Governance Convenience Design Reliability Stakeholder Value Chain Map Global Business User convenience Further reduction in size Stable system Business Overview maximized through to improve the efficiency control through Product Overview compliance with of spatial utilization Soft Fill operation global standards Core Issues Integrated Sustainability Management Materiality Assessment Ethics Management Customer Satisfaction Safety and Environment Shared Growth Employees Local Community Appendix Financial Statements Safety and Environment Employees Shared Growth and Social Contribution Third Party’s Assurance Statement GRI Standards Index UNGC, Memberships and Awards 2019-2020 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report 2019-2020 24 25 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report General AC Drive(G100) Our G100 is the optimal general drive that serves a wide array of applications across diverse industries. As an AC drive that changes the power voltage and frequency to control the rotational speed of the motor, G100 supports the management of motors and their energy saving. High High Reliability Convenience Performance Top-notch quality High-performance Improved user and reliability operation and convenience application The goal of sustainability management at LS ELECTRIC is to earn respect through trust-building with stakeholders. To reach this goal, we will create a sound corporate culture while proactively 26 reaching out to and earn trust from customers, suppliers, shareholders & investors, local communities and employees in order to pursue shared growth and generate even greater value. Overview About This Report 2019 HIGHLIGHT Core Issues Chairman’s Message LS ELECTRIC at a Glance Company Profile Corporate Governance Stakeholder Value Chain Map Global Business Business Overview Product Overview 32 Core Issues Integrated Sustainability Ethics Management Management Materiality Assessment Ethics Management Customer Satisfaction Safety and Environment Shared Growth Employees Local Community 28 30 Appendix Financial Statements Materiality Assessment Integrated Sustainability Safety and Environment Management Employees Shared Growth and Social Contribution Third Party’s Assurance Statement GRI Standards Index UNGC, Memberships and Awards 2019-2020 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report 50 Safety and Environment 64 56 Employee 40 Shared Growth Customer Satisfaction 70 Local Community Integrated Sustainability Management 28 | Sustainability Management Framework | Overview About This Report LS ELECTRIC’s Goal of Sustainability Management Earn respect through trust-building with stakeholders 2019 HIGHLIGHT Chairman’s Message 3 Strategic Directions of Sustainability Management LS ELECTRIC at a Glance Company Profile Corporate Governance Stakeholder Sustainability Integrated Risk Stakeholder Value Chain Map Engagement Enhancement Management Global Business Business Overview Product Overview Communication Core Issues I ntegrated Sustainability Management Environmental Shareholder/ Local Customer Supplier Employee organization investor community Materiality Assessment Creating Achieving Promoting Nurturing Increasing sharePursuing Ethics Management customer value shared growth environmental creative talent holder value co-existence with through product by establishing management in and improving through managelocal communities Customer Satisfaction responsibility a culture of fair line with global the quality of life ment integrity through and proactive trade standards and transparent voluntary social Safety and Environment communication disclosure contribution Shared Growth Employees Local Community | Roadmap for Sustainability Management | Appendix Building a wider consensus Strengthening the execution Disseminating sustainability manFinancial Statements on sustainability management of sustainability management agement across global operations Safety and Environment 1 2 3 Employees · Provide in-house training on · A ssess the performance of · Strengthen the sustainability Integrated sustainability sustainability management sustainability management management infrastructure Shared Growth and Social management · Operate the Council on ·Strengthen function-specific at overseas worksites Contribution Sustainability Management implementation strategies · Expand global initiative activities Third Party’s Assurance Statement · Define responsible/relevant · Broaden the scope of Stakeholder · Develop a process to reflect departments and their roles & stakeholders at the global stakeholder feedback into GRI Standards Index engagement responsibilities (R&R) level and strengthen business operation by stakeholder group department-specific R&R UNGC, Memberships and Awards Sustainability · Systemize environmental · Strengthen the disclosure of · Reinforce green marketing monitoring along the value Enhancement environmental data at the global level chain · Develop a risk assessment Integrated risk · Reinforce the integrated risk · Establish a monitoring process and management system at management operation system to prevent major risks overseas worksites 2019-2020 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report 2019-2020 28 29 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report Sustainability Management: | Responding to the UN SDGs | Implementation System and Council LS ELECTRIC will be ceaselessly committed to setting its own goals and making concerted efforts to contribute to attaining 17 goals and 169 targets set under the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals Chairman (SDGs). SDGs GOALS CSO (executive in charge Regional social of sustainability management) contribution Company-wide Council on Sustainability Management Employee welfare policy LS Group’s represnetative social contribution activities Equality policy for employees Safety and environment management Economy Society Environment LS ELECTRIC’s business and service areas Corporate Ethics Environmental governance management management and Talent policy health & safety and business growth Innovation Compliance activity management Green products Management improvement activities Integrated risk Employees management Response to climate Contribution to change Customer local communities satisfaction Transparent corporate Shared growth Product quality with suppliers governance improvement Human rights Shared growth with and labor suppliers Materiality Assessment 30 Materiality Overview Assessment LS ELECTRIC performed materiality assessments to identify 37 key topics, and narrowed them down into material topics based on their impact on the Company’s business and stakeholder interest. In identifying a total of 19 material topics, the Overview following three-step process was implemented: 1) creation of a pool of key topics, 2) prioritization of key topics, and 3) finalAbout This Report ization of material topics. 2019 HIGHLIGHT Chairman’s Message Creation of a Pool of Topics LS ELECTRIC at a Glance Company Profile Corporate Governance Reflect reviews made on the Stakeholder Value Chain Map Reflect internal/external observations made Global Business Create a pool of environment Finalize a pool by the Council on topics for 2019 (review of agenda items of 37 topics Business Overview addressed at major Sustainability consultation bodies and Management Product Overview external assessment outcomes) Core Issues Integrated Sustainability Management Materiality Assessment Ethics Management Customer Satisfaction Materiality Assessment to Select Material Topics Safety and Environment Shared Growth Employees STEP 1 STEP 2 STEP 3 Local Community Stakeholder survey Media & web analysis CSR performance assessment Appendix Sep. ~ Oct., 2019 Oct. 2019 Nov. 2019 Financial Statements Safety and Environment Employees Shared Growth and Social Contribution Third Party’s Assurance On/offline survey Big data analytics Application of tools Statement offered by external Respondents Source GRI Standards Index advisors 837 people Major broadcasting UNGC, Memberships and (customers, employees, networks, newspapers, Participating departments Awards suppliers, environmental business magazines, etc. 16 departments organizations, and the Council on local communities, Sustainability Management shareholders/investors, etc.) 2019-2020 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report 2019-2020 30 31 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report Identification The materiality assessment matrix was created based on business impact and stakeholder interest. For details on material of Key topics and our solutions to them, please refer to the pages indicated in the table below. Management Topics Materiality Assessment Matrix Material Topic Business Impact K H J G N M C I F A P D S R L E B O Q Stakeholder Interest Category Material Topic Page Category Material Topic Page A Ethics management 34 J Workplace health and safety 52 Ethics K Energy conservation and climate B Compliance management 37 Safety and 54 management change environment C Integrated risk management 38 L Workplace safety management 55 M Eco-friendly products and services 46 D Quality competitiveness 42 N Culture of fair trade 58 E Product reliability system 43 Shared growth O Culture of shared growth 63 F Technological competitiveness 43 Customer P Conflict mineral management 61 satisfaction G Intellectual property management 44 Q Talent management 67 Employee R H Information security management 47 Respect for human rights and 69 labor-management relations I Customer communication 48 Local community S Employee volunteering 72 32 Core Issue Ethics Management Overview About This Report 2019 HIGHLIGHT LS ELECTRIC conducts business in a Chairman’s Message fair and transparent manner to fulfill its responsibility towards customers, LS ELECTRIC at a Glance suppliers, shareholders and society Company Profile at large. The Ethics Committee serves Corporate Governance as the highest decision-making body Stakeholder Value Chain Map on the implementation of ethics manGlobal Business agement, and the ‘Code of Ethics and Conduct’ specifies standards for all our Business Overview employees to follow in taking proper Product Overview actions and making value judgements. The scope of our ethics management Core Issues training extends beyond our employIntegrated Sustainability ees to include suppliers to constantly Management disseminate a culture of ethics manageMateriality Assessment ment and improve ethics awareness. Ethics Management Customer Satisfaction Safety and Environment Shared Growth Employees Local Community Appendix Financial Statements Safety and Environment Employees Shared Growth and Social Contribution [Goal 16] Third Party’s Assurance Build effective and transparent institutions at Statement all levels for sustainable development GRI Standards Index UNGC, Memberships and Awards 16.6 Develop effective, accountable and transpar01 ent institutions at all levels 16.b Promote and enforce non-discriminatory laws and policies for sustainable development 2019-2020 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report 2019-2020 32 33 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report KEY PERFORMANCE & TARGETS Plans for 2019 Strengthen ethics training (in addition to cyber training) Operate a reward system for whistleblowers reporting unethical practices Performance in 2019 Provided cyber ethics training to all employees Announced and operated the whistleblower reward system Plans for 2020 Strengthen ethics training (cyber training and case study training) Introduce AI-powered clean bots to provide Q&A support to solve ethical dilemmas COMMITMENT Dae-Seok Chae Vice President, Vision Department No. of reports submitted LS ELECTRIC practices LSpartnership, LS Group’s 22 reports management philosophy, and upholds its core values of ‘cooperation and integrity’ to advance ethics management for sustainable shared growth with suppliers. We provide our employees with periodic ethics training, and regularly identify any grievances raised by our suppliers and distributors in doing Employees who business with LS ELECTRIC. Our cyber reporting completed ethics training 2,032 persons channel also helps prevent unethical practices from occurring. Ethics Management 34 Goal of Ethics Management Operational System of Ethics Management The goal of LS ELECTRIC’s ethics management is to conduct business The Ethics committee serves as the highest decision-making body in in a transparent manner based on fairness, honesty and faithfulness practicing the Code of Ethics, and the Ethics Committee Secretariat is Overview and to constantly evolve into a top-tier company in so doing, fulfilling its up and running for day-to-day operation of ethics management. About This Report responsibility to customers, suppliers, shareholders, and society at large. 2019 HIGHLIGHT Chairman’s Message LS ELECTRIC at a Glance Company Profile Chairman Corporate Governance Stakeholder Value Chain Map Global Business Ethics Committee Customer/Supplier Shareholder/Society Business Overview · Build trust in the Company · Improve the corporate Product Overview and products value and reputation Business Audit Team · Lay the basis for stable growth · Lay a reliable basis for (Ethics Committee investment Secretariat) Core Issues Integrated Sustainability Management Materiality Assessment Ethics Management Fairness Faithfulness Executive Director Executive Director Customer Satisfaction Ethics of Business/DT of Business Administration Management Safety and Environment Shared Growth Roles of the Ethics Committee Secretariat Employees · Institutional maintenance, training and dissemination for compliance with the Code of Ethics Honesty Local Community · Design and operation of whistleblowing systems to eliminate impediments to ethics management · Consultation on ethics management and presentation of key issues Appendix to the Ethics Committee Financial Statements Transparent management | Fair competition | Social stewardship Safety and Environment Employees Shared Growth and Social Code of Ethics and Conduct Contribution The Code of Ethics and Conduct is implemented to provide all employees with standards to follow in taking proper actions and making value judgements. Third Party’s Assurance Statement Code of Ethics Description GRI Standards Index Chapter 1. R  esponsibilities and Sincerity in information provision | customer service | protection of customers’ interests obligations to customers UNGC, Memberships and Awards Chapter 2. Fair competition Fair competition | respect for applicable laws and regulations and commercial practices Fairness in selecting suppliers | fairness in trade and evaluation | maintenance of transparent trade order | Chapter 3. Fair trade support for suppliers Maintenance of employee’s dignity | honesty and fairness in reporting | protection of corporate assets | Chapter 4. Basic ethics for employees avoidance of conflict of interest with the Company | anti-sexual harassment at workplace Chapter 5. Responsibilities to employees Talent development | fair treatment | health and safety | respect for individual opinions Chapter 6. R  esponsibilities Reasonable business conduct protection of shareholder rights and interests | | environmental protection | 2019-2020 to the nation and society contribution to national and social development LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report 2019-2020 34 35 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report Operational Institution and System Whistleblowing A wide range of permanent communication channels – phone, e-mail, post among others – and the cyber reporting center System are up and running to receive and handle reports submitted by suppliers, employees and customers for any disadvantage they suffer due to corruptive or unfair practices of LS ELECTRIC employees in order to eliminate any violation of ethics management principles. As for simple quality claims or service/product inquiries, they are referred to our customer service center instead of these whistleblowing channels. (unit: No. of cases) Type of Report 2017 2018 2019 Unfair trade 5 2 9 Corruptive behaviors 2 3 Unjustified business practices 3 Claim 2 2 6 Others 9 6 4 Total 18 13 22 Whistleblower Protection Policy Whistleblower Reward System LS ELECTRIC does not disclose any explicit or indicative information To eradicate any unethical practices of LS ELECTRIC employees and on the identity of whistleblowers or reports they submit without their stakeholders and create a sound corporate culture, we developed proprior consent. If our non-compliance with such whistleblower protecvisions on whistleblower rewards including their eligibility and payment tion results in any disadvantage on the part of whistleblowers, we take criteria and have operated a whistleblower reward system since 2019. responsibility for their restoration or take equivalent measures. Self-Reporting Program To promote the voluntary elimination of any unethical practices that Whistleblowers and their reports strictly may occur among LS ELECTRIC employees or in relation to stakeholders remain confidential, and the whistleblowing (customers, suppliers, shareholders, etc.) and to establish a transparent system is operated in a highly secure manner. and sound organizational culture, we operate the self-reporting program to regularly report on the acceptance of bribes or entertainment according to the predefined reporting form. If a whistleblower reports corruptive practices involving himself/herself, this is taken into consideration in the reasonable resolution of Procedures to Respond to Ethics Management Violations the concerned case. In accordance with the Code of Ethics and Conduct, strict disciplinary measures are taken against those who are in violation of these ethical standards. Information on whistleblowers and stakeholders is kept strictly confidential, and fair investigations are conducted on their reports to ensure the reasonable resolution of the concerned case. If whistleblowers suffer any disadvantage due to their reports or personal information made public, we ensure their restoration or take equivalent remedial measures. Ethics Management 36 Strengthening Employees’ Execution Strengthening Partnership with Suppliers and Distributors Ethics Management Pledge Overview All our employees as well as subsidiaries sign the ethics management Sending Suppliers and Distributors Official Letters Calling for About This Report pledge every two years to raise their awareness on the execution of Their Cooperation ethics management and establish a transparent work process. During national holidays, we send our suppliers and distributors offi2019 HIGHLIGHT cial letters calling for their cooperation to prohibit the practice of offerChairman’s Message Employee Survey ing and receiving bribes, gifts or entertainment in doing business with Ethics management surveys are performed every two years to measure LS ELECTRIC employees, encouraging them to join hands in practicing LS ELECTRIC at a Glance employees’ satisfaction with ethics management (ethics management ethics management. Company Profile index) and to monitor their compliance with the Code of Ethics and ConCorporate Governance duct. This allows us to identify change in our ethics management perSupplier and Distributor Survey Stakeholder Value Chain Map formance and to gather employee suggestions and reflect them in ethEthics management surveys are conducted each year to assess supGlobal Business ics management. plier/distributor satisfaction with LS ELECTRIC’s ethics management and to monitor compliance with the Code of Ethics and Conduct. This Business Overview Ethics Management Training serves to identify any change in our ethics management performance Product Overview While ethics training for employees had been provided at the company and to collect suggestions and reflect them in ethics management. The level, this was changed into group-wide integrated training in 2013. overall survey score for 2019 remained almost unchanged, with 4.25 Core Issues Training materials have been made available on our intranet since 2017, points among suppliers and 4.04 points among distributors (on a scale Integrated Sustainability and company-wide cyber training was completed by 2,032 employees of 1 to 5). Management in 2019 under the supervision of the HR department. Materiality Assessment Ethics Management Supplier/Distributor Satisfaction Customer Satisfaction with Ethics Management (on a scale of 1 to 5) Safety and Environment Shared Growth 4.25 Employees 4.23 4.23 Local Community Supplier Appendix 4.08 4.06 Distributor 4.04 Financial Statements Safety and Environment Employees Shared Growth and Social 2017 2018 2019 Contribution Third Party’s Assurance Statement Ethics Training for Suppliers GRI Standards Index Performance-sharing meetings and lectures by external experts are UNGC, Memberships and hosted under the supervision of the Win-Win Growth Team to spread a Awards culture of ethics management and to disseminate and build consensus on LSpartnership, LS Group’s management philosophy. 2019-2020 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report 2019-2020 36 37 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report Compliance Management Activity Description Since the introduction of the compliance officer system in Operation Categorize legal risks/update the checklist of the compliance and conduct self-reviews (annual), review regulatory 2012, LS ELECTRIC has hosted the compliance management officer system compliance (year-round) proclamation ceremony in 2014, adopted the Compliance Review the status of signing of contracts, offer bond Program (CP), and conducted self-directed reviews to ensure Compliance training and consulting to business divisions and compliance in employee’s daily business routines. Under the training nation-wide distributors, review the Fair Trade Act, the Subcontract Act, and status of technology misuse, etc. leadership of the head of Legal Affairs Group serving as the compliance officer, we categorize legal risks, perform self-iniDraft proposal on the ‘notification of unjustified special provisions’ under the Subcontract Act, tiated reviews, and offer compliance training to advance comSharing of partial revision of the Labor Standards Act, complete regulatory pliance management. revisions revision of the Industrial Safety and Health Act, and partial revision of the enforcement ordinance of the Information Communications Network Act Compliance Officer System Our compliance officer operates under the direct leadership of the Board of Directors (BOD) in accordance with Korea’s Commercial Act Compliance Management Declaration (Article 542-13). Our compliance officer organization, created under Legal Affairs Group, reports compliance activities to the BOD each year. LS aims to emerge as a company trusted by customers, These activities include (1) categorization of legal risks that may occur in and vows to practice compliance management as follows business conduct, (2) development of a checklist to prevent and manage in conformity with its group-wide management legal risks, (3) support for working-level staff in conducting self-reviews philosophy LSpartnership: through the use of the checklist, and (4) compliance training and sharing of regulatory revisions for strengthened compliance management. Self-directed Compliance Review 01 LS ELECTRIC’s compliance officer organization classifies legal risks First, we comply with domestic and international laws and related to business operations while developing and providing a checkregulations as well as corporate regulations in conducting list to be used for self-directed management and review in day-to-day business and do not engage in any unlawful practices. business routines. Training and Information Sharing 02 for Strengthened Compliance Management The compliance officer is tasked with providing annual theme-specific Second, we strictly take responsibility employee training and sharing domestic/overseas (draft) laws and for and deal with misconduct. regulations newly enacted or revised as well as governmental policies among relevant departments in order to raise employees’ compliance awareness. In 2019, such training and information sharing on 03 regulatory revisions was provided on 38 and 19 occasions respectively, Third, we contribute to promoting the interests of stakeholdstrengthening our compliance management on multiple fronts. ers, from customers and shareholders to local communities, through compliance management, and fulfill our responsibility and obligation towards the nation and society. Ethics Management 38 Integrated Risk Management Internal Accounting Control System Internal Accounting Control Overview In line with the revision of the Act on External Audit on Stock Companies Internal Accounting Control About This Report on November 1, 2018, all control items of our internal accounting con2019 HIGHLIGHT trol system underwent complete readjustment. In addition, systemic Chairman’s Message assessment and certification procedures were established to respond to the audits performed under this system while our internal accountStatement LS ELECTRIC at a Glance ing control system was optimized and fully restructured to improve our of controls Company Profile risk management performance at the global level. Corporate Governance Internal Accounting Control System Statement Ad-hoc Stakeholder Value Chain Map of work & disclosure To prepare and disclose trustworthy financial statements, LS ELECTRIC Global Business ensures that its internal accounting control system is effectively flow chart controls Business Overview designed and operated in order to prevent and identify any errors or Product Overview fraudulent practices that may cause distortions on such statements. Our CEO reports on the operational status of the internal accounting Enterprise Work-level Core Issues control system to the general shareholder meeting, the Board of Direc-level tors and the Audit Committee, and the Audit Committee reports assessIntegrated Sustainability Management ment outcomes of the system’s operational status to the BOD. Materiality Assessment Ethics Management LS ELECTRIC’s Internal Accounting Control System Customer Satisfaction Safety and Environment Operational management Evaluation management Monitoring Shared Growth Employees Local Community Design/ Operational Reference ELC Outcome Scoping operational Progress information information inspection reporting evaluation Appendix User Financial Statements Work schedule EnterProgress at Account Process ELC WorkException and control period prisethe department/ Safety and Environment management management inspection level reporting Executive management level job level Employees HR information Setting Evaluator desigOperational Risk Evaluation and approval of material nation and team evaluation Shared Growth and Social management amounts management leader delegation reporting status check Contribution User Assessment and Evaluation on Third Party’s Assurance Qualitative operational ELC design by Control history element Statement management of management management business and RCM check Overseas notices and others reconciliation GRI Standards Index user System and Quantitative UNGC, Memberships and RCM Sample Attached file authority and qualitative management evaluation check Awards management risk assessment Manager Population Approval Dashboard Scope setting management management Interface 2019-2020 Internal linkage HR information Account information Population information Groupware e-mail/messenger LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report 2019-2020 38 39 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report Risk Management Process Preemptive Risk Identification A precautionary management approach is taken in reviewing our Type of Management entire work process to identify any potential risks. Once recognized, such risks are constantly reviewed and improvement measures are Emergency response Proactive Work process taken through robust follow-up management. Respond and recover in risk control internalization an organized manner Precheck to prevent Identify improvement in accordance with the risks (checklist) tasks based on risks and Follow-up pre-defined action manage risks accordingly Recognition Assessment Response Monitoring plans in the event of an with a focus on management emergency, and conduct working-level work mock drills process internalization Preemptive Risk Identification Preemptive Identification Our company-wide risks are categorized into emergency response, Checklist proactive risk control, and work process internalization by type of Work process management internalization management. A preemptive approach was adopted in 2016 to idenPrepare the risk checklist Reflect companyand perform reviews tify and manage risks even before they occur, and this applied first to wide/operational level by the responsible assessments in internal key risks to establish an agile risk response system. department on issues accounting control that require precheck Type of Risk LS ELECTRIC defines risks as below across 104 different items in total under the category-division-section classification Management system. This system forms the basis to review type-specific risk management performance and conduct assessments by working-level and responsible departments in order to identify material risks and select 26 key management items. Company-wide Pool of Risks Category External Environment Risk Strategic Risk Financial Risk Compliance Risk Operational Risk · Economy · Business plan · Market · Contract/Litigation/Trade · P  rojects · Country/Politics/ · Growth · Capital balance · Law/Regulation · Support process Society/Environment · PR/Communication · Asset impairment · Ethics/Misconduct · Key process Division · Market · Financial settlement · Natural/ Man-made disaster · Economic condition · Business plan · Credit rating · Contract · Project cost · Country · M&A · Commodity price · Fair trade (anti-trust) · Purchase/Procurement · Politics · Business portfolio · F/X · HR/Labor · Design/Manufacturing · Competitor · Social contribution · Liquidity · IP/Privacy protection · Bidding/Contract · Customer/Account · New business development · Trade receivables · Overseas/Trade winning · Purchase/Supplier and investment · Intangible asset · Corruption · Project management · External stakeholder · Brand/Reputation · Tangible asset · Ethics/Compliance · IT Section · Natural disaster · PR/Communication · Inventory asset · Other laws & Regulations · Corporation management · IR · Investment asset · HR · Asset impairment · Environment/Safety · Tax · R&D · Accounting fraud · Purchase/Procurement · Logistics · Production/Quality · Sales/Marketing No. of risk items 13 16 22 19 34 40 Core Issue Customer Overview About This Report 2019 HIGHLIGHT Satisfaction Chairman’s Message LS ELECTRIC’s goal of customer satisLS ELECTRIC at a Glance faction management is to ensure that customers buy the Company’s products Company Profile with confidence. As part of our endeavCorporate Governance ors to improve product quality and reliStakeholder Value Chain Map ability, a development process based Global Business on the reliability management system Business Overview has been up and running since 2017, Product Overview and an R&D productivity enhancement system has been established to maxCore Issues imize R&D business performance and Integrated Sustainability efficiency. Management Materiality Assessment Ethics Management Customer Satisfaction Safety and Environment Shared Growth Employees Local Community Appendix Financial Statements Safety and Environment Employees [Goal 7, 11] Shared Growth and Social Ensure access to reliable and sustainable Contribution energy for all Third Party’s Assurance Statement 7.2 GRI Standards Index Increase substantially the share of renewable UNGC, Memberships and energy in the global energy mix Awards 11.3 02 Enhance inclusive and sustainable urbanization and capacity for participatory, integrated and sustainable human settlement planning and management 2019-2020 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report 2019-2020 40 41 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report KEY PERFORMANCE & TARGETS Plans for 2019 Improve the performance of external R&D cooperation Establish a digital-based development system Strengthen the effectiveness of product verification Enhance customer satisfaction through technology exchanges Performance in 2019 Promoted external cooperation through specialized companies Created a digital environment for product design and verification Plans for 2020 Strengthen service solution capabilities based on Digital Transformation Develop target products to increase sales in overseas markets Develop devices and systems to respond to renewable energy and DC power distribution R&D expenses KRW 126.6 billion COMMITMENT Sean Cho L eader of Marketing Team Global E&A Business Group IPR (intellectual property rights) registrations and applications LS ELECTRIC continues to expand region-based exhibitions, seminars and technology exchanges 9,253 cases to strengthen our touchpoints with customers. The year 2020 is meaningful in that Global E&A Business Group was newly launched and a new company name was unveiled. We will boldly expand our global stronghold and reinforce differentiated solutions powered by digital transformation to further Customer seminars hosted 803 occasions solidify the basis to bring greater customer satisfaction across our global locations. Customer Satisfaction 42 Goal Our quality mission is to become a ‘Great Company Prospering for 100 Years with Quality That Creates of Customer Customer Satisfaction’, and this mission drives our commitment to continuous quality improvement and Satisfaction innovation to deliver products that customers can choose with confidence. Overview Management About This Report Future Direction 2019 HIGHLIGHT Chairman’s Message Customer quality Approach LS ELECTRIC at a Glance Claim rate Manufacturer → Service rate → Customer Company Profile Manufacturing Quality Corporate Governance quality characteristics Vision Stakeholder Value Chain Map Pass/fail Specifications →Statistical control →Customer needs ‘Pride in quality’ Global Business Gain a competitive advantage in the global market and heralding the era of quality marketing Business Overview based on zero-defect quality Product Overview Development Parts quality Mission quality Core Issues Inspection →Assurance Great Company prospering Claim rate Integrated Sustainability for 100 years with quality that →Reliability Management creates customer satisfaction Materiality Assessment Ethics Management Customer Satisfaction Safety and Environment Quality Management System Power Testing & Technology Institute Shared Growth LS ELECTRIC’s quality management process reflects the requireEstablished in 2000, our Power Testing & Technology (PT&T) Institute ments of ISO9001(1993~), ISO14001(1996~), TS16949(2010~), and represents Korea’s first private-sector testing lab armed with 2,000MVA Employees ISO45001(2020~), as well as regulatory/customer/market needs and short-circuit testing equipment, synthetic testing equipment (170 kV Local Community necessary process improvements identified in the course of business 50 kA) for ultra-high-voltage products, high-voltage testing equipment conduct. We ensure that this system is implemented across our entire and reliability testing equipment to deliver internationally-recognized Appendix worksites in Korea and abroad to generate greater business outcomes. official testing services. In particular, the institute plans to add another Financial Statements 2,000MVA short circuit generator by 2022 to the first such generator Safety and Environment Quality Management Process currently under operation in order to resolve the shortage of high power Employees testing capacity. When this second short circuit generator is completed, PT&T will be equipped with 4,000MVA short circuit testing capacity in Shared Growth and Social Key Process Contribution total, and the combination of both stand-alone and parallel operation Business management and improvement modes will help expand LS ELECTRIC’s product testing scope and capacThird Party’s Assurance Statement ity and build testing competitiveness on par with global heavy electrical equipment companies. GRI Standards Index 1 2 3 4 5 6 UNGC, Memberships and Marketing Sales Design/ Procurement Production/ Installation/ Awards Development Delivery Service Support Process Finance & accounting, information, HR & labor, general & legal affairs, safety & environment, quality assurance, calibration & testing 2019-2020 Front view of PT&T LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report 2019-2020 42 43 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report Reinforcing To improve product quality and reliability, a reliability-based design approach is taken throughout the entire product life Product cycle from development to release. Real-life use conditions where products are used and deployed are considered (durabilReliability ity and environmental resistance) while field-level failures and service life issues are analyzed and verified to be reflected in product designs in order to reinforce comprehensive quality assurance and deliver performance, functionality and reliability in so doing. Robust Reliability Design Status of R&D Operations As a total solutions provider for smart power and automation, LS ELECTRIC aims to facilitate existing core business while swiftly securing Design effectiveness Reliability verification next-generation growth drivers. In particular, Reliability design evaluation an R&D productivity improvement system was established to maximize R&D business performance and efficiency, and we are focused on P re R&D capabilities to proactively respond to the n n t io d t io du ic t io di c li c a c ti n rapidly-emerging Digital Transformation and on P re A p p p ro pioneer Smart Energy and Smart Factory busiRe ness. We operate specialized R&D centers in the four areas of Anyang, Cheongju, Cheonan Real-life use and Busan as well as a R&D center at our Simulation condition Simulation Wuxi plant in China to provide localized shop Design (Prediction) floor support and create synergy with the design division. Furthermore, LS ELECTRIC is the first private sector company to operate Preliminary Performance a power testing lab (Power Testing & TechnolDesign Test ogy) to elevate R&D competitiveness. Investment Status Detailed Environment As we recognize R&D as the key to our corpoDesign Test rate competitiveness, we invest nearly 5.4% of the sales in R&D to gain a sustainable competitive advantage and prepare for the future. Our Optimal Life R&D expenses mainly go to developing nextDesign Test generation products, products and technology for new business, and core basic technology. Quality Area Reliability Area R&D R&D Expenses Expenses-to-Sales (unit: KRW 100 million) Ratio Functionality/ Environmental Reliability (unit: %) performance test resistance test test 1,266 5.4 Verify the level of Verify adaptability Verify design 1,235 implementation and durability margins and 1,162 5 5 against the set under different reproduce field development goal use conditions failures 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 Customer Satisfaction 44 Major R&D Outcomes in 2019 Intellectual Property Strategy We are establishing an innovative Intellectual Property (IP) portfolio to Developing market-leading products in the LVDC market efficiently respond torapidly-shifting business and market conditions – Overview To become a pioneer in the Low Voltage DC (LVDC) market, we digital transformation technology and industrial convergence – and to About This Report expanded our product line-ups to deliver the world’s highest DC1500Vimprove our global business competitiveness. In particular, we continue range capacity. Creating LVDC platforms, we swiftly respond to the 2019 HIGHLIGHT to acquire IP to be used in the fields of IoT, big data and information and needs for higher voltage and capacity in the ESS, PV, and charging Chairman’s Message communications technology and build their application infrastructure stand sectors, and set a goal of reaching 10% in global market share in to generate both tangible and intangible profits as a way to boost our 2020. LS ELECTRIC at a Glance technology competitiveness in the 4th Industrial Revolution era. FurCompany Profile Developing eco-friendly g3 170kV GIS thermore, we proactively share our technology by transferring our IP We completed the development of 170kV GIS using the eco-friendly g 3 free of charge to SMEs to pursue shared growth and co-prosperity. Corporate Governance insulating gas. Its greatest strength lies in reducing GHG emissions by Stakeholder Value Chain Map more than 98% compared to conventional SF6 gas through the adoption Global Business IP Registrations and Applications (as of 2019, unit: cases) of the green insulating gas g3. Coming in compact size and delivering Business Overview durability that extends its service life to 25 years, 170kV GIS is expected Domestic Overseas Product Overview to become a leader in the eco-friendly GIS market. Category Patent Design Total Patent Design Total Core Issues Developing Smart LV switchgear solutions Registration 2,326 139 2,465 4,523 174 4,697 Integrated Sustainability Our Smart LV switchgear solutions render power devices smarter and Application 1,058 1 1,059 1,027 5 1,032 Management improve their service connectivity to ultimately deliver useful services to Total 3,384 140 3,524 5,550 179 5,729 Materiality Assessment customers. They also contribute to increasing the operational efficiency of power systems and the reliability of power supply. Ethics Management Customer Satisfaction Completing the development Sharing Technology with SMEs Safety and Environment of the compact drive G100 with increased capacity In 2019, we joined the third technology sharing project supervised by Shared Growth Compact drives are one of our new offerings designed to improve prodthe Korea Institute for Advancement of Technology (KIAT) to transfer 42 uct service life and performance while dramatically reducing cost, and patents to 25 SMEs free of charge, which demonstrates our strong comEmployees are expected to set the trend in the compact drive market. mitment to promoting shared growth and win-win management. Local Community Appendix Financial Statements Safety and Environment DC ACB DC MCCB g3 170kV GIS Smart LV switchgear G100 Employees Shared Growth and Social Contribution Third Party’s Assurance Statement GRI Standards Index UNGC, Memberships and Awards 2019-2020 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report 2019-2020 44 45 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report Design Management iXP2 Series LS ELECTRIC is the first in the industry to create a design center back in This Human Machine Interface panel allows users to control a range of 2005 and has since remained agile in catering to increasingly specific devices deployed in the industrial environment and provides informaand sophisticated customer needs in the producer-driven industrial tion to users to assist their communication with devices. When installed, equipment manufacturing industry. We integrated customers’ emothe slim design of the front panel is further highlighted, and its line-up tional and user experience in our product design to elevate their aesthat consists of four models based on display size adopts design elethetic style and ultimately aim to bring sustainability to our design manments that create a consistent product identity. agement. Susol Smart MCCB Design Award This serves as a key power device that preemptively interrupts short circuits Recognized at the iF Design Award for 2 Consecutive Years that may occur at a range of equipment and major facilities within plants We received awards at the iF Design Award of Germany, one of the or buildings in order to prevent fires from occurring. The diamond-shaped three most renowned global design awards, for two consecutive years. design motif is applied across the front section of the product to deliver Susol Smart MCCB and iXP2 Series were honored at the award and we simplicity in its overall look while creating refined details on a closer view. were listed in the Global Top 25 Index of the industrial equipment secModular Scalable PCS tor in recognition of our outstanding design competitiveness as well as world’s top-tier quality. This device supports DC/AC conversion to store and use renewable energy generated through photovoltaic or wind power. As Korea’s first to adopt a Receiving the Good Design Awards modular structure, its capacity is easily adjusted to meet changing condiLS ELECTRIC had two of its products – Susol Smart MCCB and Modular tions, and is differentiated from the competition for its efficiency and stability. Scalable PCS – honored with Korea’s most prestigious ‘Good Design’ These products embedded with LS ELECTRIC’s design identity are noted awards. In recognition of their exceptional design, these products were for their aesthetically-pleasing appearance that matches their excepalso granted the GOOD DESIGN mark certified by the Korean governtional performance as well as for applicability under diverse use conment. ditions. Our distinctive Product Identity (PI) will be extended to wider product categories to build unrivaled dominance in brand competitiveness in every conceivable aspect including design and performance. Modular Scalable PCS iXP2 Series Susol Smart MCCB Customer Satisfaction 46 Green Product LS ELECTRIC defined the ‘Green Product Grade Model’ to elevate its status as a green energy company for ‘Futuring Smart Management Energy’ and to upgrade sustainability management, and is taking a systemic approach to the management of green products. Under this model, all our flagship product models are assessed for their eco-friendliness and each model is assigned Overview one of the three grades accordingly to facilitate the development of customer-oriented green products. About This Report 2019 HIGHLIGHT Chairman’s Message Green Product Standards LS ELECTRIC at a Glance Company Profile Corporate Governance Stakeholder Value Chain Map Global Business Grade 3 Business Overview Grade Products adopting ‘Green Technology’ certified 3 Product Overview by the government through Green Certification1) examinations Core Issues Integrated Sustainability Management Grade Grade 2 Materiality Assessment Ethics Management 2 Products that satisfy the ‘Green Technology’2) standards of the government in addition to meeting Grade 1 criteria Customer Satisfaction Safety and Environment Shared Growth Grade 1 Employees Grade Products that meet LS ELECTRIC’s ‘Rules of Responding 1 to Environmental Regulations’ intended to cater to domestic Local Community environmental hazardous substance regulations, global environmental regulations and customer requirements Appendix Financial Statements Safety and Environment Employees 1) G  reen Certification: This governmental certification program aims to specify green technologies and businesses in accordance with the Framework Act on Low Carbon Green Shared Growth and Social Growth to expand private sector’s participation in green industries and promote the growth of high-tech markets and industries. 2) G  reen Technology: Green Technology refers to technologies that conserve and efficiently use energy and resources throughout the entire socio-economic activity cycle to Contribution minimize GHG emissions and pollutant generation in the fields of GHG emission mitigation, energy consumption efficiency improvement, clean manufacturing, clean energy, resource circulation and eco-friendliness. Third Party’s Assurance Statement GRI Standards Index UNGC, Memberships and Awards 2019-2020 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report 2019-2020 46 47 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report Customer LS ELECTRIC is fully committed to addressing external threats and preventing internal information leaks. DB encryption, Information DB access control and server access control solutions are under operation to comply with the Information and CommuniProtection cations Network Act and the Personal Information Protection Act of Korea, and periodic employee training is provided. We are in thorough compliance with such global regulatory requirements as GDPR1)(Europe), CSL 2)(China), and NIS3)(Vietnam) as well as the domestic Personal Information Protection Act. In line with the rapidly-shifting digital transformation landscape, we also provide support for the uninterrupted production system through the deployment and standardization of a public cloud security system and Factory Operating Technology (OT) security. Threat Log Management Process Other Security Network DB Server APP IDS/IPS Firewall Solutions Unstructured log, SNMP, FTP, sFTP, ASEN, Agent Integrated Log Management/Analysis System 1) GDPR : General Data Protection Log management system Log management system Regulation (EU) Collection Normalization Collection Normalization 2) CSL : Cyber Security Law (China) 3) NIS : Network Information Security Log analysis system (Vietnam) Analysis Normalization Analysis data *Write Once Read Many Integrated search/ (WORM) storage: Raw data analysis/monitoring A data storage device in which information, once written, cannot be modified nor WORM storage* Backup Security manager NAS deleted Customer Satisfaction Survey Customer Satisfaction Survey Outcomes (unit: Point) LS ELECTRIC conducts annual customer satisfaction surveys on its – Switchgear major products in Korea and abroad. 73.08 Electric Power | In 2019, we surveyed more than 200 main customers 71.57 on 15 questionnaire items to identify their satisfaction with our switchLS ELECTRIC 69.89 gears, one of our flagship products in power solutions business. We scored 72 points on average to outperform competitors. 64.44 64.36 Company A Customer Seminars Hosted (unit: No. of occasions) Company B 59.10 61.72 63.15 Event Exhibition Seminar Electric Power 13 623 58.89 Automation 4 163 Product & price Distribution & Sales Total 17 786 service promotion Customer Satisfaction 48 Customer Seminar LS ELECTRIC is a regular participant in trade fairs hosted in Korea and abroad. We further reach out to customers to Overview strengthen our direct interactions with them through exhibitions and seminars. About This Report 2019 HIGHLIGHT Chairman’s Message LS ELECTRIC at a Glance Company Profile January Corporate Governance 2019 AHR Expo | Atlanta, USA Stakeholder Value Chain Map AHR Expo is the world’s largest Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning Global Business (HVAC) exhibition held in major cities in the US under the supervision of the American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers Business Overview to unveil latest trends and technology in the HVAC industry. We joined this Product Overview event in 2019 as part of our efforts to tap into the focus market of North America, and displayed varying products and solutions specialized in autoCore Issues mation and power to serve the air conditioning system industry. Integrated Sustainability Management Materiality Assessment February Ethics Management PV System EXPO | Tokyo, Japan Customer Satisfaction We attended the PV System EXPO 2019, Asia’s largest energy exhibition, held as part of the World Smart Energy Week (WSEW). On the strength Safety and Environment of RMU with its proven and extensive track records in Japan, we Shared Growth improved our reputation as a company recognized for EPC capabilities Employees to provide end-to-end support for PV+ESS power generation business. Local Community Appendix Financial Statements March Safety and Environment RAIL ASIA | Bangkok, Thailand This event served to elevate our corporate reputation as a provider of Employees integrated solutions (signal/power system) in the railway system sector Shared Growth and Social in Thailand, the hub of transport and railway traffic in Southeast Asia. Contribution We focused on customer networking and sales/technology counseling. Third Party’s Assurance Statement GRI Standards Index UNGC, Memberships and April Awards Hannover Messe 2019 | Hannover, Germany The Hannover Messe is one of the world’s largest trade fairs held in Hannover, Germany. With DC Island as our main theme for this event, we presented our total power solutions in a virtual reality gaming environment for visitors to have immersive experience, and this was positively welcomed. 2019-2020 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report 2019-2020 48 49 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report May SPS 2019 | Parma, Italy We attended the Italy’s largest trade fair for automation systems to expand our automation product sales opportunity and create a customer network, accelerating our endeavors to tap into the European market. July KOSEF 2019 | Ho Chi Minh, Vietnam We participated in the Korea Smart Electric & Energy Week 2019 (KOSEF 2019) held in Vietnam with a focus on integrated smart solutions to solidify our position in the Vietnamese power facility market and expand our presence in the high-end segment. September ENTECH 2019 | BEXCO, Busan, Korea We joined the Environment & Energy Tech 2019 (ENTECH 2019) held in Busan to strengthen our customer loyalty in Busan City and the wider government supply market in addition to expanding our renewable energy business in the southern region of Korea. Presenting our future business directions on distribution class products, we promoted LS ELECTRIC as a reliable future partner for customers. October KSGE 2019 | COEX, Seoul, Korea We attended the ‘Korea Smart Grid Expo 2019’ (KSGE 2019), the world’s largest energy fair, with the motto of a ‘digital solution provider to promote customer value of going digital’. We enhanced our corporate reputation as a global power company, and publicized our capabilities as a total solution provider ranging from generation to demand management and our advanced smart energy business model. November Bitgaram International Exhibition of Electric Power Technology Expo (BIXPO) 2019 | KDJ Convention Center, Gwangju, Korea We participated in BIXPO 2019 organized by Korea Electric Power Corporation as a venue for global technology exchange in the power sector. Our key theme was digital transformation, and we showcased our business and technology capabilities, from GridSol Care/Smart Power Grid technology to Seogeochado DC Island and ESS solutions. 50 Core Issue Safety and Overview About This Report 2019 HIGHLIGHT Environment Chairman’s Message LS ELECTRIC operates a process-based LS ELECTRIC at a Glance safety and environment management system to create an injury/pollution/lossCompany Profile free workplace. As part of our endeavors Corporate Governance to respond to climate change, we promote Stakeholder Value Chain Map green designs to help mitigate GHG emisGlobal Business sions, and set our internal threshold in disBusiness Overview charging environmental pollutants at 50% Product Overview or below of the legally-permissible standards. We will realign our company-wide Core Issues safety organizations and their roles & Integrated Sustainability responsibilities while consistently making Management risk assessments and improvements to Materiality Assessment reduce injuries to zero across our worksites. Ethics Management Customer Satisfaction Safety and Environment Shared Growth Employees [Goal 6, 12, 13, 15] Local Community Guarantee sustainable consumption and production modalities, and strengthen institutional Appendix capacity on climate change mitigation Financial Statements Safety and Environment 6.3 Improve water quality by minimizing release of Employees hazardous chemicals and materials, halving the Shared Growth and Social proportion of untreated wastewater and substanContribution tially increasing recycling Third Party’s Assurance 12.6 Statement Adopt sustainable practices and to integrate susGRI Standards Index tainability information into the reporting cycle UNGC, Memberships and 13.3 Awards Improve education, awareness-raising and human 03 and institutional capacity on climate change mitigation, adaptation, and impact reduction 15.a Mobilize financial resources from all sources to conserve and sustainably use biodiversity and ecosystems 2019-2020 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report 2019-2020 50 51 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report KEY PERFORMANCE & TARGETS Plans for 2019 Conduct activities to prevent safety incidents and promote health Manage enterprise-wide SHE* operation Establish fire and disaster prevention infrastructure Operate an eco-friendly green workplace for sustainable management *SHE : Safety, Health, Environment Performance in 2019 Prevented safety incidents by improving on high-risk work through safety audits Provided permanent safety management support for domestic/overseas projects awarded Improved corporate reputation by renewing the Green Business designation Plans for 2020 Manage risks based on the health and safety management system Establish a fire fighting and response system Safety and environment Create a Clean & Green workplace investments KRW 23.8 billion COMMITMENT Occupational injury rate Leader of Safety & Environment 0.01 % Gi-Seon Kim Team, Plant Support Group Safety and environment are increasingly gaining importance and drawing greater attention, and their significance will only grow in the years ahead. Safety & Environment Team will do its utmost to prevent safety and environmental incidents from ever occurring across all our worksites and to ensure that all GHG emissions intensity 0.22 tCO eq/KRW million employees can work in a healthy environment, deliv2 ering ‘workplace health and safety’ in so doing. Safety and Environment 52 Safety and Environment Management System • Conduct periodic environmental assessments to analyze environmenLS ELECTRIC receives annual conformance verifications conducted by tal performance and constantly improve the environmental manageexternal verification organizations, and conducts internal verifications ment system Overview more than once every year. In 2020, we plan to transition to the interna• Provide employees with education and training to raise their awareAbout This Report tional health and safety management standard of ISO 45001 to estabness on environmental conservation and encourage them to engage 2019 HIGHLIGHT lish a global safety, health and environment (SHE) system that satisfies actively in environmental conservation efforts Chairman’s Message international standards. Operating a safe and healthy workplace SHE Vision and Strategy • Place health and safety impacts first across all products, work areas, LS ELECTRIC at a Glance LS ELECTRIC proactively responds to the needs of internal/external equipment, processes and technologies Company Profile stakeholders for SHE management and fully complies with applicable • S et LS ELECTRIC’s health and safety management standards above Corporate Governance regulations. We will consistently endeavor to establish an injury/polluinternational conventions, laws and other requirements in the health tion/loss-free workplace in Korea and across our overseas suppliers. and safety area, and constantly raise the bar on management perforStakeholder Value Chain Map mance through improvement Global Business SHE Management Policy • Provide appropriate resources for health and safety improvement and Business Overview encourage the proactive participation of employees through education Promoting green plants Product Overview and training • Minimize environmental impacts in the entire process from product • Set and implement action plans to identify potential risk factors while Core Issues design to disposal to fundamentally prevent pollution minimizing and improving on health and safety hazards in order to pre• Apply green production technologies to minimize the consumption of Integrated Sustainability vent safety incidents and continue with improvement activities resources and energy Management • Improve productivity through health promotion and maintenance and • Comply with international conventions, laws, internal standards and Materiality Assessment the prevention of diseases, accidents and incidents other requirements in the environmental sector Ethics Management Customer Satisfaction SHE Vision and Strategy Safety and Environment Shared Growth Employees Emerge as a Great SHE* Company Vision Local Community Appendix Goal A workplace free from injuries, pollution and losses Financial Statements Safety and Environment Employees Mission Operate a global-level SHE system Shared Growth and Social Contribution Third Party’s Assurance Strengthen Nurture and Promote a sound Establish a safe and Statement Strategy R&D capabilities recruit global talent corporate culture pleasant green workplace GRI Standards Index Develop creative and Secure global key talent Align individual -C  omply with domestic UNGC, Memberships and innovative products as a growth driver employees’ vision with and overseas laws and based on customer needs Nurture global talent that of the Company requirements Awards Operate an efficient Establish a business Improve employee -C  ontinue to reduce and R&D process operation system led satisfaction and reduce prevent environmental Improve capabilities by local talent their turnover impacts and risk factors to handle and resolve Reduce COPQ and make Develop green technologies customer issues and COPQ reduction a part of and reduce the consumption *SHE : S  afety, Health, serve customers day-to-day business routines of resource and energy Environment 2019-2020 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report 2019-2020 52 53 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report SHE Management System SHE Audit Process LS ELECTRIC is operating a safety, health and environment (SHE) manPreliminary Follow-up On-site Audit agement system to fully respond to international conventions, governAssessment Management mental laws and policies, and stakeholder requirements. We analyze risks to reduce the discharge of air pollutants and waste generated Gather relevant Interview from the production process and to prevent safety incidents affecting documents responsible staff Report and share Pre-review legal Verify work audit findings our employees while performing annual internal assessments to verify documents processes our compliance with this system. Perform Perform Set implementaSafety and Environment Audit self-audits on-site audits tion plans Use the checklist Perform visual Follow-up on Self-initiated safety audits are performed by all employees to create a checks on shop improvement pleasant and safe work environment and reduce injuries to zero across floor risks outcomes our worksites. In addition, each worksite conducts monthly field-driven Set audit plans Identify necesCheck progress safety checks to eliminate potential risks. Define the audit sary improveConduct effectivescope and select ments ness assessments Safety and Environment Investment key audit items Request improveon improvement with a focus on ment on non-conoutcomes To minimize our SHE impacts, we are building smart factories, invest in the field formant items the rationalization of equipment and production lines, and continuously replace aging U/T power equipment. We will also continue to review investments made in photovoltaic equipment and ESS to proactively adopt green energy sources. Risk Safety and 無 Investment Review/ Normal environment Investment planning Deliberation operation analysis Risk 有 Development of measures ① Make it mandatory to install safety and environment protection devices ② Switch to less hazardous substances or remove risks through automation ③ Grant safety and environment approval Safety and Environment Investments Made (unit: KRW million) Category 2017 2018 2019 Develop eco-friendly products 9,052 5,879 8,519 Improve processes 191 271 14,044 Invest in safety and environment equipment 822 405 411 Maintain safety and environment equipment 488 274 875 Total 10,553 6,829 23,849 Safety and Environment 54 Response to Climate Change Management of Environmental Pollutant Discharge Climate Change Response Strategy Air Pollutant Management Overview To respond to such climate change issues of global warming and ozone To respond to the tightening Clean Air Conservation Act, we set the depletion, LS ELECTRIC has signed voluntary agreements to reduce internal threshold for discharging air pollutants generated from the About This Report energy consumption and GHG emissions to fully cooperate with the manufacturing process at 50% and under of the legally-permissible 2019 HIGHLIGHT government in implementing its climate change response policy. To this standards. Our Cheongju and Cheonan plants have signed voluntary Chairman’s Message end, we actively participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) each agreements with the Ministry of Environment to reduce their pollutant year to present our commitment to GHG management, mitigation plans discharge between December and March when the concentration of LS ELECTRIC at a Glance and risk & opportunity data, and widely publicize our GHG management particulate matter (PM) is notably high. Company Profile strategy in so doing. (unit : tCO2eq) Water Use and Effluent Disposal Corporate Governance Category 2017 2018 2019 We source water from streams in the vicinity of our worksites through Stakeholder Value Chain Map Scope 1 250,704 27,212 50,843 local governments. Mostly, water is used for daily purposes (e.g. cafeteGlobal Business GHG Scope 2 25,553 32,785 35,284 ria), and effluents generated from a portion of our manufacturing proemissions Business Overview (by source) Scope 3 506,032 563,338 312,394 cess are disposed of with the help of professional disposal service proProduct Overview Total 782,289 623,335 398,521 viders. Our Cheongju plant is subject to the Korean government’s GHG Target Waste Management Core Issues Management System and receives annual third-party verifications on its Due to the inherent characteristics of electric equipment manufacIntegrated Sustainability emission sources and quantities. As our Gas Insulated Switchgear (GIS) turing, metal pieces account for the majority of waste generated from Management products generate GHG emissions when installed outdoors, we calcuour worksites. Waste is sorted out according to their recyclability and Materiality Assessment late and manage our Scope 3 emissions. is treated lawfully and properly. In 2019, more than 86% of waste was Ethics Management recycled. Customer Satisfaction Developing Green Products to Reduce GHG Emissions Chemicals Management Safety and Environment SF 6 gas, a well-known greenhouse gas (GHG), is consumed for the proTo comply with regulatory provisions set forth under the Chemicals Shared Growth duction of our Gas Insulated Switchgear (GIS) products. This prompted Control Act, we manage chemical substances used at our worksites Employees us to shift to g3 gas in developing our 170kV GIS as part of our full through the inventory developed based on warehousing data. Chemicommitment to mitigating climate change. While this 170kV GIS is the Local Community cals that enter our worksites are verified for their components through same in size with other existing models, it is capable of lowering Global the use of the MSDS*, and employees handling such chemicals are proAppendix Warming Potentials to 87% and under. vided with relevant information and training to ensure their safe use. Financial Statements Reducing Energy Consumption and GHG Emissions * MSDS : Material Safety Data Sheet Safety and Environment Our energy consumption is monitored in real time through the GHG Employees inventory and the energy management system. We mainly use electricity and LNG as primary energy fuel: electricity is used to power Shared Growth and Social Contribution manufacturing processes and cooling/heating equipment, and LNG is consumed for company-wide heating equipment and cooking. As our Third Party’s Assurance Statement energy consumption is constantly on the rise due to the broadening of business areas, the creation of new R&D centers and the expansion of GRI Standards Index plants, we strive to develop and implement investment plans to improve UNGC, Memberships and energy efficiency and mitigate our energy consumption in so doing. Awards Category Unit 2017 2018 2019 MWh 57,153 70,317 75,677 Electricity MWh/KRW 100 million Energy 3.12 3.60 4.10 (production value) consump3 tion km 2,337 2,733 2,424 LNG km3/KRW 100 million 2019-2020 0.13 0.14 0.13 (production value) LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report 2019-2020 54 55 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report Workplace Safety Management Work Environment Improvement Workplace Safety Check We measure and assess the exposure of such hazardous factors as noise, dust, and harmful chemicals to promote the health and producTo preemptively check and eliminate risk factors, we shifted from patroltivity of our employees while improving on identified issues to create a based audits to theme-based intensive audits. In addition, subcontract pleasant work environment. Work environment measurements are conconsultation meetings are held each month to confirm health and safety ducted periodically twice a year through external measurement orgaconcerns raised by internal suppliers and support their improvement. nizations. As a result of ceaseless efforts for health and safety improveSafety Inspection on High-Risk Machines and Devices ment, the exposure of hazardous factors in the work environment We request external professionals to perform annual safety inspections declined from 50% and under in 2018 to 40% and under in 2019 against on such high-risk machines and devices as cranes and pressure containthe legally-permissible exposure standards (excluding noise). ers. In addition, internal complete inspections are conducted on wire and Safety and Environment Consulting for Suppliers fiber ropes every quarter to ensure that only conformant ropes are used. We support the SHE operation of our suppliers each year to strengthen Introduction of Safe Work Permits their safety and environment capabilities and improve their manageThe safe work permit system is up and running at the worksite level for ment performance. On-site visits are paid to suppliers to verify the such high-risk machines and devices as forklifts as well as for electricians improvements made, and SHE-related regulatory training is provided to and employees handling cranes and other heavyweight items. All our fully assist responsible staff at suppliers in improving their competence. employees develop plans for qualification training and work safety so that they are equipped with safety skills and experiences on high-risk work. Health and Safety Assessments on R&D Centers Affiliated R&D centers are under operation in the four regions of Anyang, Cheongju, Cheonan and Busan. In conformity with the Korean government’s 3rd Basic Plan on the Creation of a Safe Research Work Environment (2018~2022), we set up a hazardous factor database through the national research safety information system to provide researchers with safety information on R&D centers. Furthermore, Commission is operated to gather suggestions on the improvement of vulnerabilities Workplace safety check and reflect them in R&D investment to ensure their execution. Safety Management for Projects Awarded For the installation and test-run of power devices across the entire process from power generation to final consumption, our Project Managers (PM) play a pivotal role in integrating risk assessments into our daily business routines even from the project initiation phase. responsible department was created as a dedicated safety management department for projects awarded, and staff exclusively responsible for safety management is assigned to respond to the reinforced Occupational Safety inspection on high-risk machines and devices Health and Safety Act and ensure professional safety management for project undertakings. Health and Safety Target Management System Health and safety assessments are included in the department-level Management Innovation Program (MIP) to measure our health and safety performance. The attainment of health and safety targets is assessed in nine grades to establish a self-initiated safety management system across respective departments and engage each and every employee in health and safety management. Crane inspection 56 Core Issue Shared Growth Overview About This Report 2019 HIGHLIGHT Shared growth is the common denomChairman’s Message inator that forms the management philosophy that enables sustainable LS ELECTRIC at a Glance growth of LS ELECTRIC and its numerCompany Profile ous suppliers. We value each and every Corporate Governance supplier as treasured partner in our Stakeholder Value Chain Map past, present and future. To drive the Global Business sustainable growth of our partners, we implement shared growth policies Business Overview from supporting core capacity-buildProduct Overview ing, financing and facility investment to developing a sound supply chain Core Issues through subcontract regulation trainIntegrated Sustainability ing and the shared-growth payment Management system. We will endeavor from multiple Materiality Assessment aspects with suppliers to ‘create a culEthics Management ture of sustainable shared growth’ and Customer Satisfaction establish and disseminate such culture Safety and Environment across the entire value chain. Shared Growth Employees Local Community Appendix Financial Statements Safety and Environment [Goal 17] Employees Revitalize the global and supplier partnership Shared Growth and Social for strengthened implementation tools and Contribution sustainable development Third Party’s Assurance Statement 17.13 GRI Standards Index Enhance global macroeconomic stability, UNGC, Memberships and including through policy coordination and Awards policy coherence 04 17.17 Encourage and promote effective public, public-private and civil society partnerships, building on the experience and resourcing strategies of partnerships 2019-2020 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report 2019-2020 56 57 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report KEY PERFORMANCE & TARGETS Plans for 2019 Strengthen fair trade management Conduct activities to increase the competitiveness of suppliers Performance in 2019 Graded ‘Excellent’ in the Shared Growth Index Systemized activities to prevent regulatory violations and ensure regulatory compliance Disseminated a culture of shared growth through the broadened communication scope and diversified channels Plans for 2020 Launch activities to support customized management capacity improvement Adopt standard subcontract forms among suppliers Facilitate benefits sharing Purchases from ACE Club members KRW 231 billion COMMITMENT Giseok Yoon CEO, Hangil EST, Chair of the ACE Club Financial support for suppliers 11.8 billion Today, suppliers are facing mounting difficulties due to rising wages and environmental regulations KRW as well as increasingly growing needs for product competitiveness. Even amid such circumstances, LS ELECTRIC is committed to assisting its suppliers for their competitiveness and sustainable growth through wide-ranging shared grow th policies, quality guidance and smart factory-related facility investments. As a supplier, we are confident that Suppliers using the shared LS ELECTRIC will continue to build win-win partnergrowth payment system 842 companies ships with all its suppliers on the basis of long-lasting competitiveness and mutual trust. Shared Growth 58 Establishing a Culture of Fair Trade to deliberate on the risk of delaying payments to suppliers, the qualifications of newly-registered suppliers, and the appropriateness of supSigning and Fulfilling Fair Contracts plier contract termination procedures, preventing any violation of the Overview To comply with the Fair Trade Act and the Subcontracting Act and proSubcontracting Act in so doing. mote contractual fairness, we sign the Basic Trade Contract and the About This Report Standard Fair Trade Subcontract Agreement with suppliers each year. Dispute Resolution Mechanism 2019 HIGHLIGHT In 2019, the Contract was concluded with 660 subcontractors, and it A mechanism is up and running to expedite the resolution of disputes Chairman’s Message reflected the standard subcontract agreement recommended by the with SME suppliers. This addresses non-payment or payment delays Fair Trade Commission (FTC) and contractual provisions revised in that may occur in subcontract deals between LS ELECTRIC and its supLS ELECTRIC at a Glance 2019. In particular, the Contract fully integrated provisions to specify pliers as well as unfair practices on receipt of goods, product returns, Company Profile subcontract payment conditions and promote the rights and interests subcontract payment decisions and amount reductions, and its scope Corporate Governance of subcontractors to establish fair and transparent transactions with spans issues that occurred within three years from the date of contract suppliers. In signing the Contract, the ‘Ethics Management Pledge’ is Stakeholder Value Chain Map closure. In addition, we gather difficulties experienced by suppliers so also included to encourage suppliers to comply with general contractthat relevant departments (procurement, production, design, quality, Global Business related ethics provisions. In 2019, we signed the Standard Fair Trade etc.) can make necessary improvements, and use our shared growth Business Overview Subcontract Agreement with 339 suppliers to demonstrate our commitportal TOPS to operate the subcontract dispute resolution mechanism Product Overview ment to fair trade and win-win cooperation. and the cyber reporting channel to prevent disputes from occurring through such diverse channels. Core Issues Prevention of Regulatory Violation and Promotion Integrated Sustainability Training on the Subcontracting Act of Regulatory Compliance Management Annual training on the Subcontracting Act is provided to our employees 4 Action Plans for Win-Win Cooperation Materiality Assessment and suppliers to comply with this Act and spread a culture of fair trade. The four action plans for win-win cooperation between large busiEthics Management In 2019, fair trade training was offered under the supervision of our nesses and their SME supplies – signing contracts through a fair proLegal Affairs Group to all relevant departments in charge of design and Customer Satisfaction cess, issuing and archiving written contracts, operating the Internal R&D among others as well as procurement, and the scope of trainees Safety and Environment Subcontracting Audit Committee, and ensuring a fair supplier selection will be further expanded. In addition, training is arranged on compliShared Growth process – are reflected in our corporate standard rules on domestic ance/ethics management issues and case studies that occur frequently procurement and supplier management, and fully implemented accordEmployees through internal procurement build-up meetings to help procurement ingly. The Internal Subcontracting Audit Committee meets every month Local Community staff develop their mindset on compliance with the Subcontracting Act. Appendix Post Verification on the Legality of Subcontracts Each year, semi-annual monitoring is performed on our transactions Financial Statements 4 Action Plans for Win-Win Cooperation with suppliers who signed the Standard Fair Trade Subcontract AgreeSafety and Environment ment, and internal reviews are made on any violation of the obligations Employees or prohibitions imposed on us as a large business under the SubconShared Growth and Social tract Act. Monitoring conducted twice in 2019 revealed that we signed Signing Issuing and Contribution contracts archiving the Basic Trade Subcontract with all 339 suppliers with whom we also through a fair written signed the fair trade agreement, and unfair decisions on subcontract Third Party’s Assurance process contracts Statement payments or the imposition of unfair special provisions did not occur. In GRI Standards Index the event of design modifications or change in raw material prices, we Win-Win surely adjust prices for suppliers, and technical data requests are issued UNGC, Memberships and Cooperation Awards following prior consultation with suppliers in requesting the provision of suppliers’ management data. Operating Ensuring the Internal a fair supplier Subcontracting selection Audit process Committee 2019-2020 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report 2019-2020 58 59 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report Support for Suppliers’ Growth and Development ACE Club: Member Selection and Support Our ACE Club was designed to select outstanding suppliers based on the three criteria of Activity (taking swift action), Challenge (pushing the envelope) and Excellence (achieving top-tier performance as an exceptional partner) and to offer guidance on quality, production and overall management and recognize their status as a shared growth partner. This program was launched back in 2008, and members are chosen through annual comprehensive assessments on their quality, on-time delivery, cost competitiveness, and advocacy for shared growth. ACE Club members are eligible for wide-ranging benefits including productivity improvement activities, domestic/overseas benchmarking and innovation exchange activities as well as preferential payment conditions, Domestic/Overseas Innovation Benchmarking and are given full support in developing their global competitive edge. To raise suppliers’ innovation mindset and improve their global competitive edge, we have provided them with an opportunity since 2008 to visit leading companies and trade fairs in Korea and abroad to observe the rapidly-shifting market landscape and learn know-how on quality ACE Club Membership (unit: No. of companies) and production management. In 2019, domestic benchmarking activities were undertaken for each major line of business while Korean 19 SMEs, who have established global presence and are doing business 17 17 with leading players in Vietnam, were benchmarked to explore ways to strengthen capacity as a global supplier and to resolve management 10 issues through market surveys for overseas business development. 9 9 CEO Seminar CEOs of Ace Club members are invited to annual seminars that address 2017 2018 2019 topics related to business administration including management strategy, marketing, leadership and economy. Distinguished experts and LS ■ Total No. of ACE Club members ELECTRIC executives serve as lecturers and interactive discussions take ■ No. of suppliers with KRW 10 billion and more in purchases made place on major business issues. In may 2019, a special lecture was given on the theme of ‘management insight’ with the help of a professional instructor to discuss how to recognize one’s role as a CEO, broaden insights and strengthen leadership skills. Purchases from ACE Club Members (unit: KRW 100 million) | Purchase amount | Average purchase amount per member 2,310 2,248 136 128 2,169 118 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 Shared Growth 60 Innovation Contest and Discussion CSR Activities Undertaken with Suppliers The Innovation Contest has been hosted at the end of each year since Our annual ‘Love Volunteering’ activities were launched in 2015 to join 2018. While the event had focused on the Innovation Exchanges at the hands with suppliers in contributing to local communities and pracOverview ACE Club level, its scope extended from 2019 onwards to include major ticing the true spirit of sustainable management. In 2019, 20 ACE Club About This Report suppliers to share the outcomes of innovation activities undertaken CEOs and LS ELECTRIC employees attended the “Hands on Program” 2019 HIGHLIGHT during the year. At the Innovation Contest held in 2019, six suppliers as volunteers and donated the toy-shaped soaps they made to orphanChairman’s Message presented their best innovation practices and received rewards, which ages. Such activities served for LS ELECTRIC and ACE Club members to promoted good-faith competition among suppliers, disseminate an practice both shared growth and sharing-driven management. LS ELECTRIC at a Glance innovation-driven mindset and recognize innovation outcomes. ACE Club Reflection Company Profile ACE Club Innovation Exchanges Our ACE Club Reflection program intends to review ACE Club activity Corporate Governance Our innovation initiative, previously led by ACE Club CEOs, evolved to outcomes over the year, encourage respective members to identify Stakeholder Value Chain Map focus on working-level employees at respective members from 2017 implications on their own activities, and discuss ways to facilitate ACE Global Business onwards, and this led to the operation of the ACE Club Innovation Club operations in the upcoming years. The ACE Club activities for the Exchanges. Attended by working-level staff, these exchange events year 2019 helped strengthen partnerships between LS ELECTRIC and Business Overview serve to share common practices and launch practice-based innovaits suppliers through CEO communication events and CSR programs Product Overview tion activities to generate mutual synergy. In 2019, the Action Learning in addition to reinforcing suppliers’ capabilities through CEO Semiactivity was undertaken by identifying innovation tasks at respective nars, domestic/overseas benchmarking and the Innovation Exchanges. Core Issues suppliers. Visits were also paid to Korean SMEs operating in Vietnam The ACE Club Reflection served to look back on the significance of Integrated Sustainability to build consensus on the need for overseas market development, and wide-ranging activities undertaken for the year, share ideas among Management suppliers joined the volunteer activity dubbed ‘Hands on Program’ with members on necessary improvements, and explore ways to further Materiality Assessment LS ELECTRIC employees, received fair trade training, and visited the boost the competitiveness of the ACE Club. Ethics Management Korea’s largest energy fair ‘Energy Plus 2019’. Customer Satisfaction Safety and Environment Shared Growth Employees Local Community Appendix Financial Statements Safety and Environment Employees Shared Growth and Social Contribution Innovation Contest CSR activities undertaken with suppliers Third Party’s Assurance Statement GRI Standards Index UNGC, Memberships and Awards 2019-2020 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report ACE Club Innovation Exchanges ACE Club Reflection 2019-2020 60 61 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report Strengthened Support for Shared Growth Shared-Growth Payment System Financial Support In August 2013, we became the industry’s first to introduce a sharedgrowth payment system to allow secondary and tertiary suppliers as well We support low interest rate loans to suppliers to help facilitate their as primary suppliers to extend secured loans of credit sales based on financing of facility investment and plant expansion for productivity LS ELECTRIC’s credit. As of 2019, this financial support system was joined improvement. In 2019, KRW 31 billion funds were raised – KRW 3.6 bilby 842 primary/secondary/tertiary suppliers to post nearly KRW 799.9 lion in direct support, KRW 14.8 billion in combined support, and KRW billion in payments made. Our shared-growth payment system will assist 12.6 billion in special support – and KRW 11.8 billion was provided to 62 suppliers in duly receiving their payments and resolving concerns over disprimary and secondary suppliers to contribute to improving their finanhonored payments to create a sound ecosystem along the supply chain. cial liquidity and business stability. Our financial support benefits not only primary but also secondary suppliers to spread a culture of shared Support for the Production Management System growth, and such support will continue well into 2020 to offer varying (NAMOS ERP System) benefits to these suppliers. In addition to low interest rate loan supTo help suppliers establish their own management system through effiport, we endeavor to improve subcontract payment conditions and to cient production and inventory management, we provide them with increase the rate of cash payments to help increase the cash liquidity of a production management system (NAMOS ERP) connected with our suppliers. order information system free-of-charge. In 2019, support was offered to stabilize the system operation and increase its availability as well as Financial Support Provided (unit: KRW 100 million) to improve the system in consideration of supplier conditions, perform Category 2017 2018 2019 semi-annual availability assessments and offer feedback, and host disDirect 28 24 36 cussions and training with responsible staff at suppliers. Combined 81 70 74 Special 30 20 8 Suppliers Who Introduced the Shared-Growth Payment System Total 139 114 118 (unit: No. of companies) 677 686 Suppliers That Received Support (unit: No. of companies) 669 Category 2017 2018 2019 157 156 156 Direct 26 28 24 Combined 26 22 25 Special 16 13 13 2017 2018 2019 Total 68 63 62 ■ Primary suppliers utilizing the system ■ Secondary/tertiary suppliers benefiting from the system Response to Conflict Minerals Three-Year Performance of the Shared-Growth Payment System In 2017, we established a conflict mineral response system to cope with (unit: KRW 100 million) conflict mineral regulations adopted widely across the globe and to prevent relevant risks that may occur at our suppliers. Since procedures to 8,661 verify the use and source of conflict minerals contained in parts and raw 7,325 materials provided by suppliers represent a key part of conflict minerals 6,675 management, we provided presentations and training in 2019 to estab674 506 630 lish the integrity of conflict mineral data offered by suppliers. LS ELECTRIC will collaborate with suppliers to continuously advance its conflict minerals management and fully respond to tightening regulations in EU 2017 2018 2019 and across the globe. ■ Payments from LS ELECTRIC to primary suppliers ■ Payments from primary to secondary suppliers Shared Growth 62 Support for the FTA Country-of-Origin Management System Training Support We have assisted suppliers since 2016 in establishing an FTA counTo assist our suppliers in developing their own management capabiltry-of-origin (COO) management system and consigning COO manageities, we have provided supplier training programs since 2007. They Overview ment to licensed customs agents to ensure the integrity of COO certififocus on essential job training in alignment with the Korean Standards About This Report cates of suppliers and minimize the risk of post-verification. A total of 48 Association and other professional training institutions to cater to spe2019 HIGHLIGHT suppliers were supported in developing a COO management system, cific needs of SMEs. In 2019, LS ELECTRIC employees with expertise in Chairman’s Message receiving COO work process consulting and FTA COO management pertinent fields served as lecturers to offer training on FTAs, NAMOS, training, and nurturing dedicated FTA staff. Eight additional suppliers supplier capacity improvement, and production base technology, and LS ELECTRIC at a Glance were also provided with free-of-charge consulting through governwide-ranging courses (16 courses and 21 sessions) on quality, producment-assisted projects. Such endeavors allowed our customers to post tion, cost and business administration were provided to 293 employees Company Profile nearly KRW 5.9 billion in customs benefits as of 2019, and our suppliers at 242 suppliers. Corporate Governance to build capabilities to stably perform COO management in alignment Stakeholder Value Chain Map with LS ELECTRIC’s COO management system. Global Business Business Overview Product Overview Support for the FTA COO Management System Training Provided to Suppliers Core Issues 293 1 2 3 4 Integrated Sustainability 246 Management Develop Provide Train 196 242 Materiality Assessment a COO consulting dedicated Offer training 212 on COO work on FTA COO management FTA staff Ethics Management process management 172 system at suppliers management Customer Satisfaction Safety and Environment 2017 2018 2019 Shared Growth Employees ■ Trainees (No. of persons) ■ Suppliers (No. of companies) Technology Protection Local Community In line with aggravating damage caused by the leak of trade secrets, we introduced the Certification of Original Documents on Trade Secrets Appendix in 2015 to assist suppliers in protecting their technology and trade Financial Statements secrets. Operated by the Korea Institute of Patent Information, this cerSafety and Environment tification was designed to confirm the ownership of SME’s proprietary Employees technology and business information, and can be used by our suppliers to prepare for any theft or leak of such critical corporate assets. In 2019, Shared Growth and Social Contribution we helped protect a total of 34 technologies and trade secrets, and we plan to extend the scope of this system to support suppliers wishing to Third Party’s Assurance Statement protect their technology. GRI Standards Index Purchasing (Investment) Support UNGC, Memberships and When suppliers need to invest in IT, measurement and carrying equipAwards ment and other facilities, we put to use our purchase capabilities to support their purchasing operation. Our suppliers are assisted to make purchases under competitive conditions ranging from the selection of companies and the review of amounts, and this supported eight suppliers on 13 investment cases in 2019. 2019-2020 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report 2019-2020 62 63 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report Communicating with Suppliers Shared Growth Innovation Meeting and Disseminating a Culture of Shared Growth The Shared Growth Innovation Meeting has been held since 2014 New Year’s Greetings and Benefit Sharing to support suppliers in ensuring their parts quality. This meeting is attended by major suppliers to review monthly quality status and share Events are held to make ‘New Year’s greetings and commitment to improvements made and subcontracting issues, serving as a regushared growth for LSpartnership’ and to ‘share Q·D benefits and dislar communication channel between LS ELECTRIC and its suppliers. In cuss shared growth policies’ to present the benefits jointly generated 2019, the scope of issues addressed was extended to include procurewith suppliers and LS ELECTRIC’s business directions and procurement ment policies, shared growth policies, worksite-specific quality policies, policies in order to build consensus on supplier partnerships. safety and environment regulations, hazardous substance regulations, Communication between LS ELECTRIC and company-wide common issues (FTA and conflict minerals). and Primary/Secondary Suppliers Supplier Code of Conduct As the vertical dissemination of a shared growth culture gains greater In 2019, LS ELECTRIC set forth the Supplier Code of Conduct with an importance, LS ELECTRIC has promoted communication with the CEOs aim to share and practice its management philosophy from the corof primary and secondary suppliers since 2013. Such endeavors evolved porate social responsibility (CSR) perspective. The code was prepared into ‘communication and cultural experience’ activities in 2018, and with reference to OECD and RBA guidelines and feedback from relevant communication activities were undertaken with six primary and secdepartments with a focus on social issues, and consists of respect for ondary suppliers in 2019. employees’ human rights, workplace safety, eco-friendly management, Establishment and Operation compliance with business ethics, shared growth, and social contribuof the ‘Joint Workers’ Welfare Fund’ for Suppliers tion. This code will be included in the appendix of the basic contract The ‘LS ELECTRIC Shared Growth Joint Workers’ Welfare Fund’ was signed with suppliers and shared with suppliers through presentations created in 2018 as a corporation to promote the welfare of supplier and other publicity activities. employees, and its operation initiated in 2019 with KRW 5.7 billion in funds raised. The fund aims to improve welfare services for member employees including school tuitions for their children, health check-ups and funeral support, and has benefited 1,604 employees at 17 suppliers on a cumulative basis. Communication between LS ELECTRIC and Primary/Secondary Suppliers 64 Core Issue Employees Overview About This Report 2019 HIGHLIGHT LS ELECTRIC supports employees to Chairman’s Message improve their quality of life through work & life balance. To this end, a wide LS ELECTRIC at a Glance array of programs are under operaCompany Profile tion, including Vacation Weeks, famiCorporate Governance ly-friendly programs, events that invite Stakeholder Value Chain Map employee families, and daycare centers, Global Business and we are relentlessly committed to recruiting and nurturing outstanding Business Overview individuals. In 2020, we will secure core Product Overview capabilities for strengthened global competitiveness and develop global talCore Issues ent to reinforce our global competency. Integrated Sustainability Management Materiality Assessment Ethics Management Customer Satisfaction Safety and Environment Shared Growth Employees Local Community Appendix [Goal 3, 5, 8] Financial Statements Ensure the healthy life of employees, and Safety and Environment provide equal opportunities for decent work Employees regardless of gender Shared Growth and Social Contribution 3.8 Third Party’s Assurance Achieve universal health coverage, including Statement financial risk protection and access to quality GRI Standards Index essential health-care services UNGC, Memberships and 5.5 Awards Ensure women’s par ticipation and equal 05 opportunities for leadership 8.5 Achieve full and productive employment and decent work for all women and men and equal pay for work of equal value 2019-2020 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report 2019-2020 64 65 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report KEY PERFORMANCE & TARGETS Plans for 2019 Strengthen global competency by nurturing global talent Improve HR systems as a global company Increase opportunities for communication with employees Performance in 2019 Strengthened talent development to generate global outcomes Established global HR programs and their operational systems Reinforced execution by establishing a sound corporate culture Plans for 2020 Recruit and nurture key talent to strengthen global competitiveness Define and implement global HR strategies to develop global business Establish a new corporate culture (agile culture, smart working) New recruits in 2019 (based on permanent positions) COMMITMENT 87 persons Sang-Tae Park Leader of HR Team, HR/Management Support Group LS ELECTRIC recruits and nurtures talented individuals in accordance with its talent management philosophy that the source of its core competitive edge Training expenses per employee lies in outstanding talent. In particular, we operate a range of training programs to help employees KRW 2 million develop their competence and build job expertise as a way to secure human resources. To create the optimal work environment and corporate culture that enable employees to unleash their full potential, we strengthen communication between senior management and employees and practice family-friendly Ratio of unionized employees management. Going forward, we will launch a variety of initiatives to become a healthy organization that promotes employee satisfaction and growth. 31.8 % Employees 66 Work & Life Balance future career and vision and reflect on their habits and learning methods to achieve their dream. LS ELECTRIC operates Vacation Weeks, family-friendly programs, events that invite employee families, and daycare centers to support employees Go Camp | Every July, Go Camp is hosted for employees’ children who Overview to achieve the right work & life balance and enjoy a better quality of life attend elementary and middle schools to support their emotional staAbout This Report in so doing. bility and logical reasoning during their formative period. In addition 2019 HIGHLIGHT to playing go, diverse activities are provided to help these children Chairman’s Message Vacation Weeks develop strategic thinking and teamwork skills. Vacation Weeks allows our employees to take breaks within the limit of LS ELECTRIC at a Glance their paid leave and individual annual leave. Under this program, our Fun Sports Day on Children’s Day | Fun Sports Day is hosted for employee can refresh themselves when the need arises to improve their employees’ children and families on Children’s Day to encourage particCompany Profile work efficiency. In addition to summer vacation, LS ELECTRIC employipating children to recognize the importance of family, develop a sense Corporate Governance of pride in the company their parents work for, and enjoy a productive ees can take Vacation Weeks for three to five days in the first and secStakeholder Value Chain Map ond half to recharge their energy. and pleasant time together. Global Business Family-friendly Programs Smart Working, Happy Life! Business Overview Family would be the most important factor that determines one’s qualThis event intends to celebrate employees promoted to manager posiProduct Overview ity of life. As we believe that ‘happy families mean happy employees’, we tions by inviting their families and executive member families. Marking provide a wide array of family-friendly programs as below. its 10th anniversary this year, this event also serves to request newCore Issues ly-promoted managers to sincerely fulfill their role and extend gratitude Family Happiness Camp | Parents and children are given an opporIntegrated Sustainability to their families for their support, sharing our corporate vision with Management tunity to think about their happiness as a family to better communicate them in so doing. with one another. Family members learn how to pay compliments from Materiality Assessment each other’s perspective and how to express themselves, and think Daycare Centers Ethics Management about what they can do for family happiness. LS ELECTRIC operates workplace daycare centers for employees’ work Customer Satisfaction & life balance. The LS Daycare Center opened in Anyang in 2015 for Happy Time with Daddy | This serves to build closer bonds between Safety and Environment employees working at the Headquarters and the Anyang R&D Campus, dads and their children through divers and fun activities, including Shared Growth sports day, treasure hunt, and cooking class. and our Cheongju plant opened a jointly-operated daycare center as a member of the consortium in the Cheongju Industrial Complex. These Employees Dream Camp | Children of LS ELECTRIC employees are encouraged to daycare facilities are operated by professional institutions to ensure Local Community find their dream and vision and learn how to make their dream come that employees’ children are well taken care of in a secure environment. true on their own. Dream Camp helps these children think about their Appendix Financial Statements Safety and Environment Employees Shared Growth and Social Contribution Third Party’s Assurance Statement GRI Standards Index UNGC, Memberships and Awards 2019-2020 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report 2019-2020 66 67 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report Recruiting and Nurturing Outstanding Talent Ideal LS ELECTRIC Employee LS ELECTRIC’s ideal employee is defined as an ‘Imagineer for the Future Dream Having a vision of Smart Energy’, and was announced in 2016 to proactively respond to for the future of the shifting business paradigm while recruiting and nurturing talented smart energy individuals for the attainment of our ‘G365’ Vision. ‘Imagineer’ is the combination of ‘Imagine’ and ‘Engineer’, and describes ideal LS ELECPride TRIC employees who take pride in their work and the Company (Pride) Partnership Taking pride and have a vision for the future of smart energy (Dream) based on their Working together Imagineer for in work and the for better results understanding of technologies (Technology) and global competitiveCompany ness (Global) to work together for better results (Partnership). Global Talent We set our course of action forward as becoming a ‘global top-tier electric power company’, and are exploring a variety of opportunities to expand our global business presence. As of the end of 2019, more than 1,000 Global Technology employees are working at eight production and sales corporations in the Global Understanding of competitiveness technologies US, Europe, China, Vietnam and Japan and 12 overseas branches in Thailand, Indonesia and Russia. To tap into the wider global market and increase sales, the Global Talent Map was developed to identify and nurture necessary talent over the mid/long-term, and global recruitment is being gradually expanded across North America, China, Europe and Southeast Asia. Diverse Recruitment Channels and Processes To select brilliant talent, we put first their interest in and commitment In addition to regular public recruitment in the second half of each year to their desired job in the recruitment process, and assess their basic (non-career track) and quarterly on-demand recruitment (career track), we competence and growth potential through paper screening. The ratio launch global recruitment campaigns for Korean students at overseas uniof objective assessment indicators was raised (AI competence test, versities in North America and China and foreign nationals with exceptional English proficiency test, presentation interview, and software coding technology qualifications (R&D). On-campus recruitment, corporate-funded test) to prevent any unreasonable discrimination from occurring while scholarships, search firms and other diverse channels are also leveraged to the interview process was standardized and interviewers were trained hire outstanding talent and swiftly place them in working-level assignments. to ensure consistency in the assessment process. Recruitment Process LS ELECTRIC Experience Programs Analyze applicants Check applicants Corporate funded scholarships for their job suitability for their health and dispositions conditions Support high-performing students in their master/doctoral degree course to build expertise in their specialty field 1 2 3 4 5 6 and then join LS ELECTRIC Paper AI competence Interview at the Interview by Medical Final screening test working level executives examination recruitment Summer internship program Identify the major and job competence Provide an opportunity for of applicants and assess their knowledge in would-be LS ELECTRIC employees and commitment to the concerned field to perform working-level work and Evaluate the applications Conduct presentation interviews, tasks to experience the Company’s submitted against foreign language interviews and coding tests vision and corporate culture recruitment standards depending on the concerned job Employees 68 Onboarding Program for New Recruits A variety of programs are under operation to assist new recruits in adapting to their new life at LS ELECTRIC. On the day of announcing Overview Before assignment After assignment successful applicants, they receive a congratulatory letter and a basket About This Report of flowers, and an orientation session with other new recruits and HR Orientation for successful Mentoring: 4 months 2019 HIGHLIGHT managers to develop a sense of belonging and community. Once they applicants: 1 day Chairman’s Message join the Company, group/company-wide introductory training is offered Group-wide introductory On-Boarding Package/ to help develop knowledge, skills and attitudes required in performing training: 3 weeks OJT: 1 week LS ELECTRIC at a Glance their work, and mentoring and OJT programs are provided to improve Company-wide introductory Company Profile their common/job-specific competence. When the first one year passes, Future Camp: 3 days training: 1 week they are given an opportunity through Future Camp to look back on Corporate Governance their past one year and envision their future at the Company to think Stakeholder Value Chain Map about their individual and organizational vision. Global Business * LS Group training curriculum Business Overview Organizational Customer/ Product Overview Position Global Position Level Development Job Supplier R&D Power Core Issues Executive seminar Solutions SW Integrated Sustainability (13 programs) (8 programs) Management Executive Materiality Assessment Foreign language New executive Ethics Management Customer Satisfaction Global Lounge Leadership School for team leaders Introductory program for career employees(LS ELECTRIC/LS Group) / Plant on-boarding LCP(Leadership Challenge Prg.) LS MBA, LS T-MBA Coaching Execution improvement at the team level Intervention Assimilation W/S , PI , Harmony Day Overseas dispatch UT-Austin China Biz. Academy/On-boarding for returning expatriates External language learning support based on goal consensus Program HW Safety and Environment Senior New team leader (4 programs) Manager Shared Growth New team leader WS Design Employees (12 programs) Understanding different cultures(US/China/Middle East/Iran/Vietnam) Competency Local Community GBT Lv. 4 Strategic Language (2nd Foreign Language) Speaking CAE Automation Performance (17 programs) Appendix PLC Lv. 3 (12 programs) Financial Statements Common Solution Leader Program Manager Competency (5 programs) Lv. 3 HMI Safety and Environment Global communication (2 programs) In Company Employees Performance Lv. 2 Drive Shared Growth and Social (2 programs) English Competency Contribution Lv. 2 Quality Third Party’s Assurance Innovation capacity improvement for office workers (8 programs) Performance Statement Lv. 1 DT Daily News (4 programs) GRI Standards Index Competency Briefing Lv. 1 Production UNGC, Memberships and Associate (4 programs) Awards Manager Purchase LS Future Camp Mentoring (2 programs) IntenIntroductory program for nonSupport Supplier sive(English/ career employees(LS ELECTRIC) (8 programs) (8 programs) Chinses) Introductory program for nonSales career employees(LS Group) (7 programs) Production Capacity-building for production supervisors Innovation capacity 2019-2020 supervisor/Proimprovement for Common duction worker Capacity-building for production workers production workers (9 programs) LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report 2019-2020 68 69 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report Development of Human Resources Respect for Human Rights and Protection of Basic Rights LS ELECTRIC operates wide-ranging training programs, from posiInstitutional mechanisms are arranged to ensure that our employees do tion-specific/job-specific programs to global and organizational develnot suffer any unjustified discrimination on the grounds of gender, race, opment programs to help employees improve their job competence. religion or hometown. Diversity management policies are implemented In particular, a global lounge was created at the Headquarters and and constantly improved to motivate employees to fully engage in their the Cheongju plant for global capacity-building to assist employees in work. To this end, we provide an environment to give equal opportunities developing language skills and embracing different cultures. Furtherto all employees to unleash their full potential. We are in thorough commore, customers and students in the power solution and automation pliance with relevant provisions ratified by domestic laws and the Intermarkets are supported with in-depth theory and product learning for national Labor Organization, and have not been aware of any violation the dual purpose of customer assistance and social contribution. occurring in this regard. LS ELECTRIC is committed to the supplementation and further development of institutions to respect human rights. Fair Appraisal and Compensation To provide better working conditions, wage and collective agreement LS ELECTRIC firmly believes that fair performance appraisal and comnegotiations are conducted with the labor union each year to respect pensation forms the basis for its sustainable development as a comits collective bargaining rights. Our employees are not subject to any pany. As such, our performance appraisal system is operated in such a disadvantage for their involvement in labor union activities and are thus way that targets are set at the group and division level to attain compaguaranteed the freedom to engage in such activities. ny-wide management goals, and they are translated into team/individual-level targets. In conducting performance assessments, the rate of Win-Win Labor-Management Partnership allocating individual assessment grades is adjusted in alignment with Since our labor union was established back in 1987, LS ELECTRIC and its their organizational assessment grades to synchronize organizational labor union have been dedicated to building a win-win labor-manageand individual performance, and assessment outcomes are used in ment partnership. The Labor-Management Council serves as a channel to making bonus, salary, promotion and career development decisions. discuss not only labor conditions and welfare benefits but also workforce arrangement and relocation and the Company’s growth strategy with the labor union to create a reasonable labor-management culture. In addition Operational Process to the labor union, separate office worker representative bodies (LinkerS, Smart Board, ACE Board) are under operation to promote communication Goal consensus Appraiser Interview Appraisee and feedback collection across different worksites and job levels and to Goal setting continuously improve the work environment and treatment for employees. OrganiApplication Goal Individual zational Labor Union Membership for goal consensus consensus goal setting (team) goal Interview In accordance with the collective agreement and labor rules, 31.8% of the total employees were unionized as of the end of 2019. (unit: No. of persons) Goal revision/ interim check Appraiser Interview Appraisee Category Job Category 2017 2018 2019 Progress check Frequent Office worker 2,081 2,043 2,060 Check and Non-union observation support Self-check member Production Goal addition 78 78 80 and appraisal advisor/others and correction Union member Production worker 1,021 1,018 999 Appraisal Appraiser Interview Appraisee Union Membership Rate (unit: %) Self-appraisal Agreement Appraisal 32.4 Interview on the Self by the 32.1 result and -appraisal Appraisal superior feedback by the superior 31.8 2017 2018 2019 70 Core Issue Local Community Overview About This Report 2019 HIGHLIGHT It is with the strong sense of solidarity Chairman’s Message that LS ELECTRIC extends its helping hand in a sincere and sustained manLS ELECTRIC at a Glance ner to resolve social conflicts and issues Company Profile that plague the vulnerable. Guided by Corporate Governance the three principles of Partnership, IniStakeholder Value Chain Map tiative and Sustainability, we launch taiGlobal Business lor-made social contribution activities in Anyang, Cheongju, Cheonan, and Business Overview Busan where our plants are operated Product Overview in addition to making donations to low income groups. Since 2019, we have Core Issues launched ‘Let’s Start Together with LS Integrated Sustainability ELECTRIC’ as a sponsorship program Management for children. Materiality Assessment Ethics Management Customer Satisfaction Safety and Environment Shared Growth Employees Local Community Appendix Financial Statements Safety and Environment [Goal 1, 4] Employees End all forms of poverty, and provide and Shared Growth and Social increase access to quality education for all Contribution Third Party’s Assurance Statement 1.4 GRI Standards Index Ensure that all men and women, in particular the poor and the vulnerable, have equal UNGC, Memberships and Awards rights to economic resources, as well as access to basic services 06 4.5 Eliminate gender disparities in education and ensure equal access to all levels of education and vocational training for the vulnerable 2019-2020 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report 2019-2020 70 71 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report KEY PERFORMANCE & TARGETS Plans for 2019 Strengthen activities for the Social Contribution Council composed of members from local communities, academia and governments Establish customized support programs at the community level Initiate ‘Let’s Start Together with LS ELECTRIC’ as a sponsorship campaign for children Performance in 2019 Expanded the participation of the Social Contribution Council in Anyang Established three major social contribution campaigns to protect children, seniors and the environment Launched Let’s Start Together with LS ELECTRIC as a new social contribution program Plans for 2020 Create global social contribution programs that befit our status as a global citizen Ensure the continuity of locally-customized social contribution programs Internalize awareness of social responsibility through increased employee engagement Employees who participated in volunteer activities (including redundancies) 6,076 persons COMMITMENT Eunjeong Kim goodneighbors Annual donations made 5,638 million 'When we go tougher, it brings greater hope' Good Neighbors and LS ELECTRIC initiated the KRW Dream program in 2019 as part of the Let’s Start Together with LS ELECTRIC campaign. This program was designed to donate essential learning supplies to children from low income families at the beginning of new semesters. Good Neighbors will join hands with LS ELECTRIC to undertake sustainable social contribution activities that truly cater to the Social contribution expenses 56 million needs of beneficiaries to help children lead a flourishing life. KRW Local Community 72 Social Contribution Philosophy and System LS Group’s LS ELECTRIC’s Social Contribution Philosophy Social Contribution Philosophy Social Contribution Philosophy Overview LS ELECTRIC’s social contribution is aligned Lend a helping hand in a sincere About This Report A reliable partner to support the with other LS Group subsidiaries to ensure and consistent manner with a sense underprivileged and future generations 2019 HIGHLIGHT consistency. LS Group’s management philosof solidarity to resolve social conflicts and support the vulnerable Chairman’s Message ophy ‘LSpartnership’ means that we create A. greater value moving together as a trusted Create greater value through sharing Partnership LS ELECTRIC at a Glance partner, and embodies the identity of our and cooperation between volunteers Interest and engagement and beneficiaries based on in social conflicts Company Profile social contribution initiatives. the philosophy of LSpartnership and vulnerable groups Corporate Governance In line with this philosophy, LS Group aims B. Initiative to become a ‘reliable partner to support the Develop and operate programs Stakeholder Value Chain Map Sincere and spontaneous actions underprivileged and future generation’, and among respective subsidiaries Global Business with consistent themes in line with Sustainability focuses on generating greater value through LS Group’s philosophy to combine Consistent and steady execution Business Overview sharing and cooperation between volunteers capabilities and create synergy Product Overview and beneficiaries, undertaking social contribution programs in Korea and abroad. Core Issues Integrated Sustainability Management Social Contribution Implementation System LS Group’s Social Contribution Initiatives Materiality Assessment LS ELECTRIC is operating independent programs newly developed from LS Dream Science Class Ethics Management the long-term perspective to fulfill its responsibility as a corporate citSince 2013, LS Group has operated LS Dream Science Class in conCustomer Satisfaction izen in addition to existing group-wide programs, creating greater synjunction with the Child Fund and the National Academy of EngineerSafety and Environment ergy in so doing. The Public Relations Team supervises our company-wide ing of Korea to provide science experiment and cultural experience social contribution operations, and respective plants implement taiprograms to elementary schools located near its worksites. This proShared Growth lor-made programs with the HR Support (Support Innovation) Team and gram benefits fifth and sixth graders during vacation through science Employees LinkerS (representative body for office workers) playing a central role. experiment/practice lessons and weekly culture and arts experience Local Community programs led by undergraduates with science and engineering majors chosen through open competition serving as instructors and mentors Appendix following the completion of training. In Cheongju, Anyang, and Busan, Financial Statements LS ELECTRIC employees volunteer as daily instructors for science experSafety and Environment iment/practice classes and help children tour our worksites as part of Employees Chairman LS Dream Science Class. Shared Growth and Social Contribution LS Overseas Volunteer Group/LS Dream School Third Party’s Assurance The LS overseas volunteer group consists of 20 undergraduates chosen Public Relations Statement Team through open competition as well as employees from LS Group subGRI Standards Index sidiaries and experts from NGOs cohosting the initiative. Volunteers receive nearly two-month professional training and make preparations UNGC, Memberships and Awards to reach out to children in developing countries with sincere affecCheongju Cheonan Busan tion and caring attitudes. The LS overseas volunteer group has been LinkerS* plant plant plant engaged in overseas volunteering every two years since 2007, and the LS Dream School project was launched in 2013 in alignment with the volunteer group to choose two schools suffering a shortage of classLinkerS: LinkerS was launched as LS ELECTRIC’s representative body rooms and aging facilities and to build new buildings for them. This profor office workers to establish an open-minded culture and lead social contribution gram resulted in the opening of 12 new schools as of 2019. 2019-2020 initiatives, currently has 17 active members. LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report 2019-2020 72 73 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report LS Dream School / LS overseas volunteer group LS Dream Orchestra LS Dream Orchestra Environmental Clean-up Program Modeled after El Sistema, a Venezuelan music program designed for ‘Let’s Make Green with LS ELECTRIC’ aims to preserve the urban ecounderprivileged children, LS Dream Orchestra was launched in June system and resolve environmental issues. Volunteers including our 2012 to provide consistent classical orchestra education to children. employees, the Environmental Action Association, and local residents This program is recognized for its contribution to promoting the holistic visit Anyang Stream in Gyeonggi Province and Musim Stream in North and emotional development of children and empowering them to lead a Chungcheong Province to throw Effective Microorganism (EM) soil balls more flourishing life. LS ELECTRIC vows to do its utmost to help children into the water, pick up waste, and eliminate invasive plants disturbing learn the spirit of teamwork and challenge and become a responsible the ecosystem to make these streams cleaner. In addition to Anyang, member of society while developing their passion for music and discovregular environmental improvement activities are undertaken across ering their talent through orchestra activities. streams and forests in the vicinity of our worksites. LS ELECTRIC’s Social Contribution Initiatives Tailor-made seasonal support programs are operated year-round in alignment with local communities and civil organizations. The ‘Let’s Make Green with LS ELECTRIC’ campaign offers daily living support to local seniors and helps preserve the urban ecosystem and resolve environmental issues while the ‘Let’s Start Together with LS ELECTRIC’ campaign supports local children and students to move forward with a healthy mind and body in a safe environment. LS ELECTRIC fulfills its social responsibility through the continued implementation of such varied sponsorship programs. Children Sponsorship Program Our child sponsorship campaign was initiated in 2019. As part of this campaign dubbed ‘Let’s Start Together with LS ELECTRIC’, we launched the ‘LS ELECTRIC Learning Kit Donation’ program to donate bags and school supplies worth more than KRW 20 million to nearly 150 elementary school students from low income families in Anyang in cooperation with Good Neighbors. Local Community 74 Daily Support for Seniors Donating Kimchi for the Upcoming Winter Season Since 2014, we have donated winter clothes to low-income seniors livWe made kimchi and donated them to neighbors who find it difficult to ing alone in conjunction with the Anyang Senior Welfare Service Center make kimchi themselves during the cold winter season. This was led by Overview and other local social organizations. Every year, our volunteers visit their more than 50 Volunteer Club members who prepared necessary ingreAbout This Report home and practice the spirit of warmth, spending quality time together. dients, made kimchi and then delivered them to seniors living alone and 2019 HIGHLIGHT people with disabilities in local communities. Volunteer Club continues Social Contribution Satisfaction Survey with volunteer activities with the belief that their small yet meaningful Chairman’s Message We have conducted stakeholder surveys since 2018 to identify the level contributions will eventually empower less privileged members in sociLS ELECTRIC at a Glance of their awareness, satisfaction and preference concerning our social ety to lead a better life. contribution programs. Respondents include local public officials, local Company Profile welfare center staff and volunteers, and social contribution experts, Donating Briquettes Corporate Governance and survey results are reflected in designing customized programs for We donated more than 2,400 briquettes to families in Cheongju who Stakeholder Value Chain Map the following year. In particular, our social contribution programs are face difficulties in paying their heating bills during the cold winter seaGlobal Business restructured to focus on those programs that generate greater satisson. Nearly 30 members of the neighborhood patrol group as well as LS faction among beneficiaries and to identify new programs that cater to ELECTRIC employees joined hands to provide such tailor-made support Business Overview their requirements. to people in need. Volunteer Club, a volunteer group launched by our Product Overview employees with an aim to practice love for neighbors and promote harTailor-made Seasonal Support mony among employees, has been lending its helping hand to those in Core Issues Since 2014, we have donated winter clothes, meal boxes for the Korean need for the past three decades. Integrated Sustainability Thanksgiving, and cooling devices to low-income and underprivileged Management groups in local communities. On New Year’s Day, we invite seniors living Materiality Assessment alone and people with disabilities and serve them rice cake soup in celeEthics Management bration. We have supported people with disabilities living at home with Customer Satisfaction outings and cultural experience programs starting with Anyang in 2017 where our Headquarters is located, and plan to extend and continue Safety and Environment this initiative in other local worksites. Shared Growth Employees Customized Social Contribution Initiatives Local Community Donating KRW 100 Million to the Underprivileged in Cheongju We have recently sponsored social welfare activities designed for the Appendix self-reliance of underprivileged groups in Cheongju where Cheongju Financial Statements plant are located as a way to fulfill our corporate social responsibility. The KRW 100 million we donated to Cheongju City in October 2019 went Safety and Environment to fund the ‘Cheongju Welfare Festival’, a ‘customized support program Employees for low income groups’, and community-level social security councils to Shared Growth and Social provide diverse welfare service information and experience programs Contribution to local residents. Third Party’s Assurance Statement GRI Standards Index UNGC, Memberships and Awards 2019-2020 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report 2019-2020 74 75 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report APPENDIX Financial Statements 76 Safety and Environment 77 Employees 78 Shared Growth and Social Contribution 79 Third Party’s Assurance Statement 80 GRI Standards Index 82 UNGC, Memberships and Awards 85 Financial Statements (on a consolidated basis) 76 Summarized Statement of Financial Position (unit: KRW million) Item 2017 2018 2019 Assets 2,255,821 2,405,836 2,538,144 Current assets 1,416,121 1,536,084 1,666,900 Overview Non-current assets 839,700 869,751 871,244 Liabilities 1,107,681 1,108,364 1,175,462 About This Report Current liabilities 649,818 700,173 753,779 2019 HIGHLIGHT Non-current liabilities 457,864 408,191 421,683 Chairman’s Message Equity 1,148,140 1,297,471 1,362,683 Total equity attributable to stockholders of the Company 1,145,723 1,294,510 1,360,591 LS ELECTRIC at a Glance Non-controlling interests 2,417 2,962 2,091 Company Profile Total liabilities and equity 2,255,821 2,405,836 2,538,144 Corporate Governance Stakeholder Value Chain Map Global Business Business Overview Summarized Statement of Comprehensive Income Product Overview (unit: KRW million) Item 2017 2018 2019 Core Issues Sales 2,343,745 2,484,978 2,346,849 Integrated Sustainability 158,442 205,048 168,549 Operating income Management Income from continuing operations before tax 138,489 177,790 146,957 Materiality Assessment Net income 106,005 132,235 103,043 Ethics Management Total comprehensive income for the current term 105,534 128,026 100,401 Customer Satisfaction Safety and Environment Shared Growth Employees Summarized Statement of Cash Flows (unit: KRW million) Local Community Item 2017 2018 2019 Appendix Cash flows from operating activities 144,598 204,655 216,080 Financial Statements Cash flows from investing activities (163,772) 67,346 (78,623) Safety and Environment Cash flows from financing activities (54,074) (80,570) (57,835) Change in cash and cash equivalents (73,247) 191,431 79,621 Employees Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 340,137 261,507 455,629 Shared Growth and Social Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (5,383) 2,692 (743) Contribution Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 261,507 455,629 534,507 Third Party’s Assurance Statement GRI Standards Index UNGC, Memberships and Awards Balance in Government Subsidies (unit: KRW million) Item 2017 2018 2019 Machinery 7 560 510 Office equipment 41 30 21 Buildings 225 205 184 2019-2020 Development expenses 1,678 1,548 291 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report 76 77 Safety and Environment 2019-2020 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report Safety and Environment Indicators Sector Item Unit 2017 2018 2019 Note Green product KRW million 9,052 5,879 8,519 development I nvestment in transforming Cheongju plant into a smart factory, Process KRW million 191 271 14,044 renovating the testing equipment improvement Investment line, and rationalizing transformer in safety and equipment environment Investment in environmental and KRW million 822 405 411 safety facilities Maintenance U/T power expansion and aging of environmental KRW million 488 274 875 facility replacement and safety facilities Dust emissions kg 824 677 1,033 Water consumption km3 212 175 165 3 Effluent discharge m 45 22 28 Waste General ton 4,251 4,250 4,386 discharge Designated ton 99 106 78 Waste recycling % 86 87 86 Environment Scope 1 tCO2eq 250,704 27,212 50,843 GHG emissions Scope 2 tCO2eq 25,553 32,786 35,284 (by Scope 3 tCO2eq 506,032 563,338 312,394 source) Subtotal tCO2eq 782,289 623,335 398,521 tCO2eq/KRW GHG intensity 0.43 0.32 0.22 million Electricity MWh 57,153 70,317 75,677 consumption toe 13,135 16,173 17,406 MWh/KRW 100 Electricity intensity 3.12 3.60 4.10 million Energy Gas (LNG) km3 2,337 2,733 2,424 consumption toe 2,432 2,850 2,528 km3/KRW 100 Gas (LNG) intensity 0.13 0.14 0.13 million Occupational % 0.04 0.03 0.01 injury rate Safety Training hours hour 90,446 91,325 89,438 (cumulative) Trainees (cumulative) No. of persons 19,027 19,458 18,960 Steel ton 12,181 7,908 8,203 Raw materials Non-ferrous metal ton 3,884 3,512 3,324 Resin ton 700 626 532 Production amount KRW 100 million 18,320 19,544 18,443 * GHG emission data may differ from that of the Greenhouse Gas Inventory and Research Center due to differences in the required aggregation range. Employees 78 HR Indicators (as of the end of 2019) Sector Unit 2017 2018 2019 Note Executives No. of persons 20 18 21 Permanent employees No. of persons 3,168 3,128 3,093 Overview Total employees Including responsible employees Temporary employees No. of persons 214 225 233 and temporary employees About This Report Total No. of persons 3,402 3,371 3,347 2019 HIGHLIGHT Anyang No. of persons 1,030 1,011 953 Chairman’s Message Seoul No. of persons 123 LS Yongsan Tower Cheongju No. of persons 1,525 1,511 1,449 LS ELECTRIC at a Glance Employees Cheonan No. of persons 509 488 473 by region Company Profile Busan No. of persons 182 186 183 Corporate Governance Others No. of persons 156 175 166 Stakeholder Value Chain Map Total No. of persons 3,402 3,371 3,347 20’s No. of persons 272 210 180 Global Business Employees 30’s No. of persons 1,027 997 967 Business Overview by age group 40’s No. of persons 1,179 1,150 1,109 (permanent Product Overview employees) 50 and older No. of persons 690 771 837 Total No. of persons 3,168 3,128 3,093 Core Issues New recruits (permanent) No. of persons 41 65 87 Integrated Sustainability Including employees who Management Turnover (permanent) % 5.26 3.50 3.68 resigned due to retirement age Materiality Assessment Female employees (permanent) No. of persons 418 420 304 Ethics Management Female executives (permanent + temporary) % 10.4 12.5 10.7 Female managers No. of persons 36 43 59 In manager and higher positions Customer Satisfaction Ratio of female managers % 3.0 3.4 4.1 Against total managers Safety and Environment Employees with disabilities No. of persons 50 50 57 Based on permanent positions Shared Growth Ratio of employees with disabilities % 1.6 1.6 1.8 Employees Foreign national employees Foreign national employees No. of persons 12 12 11 Local Community (permanent +temporary) working in Korea Training expenses per person KRW 1,000/person 1,652 2,017 1,974 Appendix Training hours per person PD/person 7 7 8 1PD = 8 hours of offline training and 1 month of online training Financial Statements Welfare and benefit expenses KRW million/person 16 16 17 Based on permanent positions Safety and Environment Employees who took childbirth leave No. of persons 13 10 15 Employees Based on employees who returned Employees who took parental leave No. of persons 14 19 14 to work after parental leave  hared Growth and S Social Contribution Employees who returned % 100 100 100 to work after parental leave Third Party’s Assurance Statement GRI Standards Index * Funds under management are based on the year-end balance of pension fund operators. UNGC, Memberships and Operational Status of the Retirement Pension Fund Awards Sector Unit 2017 2018 2019 Funds under Defined KRW million 183,483 180,120 198,501 management* Benefit (DB) Subscribers No. of persons 3,252 3,062 2,831 Defined Funds under KRW million Contribution management 2019-2020 (DC) Subscribers No. of persons 92 239 346 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report 78 79 Shared Growth 2019-2020 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report and Social Contribution Shared Growth Indicators Indicator Unit 2017 2018 2019 Note Ethics index of suppliers Point 4.23 4.23 4.25 Ethics index of distributors Point 4.08 4.06 4.04 Signing of the Shared No. of agreements signed No. of cases 337 351 258 Growth Agreement Funds raised KRW 100 million 238 310 310 Financial support to suppliers Support amount KRW 100 million 139 114 118 Suppliers who received support No. of companies 68 63 62 Shared-growth payment Total shared-growth KRW 100 million 7,182 9,291 7,999 support for suppliers payments made Training support for suppliers No. of participants No. of persons 196 246 293 Technology sharing for suppliers Beneficiary suppliers No. of companies 42 Provision of patent license free-of-charge Technology protection Certification of Original Documents No. of cases No. of cases 11 12 34 for suppliers on Trade Secrets New product development projects No. of cases 1 Technology development No. of cases support for suppliers Technology cooperation projects KRW 100 million ACE Club Members No. of companies 19 17 17 (Supplier Association) Innovation capacity support Suppliers who received support No. of companies 19 17 17 for the ACE Club Employees who received support No. of persons 19 17 17 Benefit sharing with suppliers Participating suppliers No. of companies 279 248 238 2017: CLO Talk Concert 2018: CLO Talk Concert, Donggamdonghaeng (meaning Communication with suppliers No. of occasions 3 3 3 the same feeling, the same way) 2019: CLO Talk Concert, Donggamdonghaeng Purchase by Region Indicator Unit 2017 2018 2019 Note Asia (excluding the Middle East) % 70 68 59 Europe % 23 25 33 Americas % 5 5 5 Middle East % 1 2 3 Others (Oceania and Africa) % 0.02 Total % 100 100 100 Social Contribution Indicator Unit 2017 2018 2019 Note Donations made KRW million 494 5,932 5,638 Donations recordable Social contribution expenses KRW million 50 53 56 Social contribution activities No. of cases 119 122 97 Participants in social No. of persons 1,590 1,677 6,076 Including redundancies contribution activities Third Party’s Assurance Statement 80 To the Readers of 2019-2020 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report: Forced or Compulsory Labor : 409-1 Human Rights Assessment : 412-2 Foreword Local Communities : 413-1 Overview Korea Management Registrar Inc. (hereinafter “KMR”) has been Public Policy : 415-1 About This Report requested by of LS ELECTRIC to verify the contents of its 2019-2020 Customer Health and Safety : 416-1, 416-2 2019 HIGHLIGHT LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report (Hereby referred to as “the Report”). Marketing and Labeling : 417-3 LS ELECTRIC is responsible for the collection and presentation of inforCustomer Privacy : 418-1 Chairman’s Message mation included in the Report. KMR’s responsibility is to carry out assurSocioeconomic Compliance : 419-1 LS ELECTRIC at a Glance ance engagement on specific data and information in the assurance This Report excludes data and information of joint corporate, contractor scope stipulated below. Company Profile etc. which is outside of the organization, i.e. LS ELECTRIC, among report Corporate Governance boundaries. Scope and standard Stakeholder Value Chain Map LS ELECTRIC describes its efforts and achievements of the corporate Our approach Global Business social responsibility activities in the Report. KMR performed a type2, In order to verify the contents of the Report within an agreed scope of Business Overview moderate level of assurance using AA1000AS (2008) and SRV1000 from assurance in accordance with the assurance standard, the team has carKMR Global Sustainability Committee as assurance standards. KMR’s Product Overview ried out an assurance engagement as follows: assurance team(hereinafter “the team”) evaluated the adherence to Principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness, and the reli· Reviewed overall report Core Issues ability of the selected GRI Standards indices as below, where profes· Reviewed materiality test process and methodology Integrated Sustainability · Reviewed sustainability management strategies and targets sional judgment of the team was exercised as materiality criteria. Management · Reviewed stakeholder engagement activities Materiality Assessment The team checked whether the Report has been prepared in accordance · Interviewed people in charge of preparing the Report with the ‘Core Option’ of GRI Standards which covers the followings. Ethics Management Customer Satisfaction · GRI Standards Reporting Principles Our conclusion Safety and Environment · Universal Standards Based on the results we have obtained from material reviews and inter· Topic Specific Standards views, we had several discussions with LS ELECTRIC on the revision of Shared Growth Management approach of Topic Specific Standards the Report. We reviewed the Report’s final version in order to confirm Employees Economic Performance : 201-1, 201-3, 201-4 that our recommendations for improvement and our revisions have Local Community Procurement Practices : 204-1 been reflected. When reviewing the results of the assurance, the assurAnti-Corruption : 205-1, 205-2, 205-3 ance team could not find any inappropriate contents in the Report to Appendix Materials : 301-1, 301-2 the compliance with the principles stipulated below. Nothing has come Financial Statements Energy : 302-3, 302-4, 302-5 to our attention that causes us to believe that the data included in the Safety and Environment Water : 303-1, 303-2 verification scope are not presented appropriately. Emissions : 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4, 305-5, 305-7 Employees Inclusivity Effluents and Waste : 306-1, 306-2, 306-3, 306-4, 306-5 Shared Growth and Social Inclusivity is the participation of stakeholders in developing and achievEnvironmental Compliance : 307-1 Contribution ing an accountable and strategic response to sustainability Employment : 401-1, 401-3  hird Party’s Assurance T Labor/Management Relations : 402-1 L S ELECTRIC is developing and maintaining stakeholder communiStatement Occupational Health and Safety : 403-1, 403-2, 403-3, 403-4 cation channels in various forms and levels in order to make a comGRI Standards Index Training and Education : 404-1, 404-2, 404-3 mitment to be responsible for the stakeholders. The assurance team UNGC, Memberships and Diversity and Equal Opportunity : 405-1 could not find any critical stakeholder LS ELECTRIC left out during this Awards Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining : 407-1 procedure. Child Labor : 408-1 2019-2020 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report 2019-2020 80 81 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report Materiality Recommendation for improvement Materiality is determining the relevance and significance of an issue to We hope the Report is actively used as a communication tool with an organization and its stakeholders. A material issue is an issue that stakeholders and we recommend the following for continuous improvewill influence the decisions, actions, and performance of an organizaments. tion or its stakeholders. · L S ELECTRIC selected a wider range of material topics compared to L S ELECTRIC is determining the materiality of issues found out through others and presented an in-depth report on plans and performance. stakeholder communication channels through its own materiality It also provided a simple and easy-to-understand explanation of its evaluation process, and the assurance team could not find any critical industrial devices and software which readers may find hard to underissues left out in this process. stand, along with a balanced report on corruption and irregularities. We recommend that LS Electric reinforce the analysis and report on Responsiveness economic performance in the context of sustainability and expand Responsiveness is an organization’s response to stakeholder issues that quantitatively measurable KPIs. affect its sustainability performance and is realized through decisions, actions, and performance, as well as communication with stakeholders. Our independence T he assurance team could not find any evidence that LS ELECTRIC’s With the exception of providing third party assurance services, KMR is counter measures to critical stakeholder issues were inappropriately not involved in any other LS ELECTRIC’s business operations that are recorded in the Report. aimed at making profit in order to avoid any conflicts of interest and to maintain independence. We could not find any evidence the Report was not prepared in accordance with the ‘Core Option’ of GRI standards. July, 9th, 2020 CEO GRI Standards Index 82 GRI Standards Index 1 Topic Disclosure Page Ommissions/Comments 102-1 Name of the organization 10 102-2 Primary brands, products, and services 18-25 Overview 102-3 Location of the organization’s headquarters 10, 17 About This Report 102-4 Location of operations 16-17 102-5 Nature of ownership and legal form 12-13 2019 HIGHLIGHT 102-6 Markets served 16-17 Chairman’s Message Organizational 102-7 Scale of the organization 10-11 profile LS ELECTRIC at a Glance 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 10, 78 102-9 Supply chain 14-17 Company Profile 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 10, 14-17 Corporate Governance 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 37-39 Stakeholder Value Chain Map 102-12 External initiatives 29, 85 Global Business 102-13 Membership of associations 85 Business Overview Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 6 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 34-37 Product Overview Governance 102-18 Governance structure 12-13 Core Issues 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 14-15 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 69 Integrated Sustainability Management Stakeholder 102-42 Basis for identifying and selecting stakeholders 14-15 engagement Materiality Assessment 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 14-15 Key topics and concerns that have been raised Ethics Management 102-44 30-31 through stakeholder engagement Customer Satisfaction 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 16-17 Safety and Environment 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 30-31 Shared Growth 102-47 List of material topics 30-31 102-48 Restatements of information No restatements made Employees 102-49 Changes in reporting No changes Local Community 102-50 Reporting period 2 Report profile Appendix 102-51 Date of most recent report 2 102-52 Reporting cycle 2 Financial Statements 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 2 Safety and Environment 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 2 Employees 102-55 GRI Index 82-84 Shared Growth and Social 102-56 External assurance 80-81 Contribution Third Party’s Assurance Statement GRI Standards Index UNGC, Memberships and Awards 2019-2020 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report 2019-2020 82 83 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report GRI Standards Index 2 Topic Disclosure Page Ommissions/Comments Management 33, 41, 53, 103 Management approach Approach 57, 65, 71 Economic Standards 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 13, 15 Economic 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations of the organization 78 Performance 201-4 Financial assistance received from the government 76 Percentage of the procurement budget used for significant Procurement 204-1 locations of operation that is spent on suppliers local to that 14-15, 79 Practices operation Total number and percentage of operations assessed 205-1 for risks related to corruption and significant risks related 34-37 to corruption identified through the risk assessment Anti-corruption Communication and training about anti-corruption policies 205-2 34-37 and procedures No cases of corruption recorded 205-3 Actions taken on confirmed incidents of corruption during the reporting period Environmental Standards 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 77 Materials 301-2 Percentage of recycled input materials used No recycled input materials used 302-3 Energy intensity 77 302-4 Reductions in energy consumption 54, 77 Energy Reductions in energy requirements of products 302-5 54, 77 and services 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 77 Water supply Water Water sourced 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 54, 77 from local governments 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 54, 77 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 54, 77 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 54, 77 Emissions 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 77 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 54 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), 305-7 54, 77 and other significant air emissions Total volume of effluent discharges by destination Effluents treated 306-1 54, 77 and quality of the water through outsourcing 306-2 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 54, 77 No significant spills of hazardous Effluents and Waste 306-3 Total number and total volume of recorded significant spills substances recorded during the reporting period 306-4 Hazardous waste transported Fully outsourced Water bodies that are significantly affected 306-5 Fully outsourced by effluent discharges No non-compliance with Sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws Compliance 307-1 environmental laws/regulations and/or regulations during the reporting period 84 GRI Standards Index 3 Topic Disclosure Page Ommissions/Comments Social Standards Total number and rate of new employee hires 401-1 78 Overview and employee turnover during the reporting period Employment Total number of employees that returned to work after parental About This Report 401-3 leave ended that were still employed 12 months after their return 78 to work by gender 2019 HIGHLIGHT Labor/Management Chairman’s Message 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 69 Relations Percentage of workers that are represented by formal joint LS ELECTRIC at a Glance 403-1 77 management-worker health and safety committees Company Profile Types of injury, injury rate (IR), occupational disease rate (ODR), 403-2 55, 77 Occupational Health lost day rate (LDR), absentee rate (AR), and work-related fatalities Corporate Governance and Safety Workers involved in occupational activities 403-3 55 Stakeholder Value Chain Map who have a high incidence of high risk of specific diseases Health and safety topics covered by formal agreements Global Business 403-4 55 with trade unions Business Overview Average hours of training per year per employees 404-1 78 (by gender, by employee category) Product Overview Job training or life-long training programs provided to facilitate Training 404-2 continued employability and the management of career endings 68 Core Issues and Education resulting from retirement of termination of employment Integrated Sustainability Percentage of total employees by gender 404-3 and by employee category who received a regular performance 68 Management and career development review during the reporting period Materiality Assessment Composition of the organization’s governance bodies Diversity and Equal 405-1 and percentage of individuals within such bodies by gender, 78 Ethics Management Opportunity age group, and other indicators of diversity such as minority Customer Satisfaction Operations and suppliers in which workers’ rights to exercise Freedom freedom of association or collective bargaining may be violated or Safety and Environment of Association and 407-1 at significant risk, and measures taken to correct or prevent such No violation Collective Bargaining Shared Growth violations Operations and suppliers considered to have significant risk for Employees Child Labor 408-1 incidents of child labor, and measures taken by the organization to 69 Local Community contribute to the effective abolition of child labor Operations and suppliers considered to have significant risk for Forced or 409-1 incidents of forced labor, and measures taken by the organization 58, 69 Appendix Compulsory Labor to contribute to the effective abolition of forced labor Financial Statements Human Rights Total number of hours devoted to training on human rights policies 412-2 or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that 69 Safety and Environment Assessment are relevant to operations, and percentage of employees trained Employees Local Communities 413-1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community 74 engagement, impact assessments, and/or development programs Shared Growth and Social Total monetary value of political contributions made Contribution Public Policy 415-1 by the organization None Third Party’s Assurance Percentage of significant product and service categories 416-1 55 Statement for which health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement GRI Standards Index Customer Health Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and Safety and/or voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts 416-2 None  NGC, Memberships and U of products and services Awards (by incidents resulting in a fine or penalty/warning) Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations Marketing 417-3 and/or voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, None and Labeling including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship Total number of substantiated complaints received concerning Customer Privacy 418-1 breaches of customer privacy and/or identified losses None of customer data Socioeconomic Total monetary value and number of significant fines No violation recorded during 2019-2020 419-1 Compliance for non-compliance with laws and/or regulations the reporting period LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report 84 85 UNGC, Memberships 2019-2020 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report and Awards UN Global Compact The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Page LS ELECTRIC’s Policy Principle 1: B  usinesses should support and respect the protection of internationally Human Right proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recLS ELECTRIC’s Code of Ethics p.32~39, Ethics Management ognition of the right to collective bargaining; LS ELECTRIC’s Code of Ethics p.69, Employees and Conduct for employees Labour Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; p.50~55, Safety LS ELECTRIC’s Environment Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and and Environment environmental policy Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. LS ELECTRIC’s Code of Ethics Anti Principle 10: B usinesses should work against corruption in all its forms, p.32~39 Ethics Management LS ELECTRIC’s Code of Ethics -Corruption including extortion and bribery. p.69 Employees and Conduct for employees Memberships Domestic Overseas Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Korea International Trade Association, Federation of Korean Industries, Korea Electrical Manufacturers Association, Korea Smart Grid Association, Korean Standards Association, KoreaJapan Economic Association, Korea Electric Association, Korean Institute of Electrical Engineers, Korea Electrical Contractors Association, International Contractors Association of Korea, Korea Listed Companies Association, Korea Engineering and Consulting Association, Korea New & Renewable Energy, Korea Photovoltaic Industry Association, UN Global Compact, Korea Fire Safety Institute, Construction Association of Korea, Korea Customs Association, Korea Invention Promotion Mechatro Link, Association, Korea Electrical Contractors Association, ,ODVA Korea, Korea Industrial Technology Association, Korean Ether CAT Tenchnology Group, Association for ECOS, Korean Information & Communication Contractors Association, Korea Railway Association, Korea CIRED, Railway Signal Engineering Association, Korea Mech. Const. Contractors Association, Korea Fire Facility Association, CAN in Automation, Korea Electric Engineers Association, Korea Products Safety Association, Korea Smart Manufacturing Industry ESA in the US Association, Korean Institute of Power Electronics, Korea Institute of Information & Telecommunication Facilities Engineering, Korean Institute of Electrical and Electronic Material Engineers, Korea Software Industry Association, Korea Software Technology Association, Korea Intellectual Property Association, Korea Industrial Safety Association, Korea Association of Standards & Testing Organizations, Green Company, Environmental Preservation Association, etc. Awards Date Awardee Award Hosting Organization Award Description (month/year) Company Feb. 2019 Top 100 Global Innovators Clarivate Analytics Top 100 Global Innovators Company Feb. 2019 iF Design Award if International Forum Design Award Award of merit for science and technology development Individual Apr. 2019 Ministry of Science and ICT Minister’s Citation (Jeongjoon Lee, Senior Vice President) Award of merit in celebration of World Standards Day Bronze Tower Order Individual Oct. 2019 Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy (Jeongjoon Lee, Senior Vice President) of the Industrial Service Merit Award of merit for the development Individual Oct. 2019 Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy Minister’s Citation of the electricity industry (Seog-Won Lee, Director) Award of merit for the smart grid industry Individual Oct. 2019 Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy Minister’s Citation ( Hee-Jung Kim, Team Leader) 86 Overview About This Report 2019 HIGHLIGHT Chairman’s Message LS ELECTRIC at a Glance Company Profile Corporate Governance Stakeholder Value Chain Map Global Business Business Overview Product Overview Core Issues Integrated Sustainability Date of Publication Management August 2020 Materiality Assessment Publisher Ethics Management Ja-Kyun Koo Customer Satisfaction Publishing Company Safety and Environment LS ELECTRIC Co., Ltd. Shared Growth Design Employees Reddot Branding Local Community General publication management Kunwook Lee Sang-Soo Lee Yu-Seok Hong Yeon-Jeong Kim Appendix Financial Statements Contributors to Report Publication Safety and Environment Deok-Young Kang Ju-Hye Kim Jae-Hyun Park Sanghoon Lee Employees Sung-Hoon Kang Chul-Gyun Kim Cheong-Won Seo Joon-Kyung Lee Shared Growth and Social Do-Yup Kwon Hee-Jung Kim Young-Lae Suk Chan-Soo Lee Contribution Yong-Jik Kwon Chil-Bong Na Seok-Ki Son Yoon-Tak Jeon Third Party’s Assurance Kyung-Yun Kim Yun-Seog Nam Bong-Soo Shin Hyung-Jun Jeon Statement Ki-Bok Kim Tea-Hoon Nam Young-Sung Shin Sean Cho GRI Standards Index Ki-Seon Kim Hee-Tack Roh Yung-Ho Yuon Seung-Beom Chae UNGC, Memberships and Deok-Hyeon Kim Gihyun Ryu Seung-Seok Oh Myoung-Guen Choi Awards Seong-Deok Kim Dong-Ick Moon Yung-Suk Yoo Jong-Sopb Choi Soo-Jeong Kim Geun-Pyo Park Kwan-No Yoon Joon-Hyeok Choi Young-Jun Kim Sang-Rae Park Joong-Hyeon Yoon Yo-Han Hyun In-Kyoung Kim Sang-Tae Park Tae-Kyun Yun 2019-2020 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report 86 2019-2020 LS ELECTRIC Sustainability Report FUTURING SMART ENERGY
