Communication on Progress Sustainability Report 2019 ALK is committed to doing business in accordance with the UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles. This report includes our progress within the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. cf. sections 99a and 99b of the Danish Financial Statements Act Sustainability Report 2019 • ALK 2 The decade to deliver on our promise As a global allergy solutions company, with to doing our part by supporting the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact and setting increasingly ambitious targets a wide range of treatments, products and that contribute to the achievement of the UN Sustainable services to meet the needs of people with Development Goals. allergy, their families and doctors, we are in a unique position to make a diﬀerence. 2019 was Delivering on our promise for a sustainable world 2019 has been a year of leadership development and cultural a year where we took great strides to deliver transformation at ALK as we began training our top 150 on our promise to people and planet, while leaders to lead in today’s volatile, uncertain, complex and building a sustainable and robust company for ambiguous world. the future. This constantly changing environment demands more of us as colleagues, as global citizens and as people. This is why We are proud to confirm our commitment to the principles of we launched a new Code of Conduct that better reflects how “ responsible conduct outlined in the Ten Principles of the UN we view our role in society today. It incorporates our cultural The choices we make today will impact Global Compact within the areas of human rights, labour, beliefs, our good practices and aligns them with standards whether or not we are in business environment and anti-corruption. We will continue to promote of professional conduct. For us, compliance is not only sustainable development, and to integrate the principles into important internally, but also in how we interact with external tomorrow. Our commitment is not based on the way we conduct business, while maintaining a close and stakeholders or act as private individuals. what makes us feel good or popular, but on transparent collaboration with our stakeholders. which actions will help shape the future we I am proud to announce that ALK has become part of the want to see. 10 years to deliver Danish Government’s newly established Climate Partnership As business leaders it is our obligation to address global within the life science industry. We hope that this new challenges in addition to creating long-term sustainable partnership can foster new ideas for how our industry as a value for our companies. The choices we make today will whole can reduce its climate footprint. impact whether or not we are in business tomorrow. Our anti-corruption. We will begin the process of setting new commitment is not based on what makes us feel good or This year, we also made the decision to continue the rollout of goals based on a new materiality assessment that will take popular, but on which actions will help shape the future we our free allergy companion app klara, which helps hundreds ALK further on our journey to help more people with allergy, want to see. of thousands of people with allergy manage their allergies in while protecting the planet and creating prosperity along the an easy and convenient way. way. The start of this new decade means that we have just ten years to realise the UN Sustainable Development Agenda. In 2020, we will continue our efforts to reach our goals in our Carsten Hellmann I am excited to contribute to this at ALK. We are committed four areas of action human rights, labour, environment and President & CEO Sustainability Report 2019 • ALK 3 ALK business model At ALK, we want to make a diﬀerence by oﬀering solutions for everyone who is aﬀected by allergy – through a comprehensive range of products, services and resources that oﬀer a fast-track to a more balanced life. Foundation Strategic priorities Performance R&D Patients With almost 100 years of experience, nobody knows Succeed in ALK’s tablet portfolio is helping to democratise AIT by allergy and allergic asthma like ALK. We continuously North America covering the most common global respiratory allergies, apply our scientific knowledge to help people take and by bringing new treatment options to people control of their allergy and their life. without easy access to allergy specialists. Natural allergen sources Doctors ALK’s biological medicines are derived from natural allergen Complete and We help allergists to drive better access and outcomes sources, such as pollen, which we harvest, purify and quality commercialise for all AIT-eligible patients, reaching out with support, disease information and treatment options. control at our own source materials facilities. the tablet portfolio Allergy solutions for all relevant ages for life More than 500 million people worldwide have allergies. Society Production 50 million are eligible for AIT ALK addresses profound societal challenges by Production of finished AIT products takes place at dedicated treatment, but less than five producing medicine targeting the leading causes of lost facilities subject to continuous quality assurance in million actually receive it. ALK productivity and lost work days. We partner with payers compliance with EU, US and Japanese pharma standards. and healthcare authorities to advance registered, ALK has AIT manufacturing locations in four countries. Patient is working to support people documented AIT products. with allergy much earlier engagement and in their disease journey by adjacent business engaging with them, informing Sales and partnerships them and mobilising them to In addition to our own sales organisation, ALK partners for growth seek treatment. We aim to Employees with leading speciality pharma companies worldwide. We are commercialise every stage of We are committed to a sustainable work life and we present in 41 markets, either directly or via partnerships. the allergy journey. keep a constant focus on being a great and safe place to work for motivated and satisfied employees. Optimise and Employees reallocate ALK relies on a highly skilled workforce of Shareholder return ~2,400 people united by a set of Cultural Beliefs: ALK works to create long-term value for our Do the right thing, Pursue growth and Build bridges. shareholders. Sustainability Report 2019 • ALK 4 ALK Sustainability Framework The purpose of our Sustainability Framework is to ensure a This guides the overall strategy for our CSR work by stronger link between our CSR activities and our business and acknowledging that being a sustainable company requires a The Sustainable Development Goals a more focused approach to our sustainability ambitions. company that has a balance in its activities. The framework is Following an internal assessment conducted in 2016, a visualisation of the role we play in bringing prosperity to our and a follow-up in 2018, we identified the following four The framework incorporates key elements from the Triple company, our people, people with allergy and consequently SDGs as areas where we can have the most positive Bottom Line framework, the Ten Principles of the UN Global society as a whole. impact: Compact and the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Good health and well-being We contribute to healthy lives and promote well-being for patients and our employees at all ages. Decent work and economic growth We work systematically to improve the working environment in all parts of our organisation and to promote safety at work. Responsible consumption and production PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY We strive for sustainable resource consumption through our production. We promise to build upon our We promise to take care of the We promise to continue to drive We continue to take measures to reduce heritage as a pioneer in allergy planet by taking actions that and grow an ethical business. the climate impact of our production processes. immunotherapy and bring allergy benefit the environment and the We want to be the world leader products and solutions to as many climate. We want to set ambitious in allergy by continuing to be people with allergy as possible goals that make positive changes proactive promoters of high Peace, justice and strong institutions around the world. to the planet. business integrity with the aim We promote peaceful and inclusive of helping as many people with societies for sustainable development. We promise to be a workplace allergy as possible to better We work to reduce corruption and bribery characterised by a caring health and a better life. in all its forms. and creative nature where development, diversity, safety and work-life balance are seen as valuable assets. We call it The Human Organisation. Sustainability Report 2019 • ALK 5 Sustainability performance 2019 PROMISE 2019-2020 GOALS STATUS COMMENT SDG By 2020, we want to treat 2 million people with allergy with our allergy immunotherapy products, diagnostics and adrenaline auto-injectors. 1.9 million Approximately 1.9 million people have been treated with ALK products. By 2020, we want to engage with 20 million people through our consumer initiatives. 105 million An estimated 105 million people have been engaged through our digital consumer platform klarify.me. We promise to build upon our heritage as a pioneer in allergy immunotherapy and bring By 2020, we want to raise the Quality Mindset Maturity Index by 10% Our progress with the Quality Mindset Maturity Index will be reported in allergy products and solutions to as many people compared to baseline. In progress 2020. with allergy as possible around the world. By 2022, we want women to make up 30% of the shareholder-elected members of the Board of Directors. 17% The number of shareholder-elected women is 1 (17%). The number of women on functional-manager level increased by two By 2020, we want women to make up 30% of functional managers. 22% percentage points to 22% versus 20% in 2018, which is a positive step forward. We promise to be a workplace characterised by a caring and creative nature where development, diversity, safety and work-life balance are seen as valuable assets. We call it The Human By 2020, we want women to make up 40% of mid-level managers. 38% The number of women in mid-level management increased by four percentage points to 38%. Organisation. In 2019, the number of work-related accidents with absence was 15, By 2020, the Lost Time Injury (LTI) frequency is <3.0. 3.5 resulting in an LTI frequency of 3.5, above the target of 3.0, but improved from 3.8 in 2018. The 2019 development score is 78. In order to better support their By 2020, the individual development score is greater than 78. 78 employees’ development, additional training will be provided to managers. By 2020, the engagement score is equal to or greater than 80. 82 The engagement score in the 2019 Engagement Survey was 82, which means that most respondents are satisfied with working for ALK. By 2020, energy and water efficiency considerations will be an In 2019, energy and water efficiency were considered in all major integrated part of facilities upgrade plans. facilities upgrade plans, especially concerning the reuse of water. By 2020, we want at least 30% of all consumed energy to come from renewable energy sources. 20% In 2019, 20% of consumed energy came from renewable wind energy. We promise to take care of the planet by taking actions that benefit the environment and the climate. We want to set ambitious goals that make By 2020, we want to reduce CO2 emissions by 25% compared to a 2017-baseline. 22% At the end of 2019, the CO2 emissions had fallen by14% to (7,552 tonnes) compared to baseline (8,762 tonnes). positive changes to the planet. By 2020, we want at least 45% of the waste to be reused or recycled. 42% In 2019, 42% of the waste produced at production sites was sent for recycling. In 2019, 94% of eligible employees have completed the anti-corruption training and test, an increase of 7 percentage points compared to 2018 (87%). We promise to continue to drive and grow an ethical business. We want to be the world leader By 2020, we want to test all employees on a yearly basis about their knowledge of business ethics compliance. 94% A new Code of Conduct was launched 15 November. The new, updated in allergy by continuing to be proactive promoters version collects all broadly relevant ALK policies and procedures. of high business integrity with the aim of helping Training of anti-corruption and broader Code of Conduct topics will as many people with allergy as possible to better commence in 2020, and first results will be published in the 2020 report. health and a better life. Sustainability Report 2019 • ALK 6 Environment and climate As part of our continued eﬀort to support the UN Sustainable Development Goals, we strive to reduce our impact on the environment and climate through responsible consumption and production. We work towards improving environmental sustainability as part of our commitment to the UN Sustainable Development Goal 12. Responsible consumption and production We strive for sustainable resource consumption through our production. We continue to take measures to reduce the climate impact of our production processes. @repponen Sustainability Report 2019 • ALK 7 Environment and climate • Ensure that environmental issues are Partnership within the life science industry. proactively integrated into planning and This new partnership aims to contribute to design work the Government’s ambitious goal of reducing Policy Denmark’s carbon emissions by 70% by Risks • Measure the results of our efforts and set 2030. The partnership will come up with Climate change is one of the biggest new goals for continuous improvements, concrete recommendations for activities that Our key in-house production facilities are problems facing the world today. Some particularly within the areas of energy can reduce carbon emissions in the industry. in Denmark, France, Spain and the USA. studies suggest that climate change might consumption, CO2 emissions and water These recommendations become part of the Although the sites are located in areas that affect plant and pollen cycles making allergy usage Danish Government’s new climate action have not historically been affected by natural seasons longer1 and air pollution worse. plan, which will be published in 2020. disasters, this geographical spread calls for Rising temperatures could also cause more Guided by principle 7, 8 and 9 of the UN risk planning in order to avoid emergencies, allergies in the future and make asthma Global Compact, we take a precautionary Reduction of the use of plastic such as lack of, or poor access to raw attacks more severe2. We consistently look approach to environmental and climate A new project was launched aimed at materials: for instance, pollen. We conduct for new ways we can reduce our resource challenges. reducing or eliminating the use of plastic as a risk planning including for the prevention consumption in cultivating and harvesting packaging material for two specific products. of unwanted events, and preventative raw materials as well as the manufacturing, All production sites3 adhere to the Global The project team is currently exploring two inventory management, such as the build-up packaging and transportation of our EHS policy and the integrated Global EHS scenarios; either switching to other materials of contingency stocks in order to ensure an medicines. Management System. such as cardboard or making the packaging unbroken chain of production and supply. material from recycled plastic. ALK’s global Environment, Health and As part of the EHS Management System, Safety (EHS) policy sets the standards for At ALK Spain, reusable drinking bottles with ongoing assessments for environmental environmental protection in our daily work an ALK logo have been distributed to all and climate risks are conducted for routine and strives to: Action employees as a substitute for plastic bottles. and non-routine activities. No new risks were identified in 2019, and we continue • Involve our employees to participate in To reach the environmental milestones set in Green car fleet to focus on the main risk factors of energy environmental work 2018, we took several measures to reduce ALK’s United Kingdom and Ireland affiliate consumption, CO2 emissions and water water and energy consumption, waste and now uses only hybrid cars in its company car usage. • Educate our employees and implement decrease CO2 emissions. fleet, while Belgium’s fleet is 50% hybrid and preventive actions to ensure that factors, ALK Netherlands’ fleet is approximately 60% Handling of chemicals poses a risk of spills, which represent environmental risks are In 2019 we became part of the Danish fully electric and 15% hybrid. This is a big which is closely monitored. In 2019, no monitored and constantly reduced Government’s newly established Climate improvement on 2018. significant spills or releases occurred. We will maintain a sharp focus on which chemicals we use and how they are used. 1 Pieter De Frenne – Using archived television video footage to quantify phenology responses to climate change – https://doi.org/10.1111/2041-210X.13024 2 https://www.aafa.org/media/1634/extreme-allergies-global-warming-report-2010.pdf 3 Hørsholm, Madrid, Vandeuil, Varennes, Port Washington, Post Falls and Oklahoma Sustainability Report 2019 • ALK 8 Environment and climate Result: At the end of 2019, the CO2 emissions Environment and climate1 had fallen by 22% to (7,552 tonnes) Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 compared to baseline (9,658 tonnes). This Targets and results great development is largely due to our Energy – in real terms GJ 150,934 144,828 169,276 168,034 164,639 Madrid facility, which now runs on renewable Energy – index Index 100 98 Target: We implement preventative actions, electricity. monitor and constantly reduce risks, CO2 emissions – in real terms 2 Tonnes 7,830 6,282 9,658 9,228 7,552 measure the results of our effort and set new Goal: By 2020, we want at least 45% of the CO2 emissions against baseline % 100 -22 goals for continuous improvements. waste to be reused or recycled. Direct GHG emissions 3 Tonnes 4,419 4,140 3,045 Indirect GHG emissions4 Tonnes 5,238 5,088 4,507 Target: We seek to reduce energy Result: In 2019, 42% of the waste produced CO2 emissions – index Index 100 82 consumption, CO2 emissions and water at production sites was sent for recycling. CO2 emissions – from lost refrigerants Tonnes 267 174 265 351 118 usage. Overall, we are on the right track to deliver Renewable energy – % of total Goal: By 2020, energy and water efficiency on our promise for the planet. We expect that energy consumption in real terms % 8 15 13 13 20 considerations will be an integrated part of these positive trends will continue and that Water – total, in real terms m3 112,275 102,418 120,960 117,252 122,461 facilities upgrade plans. we will reach the milestones by the end of Water – from production, in real terms m3 80,016 81,130 90,061 88,564 85,890 2020. Water – index Index 100 104 Result: In 2019, energy and water efficiency were considered in all major facilities The increase in water usage between 2018 Waste water – in real terms m3 75,692 78,969 89,518 89,243 71,550 upgrade plans, especially concerning the and 2019 is weather-related. We depend Waste – in real terms Tonnes 555 608 555 600 803 reuse of water. We will continue to explore on water to irrigate our raw materials. The Waste for recycling % 35 37 34 34 42 ways to increase resource efficiency. amount of water we use is dependent on the 1 The Environment and climate table only includes data from our production facilities in Hørsholm, Madrid, Varennes, Port Washington, weather, especially rainfall. In dry seasons Post Falls and Oklahoma. In our collection and reporting, we follow the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standard 305 Goal: By 2020, we want at least 30% of all we use more water. 2 The CO2 emissions include Scope 1+2 3 Scope 1 GHG Protocol consumed energy to come from renewable 4 Scope 2 GHG Protocol energy sources. Result: In 2019, 20% of consumed energy came from renewable wind energy, with the Planned activities for 2020 These will involve exploring further In 2019, we defined a project to optimise our largest contribution coming from our facilities and expected results possibilities for buying clean energy to use of road transport out of Madrid in Spain, in Hørsholm and Madrid that now run on increase our proportion of energy from with the aim of reducing the total amount of 100% renewable electricity. A major focus in 2020 will be the setting of renewable sources, and reducing our CO2 transport mileage. The project will conclude new, science-based environmental targets emissions. At our production site in Post Falls in 2020. Goal: By 2020, we want to reduce following the framework described by the in the USA, we will explore the possibility of CO2 emissions by 25% compared to a Science Based Targets Initiative (SBTi). running the facility on renewable electricity to We will also investigate the possibility of 2017-baseline. maintain the positive trend in CO2 reduction. reusing some of the waste from production as agricultural fertiliser. Sustainability Report 2019 • ALK 9 Fit for growth – how we simplify processes and do things smarter Building a company that is fit to grow sustainably is no small undertaking. Project Fit for Growth is a new initiative with the aim of ensuring that we are ready to deliver the increased production volumes, while also finding ways to get even more out of our existing production setup. For example, saving water and energy by adjusting the ventilation systems specifically for each room, rather, than at a whole building level or reusing water at different parts of the production processes. Another example comes from the transportation of our products. Building a more robust supply means that we can bundle our deliveries into larger shipments, reducing the carbon emitted in the distribution of our products. ALK’s headquarters in Hørsholm, Denmark Sustainability Report 2019 • ALK 10 Anti-corruption We work to prevent corruption and bribery in all its forms and support peaceful and inclusive societies around the world as part of our commitment to sustainable development. Peace, justice and strong institutions We promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development. We are committed to working against corruption and bribery in all its forms. @alexandermils Sustainability Report 2019 • ALK 11 Anti-corruption Doing business with integrity extends to All employees are aware of and have access other good governance practices including to our whistle-blower hotline, the ALK interactions with healthcare professionals Alertline, which allows our employees to Policy and responsible marketing practices. In these report illegal behaviour or other concerns Risks areas we follow international standards and in a secure and confidential manner. The We are committed to working against codes of ethics, such as the codes set out by hotline allows employees to file a report in The main risks related to our activities corruption in all its forms, by always acting The European Federation of Pharmaceutical multiple languages, either by telephone include employees’ and business partners’ professionally, fairly and with integrity. Industries and Associations and The Ethical or via an online form. The ALK Alertline violation of our anti-corruption commitment Committee for the Pharmaceutical Industry. is administered by an independent along with any resulting legal and financial We take a zero-tolerance approach to organisation, but processed internally, with consequences. corruption, including facilitation payments, oversight from the chairman of the Audit kickbacks, fraud and bribery. No ALK Committee. The Committee evaluates each More than 99% of our major suppliers are employees are allowed to accept gifts of report and, if substantiated, corrective and located in Europe and North America, regions significant value. Action preventative actions are taken. No retaliation generally perceived as being low risk with towards the employee is allowed, regardless regards to corruption. Anti-corruption considerations are an In 2019, we continued our anti-corruption of whether the reports are made through the integral part of our business partnerawareness training and tested all employees ALK Alertline or other channels. To further In 2019, the risk of corruption in connection handling process, and we ensure that our who were not on leave or on short-term strengthen our commitment to transparency, with our business increased due to entry into partners acknowledge and respect this contracts during the training period. The feedback culture and open dialogue, an new markets. When relevant, we conducted responsibility when doing business with us. training and test included questions about awareness campaign was rolled out globally due diligence of third-party relationships. everyday dilemmas and our whistle-blower in 2019. Additional investments were made according Legal entities within the ALK group may hotline, ALK Alertline. Overall, 2,138 to need for example, for consultants to adopt local policies and procedures that are employees completed the training out of The ALK Code of Conduct is an integrated part investigate potential business partners in more stringent than those contained in the 2,281 eligible employees. of our business. Following an assessment more detail. ALK policy. at the beginning of 2019, a decision was We continue to add anti-corruption clauses made to update the Code of Conduct to raise The overall risk for ALK continues to be Our commitment is set out in ALK’s Code of to new, large supplier agreements, which compliance levels at ALK. The new, updated rated low, as we have established multiple Conduct and ALK’s Anti-corruption policy and generally also contain audit rights, allowing version collects all broadly relevant ALK measures to ensure that anti-corruption supports the UN Global Compact Principle 10 us to access documentation to verify each policies and procedures, covering topics is an integrated part of our business, such and UN Sustainable Development Goal 16. supplier’s compliance. such as anti-corruption, competition, grants, as vetting of all 650 GxP suppliers, and donations and political contributions and conducting ad hoc evaluations depending on more. The Code of Conduct was launched on general risk assessments. 15 November. Sustainability Report 2019 • ALK 12 Anti-corruption Mechanisms for mitigating and preventing KPI: Percentage of employees with seniority corruption and bribery include: >three months who have read the ALK Code of Conduct. • An annual assessment of the risks in Targets and results Planned activities for 2020 relation to our industry and the countries Result: Towards the end of 2019, we and expected results in which we operate through the ALK Risk Target: We do not contribute to political developed a new Code of Conduct and for Committee parties or candidates of any kind. that reason, it was decided not to ask existing A follow-up to the first campaign regarding employees to confirm their familiarity with our whistle-blower hotline, ALK Alertline, • The vetting of relevant external KPI: Amount contributed to political parties. it. However, all new employees who became will be launched in 2020 with the intention of commercial partners in relation to part of ALK in 2019 have read and signed continuing the strong focus on good ethical corruption Result: No political contributions have been off on the previous version of the Code of conduct. made on behalf of ALK or reported via the Conduct. • Ad hoc screenings and assessments which ALK Alertline. Following the launch of the Code of Conduct, are documented and if needed, mitigation KPI: Percentage of employees who have we will develop new training material and plans developed Target: We work to eliminate corruption and passed the ALK anti-corruption training and expand our anti-corruption training with bribery in the entire value chain. test. additional compliance areas. This will be • Ad hoc third-party due diligence of the major focus in 2020. We work to prevent partners and suppliers, where relevant KPI: Number of reports regarding corruption Result: 94% of eligible employees have corruption and bribery in all its forms and and bribery received through our whistlecompleted the anti-corruption training and supports to peaceful and inclusive societies Large contracts are reviewed and approved blower hotline, the ALK Alertline. test, an increase of 7 percentage points around the globe as part of our by Global Procurement, who will ensure compared to 2018 (87%). compliance with our commitment to antiResult: No incidents of corruption and corruption and sustainability. bribery have been reported via the ALK Goal: By 2020, we want to test all employees Alertline in 2019. However, five cases on a yearly basis about their knowledge of We aim to maintain our standing by acting in concerning compliance matters were business ethics compliance. compliance with all applicable regulations reported through other channels, of which and legislation. two were closed as unfounded after internal Result: Training of anti-corruption and investigation, and three are still being broader Code of Conduct topics will investigated. commence in 2020, and first results will be published in the 2020 report. Sustainability Report 2019 • ALK 13 New Code of Conduct: How we drive and grow an ethical business Trust is at the core of any good relationship between individuals, between employer and employee, and in relationships with communities across the globe. Having policies and processes in place that can foster trust is essential to our ability to grow as a company and ultimately, to our ability to help people with allergy. Our Code of Conduct was developed with our cultural beliefs, transparency and business integrity at its core, and it covers both internal policies and procedures, and local and global laws. Following these guidelines is a critical part of being an ALK employee. “ Following a set of guidelines, we all sign oﬀ on, makes it easier for us to do the right thing, because what is expected of us as employees is well-defined. But the key to driving and growing an ethical business is holding ourselves accountable to these standards. Our new Code of Conduct allows us to expect more from each other and from our business partners, and it gives our stakeholders a clear understanding of who we are and where we stand as a company.” Kristoffer Fog Senior Director, Corporate Affairs & Legal Sustainability Report 2019 • ALK 14 Human rights At ALK, we respect human rights and we expect our business partners, suppliers and customers to do the same. People with allergy depend on us for solutions they can trust, and in turn we empower them to take control of their life. We promote good health and well-being through our products and our work to support the right to good health both for people with allergy and our employees. Good health and well-being We contribute to healthy lives and promote well-being for people with allergy and employees at all ages. @simonmaage Sustainability Report 2019 • ALK 15 Human rights • Do not accept offensive behaviour in any Together with an external company, our In 2019, we also donated ALK products to the form. At ALK, everyone has the right to Procurement department has made risk University of Maryland Children’s Hospital be treated with respect and to dignified evaluation engineering reports. These also (UMCH). UMCH launched the Breathmobile® Policy interactions. include general risks for people, such as risk programme to offer free, comprehensive, for fire, risk for work related accidents etc. preventative care to undeserved children ALK contributes to the good health and • Ensure public health via patient care and aged 2-18. The patients receive diagnostic well-being of our employees and people with the safe use of our products We are determined to continue raising services, medication and education, and the allergy all over the world. All our activities awareness about allergies and related programme contributes significantly with aim to protect human rights and to ensure diseases. In 2019, we continued engaging direct medical cost savings1. that ALK avoids being complicit in human with people with allergy via our online platform rights abuses, as described in the UN Global klarify.me and our allergy companion app Privacy and data protection Compact principles 1 and 2. Action klara. In 2019, the GDPR 2.0 project was launched to ensure even better protection of personal As part of several of our policies we: Good health and well-being In 2019, we launched a new allergy data across ALK. Additional awareness and All employees are covered by a health immunotherapy tablet for tree pollen allergy. training activities were rolled out in 2019, • Take great care to protect human rights programme, either made available through, In addition, we continue to invest in clinical covering additional employees. The project and to avoid being complicit in any human or paid for by ALK. All employees have studies to expand into new markets and reach will continue in 2020. rights violations freedom of association, either formally in many more people with allergy, including unions or internally in workers’ councils. children and adolescents. Quality and patient safety • Promote fair working conditions, equal Quality is a strategic priority for us as it pay for equal work, freedom of association Together with Human Resources, the EHS Partnerships concerns both patient safety and public and collective bargaining organisation works to ensure that a healthy We are always looking for new opportunities health. It is essential to our daily work, working culture exists at ALK, both in terms of to engage with companies or NGOs to expand and we continue to develop the methods • Educate our employees and implement the psychological environment and a healthy access to our medicines. ALK is the official we use to train our employees in order to preventative actions to ensure that health work-life balance. sponsor of the Emerging Societies Program: ensure standardisation and consistency and and safety risks are constantly reduced World Allergy Training School (WATS). The thereby, the safety and well-being of people The majority of relevant employees have main objective of WATS is to develop learning who use our products. In 2019, we also • Ensure that occupational health and access to and have been trained in the newly communities appropriate to a specific regional optimised several quality-related IT tools to safety are proactively integrated into the implemented global Chemical Management context, which will help build sustainable ensure compliance with expectations from planning and design of all projects System, which describes hazards and capacity in the field of allergy. healthcare authorities, facilitate continuous precautionary measures in relation to improvements and increase efficiency. • Ensure a high standard of data protection chemicals. In 2019, approximately 5,000 Additionally, we engage with allergy and that the rights of data subjects are hours were spent on training relevant patients’ organisations and support their Safety, privacy and respect are watchwords duly preserved and enforced in all areas of employees. Additionally, health and safety work in raising awareness about allergy and in our clinical trials, which we conduct in close our business considerations are built into facilities asthma. In 2019, we funded Asthma-Allergy collaboration with healthcare professionals, upgrade plans, with a special focus on Denmark’s Hay Fever Schools. The purpose scientists and people with allergy. We are heavy lifting, ergonomics and chemical of which is to educate children and adults on also committed to EFPIA’s and PhRMA’s 1 https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20934626 management. how to manage their allergies. Principles for Responsible Clinical Trial Sustainability Report 2019 • ALK 16 Human rights Data Sharing guidelines in a manner that and optimised over many years. To mitigate situation should occur in which it is necessary Goal: By 2020, we want to treat 2 million safeguards the privacy of patients, respects the risks, we invest significantly in ensuring to recall a product, ALK has procedures in people with allergy with our allergy the integrity of national regulatory systems, robustness and compliance. place to ensure that this can be managed immunotherapy products, diagnostics and and protects proprietary information. swiftly and efficiently. adrenaline auto-injectors. Workplace risks at ALK include the potential Production and manufacturing processes are risk of exposure to allergens which are our Disruption to IT systems, such as breaches Result: Approximately 1.9 million people subject to periodic and routine inspections main raw material. Working with chemicals of data security, may happen across the have been treated with ALK products. We by regulatory authorities as part of their also represents a potential health risk. We global value chain, where well-functioning expect to reach 2 million people by 2020, as monitoring processes in order to ensure that conduct periodical screenings for employees IT systems and infrastructure are critical to a result of our recent product launches that all manufacturers adhere to the prescribed who use chemicals in their daily work. Any our ability to operate effectively. We manage allow people with allergy more convenient requirements and standards. In 2019, risks are mitigated through mandatory this risk, among other ways, by having a access to allergy immunotherapy. 13 external inspections of our sites were health and safety training for all employees security strategy in place to prevent intruders successfully completed. who handle allergens and chemicals as part from causing damage and gaining access Goal: By 2020, we want to engage with of their work. to critical data and systems. Awareness 20 million people through our consumer During 2019, ALK had three minor product campaigns, access controls, intrusion initiatives. recalls. None of the recalls affected the safety Activities in health risk reduction are closely detection and prevention systems have all of patients and corrective actions have been monitored. Allergy testing for employees is been implemented, and systems are being Result: An estimated 105 million people implemented to avoid similar cases from provided where possible. Locally adapted upgraded to higher security standards. In have been engaged through our digital happening in the future. information campaigns and training addition, new screen savers with the ALK IT consumer platform klarify.me. This is the first programmes on risk issues are made security rules have been installed on all ALK time we have a KPI for engaging with people All ALK employees are required to report any available to all employees. computers to increase awareness. with allergy, and we are pleased to see the case of side effects from ALK products within positive result. 24 hours of learning about them. The main risks in connection with our In all areas of operation, we comply with products come from failures to report side national and international legislation. Goal: By 2020, we want to raise the Quality effects. We monitor the effects of our products Mindset Maturity Index by 10% compared to both before and after they gain marketing baseline. authorisations. This includes, for example Risks monitoring changes in the products’ benefitResult: The Quality Maturity Mindset Index risk balance and promotion of the products’ Targets and results (QMMI) is calculated by rating each site Meeting quality standards in our safe and effective use. The structures and or area on how well they apply the Quality production and manufacturing processes processes related to these activities are Target: We help create access to safe, Mindset. We will report on our progress next is a prerequisite for ALK’s competitive called ‘ALK’s pharmacovigilance system’ and effective, quality and affordable medicines year. strength. Our production processes and are a vital part of our licence to operate. If, and vaccines for people with severe allergy. quality standards have been developed despite the high levels of quality and safety, a Sustainability Report 2019 • ALK 17 Human rights Target: We ensure good occupational KPI: Number of incidents or complaints health conditions and access to occupational submitted to the national Data Protection healthcare services for all employees. Agency concerning breaches of data protection. KPI: Lost time rate. @the_tonik Result: Three non-critical incidents of data Absence due to sickness breaches involving non-sensitive personal 2019 data were submitted to the national Data Protection Agencies during 2019, at present resulting in no further actions from the Antibiotic stewardship: Denmark 2.4% North America1 1.3% agencies. As a consequence, additional awareness campaigns and training of Partnering for responsible use of antibiotics Western Europe2 3.5% employees were conducted, as well as Eastern Europe and technical reviews of our IT systems. International Markets3 2.4% Total Absence 2.7% 1 The United States of America and Canada The use of antibiotics is the single most important factor leading to a rise in antibiotic 2 France, Spain, Germany, Finland, Sweden, Norway, Italy, resistance around the world and at least 700,000 deaths globally from drug-resistant Austria, Switzerland, United Kingdom, Belgium, Netherlands diseases1. Antibiotic resistance is a clinical and public health crisis, which threatens 3 Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland, Turkey, China, Hong Kong Planned activities for 2020 further progress on many of the UN Sustainable Development Goals, including in health, and expected results inequality and responsible consumption and production1. Result: All lost time rates are within normal The misuse of antibiotics is a primary driver of this issue with up to 50% of all antibiotics limits. None provide cause for concern, To protect data privacy, a number of prescribed not needed or not optimally effective as prescribed2. nevertheless we have followed up with awareness campaigns have been conducted countries with increased rates and no further and further technical evaluations and Penicillin allergy is the most common drug allergy. However, 9 out of 10 patients who actions were required. measures are being reviewed and considered. report a penicillin allergy are not truly allergic when assessed by skin testing3. Patients who do not have a true penicillin allergy may be unnecessarily treated with broadspectrum antibiotics, contributing to the spread of multidrug-resistant bacteria4. KPI: Percentage of workers, by gender, who Having a strong Quality Mindset is striving to have access to services for work-related meet or exceed the needs and expectations Since 2017, we have had a partnership with the Centers for Disease Control and accidents or diseases made available or of our colleagues and customers and to Prevention to support penicillin allergy delabelling and antibiotic optimisation. In 2019, paid for by ALK. continuously improve the quality of our work. more than 150 news outlets picked up our press release reaching a potential audience of more than 72 million people. In 2020, we will further develop the Quality Result: At ALK, all employees regardless of Mindset Maturity Index and continue training gender have access to healthcare services our employees and upgrading quality1 No time to wait: Securing the future from drug-resistant infections – https://www.who.int/docs/ default-source/documents/no-time-to-wait-securing-the-future-from-drug-resistant-infections-en. for work-related accidents or diseases. related IT systems. pdf?sfvrsn=5b424d7_6 2 https://www.cdc.gov/antibiotic-use/healthcare/index.html Target: We protect and enforce the rights of In 2020, we will expand our digital 3 Blumenthal KG et al. – Addressing Inpatient Beta-Lactam Allergies: A Multihospital Implementation – https://europepmc.org/article/PMC/5484001 data subjects. engagement activities to cover several more 4 Bhattacharya S – The facts about penicillin allergy: a review – https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/ countries, including the USA. pubmed/22247826 Sustainability Report 2019 • ALK 18 Labour rights We support Sustainable Development Goal 8 and promote decent work and economic growth in all areas of operation. We commit to ensuring safe working conditions, fair employment and access to training and education for all employees. Decent work and economic growth We work to be an attractive workplace for all by focusing on improving the working environment in all parts of our organisation and ensuring Frank Phillips, safety at work. Collections Supervisor, Post Falls, USA Sustainability Report 2019 • ALK 19 Labour rights • Develop the competencies of employees engagement score were requested to create in e.g., employee selection, promotions, at all levels action plans and a follow-up engagement development, compensation, work-life survey for these teams was conducted at the balance, and treatment of employees who Policy • Prohibit all types of discrimination, end of 2019. are at risk of exclusion or gender violence. harassment and retaliation, along with Our global Human Resources policy seeks to forced and child labour Diversity Safety create an appealing working environment, A diversity and inclusion policy has been The health and safety of our employees is a so we can attract, develop and retain wellWe act in compliance with national legislation distributed outlining our commitment responsibility we take very seriously, and we qualified and engaged employees. in the countries in which we operate, and we to ensure equal opportunities for all. In work to ensure that systems and processes follow the UN Global Compact Principles 3-6. addition, we have created internal guidelines are implemented globally to support We foster an open and honest relationship to ensure an environment free of harassment. a healthy and safe work environment. with employees. We respect their right to be Awareness about both policies was raised Furthermore, we also assess work processes informed, heard and to voice their concerns internally during 2019. to ensure that we mitigate any health and in an open and transparent manner. safety risks. Action As part of the Diversity and Inclusion project, To ensure that employees can continue launched at the end of 2018, a study was All employees at production sites who handle to develop their skills, we offer internal Community engagement conducted during 2019 to determine the chemicals were trained in the Chemical and external training opportunities for all In Post Falls, USA, our employees have specific barriers to advancement for women Management System in 2019. The Chemical employees. participated in the annual Community Day, in management. We aim to ensure equal Management System contains all ALK’s where everyone had a day off to participate treatment and opportunities, as well as nonsafety data sheets and describes any We continue to: in community service. In Denmark, we discrimination between men and women, hazards and the precaution to be taken when continued to support students with promoting a business culture based on using the chemicals. • Provide equal opportunities for all educational visits both at our headquarters respect and fair treatment for all employees. regardless of age, gender, race, ethnicity, and as a potential employer at university We continued to monitor safety at all ALK religion, sexual orientation and ability fairs, raising awareness about allergy As part of our diversity and inclusion policy, locations. Safety training is adapted to local and Science, Technology, Engineering, we apply relevant and objective criteria when needs and allows flexibility in line with local • Provide fair wages by aligning our Mathematics (STEM) education. making decisions about hiring or ending laws and traditions. compensation with that of other employment, promotions or changes in pharmaceutical companies in the Employee engagement responsibility, and compensation. Child labour geographical areas where we operate In Spring 2018, a new and simpler In 2019, we maintained the focus on highengagement survey was introduced. The At ALK Spain, an Equality Plan was launched risk countries and are working to increase • Ensure the well-being of employees and same engagement survey was rolled out to to ensure equal treatment and opportunities, awareness about child labour, both internally their families by being involved in local all employees globally in October 2019. More as well as non-discrimination between men and externally. initiatives, practices and procedures with than 2,000 employees responded (87%). and women, promoting a business culture respect for local traditions, conditions and All teams were encouraged to conduct a based on respect and fair treatment for all We continue to add child labour clauses to all needs team development follow-up session, using employees of the company. The plan includes new, large supplier contracts. the results from the survey. Units with a low specific actions that will be implemented Sustainability Report 2019 • ALK 20 Labour rights KPI: Percentage of operations and suppliers KPI: Anti-discrimination – number of identified as having significant risk of incidents, including reports to the ALK incidents of child labour. Alertline. Risks Targets and results Result: An evaluation has been conducted to Result: In 2019, there have been no incidents Our production processes and the general Target: We promote safe and secure working determine how many suppliers are located in of equal opportunity discrimination reported nature of our business require that we use environments for all employees. high-risk areas for child labour. via ALK Alertline. However, there were a skilled labour. Combined with the fact that few cases reported through local Human our production facilities are located at sites in Goal: By 2020, the Lost Time Injury (LTI) • Total number of suppliers: 9,000 Resources: One discrimination concern and Denmark, France, Spain and the USA, the risk frequency is <3.0. • Number of suppliers in risk areas: 20 two regarding inappropriate behaviour. Two of labour rights violations in our operations is • Total spend in risk areas: 0.3% complaints resulted in termination and one rated as low. Result: In 2019, the number of work-related • Percentage of suppliers in risk areas: was found to be not supported by sufficient accidents with absence was 15, resulting 0.2% evidence. Although ALK is not a high-risk company in an LTI frequency of 3.5, above the target regarding safety, we do not accept accidents of 3.0. The result is not satisfactory, and we Target: We promote equal opportunity for Goal: By 2022, we want women to make up as part of our operations and seek to prevent must strengthen the effort to prevent injuries. all. 30% of the shareholder-elected members of them from happening. Feeling healthy the Board of Directors. and safe at work is a huge part of making KPI: Percentage of total workforce Goal: By 2020, the individual development the workplace a positive place to be for represented in formal joint managementscore is greater than 78. Result: The number of shareholder-elected everyone. worker health and safety committees. women is 1 (17%). In 2019, we had one seat Result: The 2019 development score is 78. up for election to which we appointed a man, The vast majority of our main suppliers are Result: All employees at production sites are In order to better support their employees’ after careful consideration of the qualities located in countries with a low risk of child represented in joint management-worker development, additional training will be and experience of both male and female labour and safety and labour violations, so health and safety committees. The committee provided to managers. candidates. We are committed to increasing our main risks stem from their suppliers. consists of 80 employees from different the number of women on ALK’s Board of Nevertheless, we acknowledge the risk and functional areas (4.6% of total FTEs). Goal: By 2020, the engagement score is Directors to 30% and remain focused on take mitigating actions when needed, for equal to or greater than 80. finding the right match and meeting the example by using a generic questionnaire Target: We take immediate and effective 2022-goal. that is mandatory for all ALK sites as part measures to eradicate child labour in all its Result: The engagement score in the 2019 our Supplier Management System, and by forms by 2025. Engagement Survey was 82, which means Goal: By 2020, we want women to make up adding clauses to supplier contracts. that most respondents are satisfied with 30% of functional managers and 40% of midworking for ALK. level managers. Sustainability Report 2019 • ALK 21 Labour rights Accidents and training Result: The number of women on functionalEmployee turnover Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 manager level increased by two percentage Overall, the employee turnover figures (11%) points to 22% versus 20% in 2018, which is a are at a reasonable level and in line with positive step forward. The number of women previous years. This is particularly positive Working environment in mid-level management increased by four during a period where we are in a cultural Accidents with absence1 Number 10 16 12 16 15 percentage points to 38%. For detailed transformation. The turnover percentage Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF)2 LTIF 3.9 4.4 3 3.8 3.5 information see page 22. for women (10%) is slightly lower than that Total EHS training annually3 Hours 2,978 3,018 4,983 of men (12%), which is also not a cause for Employees trained3 % 32 39 31 KPI: Local residents are employed including concern. Looking at turnover by age group, 1 From 2016, the data includes all ALK affiliates. Before 2016 only production locations 2 Number of work-related injuries with absence per million work hours. Note: The 2018 number is a 3-year average in management positions. the highest turnover percentages are in the 3 Calculated for the first time in 2017, ALK employees from production sites age group 40-49 and 60+ (13% for both). Result: 94% of our employees are on This is mostly due to voluntary turnover. permanent contracts, and locals are Geographically, the highest turnover (16%) Number of new hires by gender and region recruited at all levels. All ALK employees are is in the North America region and the lowest 2017 2018 2019 encouraged to develop their skills in order (6%) in the Western Europe region. Part of Men Women Men Women Men Women to ensure their continued employability (see the explanation for the high turnover rate page 22). in North America is due to a 32% increase in involuntary departures combined with Denmark 55 98 61 75 46 75 North America 91 86 54 57 42 45 KPI: Total number and rates of new employee a 22% increase in voluntary departures. Western Europe 39 89 49 88 34 78 hires and employee turnover by age group, This is mostly due to two contributing International Markets 16 19 14 20 11 21 gender, and region. factors: First, ALK experienced an increase Total 201 292 178 240 133 219 in the competition for talent in the North Result: ALK continues to show a healthy American market, where especially the trend in the gender and age distribution USA has the lowest unemployment rate of new hires. Although a higher number of in 50 years at 3.6%, which explains the Ratio of basic salary of women to men by significant locations of operation women than men are hired on temporary increase in voluntary departures. A second 2018 2019 contracts, the number correlates well with contributing factor is the increased number Pay ratio – ManageProfesManageProfesthe fact that a higher number of women are of terminations due to strategic restructuring of women to men ment sional Support ment sional Support hired in general. More than 80% of new hires and low performance, which resulted in a are aged between 20 and 49. 33% of all new higher than usual number of involuntary Average of Total hires are aged between 20 and 29, which is departures. By contrast, in Western Base Pay 100 % FTE a positive development. A notable statistic is Europe fewer involuntary departures and ALK 93 97 102 89 101 103 also the percentage of new, female hires in retirements are behind the overall decrease Denmark 97 101 102 94 100 102 the two age groups 40-49 and 50-59. More in turnover (see appendix on page 25). France 83 82 100 80 94 101 than 70% of them are women, highlighting Spain 98 95 93 97 93 97 the need to continue our effort in creating a United States 98 83 91 99 90 94 more balanced gender distribution across Note: Significant locations of operation are defined as countries with more than 200 employees ALK. Sustainability Report 2019 • ALK 22 Labour rights Number of women in management 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Board of Directors (shareholder-elected only) Women 17% (1) 17% (1) 17% (1) 20% (1) 17% (1) KPI: Ratio of basic salary of women to men by Men 83% (5) 83% (5) 83% (5) 80% (4) 83% (5) employee category, by significant locations of operation. Board of Directors Planned activities for 2020 Women 22% (2) 22% (2) 22% (2) 25% (2) 33% (3) Result: The ratio has been calculated by and expected results Men 78% (7) 78% (7) 78% (7) 75% (6) 67% (6) taking the average base pay of women and men at three professional levels. The pay Although the number of women in senior Board of Management ratio shows a positive trend on Professional management is showing an upwards trend, Women 20 % (1) 20 % (1) 0% (0) 0% (0) 0% (0) and Support levels, where the lowest pay we will evaluate and implement a concrete Men 80% (4) 80% (4) 100% (4) 100% (4) 100% (5) difference is 90, which is not ideal, but a action plan to achieve a more equal gender significant improvement compared to 2018 balance. The Diversity and Inclusion Board Functional managers (83). However, at Management level in will evaluate whether to include additional Women 22% (5) 22% (5) 19% (4) 20% (4) 22% (5) France, Denmark and ALK broadly, the ratio diversity metrics such as age and nationality, Men 78% (18) 78% (18) 81% (17) 80% (16) 78% (18) difference has increased. The reason for from 2020, as one of the new goals in our this could be the turnover of employees in sustainability work. Mid-level managers key positions, and an increased number of Women 35% (28) 38% (36) 35% (37) 34% (41) 38% (44) Men 65% (52) 63% (60) 65% (68) 66% (78) 62% (73) women in senior management. In France, the The less-than-satisfactory results revealed pay ratio of women to men is 80, down from in the pay ratio at management level need First-line managers 83 in 2018. Part of the explanation could be further investigation. An action plan will Women 54% (113) 53% (124) 55% (141) 54% (139) 53% (144) the difference in pay between large cities follow, succeeding a thorough investigation. Men 46% (96) 47% (111) 45% (116) 46% (119) 47% (126) and urban areas. This result invites further investigation into why the difference exists In 2019, a new leadership programme aimed Total at all management levels and what can be done about (see page 21). at ALK’s top 150 leaders was launched. Women 46% (149) 48% (166) 47% (182) 46% (184) 47% (193) The training is a significant investment in Men 54% (178) 52% (178) 53% (205) 54% (217) 53% (222) preparing leaders to be a driving force in the cultural transformation of ALK. You can read more about the programme on page 23. Safety at work will continue to be an area of Number of employees by contract type and gender focus in the coming years. We will continue 2017 2018 2019 our efforts to eliminate or reduce the number Men Women Men Women Men Women of work-related accidents, and EHS will initiate knowledge-sharing activities to Permanent 831 1,310 867 1,374 867 1,399 better understand how we can reduce or Temporary 35 108 40 88 51 89 eliminate the number of accidents. Total 866 1,418 907 1,462 918 1,488 Total both genders 2,284 2,369 2,406 Gender diversity women % 62% 62% 63% Sustainability Report 2019 • ALK 23 Leading The Human Organisation with Impact A new concept was introduced to all ALK employees during our Spirit Days in the spring of 2019, when all employees were invited to participate in defining what an attractive workplace will look like in In 2019, a new leadership the future. Under the headline The Human Organisation, employees programme, Leading with identified what they believed would be a vital part of a future workplace. Impact, was kicked-oﬀ, introducing a completely new Much of the input gathered reflected global trends in future workplace development, including flexibility, development, diversity, way of working at ALK. communication, inspiring surroundings, great colleagues and great leadership. In 2020, we will continue the work initiated last year and The aim is to enable the top 150 ALK senior leaders to be a driving force in the cultural transformation of ALK. Key elements begin to implement some of the ideas about The Human Organisation. in the development programme are: agility training to encourage speed and progress in decision-making and the accomplishment of goals, as well as working closer together cross-organisationally. In addition, the programme includes the strengthening of essential leadership skills such as coaching, communication, feedback and driving high-performing teams. “ To be the world leader in allergy, helping many more people with allergy to a better life in the future than the one percent of people with allergy, we help today, we have to do something diﬀerent. This new leadership programme is tailormade for ALK. It is designed to bring our leaders together across functions and countries to anchor a new culture and mindset. We are introducing a new way of working based on agility mindset and behaviours. It is very diﬀerent from the way we work today, and it will take time to learn. I have seen it work and I have seen how it accelerates a cultural transformation once we start incorporating this mindset into our workday. I am confident that this investment in our top management will be a strong lever in creating success for ALK in the future.” Carsten Hellmann President & CEO Sustainability Report 2019 • ALK 24 Our work with sustainability At ALK, the Board of Management and the Board of Directors decide on the overall Sustainability Framework, ALK at a glance including setting strategic goals. The two entities work independently of each other. Everyday prioritisation, actions and monitoring are managed in the cross-functional working group, the CSR Committee. ALK is a global allergy solutions company, with a wide range of treatments, products and services to meet the unique needs of people The committment, assessment, definition, reports of illegal and unethical behaviour At ALK, we do business with integrity and with allergy, their families and doctors. implementation, measurement and through a whistle-blower scheme, ALK are committed to respecting the legal communication of ALK’s sustainability Alertline, as well as other channels where requirements and industry ethical codes of strategy, is based on the UN Global employees can file complaints, e.g., each individual market in which we operate. Compact’s Management Model. confidentially to local or global Human Resources or to local or global Environment, Our work with sustainability centres around Due diligence and risk assessment Health and Safety representatives. an ambition to contribute to the 2030 The ALK Risk Committee assists the Board of Agenda for Sustainable Development and is Management with the overall responsibility ALK takes additional responsibility by monitored on the basis of relevant indicators Established in Employees of risk management. The ALK Risk Committee vetting relevant external partners through developed by the Global Reporting Initiative normally meets twice a year or more if the Procurement department to minimise (GRI), and other relevant standards. 1923 ~2,400 required. The committee assesses risks the risk of child labour and corruption. Our commitments, efforts and goals are relating to the entire ALK Group, including ALK encourages suppliers and business disclosed in our Annual Report and on our risks that could prevent us from reaching partners to adhere to our standards in the website. strategic and financial goals, risks that areas of human rights and labour rights, the could entail the termination or limitation of environment and anti-corruption, and large Stakeholder engagement our licence to operate and risks that could suppliers are encouraged to follow ALK’s We continue to foster an open dialogue with Patients in treatment damage our reputation. The committee is Code of Conduct in their operations. all our stakeholders, including healthcare Markets with ALK products* also responsible for the mitigation of these professionals, investors and academia. risks. Transparency Their input, as well as global trends and 41 ~1.9m We are committed to providing open and developments are used to guide current and The sustainability risk assessments are honest information about our sustainability future activities and strategic planning in integrated into the overall due diligence efforts, results and related policies, both sustainability. processes and procedures. We have internally and externally in relation to our established specific procedures to process stakeholders. People with allergy Subjects who have covered by portfolio participated in of new, evidenceclinical trials for based tablets the tablets >80% >22,000 * covering AIT and anaphylaxis Sustainability Report 2019 • ALK 25 Appendix Employee turnover by type and age group 2017 2018 2019 Average Voluntary Involuntary Retirement Average Voluntary Involuntary Retirement Average Voluntary Involuntary Retirement Total all types TurnTurnTurnTurnTurnTurnTurnTurnTurnTurnCount over % Count over % Count over % Count over % Count over % Count over % Count over % Count over % Count over % Count over % 29 and younger 168 26 15% 6 4% 0 0% 229 30 13% 10 4% 0 0% 308 27 9% 6 2% 0 0% 33 11% 30-39 571 53 9% 23 4% 0 0% 627 56 9% 17 3% 0 0% 690 43 6% 16 2% 0 0% 59 9% 40-49 664 51 8% 22 3% 0 0% 706 45 6% 34 5% 0 0% 743 68 9% 29 4% 0 0% 97 13% 50-59 488 18 4% 30 6% 0 0% 510 16 3% 28 5% 0 0% 527 31 6% 22 4% 0 0% 53 10% 60 and older 141 2 1% 8 6% 14 10% 132 2 2% 11 8% 10 8% 135 6 4% 6 4% 6 4% 18 13% Employee turnover by type and region 2017 2018 2019 Average Voluntary Involuntary Retirement Average Voluntary Involuntary Retirement Average Voluntary Involuntary Retirement Total all types TurnTurnTurnTurnTurnTurnTurnTurnTurnTurnCount over % Count over % Count over % Count over % Count over % Count over % Count over % Count over % Count over % Count over % Denmark 718 68 9% 35 5% 6 1% 770 63 8% 42 5% 2 0% 827 85 10% 26 3% 3 0% 114 14% North America1 379 37 10% 37 10% 2 1% 455 38 8% 19 4% 4 1% 489 49 10% 28 6% 1 0% 78 16% Western Europe2 835 33 4% 14 2% 6 1% 870 33 4% 33 4% 4 0% 932 37 4% 19 2% 2 0% 58 6% Eastern Europe and Intl. Markets3 100 12 12% 3 3% 0 0% 108 15 14% 6 6% 0 0% 84 4 5% 6 7% 0 0% 10 11% Total Turnover 2,070 150 7% 89 4% 14 1% 2,209 149 7% 100 5% 10 0% 2,400 175 7% 79 3% 6 0% 260 11% 1 The United States of America and Canada 2 France, Spain, Germany, Finland, Sweden, Norway, Italy, Austria, Switzerland, United Kingdom, Belgium, Netherlands 3 Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland, Jordan, Turkey, China, Hong Kong, Russia, Slovenia Employee turnover by type and gender 2017 2018 2019 Average Voluntary Involuntary Retirement Average Voluntary Involuntary Retirement Average Voluntary Involuntary Retirement Total all types TurnTurnTurnTurnTurnTurnTurnTurnTurnTurnCount over % Count over % Count over % Count over % Count over % Count over % Count over % Count over % Count over % Count over % Female 1261 85 7% 43 3% 10 1% 1359 85 6% 52 4% 7 1% 1488 96 6% 45 3% 6 0% 147 10% Male 773 65 8% 46 6% 4 1% 845 64 8% 48 6% 3 0% 912 79 9% 33 4% 0 0% 113 12% Sustainability Report 2019 • ALK 26 Appendix ESG key figure overview Unit 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Environmental data CO2e Scope 1 Tonnes 3,045 4,140 4,419 6,2821 7,8301 CO2e Scope 2 Tonnes 4,507 5,088 5,238 Energy Consumption GJ 164,639 168,034 169,276 144,828 150,934 Renewable Energy Share % 20 13 13 15 8 Water Consumption m3 122,461 117,252 120,960 102,418 112,275 Social data Workforce2 Headcount 2,406 2,369 2,284 2,168 1,952 Gender Diversity % 63 62 62 62 64 Gender Diversity, percentage of women on all management levels % 47 46 47 48 46 Gender Pay Ratio of men to women Times 1.13 1.12 1.16 1.23 1.19 Employee Turnover Ratio, voluntary and involuntary 11 11 12 11 Absence due to sickness 2.7 n/a n/a n/a n/a Governance data Gender Diversity, Board % 17 20 17 17 17 Board Meeting Attendance Rate % 97 98 96 97 98 CEO Pay Ratio3 Times 29 33 49 n/a4 24 * Prior to 2017, ALK did not collect Scope 1 and 2 data separately ** Workforce represents a headcount of all employees at the end of the year (full-time, part-time and temporary) *** The CEO Pay Ratio is calculated as CEO total compensation/median employee total compensation **** In 2016, ALK did not have a CEO for the full year
