COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2020 Dalberg has been a member of the United Nations Global Compact (“UNGC” or “The Global Compact”) since 2007 and unequivocally endorses the ten universally accepted principles of the Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Our commitment to the Global Compact’s principles are exemplified most strongly through our client engagements, publications, and internal initiatives, including: • Partnership with United Nations Compact: Dalberg has worked with the UNGC on a variety of engagements over the past 16 years. Our 2013 report, Architects of a Better World, laid out a framework to engage the private sector in supporting the post-2015 development agenda. Previously, Dalberg supported the UNGC to identify and establish transformational partnerships between the United Nations and businesses—and identify best practices for such cooperation. We have also authored several reports for the UNGC. • Promotion of human rights: We have helped our clients—including large, private foundations and governmental agencies—mobilize humanitarian aid efforts, advocate for human rights, and protect vulnerable populations. During the 2019 UN General Assembly— alongside UNICEF, CIFF and Educate Girls—Dalberg made a pledge to proactively apply a gender lens across our portfolio of work in all sectors, given that a gender-neutral approach is not enough to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals. In 2020, we have begun putting this commitment into action across our projects, hosting multiple internal trainings, and making changes to our approach to our project work. • Labor: We offer benefits exceeding, or comparable to, other leading professional services firms in our respective countries of operation. Further, we conduct annual anti-harassment training for new hires and new Associate Partners, and periodic all-staff refreshers. In 2019, we conducted an in-person anti-harassment training for our Leadership team. We also work with a range of actors to identify opportunities to address global youth unemployment. • Environmental sustainability: For Earth Day 2020, Dalberg signed the UNGC Business Ambition for 1.5 degrees, an open letter signed by 203 companies to-date that commit to limiting global temperature rise to 1.5°C above preindustrial levels and reach net-zero by 2050. Three key programs underpin Dalberg’s climate commitment: reducing carbon emissions and plastic use, offsetting emissions and waste through project support, and applying a climate lens to all Dalberg projects. We also work with a range of actors to develop environmentally friendly solutions, including conserving wildlife, reducing plastic waste, ensuring better energy access, and promoting access to “off-grid” societies – a concept Dalberg is helping to define further. • Anti-corruption and promotion of good governance: We have fought corruption by strengthening good governance within UN agencies, corporate CSR efforts, and citizen engagement—and by providing robust frameworks that ensure transparency. We are also finalizing our Safeguarding Children and Young People Guidelines and refreshing our Global Policies. As a firm dedicated to addressing the world’s most pressing challenges, the principles mainstreamed by the Global Compact are the same as those guiding Dalberg’s development efforts and internal policies. Going forward, we will continue to advocate for these principles and the UNGC in our communications, but more importantly, we will continue to practice them through our international development activities. Jordan Fabyanske, Global Operating Partner, 22 May 2020 UNGC Communication on Progress 2020 2 Firm Description Established in 2001, Dalberg is a global group of change makers working to build a more inclusive and sustainable world where all people, everywhere, can reach their fullest potential. Today’s complex global challenges require new solutions. We are entrepreneurs and innovators, designers and creative problem solvers, thinkers, and doers. We are from everywhere, at home anywhere – an African and American company as much as an Asian, Middle Eastern, and European one. We partner with and serve communities, governments, and companies throughout the world, providing an innovative mix of services. Each of Dalberg’s businesses approach problems differently, and all of our businesses work together to create impact at scale: Dalberg Advisors is a strategy advisory firm that combines the best of private sector strategy skills and rigorous analytical capabilities with deep knowledge and networks across emerging and frontier markets. We work collaboratively across the public, private, and philanthropic sectors to fuel inclusive growth and help clients achieve their goals focused on global development. Dalberg Capital and our Investment Advisory team help our clients develop investment strategies to deploy their capital with impact. Our services range from one-off transaction advisory, to ongoing impact investment advisory, to fund structuring to eco-system, and knowledge building. Dalberg Catalyst is a 501(c)(3) organization that generates and brings to life multi-stakeholder initiatives to address today’s most critical social and environmental challenges. We collaborate with leading partners and funders from across the private, public, and social sectors, while leveraging the deep knowledge, experience, and skills of the Dalberg Group. Dalberg Data Insights identifies data solutions to international development challenges. We access, analyze, and integrate data from different sources to design tools and specialized analytics. We further leverage and operationalize disruptive technologies such as AI or Blockchain approaches. Using our products and solutions, local and global communities can better target, implement, and evaluate their programs and initiatives. Dalberg Design engages people, communities and organizations to foster creative solutions to enhance economic opportunity and human potential. We combine the best skills in human-centered design, rapid prototyping and systems thinking to accelerate positive change in underserved communities around the world. Dalberg Implement takes strategy recommendations and works alongside our clients to bring them to life. We provide implementation services that marry strategy, innovative resource mobilization, and the deployment of top talent to launch, scale-up, or transform impactful initiatives. Dalberg Media is a mission-driven media consultancy aimed at increasing awareness and mobilizing people and resources in support of the global development agenda. Through our expertise in media, communication, and convenings, we support clients to become agents of change. We invent, launch and lead bold initiatives and innovative platforms to raise awareness and inspire action. Dalberg Research provides research and analysis that offers clients actionable solutions to their problems. We are a full-service research agency answering questions about markets, consumers and lifestyles across more than 20 African countries via quantitative and qualitative studies. We UNGC Communication on Progress 2020 3 specialize in the inventory, collection, and analysis of primary research data for businesses, NGOs, governments, and other institutions. We offer our clients a broad set of service lines and expertise areas to serve their needs. Our service lines describe our functional skills (what we do best) including: • Strategy • Monitoring Evaluation and Learning • Human-Centered Design • Analytics • Investment Advisory • Implementation • Research • Organizational Effectiveness • Policy and Advocacy • Talent and Leadership Our expertise areas describe our content (what we know best), including: • Agriculture & Food Security – Helping organizations identify, design, and implement solutions that benefit agricultural market participants and increase food security • Cities – Working with cities to set purposeful goals, diagnose obstacles, collaborate through global networks and partnerships, experiment with potential solutions, and adapt to change • Conflict & Humanitarian Assistance – Helping organizations to effectively address the unique development challenges faced by conflict-affected and post-conflict countries • Digital Practice – Harnessing the power of information and communication technologies to foster innovation, improve quality, expand access, and drive accountability • Education & Employment – Expanding global access to high-quality employment and education at all levels by understanding market needs and effective approaches to learning, strengthening public systems, and facilitating public-private partnerships • Energy Access – Working with public and private sector organizations to transform markets, make sound supply-side choices, access financing, and enhance energy access • Environment – Innovating at the intersection of human and natural systems to meet the growing demand for food, freshwater, energy, and other resources that advance human development, while protecting our ecosystem’s ability to support this growth in the long run • Financial Inclusion – Partnering with financial institutions, foundations, development institutions, and governments to develop innovative strategies for providing high-quality, appropriate financial services to underserved individuals and businesses • Gender – Developing strategies and designing programs that enable organizations to leverage resources toward greater gender equity • Health & Nutrition – Identifying, designing, and implementing solutions that improve health across the globe • Inclusive Business – Working with businesses to develop inclusive customer bases, suppliers, employees, and distribution channels UNGC Communication on Progress 2020 4 • Infrastructure – Supporting governments, private investors, and institutions to develop inclusive and sustainable infrastructure in emerging markets • Water & Sanitation – Improving private sector-based and sustainable approaches in rural water supply, sanitation, and hygiene products Dalberg brings global perspectives firmly rooted in local realities. We have 19 offices, located in Abu Dhabi, Addis Ababa, Brussels, Copenhagen, Dakar, Dar es Salaam, Geneva, Johannesburg, Kigali, Lagos, London, Mumbai, Mexico City, Nairobi, New Delhi, New York, San Francisco, Singapore and Washington, D.C. We also have full-time teams based in Abidjan, Bogota, Conakry, Hong Kong, Paris, and Seattle. We have served clients in more than 90 countries across Africa, Asia, Europe, the Middle East, and North and South America. The diversity and gender balance of Dalberg staff reflects our ethos of equality and inclusion. Our people are unified only by their commitment to the Dalberg mission, their top-tier education, professional experience, and their first-hand experience living and working in frontier and emerging markets. In all other respects, they reflect the diversity of the countries in which we work and the clients we serve: • 55% female and 45% male global workforce, balanced relatively equally across all levels • 55 nationalities • Over 90 languages spoken Dalberg has an extensive track record of success and innovation across the public, nonprofit, and corporate sectors. In the past 18 years, Dalberg has successfully completed more than 2,700 engagements for more than 700 leading multilateral institutions, international agencies, foundations, NGOs, governments, and global corporations operating, or investing, in frontier and emerging markets. We have worked with a large spectrum of UN organizations—including UNICEF, UNDP, UNFPA, UNESCO, UNCDF, UN Women and WHO. We act at the forefront of development innovation, working extensively with leading social innovators, such as the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, Rockefeller Foundation, and MasterCard Foundation—and a broad range of international organizations, including the Global Fund, Human Rights Watch, and the World Wildlife Fund. We advise a broad range of private sector clients, including 10 Fortune 200 Global companies, and have partnered with dozens more. We have advised emerging and frontier market country governments and regional and international development finance institutions, including the World Bank, International Finance Corporation (IFC), African Development Bank (AfDB), Asian Development Bank (ADB) and Inter-American Development Bank (IADB). Dalberg’s Global Compact COP will be available on the UNGC website and will be referenced on our own website, www.dalberg.com. For any questions or comments, please contact: Jasmin Cooke Jordan Fabyanske Global Director of Operations Global Operating Partner jasmin.cooke@dalberg.com jordan.fabyanske@dalberg.com UNGC Communication on Progress 2020 5 Human Rights • Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights • Principle 2: Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS Dalberg strongly espouses the ethos of diversity and inclusion. In 2019, Dalberg Advisors’ Global Managing Partner signed the CEO Action for Diversity and Inclusion pledge (the world's largest CEO-driven business commitment to advance diversity and inclusion within the workplace) alongside 600+ global CEOs. This pledge builds upon our long-standing commitment to diversity and inclusion—which was also the theme of our 2019 Global Retreat. Dalberg seeks to bring this diversity and inclusion lens to every project we undertake with clients. Dalberg’s work in the international development sector requires us to be highly conscious in our choice of clients, subcontractors, and partners. Dalberg seeks to work only with clients of the utmost integrity, who are globally respected, and who are seeking outcomes that improve the condition of people in emerging and frontier market countries. As such, every partner overseeing business development and project implementation activities takes personal responsibility to ensure that our clients are not involved in human rights abuses. Internally at Dalberg, we are also constantly striving to improve and evolve our own organization to reflect the kind of change we wish to see in the world. For example, during the 2019 UN General Assembly—alongside UNICEF, CIFF and Educate Girls—Dalberg made a pledge to proactively apply a gender lens across our portfolio of work in all sectors, given that a gender-neutral approach is not enough to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals. In 2020, we have begun putting this commitment into action across our projects, hosting multiple internal trainings, and making changes to our approach to our project work. Additionally, our GLAD staff group (a full-firm resource started in 2014 by a group of LGBTQ staff and allies that champions and promotes Dalberg’s vision of LGBTQ diversity and acceptance) held an annual event to share “Journeys of Acceptance” and is instituting a reverse mentorship program to educate senior leadership. Another active staff-led group is our Dalberg Minds team—a cohort working to foster a culture of well-being across the organization. This initiative was developed by a group of staff across regions, and with the input of occupational therapists, alongside our Global People and Values Committee. They have conducted leadership, manager, and staff trainings, created a network of mental wellbeing peer supporters, and developed a resource toolkit to help us all better understand what mental well-being is, how it affects us at work, and what tools and resources are available to support our mental health and well-being. Dalberg Minds are also playing a critical role during the COVID19 pandemic to provide ongoing mental health resources and support to our staff. IMPLEMENTATION In the past year, Dalberg has delved into human rights from the perspective of equal gender rights, protection of vulnerable groups, advocacy, and through our dedicated Conflict and Humanitarian UNGC Communication on Progress 2020 6 Assistance practice. Dalberg is also working across sectors and geographies to respond to the immediate human needs presented by the COVID-19 crisis—including by putting systems in place that ensure socioeconomic responses are inclusive, equitable, and plan for a brighter future. For example: • Dalberg conducted scoping studies to combat commercial sexual exploitation of children in Bangladesh and Kenya for the Freedom Fund. The Freedom Fund engaged Dalberg to design a globally adaptable training curriculum and a pilot to be rolled out in South India in 2021. The curriculum intends to integrate core themes of gender, caste, survivorship, resilience, organizational sustainability, and community movement-building into the curriculum content—and as part of the overall program design, to ensure participants feel empowered to learn. The curriculum will be adapted and used across Freedom Fund’s hotspots in countries like Nepal, Myanmar, and Thailand, strengthening local movements against anti-slavery from the bottoms-up. • Dalberg provided strategic design support to We-FI of the World Bank Group. The initiative channels multi-government funding to global development banks to support programs and strategies that support female entrepreneurs. Dalberg provided high-level advisory support on how to select key themes for the next round of funding, how to incorporate results-based financing, and suggestions on the overall process for the next proposal round. • Dalberg supported CDC Group, the UK’s Development Finance Institution with the integration of a gender lens in its investing process. This involved the creation of three deliverables. Firstly, a diagnostic guide to support its deal teams to identify gender-related value addition opportunities within existing and future investments across its portfolio of over £5 billion in 2019. Secondly, a board-level presentation to be used by CDC in-country teams to encourage the adoption of gender strategies by investees. Finally, the third deliverable provided a summary of how gender considerations are likely to interact with future megatrends, breaking down these implications for each of CDC Group’s eight sectors. • Dalberg designed and conducted an evaluation for Project Disha, a UNDP implemented project in partnership with India, the IKEA Foundation, and India Development Fund. The project focused on impacting one million women in India by enhancing their livelihood skills and improving access to opportunities. As a part of the design phase, the Dalberg team designed the evaluation framework, identified a representative sample set, and developed the data collection tools. Under the evaluation phase, the Dalberg team conducted in-depth analyses to understand the project's economic impact, sustainability, and potential to scale using a broad set of data points. The evaluation is aimed at supporting the IKEA Foundation by understanding the impact of the project on the program beneficiaries and by developing future programs based on the learnings. • Dalberg assessed UNFPA's supply chain management strategy. Dalberg was engaged by The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation to conduct an assessment to help the organization and its funders better understand UNFPA’s core role and capabilities in supply chain management. Dalberg conducted in-depth desk research on the reproductive health and family planning commodity procurement space, and held interviews with UNGC Communication on Progress 2020 7 internal and external stakeholders—including donors, ministries of health, and implementing partners. Dalberg developed recommendations for where UNFPA should focus its strategy moving forward and the tactical next steps to take these recommendations forward. • Dalberg helped bring rapid mass sanitation to Kenyans during the COVID-19 pandemic through Safe Hands Kenya. In many communities across Africa, social distancing measures are difficult to implement without hindering people’s ability to feed their families and make a living. In Kenya, Dalberg helped bring together a new coalition of tech firms, manufacturers, distribution specialists, and more to deploy free hand sanitizer, soap, face masks, and surface disinfectants to all Kenyans as a first line of defence against COVID-19. As part of the alliance, Dalberg Catalyst, a non-profit organization, is raising funds to help support and scale Safe Hands Kenya. MEASURE OF OUTCOMES In the past year, we hosted events, wrote articles in prominent development publications, authored reports, and launched new public data sets that reinforce our support for universal human rights, including: • Dalberg introduced a new campaign targeting Indian households that makes the case for a more equal and intentional distribution of unpaid work. This builds upon our ongoing research on time poverty. In India, women do 10 times more unpaid care work than Indian men, and challenges related to COVID-19 have increased the burden on women by an estimated 30%. A video that encourages households to #SplittheList at home by showing what happens when women are free to pursue their ambitions and support their families in new ways recently aired on CNN. • Dalberg featured in the May 25, 2019 edition of Jeune Afrique: “Mass Entrepreneurship as a driver for mass employment.” Dalberg worked to advance the concept of Mass Entrepreneurship as a driver of the economy by partnering with institutions such as the Délégation Générale à l'Entreprenariat Rapide des femmes et des jeunes (DER) in Senegal. DER provides entrepreneurs with access to integrated financial, business development, and market services that are tailored to sectors with high economic and employment potential. • Dalberg is transforming crisis management with Emergency Operations Centers (EOCs). The crisis management systems in place during the 2013-2016 Ebola crisis were not meeting the needs of communities and governments across Africa. The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation saw that urgent transformation was needed. Over the last seven years, the foundation has partnered with Dalberg to engage in the strategic planning, operationalization, and support of EOCs across Africa — which are now are mobilizing to save lives and minimize socioeconomic losses as part of the COVID-19 response. • Dalberg conducts a study on the social, economic, and financial impacts of COVID-19 on lowand middle-income Kenyans and Nigerians. Dalberg’s Design, Research and Strategy Advisory arms are conducting a longitudinal study to understand the social, economic, and financial impacts of COVID-19 on lowand middle-income Kenyans and Nigerians, as well as the reach and efficacy of policy and programmatic support targeted at these UNGC Communication on Progress 2020 8 communities. Key insights from this analysis showed that many Kenyans and Nigerians have seen their incomes collapse and the ramifications are both devastating and far reaching— from disrupting access to food, water, medicine, electricity, and phone credit, to collapsing social financial networks, to emergency support loans and insurance at a standstill, to government and international aid not yet reaching most people. Recommendations are being developed from the analysis. • Dalberg Media helped host UNLEASH 2019. In November 2019, UNLEASH was held in Shenzhen, China. UNLEASH is a global initiative that envisions building the world’s leading platform for novel and scalable solutions to reach the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Each year, leading up to 2030, 1,000 select individuals will come together for 10 immersive days of co-creation—with the goal of developing smart, implementable, and scalable solutions for the SDGs. Labor • Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining • Principle 4: Business should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor • Principle 5: Business should support the effective abolition of child labor • Principle 6: Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS While the nature of Dalberg’s professional services work does not necessitate staff union membership, our corporate policies provide a system whereby employee concerns and grievances can be addressed via elected staff representatives. We uphold the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory child labor—and support the ILO conventions. In addition, as a matter of principle and reputation, we seek to ensure that these practices do not take place in our client, partner, and sub-contractor organizations. Finally, as an international consulting firm, Dalberg actively seeks to recruit a team that reflects the gender and ethnic diversity of our clients and their beneficiaries. Our corporate policies ensure staff members are recruited based on their ability to do the job. No distinction, exclusion, or preference is given on any other grounds. IMPLEMENTATION Dalberg’s corporate policies are posted prominently on our internal knowledge management system and are accessible by all staff. Our policies are accompanied by an open discussion forum that communicates directly with Dalberg’s Executive Director, Coordination Committee, Dalberg Advisors Global Managing Partner, Global Operating Partner, and the Chair of the People and UNGC Communication on Progress 2020 9 Values Committee. Our People and Values Committee ensures adherence to our global values and oversees all people matters. Its mandate includes setting all human resource related policies and overseeing the performance review process. We conduct annual anti-harassment training for new hires and new Associate Partners, and periodic all-staff refreshers. In 2019 we conducted an in-person anti-harassment training for our leadership team. Further, we recently launched our 2018-2021 diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) roadmap in the Americas region. This roadmap aims to: • Ensure that all employees can bring their full selves to work and that no aspect of demographic identity determines success • Increase representation of marginalized groups across all levels • Advance equity and inclusion through deployment of our financial and human resources and in our client-facing work. Dalberg also has created Dalberg Minds – a global mental health task force to promote mental wellbeing (see further details in the Human Rights section above). For confidential employee grievances and concerns, we have an established ombudsperson system. The Ombud people are nominated by staff globally and retain the position for a period of at least one year. These representatives have direct access to Dalberg senior management and a responsibility to bring up issues of concern to staff. In addition, Dalberg seeks to be a leading employer by recognizing the importance of maintaining an enjoyable, supportive working environment and providing social benefits. Each of our offices aims to provide benefits like health, dental, pension, and parental leave at levels exceeding or comparable to other leading professional services firms in their respective countries of operation. We promote teamwork and individual professional development through regular office-level retreats, a global retreat every 16-24 months, regular global and office-level skills training sessions, quarterly staff pulse surveys, 360-degree feedback reviews, and individual staff professional development plans. Dalberg is in the process of finalizing our Child Protection Policy. Dalberg strives to achieve significant and lasting impact on the lives of Children and Young People, and to secure equality for girls. The scope of this policy extends to young people we are supporting or are in contact with through our work. We recognize that young people may face different sociological, psychological and health problems from younger children and older adults. In the past year Dalberg has worked with several clients on labor and employment practices. We also work with a range of actors to identify opportunities to promote youth employment. For example: • Dalberg entered a strategy partnership with Mastercard Foundation to support Young Africa Works. This partnership supports the design and implementation of the Mastercard Foundation’s Young Africa Works strategy by aiming to help 30 million young people in Africa, particularly young women, secure dignified and fulfilling work by 2030. Using youth employment as a measure of progress, the Foundation hopes to help millions of young people find a pathway out of poverty. Initially, Young Africa Works will focus on Kenya, Nigeria, Ethiopia, Senegal, Ghana, Uganda and Rwanda. UNGC Communication on Progress 2020 10 • Dalberg developed a strategic framework and implementation plan for job creation in Nigeria for the Office of the Vice President in Nigeria. Nigeria's youth unemployment crisis means that 5-12 million youth are unemployed in Africa's largest country. The Office of the Vice President of Nigeria, with support from DFID, asked Dalberg to develop a national strategy and implementation plan for job creation. The team focused on identifying opportunities for inclusive growth in four sectors: agriculture and agro-allied, construction, ICT and digital jobs, and wholesale and retail trade. Dalberg used a cluster-based approach to ensure that the strategy was equitable—impacting each of Nigeria's six geopolitical zones and encouraging competitive differentiation within each region. The intended impact of the work is to reduce unemployment while leveraging regional competitiveness across the country. • Dalberg developed a service delivery model for the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) and the United Nations Development Program (UNDP). The model is for a new global network focused on private sector engagement. This project focused on inclusive skills development. Dalberg conducted in-depth desk research and interviews with key stakeholders in the skills development ecosystem, defined the network’s value proposition, structure, and service delivery lines, and hosted co-creation and presentation workshops. Lastly, Dalberg proposed a plan for first year activities, including a resource mobilization strategy and a communication strategy for the network. • Dalberg conducted a strategic study for Côte d'Ivoire's Ministry of education. This engagement aimed to carry out a strategic diagnosis in order to recommend an actionable plan for the strengthening of the Technical and Vocational Education Training (TVET) provided by private secondary institutions in the country. The end goal is to more adequately meet the demand for skilled workers in Côte d'Ivoire's economy and support its growth potential. • Dalberg assisted Millennium Challenge Corporation's Gender and Social Inclusion team to identify women's economic empowerment programs in Timor-Leste. The team examined existing literature on the links between women's economic empowerment programs and nutrition outcomes, conducted interviews with over 30 stakeholders in Timor-Leste working in the fields of women's economic empowerment, nutrition, agriculture, and digital inclusion, and engaged experts to validate findings. Through these efforts, Dalberg conceptualized programs boosting women's roles in agriculture and microenterprises, as well as digital inclusion programs for women. • Dalberg conducted an internal review for UBS Community Affairs. The review focused on prior successes, challenges and ambitions going forward, as well as an external scan of the CSR and inclusive entrepreneurship and education landscapes. Dalberg facilitated workshops with the Community Affairs (CA) team and broader UBS stakeholders to clarify objectives and align on strategic priorities going forward. Dalberg drafted a full strategy, including programs, KPIs, and potential partners, that will set the CA team up to deepen their impact in inclusive entrepreneurship while increasing their internal engagement and visibility within the firm. • Dalberg conducted Industrialization study in Tanzania’s Sunflower Sector for USAID (Investment Support Program). This study was conducted by Dalberg, and a suite of local UNGC Communication on Progress 2020 11 and international partners, and revealed notable transformations in the industrialization of Tanzania’s sunflower sector. This transformation followed the government’s decision in 2018 to enact trade and tax reforms aimed at boosting industrialization in the sector. Tax incentives encouraged industrial investments in the production of sunflower oil, while tariffs imposed on imports likely helped favour domestic sunflower production. The changes also meant that Tanzania, which previously imported about 60% of its cooking oil requirements at a cost of approximately $250 million USD per year, could reduce or eliminate its reliance on imported vegetable oil—a key food staple in the country. MEASURE OF OUTCOMES In the past year, Dalberg has not been involved in any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving contravention of ILO conventions or the Global Compact labor principles. Additionally, Dalberg’s efforts to build and maintain a diverse staff and a supportive, nondiscriminative corporate environment are apparent in our staff statistics: • 55% female and 45% male global workforce, balanced relatively equally across all levels • 55 nationalities • More than 90+ languages spoken In addition, we have written reports and articles in prominent development publications and convened public forums, reinforcing our commitment to fair labor practices and equal opportunity, including: • Dalberg’s report, “Youth Not in Education, Employment, and Training in Kenya” launched at the Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development, October 16, 2019. In Kenya, youth NEET—young people not in education, employment, or training—are among the most vulnerable, with few prospects for income-generating activities in the future. Who are these youth, what are their challenges, enablers, and aspirations, and what would it take to increase their access to opportunities? These are the questions that serve as the basis of the report. Dalberg also examined Kenyan youth NEET’s core values and capabilities, including their attitudes and perceptions towards capabilities for work and life. • Dalberg developed the, “Adopting a Gender Lens to the IDH Smallholder Innovation Platform” toolkit. Dalberg developed a toolkit that provides a step-by-step guide for how to support service providers—ranging from financial services organizations to inputs providers—to better serve female smallholder farmers. This includes an assessment of their current level of gender intentionality and specific recommendations on how to customize services to women’s unique needs. In addition, the Dalberg team supported IDH staff in developing materials to highlight the business case for incorporating a gender lens in service provision. As a result, the toolkit is currently being integrated into IDH’s work with service providers—and ensuring they are better serving their female customers and supporting their economic growth. UNGC Communication on Progress 2020 12 • Dalberg Advisors and Sasakawa Peace Foundation (SPF) produced a research report. As part of SPF’s Asia Women Impact Fund, the report outlines a Women’s Empowerment Framework; identifying the region’s progress across key indicators, which aim to inspire entrepreneurs to work on some of the most acute issues women face in Southeast Asia with support from investors and government agencies. The report was launched at the AVPN annual conference 2019 in Singapore, with guest commentary from the Social Investment Consultancy, WOCAN, UnLtd, SEAF, Criterion Institute and Angels of Impact. • Dalberg partnered with the Africa Centre and Africa Leadership Institute to launch the “Future Forum” in New York. The event, structured around Africa at Work, created a platform promoting curated conversations between Africans and Diaspora. “Africa at Work is a conversation between Africans and the Diaspora that aims to deepen our shared understanding of African labor market complexities, highlight and accelerate innovative ideas, and channel investments towards solutions that positively impact the future of work on the continent,” explains Dalberg Partner and event co-host, Robin Miller. • Dalberg, in conjunction with the Africa Business Heroes application period, hosted a series of four webinars. The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic is having a significant impact on African entrepreneurs—and this initiative is aimed at helping entrepreneurs across Africa submit their Africa Business Heroes entries, with a focus on weathering the storm of this health crisis. As the pandemic evolves, Dalberg is committed to providing access to tools that will help them respond to challenges and build the capabilities to stay the course during the crisis and beyond. These interactive sessions are designed to share real world experiences on developing winning pitches for the competition and beyond. • Dalberg deep dives into DFI’s role in COVID-19 as part of a webinar on April 9, 2020. The webinar brought together leaders of five DFIs to discuss their responses to the crisis and focus areas moving forward. Dalberg Advisor’s Global Managing Partner Emeritus, Yana Kakar, moderated the discussion. Five insights on DFI leadership in the COVID-19 crisis were identified: 1. Risk appetites must increase, 2. An inclusive approach focused on marginalized populations is key, 3. Support must move beyond immediate capital and include technical assistance and broader policy reform to ensure resilience, 4. Collaboration among DFIs is critical to be able to respond to the crisis in an agile manner and 5. Partnership is not only needed among DFIs but also with other public, private, and civil society actors. UNGC Communication on Progress 2020 13 Environment • Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges • Principle 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility • Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS Dalberg is committed to fostering and promoting a clean environment and meeting environmental challenges through a wide range of efforts to monitor and reduce the carbon footprint of our individual staff and the firm as a whole. At the start of 2019, Dalberg committed to a new global green initiative, Climate Commitment, to reduce our carbon footprint, increase environmental sustainability as a firm, and include a climate lens to all our projects moving forward. Wherever possible, Dalberg raises awareness among our staff and guides them to the most environmentally friendly choices and vendors. Our travel policies, posted on our internal knowledge management system and available to all staff, advise use of the most environmentally sound methods of travel. In addition, members of our dedicated Energy Access and Environment practices foster internal and external dialogue on environmental challenges through monthly calls and email updates, blog posts, and articles. IMPLEMENTATION In the last year, Dalberg has worked with a wide range of clients to develop environmentally conscious strategies, build knowledge around environmental markets, and promote the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. For example: • Dalberg developed a report for the Access to Energy Institute (A2EI). The Access to Energy Institute (A2EI), an R&D institute focused on improving access to solar electricity, commissioned Dalberg to develop a report that clearly articulates the case for replacing fuel-powered generators in Nigeria with solar-powered equivalents. • Dalberg developed a report analysing Kosovo's energy system and how to diversify its energy sources. The report analysis focused on the potential commercial feasibility of various actions to improve the reliability of Kosovo’s energy system and diversify its energy sources. Dalberg conducted stakeholder interviews in Kosovo (with players in government, the energy sector, energy users, and other experts), built economic modelling of price and cost implications of different options, and conducted a desk review of donor and academic research, press, and other documents. • Dalberg conducted new research and analysis for Climate Works Foundation and Good Energies Foundation. The research was commissioned to help the philanthropic community better understand mitigation opportunities in Africa with high decarbonization potential and strong development co-benefits. This work identified a range of opportunities based on UNGC Communication on Progress 2020 14 a broad assessment of potentially high-emitting regions and sectors, as well as the current and potential funding landscape. The results of this work are intended to be a resource for the philanthropic field. • Dalberg designed a fund to support Biosphere Reserves in Sub-Saharan Africa. UNESCO, in collaboration with the AfDB, commissioned Dalberg to design the innovative fund. Dalberg conducted a landscape study, mapped existing and potential funders, and highlighted three types of funding needs that were under resourced. • Dalberg supported Environmental Incentives, LLC, and USAID to assess key barriers hampering and degrading sustainable land activities and identify financing solutions to help sustain and scale in Mexico. The Dalberg team consulted with smallholder farmers, donors, banks, and other ecosystem players, to understand what impedes the conservation of forests and the implementation of sustainable land activities (e.g. agroforestry). As part of this work, Dalberg included a special focus on women and their role in the broader ecosystem in order to identify solutions tailored to their realities. This work concluded in a presentation in the “Foro Latinoamericano de Inversion de Impacto” and a public report. The latter was used by USAID to convene stakeholders around proposed interventions and launch a co-creation process to further develop and implement sustainable land activities. • Dalberg structured a pilot program to aggregate sorghum from farmers through DigiFarm’s platform in Kenya. This work is comprised of five main facets: 1. Dalberg analyzed the economics of existing aggregators to inform the viability of bringing them onto the DigiFarm pilot, 2. Created a shared document for all partners listing specific partner roles through the pilot, 3. Created a Project Management Office (PMO) tool for DigiFarm to track the progress of different partners in the completion of their pilot roles, 4. Created a field reference document to be used by the pilot’s field staff, and 5. Created a detailed customer journey for the farmers in the pilot. This work was conducted alongside strategic partners including, Mercy Corps’ AgriFin Accelerate, DigiFarm, Farm to Market Alliance (FtMA), and East African Maltings Limited (EAML) MEASURES OF OUTCOME: In the last year, Dalberg has authored reports and contributed to major conversations on environmental issues, including: • Dalberg’s Climate Commitment: a practical step towards a better climate future. Dalberg has signed the UN Global Compact Business Ambition for 1.5 degrees—an open letter signed by 203 companies and counting—that commit to limiting global temperature rise to 1.5°C above preindustrial levels and reach net-zero by 2050 for the best chance of avoiding the worst impacts of the climate crisis. Dalberg is publicly sharing the steps we are taking to reduce carbon emissions and counter the environmental damage of plastics through our website and social media channels. These measures will contribute to Dalberg’s adherence to the Paris Climate Agreement to ensure it does not contribute to the warming of the planet beyond 1.5 degrees. UNGC Communication on Progress 2020 15 • Dalberg co-authored a 2019 report on plastics pollution, “Stop the Flood of Plastic: How Mediterranean countries can save their sea.” In addition to sharing the scope of the challenge, Dalberg detailed the root causes of the issue, highlighting the policy interventions needed across the plastics value chain. • Dalberg built an exhaustive crop type and yield estimation map in Burkina Faso, using artificial intelligence and satellite images from the European Space Agency. This tool can be used as an early warning of crop failure and food crisis—giving governments and aid agencies more time to organize a response. • Dalberg signed an agreement with IDH and Unilever to help overcome challenges agricultural SMEs face as they become part of the revenue streams they need to grow. The agreement was signed on June 18, 2019. The three organizations aim to catalyze the step change in quality and volume SMEs need to join global manufacturers’ supply chains. Dalberg, IDH, and Unilever aim to improve the lives of 50,000 smallholder farmers, with a focus on jobs for women and youth and creating decent working conditions. Under the agreement, Dalberg and IDH will raise $12m in funding to directly build the capacity needed for agricultural SMEs to be a part of a modern supply chain. In turn, Unilever will offer guaranteed offtake once quality standards are reached to underwrite the investment. In addition, Unilever will collaborate closely with IDH and Dalberg to provide advice and support to help SMEs become market ready. Anti-Corruption • Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS Dalberg observes and supports the United Nations Convention Against Corruption. We seek to support governments, UN agencies, and civil society to realize a more transparent global economy. As a firm, we have strict corporate policies to avoid bribery, extortion, and other forms of corruption both in home office countries and in the field. Where there are concerns, Dalberg includes specific provisions in our contractual arrangements with clients prohibiting any such behavior. We are also finalizing our Safeguarding Children and Young People Guidelines and refreshing our Global Policies as described in the Labor section above. Dalberg is also initiating a Values-Based Project Screening Pilot in 2020. Dalberg is not just a mission-driven firm, but also a values-led one, and we have adapted our processes as we grow to stay true to both. In late 2019 a taskforce of the Dalberg Advisors Leadership team developed a process to discuss issues around values as we take on new client engagements. Further, in 2020 we are piloting a review of our client engagements from a values perspective. UNGC Communication on Progress 2020 16 IMPLEMENTATION Our primary contribution to a transparent global economy comes in the form of our client work. In the last year, we have worked with a wide range of clients on governance issues. For example: • Dalberg hosted the State of Aadhaar Initiative event aimed at increasing the knowledge base around India’s digital ID, Aadhaar. The initiative is sponsored by Omidyar Network. Over 90% of the population is enrolled in Aadhaar but since its inception, the program has elicited high profile debate on everything from its constitutionality to its implementation. What is sometimes lost in these arguments is an objective understanding of the lived experience of Aadhaar users, making it is difficult to identify what is working and what to prioritize for improvement. Dalberg helped the State of Aadhaar Initiative mind that gap by providing participants with data and insights that fostered constructive conversations around the future of Aadhaar—while also considering the global impact of the initiative as many other countries are looking to learn from India’s digital ID program. • Dalberg was engaged by IFC to reform their core investment approval process. This enabled them to be more efficient without sacrificing development impact and mitigating potential risk. Dalberg reviewed initial ideas developed internally by IFC for changing the tiering framework, conducted external benchmarking on the differentiated processing frameworks used by development and commercial banks, and developed a set of proposals for a new tiering framework for IFC. Dalberg refined the proposals considering the likely impact on efficiency and potential risks—and drafted a high-level implementation plan for the selected proposal. • Dalberg assisted the SKILLS Branch of the ILO to design an innovation facility. The innovation facility would allow the SKILLS Branch to react to a rapidly changing world of work, and to accelerate the process of creating a culture of innovation more widely across the ILO. The Dalberg team mapped innovation activity across the UN, highlighted key success factors and potential barriers to building a successful Innovation Facility—and through a series of co-creation workshops, recommended a long-term vision for innovation within the ILO. These recommendations included an 18-month implementation plan and were tailored to the capabilities and mandate of the ILO, incorporating lessons and best practices from innovation across the UN. • Dalberg conducted a mid-term evaluation for the USAID Southern Africa Democracy, Rights and Governance (DRG) portfolio. The evaluation mapped out the current situation across the portfolio and identified where mid-term course corrections were required. As the portfolio included investments across the Southern African region, the assessment evaluated the portfolio's bilateral links and its complementarity across the region. This evaluation assessed supply-and-demand-side programs for democracy, using data such as theportfolio-level project appraisal document, program-level M&E reporting, interviews with various stakeholders, and confirmation interviews with beneficiaries—and developed a 30-page report, outlining the strengths and challenges encountered during programming since 2016. • Dalberg was engaged by the Internet Society (ISOC) to assist them in the development of Community Networks (CNs) in Ethiopia. Through a power mapping exercise, Dalberg UNGC Communication on Progress 2020 17 helped the organization identify which policies to target, what stakeholders were responsible for them, and how best to influence them. MEASURE OF OUTCOMES In the past year, Dalberg has not been involved in any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving corruption or bribery. In addition, we maintain transparent financial records via an annual audit with accredited accounting firms in each of our countries of operation. UNGC Communication on Progress 2020 18
