2019 REPORT Hitachi Automotive Systems’ Brake Business Unit CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ALWAYS GUIDED BY OUR VALUES TABLE OF CONTENTS EDITORIAL > 03 INTERVIEW WE ARE MAKING “DOING THE RIGHT Bernd Schemer, Head of Hitachi OUR CORPORATE SOCIAL A BETTER COMPANY THING” FOR SOCIETY Automotive Systems’ Brake RESPONSIBILITY MOVES WE ARE IN A AND FOR THE PLANET Business Unit TO A NEW DIMENSION STRONG POSITION WE “INCREASE HITACHI An enlarged scope, combined strengths TO “DO THE RIGHT ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AUTOMOTIVE > 08 THING” EVERY DAY. AND ENVIRONMENTAL SYSTEMS’ BRAKE > 13 VALUE” BUSINESS UNIT > 23 WHO WE ARE? > 04 2 In our new business entity, our Corporate Social Responsibility commitment is stronger than ever Bernd Schemer, Head of Hitachi Automotive Systems’ Brake Business Unit I am happy to introduce the 2019 edition of our pollution reduction. We are also in a better position to Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Report – which tackle CSR topics with increased momentum, supported is definitely a landmark in our commitment to the by strong corporate values. United Nations Global Compact. We can be proud of what was accomplished in the past 2019 One year ago, Chassis Brakes International published its by Chassis Brakes International, and proud of what we first CSR Report and we publicly stated our company’s are accomplishing now at Hitachi Automotive Systems. support to the United Nations Global Compact – which Health and safety, compliance and ethics, as well as we joined as “active member” in 2017. quality – the three components of our licence to operate – are solidly integrated in the core of our business, as Chassis Brakes International was acquired by Hitachi Automotive Systems in October 2019. Today, I am is our accountability to our stakeholders and to society, in line with Hitachi’s Social Innovation approach. HAS BEEN AN presenting this second CSR Report in my new role as Head of the Brake Business Unit. The Brake Business After working alongside my Chassis Brakes International INCREDIBLE YEAR. IT HAS Unit has brought together Chassis Brakes International colleagues for several years I know how dedicated they and the former Brake Business Unit of Hitachi Automotive are, and I thank them all once again for their unfailing PROVIDED Systems, thus building a global leader in automotive engagement. I also wish to pay tribute to our new advanced safety solutions, renowned for its operational Hitachi Automotive Systems colleagues who, over excellence, leading-edge engineering, innovative systems the past months, have demonstrated impressive design, and overall environmentally friendly approach. agility and creativity. NEW MEANS I am honored to reaffirm our continued commitment to the UN Global Compact as well as our dedication to 2019 was an incredible year, which provided new means and set new goals. Today, the Covid-19 AND SET NEW promote its principles by embedding CSR in all business operations and conducting specific CSR-oriented pandemic has created additional challenges. I am convinced that the combined strengths CHALLENGES. actions. of all Brake Business Unit employees, with their different cultures and knowledges, will enable us I am confident that the strategic alliance exemplified to tackle these challenges in order to benefit by Hitachi Automotive System’s Brake Business Unit the company, the planet, and society as a whole. responds to the needs of our rapidly changing Because for all of us, whatever language we speak, automotive industry. Today, we are better able to adapt the overall goal remains: “to do the right thing”. to market megatrends such as increasing electric vehicle requirements, the development of autonomous vehicles and mobility as a service (MaaS), and mandatory 2019 Report 3 HITACHI AUTOMOTIVE SYSTEMS’ BRAKE BUSINESS UNIT WHO WE ARE? T 17 oday’s global picture is extremely complex: business is fast-paced, driven by leading-edge technology, the environment is evolving rapidly due to climate change, and the challenges we face as a society 9,500 are unprecedented. In this context the automotive industry Brazil, China, France, Germany, Italy, India, has a major role to play, and Hitachi Automotive Systems Indonesia, Japan, Mexico, Netherlands, is prepared to contribute actively to all corporate, social and environmental goals. Poland, Portugal, South Africa, Spain, employees COUNTRIES Thailand, Turkey, USA Our Group is organized to seize opportunities and meet future expectations HITACHI AUTOMOTIVE SYSTEMS is engaged in the development, manufacture, sales and services of automotive components, transportation-related components, industrial machines and systems. We focus on developing safer, cleaner, smarter solutions that will support the megatrends impacting the automotive industry, such as connectivity, electrification and autonomous driving. HITACHI AUTOMOTIVE SYSTEMS’ BRAKE BUSINESS UNIT is one of the world’s largest manufacturers of automotive braking solutions. Our products – disc brakes, drum brakes, electro-mechanical parking brakes and rotors – are dedicated to passenger cars, light commercial and two-wheeler vehicles through original equipment manufacturers and aftermarket distribution channels. We have a global footprint with operations in Europe, Asia, South Africa, North and South America. Thanks to the dedication of the men and women who “make it happen”, we can create innovations that transform industries and society for the better, as expressed by Hitachi’s Social Innovation motto: “Powering Good”. 2019 Report 4 HITACHI AUTOMOTIVE SYSTEMS’ BRAKE BUSINESS UNIT PORTFOLIO DISC BRAKES & DRUM BRAKES ZOHe /4W ZOHe AST TM BIR / BIRplus Drum/DIH APB (GEN3) APB HD Boost APB APB-Di DISC BRAKES & DRUM BRAKES AUTOMATED PARKING BRAKES ZOHe Zero-Offset Harmonized evolution 4W Four-wheeler AST TM Active Shape Technology BIR Ball-In-Ramp DIH Drum-In-Hat APB Automated Parking Brake Di Motor on Drum Integrated Ventilated & solid discs Drum Smart Brake SMART ROTORS & DRUMS SYSTEM 2019 Report 5 A SHARED VISION SUPPORTED BY STRONG COMMON VALUES B ringing together different business entities initially HITACHI relies on strategic logic, such as the entities’ complementarity in terms of geographic footprint, CHASSIS customer relationships, technology portfolio and BRAKES INTERNATIONAL expertise. Such complementarity provides immediate success; but for a new combined entity to thrive Inspire the next Always guided on the long term, it is crucial that the strategic logic Corporate Statement by our values… be supported by a strong cultural fit. The new Hitachi Automotive Systems’ Brake Business Unit is a vivid illustration of this win-win principle. It has brought HARMONY COOPERATION together the Chassis Brakes International company and (Wa) We work as one team through alignment and collaboration. the brake activities of Hitachi Automotive Systems, We need to show respect to prompted by their strong business complementarity. our clients, our colleagues, The new Brake Business Unit demonstrates that our suppliers, our clients and separate companies, originating from different our stakeholders. We show respect to earn respect. areas of the world, can successfully join forces thanks to their shared vision and common values: ACCOUNTABILITY • The Hitachi value of Harmony (“Wa”) blends in with SINCERITY We perform to the requirements the Chassis Brakes International value of Cooperation; (Makoto) with a constant sense of ownership •T  he Hitachi value of Sincerity (“Makoto”) is deeply and responsibility. embedded in Chassis Brakes International’s values We should act with integrity of Trust and Accountability; in all we say and do; this shows TRUST that we are sincere in holding • T  he Pioneering Spirit (“Kaitakusha Seishin”) valued to our stated values. We maintain We value positive relationships based on respect and transparency. by Hitachi encompasses three Chassis Brakes fairness in all our dealings; International values all in one: Agility, Creativity our reputation is founded on how we go about our business. and Excellence. AGILITY In summary, although the wording may have been PIONEERING SPIRIT We are dynamic, enthusiastic different, both the Japan-based Hitachi Automotive Systems and the Netherlands-based Chassis Brakes (Kaitakusha-Seishin) and flexible. International have always shared the true meaning CREATIVITY of their values. The new Brake Business Unit can now aim We are empowered to test ideas for a combined goal: to “be a global partner in braking and learn from our experiences. We lead with ambition, solutions, through innovation and passion for success”, seeking new challenges; EXCELLENCE “deliver innovations that answer society’s challenges”, we are not afraid to be flexible We are committed to achieving and, as a whole, “inspire the next”. and adapt to the changing needs high standards of performance. of our business. 2019 Report 6 THE HITACHI GLOBAL COMPLIANCE PROGRAM D riven by the Hitachi Top Global Compliance Program, and is Management, the Hitachi adapted by the subsidiaries to match Global Compliance Program their specific constraints – legal systems, provides clear guidelines social customs, or business which are deployed and implemented characteristics – whilst maintaining full by management throughout the entire alignment with the Compliance Program. Group, based on a simple principle: maintaining the company’s reputation Several topics are addressed and earning the trust of customers in the Hitachi Code of Conduct: and business partners requires both full • The sustainable vision and goal compliance with applicable laws and of Hitachi to build a greener future actions in accordance with the highest through innovation, creative ethical standards. It reflects the strong collaboration and corporate social commitment of the company’s top responsibility; COMPLIANCE: management to conduct business • The ethical rules of the Group regarding WE ARE ALL with the highest integrity standards. business activities, data and property protection; RESPONSIBLE The Compliance Program is a strong • The responsibilities of employees Hitachi’s reputation is based tool to build a global mindset common and managers in the correct on our actions and the way to all Group entities. Each and every implementation of the Code of Conduct. others perceive our actions. employee plays a role in representing It is therefore important Hitachi; this entails a personal The Compliance Program is currently to avoid situations which might responsibility to understand the rules, being implemented throughout create even the perception follow them, and thereby protect Hitachi Automotive Systems’ Brake or mere impression of Hitachi’s reputation at all times. Business Unit, for it to be fully impropriety. We all hold incorporated in 2020. ourselves to the highest ethical standards in order THE CODE OF CONDUCT to protect and support Hitachi’s A part of the Compliance Program, reputation. Any employee, the Hitachi Group Code of Conduct in any location in the world, consists of rules and principles intended can contact the Compliance to assist all officers and employees Department to report a suspicion throughout the Group in making of misconduct. decisions and taking actions in accord with the Hitachi Group Identity. The code constitutes a cornerstone of the Hitachi 2019 Report 7 AN ENLARGED SCOPE, COMBINED STRENGTHS… OUR CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MOVES TO A NEW DIMENSION Thierry Couillaud, The United Nations Global T. C.: Labour standards are a permanent Compact is the world’s largest guideline, based on providing a healthy Vice President HR, corporate sustainability environment and valuing the health and HSE & Communication, initiative. What is your safety of all. We tackle environmental Brake Business Unit involvement with this initiative issues head on, as responsible and what principles does automotive manufacturers. And and Nathalie Gradelet, it promote? corruption is fought with the utmost Communication Director, energy throughout the company. Brake Business Unit Thierry Couillaud: The United Nations More than a statement of intent, this Global Compact is an international call Sustainable Development report shows to companies to align their operations the pragmatic aspects of our actions on and strategies, in order to achieve all of these points. transformational change and build sustainable business around the world. The Global Compact also Over 9,500 companies from 160 different promotes Sustainable countries have already officially stated Development Goals. Can you their commitment to the Global Compact. explain what they are? Hitachi Ltd. has been a member since 2009 and Chassis Brakes T.C.: The Global Compact encourages International joined the initiative in 2017. companies to take strategic actions to advance broader societal goals such as Nathalie Gradelet: The Global the UN Sustainable Development Goals Compact offers a framework to organize (SDGs), with an emphasis on collaboration actions. It supports companies and innovation. The goals are actionin doing business responsibly by aligning oriented objectives, focused on their strategies and operations preserving the planet, contributing to with ten principles regarding Human society, and building a “better world” rights, Labour Standards, Environment for the future. 17 SDGs were adopted Preservation and Anti-corruption actions. by all 193 UN Member States in 2015, Hitachi Automotive Systems’ Brake as part of the 2030 Agenda for Business Unit way of working clearly Sustainable Development which set out echoes the Global Compact principles. a 15-year plan to achieve the Goals. Throughout our sites, our employees As an active member of the Global strongly support human values, Compact, our objective is to meet and the company acknowledges as many SDGs as possible. their efforts by encouraging and praising them. 2019 Report 8 Your 2018 CSR report was published by Chassis Brakes International; this 2019 report is published by Hitachi Automotive Systems’ Brake Business Unit. Does this “switch” modify your commitment to the Global Compact or your CSR approach in any way? N.G.: For the Brake Business Unit, it is a top priority to support the Global Compact principles as it was for Chassis Brakes International when it was a stand-alone company. Joining forces with Hitachi Automotive Systems has been thrilling in terms of CSR: we’ve learnt more about the commitments of Hitachi toward society and social responsibility. Today, as a whole, we are eager to move the CSR cursor further up the scale. T.C.: Our commitment is even stronger WHAT EXACTLY thanks to our enlarged scope! Since IS CORPORATE it is too early to have consolidated figures SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY? covering all Brake Business Unit activities, this report refers essentially The United Nations define Corporate Social to actions carried out within the Chassis Responsibility as “a management concept whereby Brakes International scope. Over time companies integrate social and environmental our CSR approach will take full advantage concerns in their business operations of our combined strengths; I already see and interactions with their stakeholders. a lot of momentum for that. CSR is the way a company balances its economic, environmental and social imperatives, while at the same time addressing the expectations of its stakeholders”. Head of Hitachi Automotive Systems’ Brake Business Unit Bernd Schemer summarizes CSR in a simpler way: “CSR is just about doing the right thing”. 2019 Report 9 This is a “Communication N.G.: Another progress indicator on Progress Report”. is our increased number of events on Can you give us some United Nations Days (based on the official THE UNITED NATIONS examples of the progress calendar), such as the International GLOBAL COMPACT achieved since last year? Women’s Day, the World Safety Day, TEN UNIVERSAL PRINCIPLES the Anti-Discrimination Day… Important T.C.: A clear progress indicator is events to raise awareness on various provided by the independent EcoVadis topics related to health, society or the assessment (EcoVadis is an independant environment. You will see many examples agency which provides us with reliable throughout this report. As a woman, HUMAN RIGHTS CSR Ratings and Scorecards based let me draw attention to a particular ENVIRONMENT on 21 CSR Indicators). The EcoVadis example regarding gender equality: PRINCIPLE 1 methodology is built on international CSR the newly appointed Hitachi Automotive Businesses should support PRINCIPLE 7 standards including the United Nations Systems’ Brake Business Unit CFO (Chief and respect the protection of Businesses should support Global Compact, the Global Reporting Financial Officer) Katia Robard is a internationally proclaimed human a precautionary approach Initiative, and the ISO 26000, and covers woman, whose exemplary career and rights; and to environmental challenges; 198 spend categories and 155 countries : skills enabled her to reach this top-level PRINCIPLE 2 PRINCIPLE 8 our rating has improved from 51 to 59, position – real-life evidence that our make sure that they are not undertake initiatives to promote placing us in the top 20% of companies; Group offers equal opportunities at complicit in human rights abuses. greater environmental responsibility; our environmental approach achieves all levels! and 70% satisfaction, and our compliance PRINCIPLE 9 with labor rights 60%. These good results T.C.: In addition, I would like to mention encourage the development and increase our legitimacy and boost that we are actively dealing with diffusion of environmentally friendly employee engagement. Our OSHA safety the challenges resulting from technologies. rate (the frequency of incidents on work our new organization. We help sites requiring external healthcare our employees understand and support, according to the Occupational overcome cultural differences via specific LABOUR Safety and Health Administration) has e-learning modules or face-to-face also improved from 0.65 to 0.57. training – whichever system better PRINCIPLE 3 suits the trainees. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to ANTI-CORRUPTION collective bargaining; PRINCIPLE 4 PRINCIPLE 10 the elimination of all forms of forced Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including AS WE JOIN FORCES IN THE BRAKE and compulsory labour; extortion and bribery. BUSINESS UNIT, OUR OBJECTIVE IS CLEAR: PRINCIPLE 5 the effective abolition of child MAKE THE BEST OF BOTH WORLDS.” labour; and PRINCIPLE 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 2019 Report 10 In looking to the future, Hitachi Automotive Systems SDG 9 has identified five SDGs “Industry, Innovation and as “focus points” to align Infrastructure Build resilient with the vision of the Hitachi infrastructure, promote Group, the general trends inclusive and sustainable of the automotive industry, industrialization and foster and other societal requirements. How do you innovation”. approach these SDGs? Hitachi Automotive Systems’ Brake Business Unit is definitely T.C.: Among the 17 UN Global Compact active on this topic, in particular SDGs, the five goals identified through its focus on innovation by Hitachi Automotive Systems which is extensively fostered are at the top of our list: throughout the company. THEY HONOR OUR VALUES As we prepare this report, the world is confronted with the terrible Covid-19 pandemic. The situation SDG 3 is dramatic in many countries, as it has a huge impact “Good Health and Well-being on the population as well as on the global economy. Ensure healthy lives SDG 11 We are doing our best to protect our employees through and promote well-being “Sustainable Cities and sanitary measures taken in all locations, and we are for all at all ages”. Communities Make cities maintaining our activity as much as possible. This goal is already a big focus area and human settlements In Wuhan, where the pandemic initially started, 85 of our employees inclusive, safe, resilient volunteered to stay inside in the plant day and night, in order for us, the most important one for all to provide the local ambulances with the brakes they needed. our employees. It is included in the and sustainable”. For several months these incredibly dedicated employees completely assessments of our work It is essential that we establish lived on site; we provided them with beds, and they kept working environment, and adapted positive relationships with with an acute sense of “doing the right thing”. To Hitachi Automotive according to local requirements. the communities around Systems’ Brake Business Unit as a whole, these 85 employees Our initiatives on this goal are mainly our sites. are definitely our “amazing Wuhan heroes”! local, and we plan to stimulate them further in the coming year. SDG 13 SDG 7 “Climate Action Take urgent “Affordable and Clean Energy action to combat climate Ensure access to affordable, change and its impacts”. reliable, sustainable and This topic is particularly aligned In summary, the Brake Business Unit will continue and amplify modern energy for all”. its efforts to meet these “top priority” SDGs in the coming year with our vision of what the – in parallel with our other CSR initiatives. We know that we can On this topic, we would like automotive industry must do count on our employees, who contribute with energy to integrate clean energy to limit its impact on nature. and imagination to push things forward in the right direction. alternatives such as solar and wind Our focus is to further reduce So our motto is more than ever: energy to provide power to our our carbon footprint and all other plants – and further help us protect sources of pollution resulting FULL SPEED AHEAD TO MEET the environment. from our activities. THE CSR CHALLENGE! 2019 Report 11 DIVERSITY & INCLUSION: AN INTEGRAL PART OF OUR STRATEGY For Hitachi Automotive Systems, 1. What is your role “unconscious bias” aspects. It’s all about creating openDiversity & Inclusion means as Global Diversity Manager? mindedness, acceptance, and mutual respect. We must leveraging diverse perspectives My role was created in April 2019. Until then, Hitachi communicate extensively and provide tools (such as training through different nationalities, Automotive Systems actions related to Diversity & Inclusion and events) to help our company culture evolve, bearing cultures, gender, age, sexual were taken at regional or country level and were somewhat in mind that we’re talking to approximately orientation, religion and lifestyle. dispersed. I was asked to bring everything together at 35,000 employees spread over 17 countries! By building on each employee’s the global level, in order to create a coordinated initiative unique way of thinking, the company with a global framework and action plan. 5 – Can you give us some examples unlocks its full potential to become of Diversity & Inclusion actions? a global leader. Martina Holland, 2 – Why is it so important to promote We are joining forces and building synergies within the Brake Hitachi Automotive Systems Global Diversity & Inclusion? Business Unit, supported by the momentum of exChassis Diversity Manager, explains what A coherent Diversity & Inclusion approach brings a lot of Brakes International. For instance, Hitachi Automotive is at stake. good things to our employees and the company. It increases Systems has recently signed a Statement of Support to the creativity: employees with diverse backgrounds contribute Women’s Empowerment Principles – an “extension” of the a larger variety of perspectives and ideas. In addition, having United Nations Global Compact specifically dedicated to a visible Diversity & Inclusion policy makes our company empowering women. In addition, as of 2020, we are going more attractive, which enlarges the talent pool and boosts to promote different Diversity & Inclusion – related United employee engagement. This all leads to better business Nations days throughout the year, during which we will Martina Holland, Hitachi performance. extensively communicate and educate through various Automotive Systems’ Global events organized in the regions. Diversity Manager 3 – Where do you stand today on your Diversity & Inclusion approach? 6 – In a nutshell, what is your ambition We’ve identified three key focus areas: adapt to “personal for Diversity & Inclusion in Hitachi facets”, leverage the richness of diverse views, and Automotive Systems? encourage flexibility to provide a better work life/private life Our ambition is to be able to put the right people in the right balance. The global action plan, which is currently being put place, regardless of who they are, what they look like, together, is articulated around these focus areas. or where they come from. It’s not just a human resources Our approach is bottom-up, with regional employee or management initiative; it starts with all of us, it’s about representative groups reporting up to a central Steering how we adapt and how we can make a difference at the end Committee, which meets every month. Our aim is of the day. I know that we are only at the beginning of this to coordinate meaningful actions that match region journey, but I am confident that over time, by becoming a or country-specific constraints and expectations. more diverse and inclusive company internally, we will also help society become more open to each and every one of its 4 – What are the major challenges? members – and that will be highly beneficial to all of us. Awareness and company culture! Many people consider the topic to be limited to gender equality, whereas it really means involving all kinds of different people – different nationalities, backgrounds, opinions… – and overcoming 2019 Report 12 WE ARE MAKING A BETTER COMPANY Companies are no longer judged on their financial performance alone. Their behaviors with regard to the United Nation Global Compact principles are closely scrutinized, as is the way Sustainable Development Goals are achieved. The challenge is particularly high for Hitachi Automotive Systems’ Brake Business Unit, due to our large international footprint and the different cultures which have been brought together over the past months but thanks to clear guidelines, efficient tools, and widespread motivation, we are in a strong position to “do the right thing” every day. 13 A COMPLETE TOOLKIT TO SUPPORT SAFETY, ETHICS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION BEHAVIORS Hitachi Automotive Systems’ Brake Business Unit has placed a strong, permanent focus on Safety, Ethics and Anti-corruption behaviors. It is vital for our company’s functioning and reputation to ensure that all employees, at all levels, abide by the rules; a complete toolkit is therefore provided to all sites, in order to support the local deployment of good practices in all day-to-day tasks. HEALTH, SAFETY GOLDEN & ENVIRONMENT 594x841_Golden-Safety-Rules_CAUTIOUS_ANG_PRINT.pdf 1 14/03/2019 18:27 SAFETY RULES (HSE) PROCESSES C M J CM MJ CJ CMJ N Our HSE approach relies on several Buelna, 2018 processes. To ensure a safe working In addition to our environment, employees are encouraged CAUTIOUS Position yourself in a safe zone Do not walk under in relation to moving and a suspended load energised equipment manufacturing processes Conduct gas tests to be involved in safety-related topics. Follow prescribed lift plan when required and tools being optimized Prevent dropping objects Our I-Care portal is a global Safety to enable our employees to Information System, designed to support make our products safely, and standardize key HSE processes it is important to remind all throughout the company. This portal is workers of the potential risks that a centralized information point on which exist when working on a site – Angers, 2018 for example, the risks caused all employees can communicate safetyrelated incidents or concerns. AUTHORIZED by suspended loads, moving Obtain authorization Work with a valid permit before entering when required a conﬁned space Obtain authorization before starting excavation activities Obtain authorization before overriding or disabling safety critical equipment equipment, gas tests, etc. Our Furthermore, the situation in our sites company’s Golden Safety Rules is monitored by a strong HSE network 594x841_Golden-Safety-Rules_EQUIPPED_ANG_PRINT.pdf 1 14/03/2019 18:26 explain these risks and provide of over 30 members spread over the entire guidelines to help our employees Brake Business Unit footprint. The local protect themselves HSE teams are in charge of promoting and others, as summarized by and ensuring the safety of our workplaces. Every month, the HSE Management C M our safety motto: “TAKE CARE J CM MJ CJ CMJ N HSE is Accountability”, Call gathers the local HSE teams Wuhan, 2018 EQUIPPED Use fall protection Hide long hair and other equipment loose objects Wear Personal Protective Equipment Verify isolation before work begins and use the speciﬁc life protecting equipment CARE standing for Cautious, to provide a clear view of incidents Authorized, Responsible, and corrective actions as well as share 594x841_Golden-Safety-Rules_RESPONSIBLE_ANG_PRINT.pdf 1 14/03/2019 18:26 Equipped. The Golden Safety best practices. In addition, dedicated Rules manual supplements and trainings reinforce HSE messages supports existing company in a pedagogical way: in 2019, more management systems, than 27,500 hours of HSE training were C M J CM MJ CJ CMJ N programs and policies; carried out within Chassis Brakes Suzhou, 2018 it constitutes a common tool International sites. to keep our employees safe and RESPONSIBLE No alcohol or drugs Wear your seatbelt while working or driving prevent work-related accidents. While driving, do not use Do not smoke outside your mobile device and designated smoking areas do not exceed speed limits 2019 Report 14 AMBASSADOR PROGRAM A very pragmatic approach to safety is illustrated by our Safety Ambassador Program. This program runs on a permanent basis, in all sites. The idea is simple: every employee, whatever his or her role, can move to a different position, one day per year, in order to observe how things are done and contribute to safety improvements. In 2019, 144 employees became Safety Ambassador for a day – a total of 410 employees since the program was launched in 2018 at Chassis Brakes International. WHISTLEBLOWER’S PLATFORM The Whistleblower’s platform is an external, encrypted platform which enables all employees, wherever they are located, to anonymously raise a concern, incident or non-compliant act. For employees who don’t have access to a computer, complaints may be filed by telephone. Issues to report can Safety, ethics and anti-corruption rules are a strong guideline for blue-collar and white-collar workers alike. concern harassment, safety, competition, illicit financing, export control, conflicts of interest, corruption, etc… The Compliance Officer is directly informed of all whistleblowing reports – translated by the system if necessary – so that proper action can be taken rapidly. (from zero to 13 in one year) is a positive (compared to 36 LTIs in 2018). In case of major issues, the information sign of our employees’ motivation These good results encourage us is escalated to the Executive team to ensure compliance at all levels. to maintain our approach, communicate, or the CEO. In 2019 the second year after train, observe, report and take corrective the platform was launched 13 cases Benchmarking shows that our safety actions until we reach our ultimate goal were reported; five verified cases results are on the right track. In 2019, of Zero Incident. concerned breaches to the Code of 28 incidents resulting in medical leave Conduct and were followed by corrective (Lost Time Incident, LTI) were reported actions. This increased use of the platform for the Chassis Brakes International sites 2019 Report 15 SAFETY IN ACTION Safety is a clear priority: every day, everywhere, every employee must strictly comply with efficient safety rules, which have demonstrated their effectiveness in ensuring a safe, suitable and sanitary working environment. For Brice Koch, President & CEO of Hitachi Automotive Systems, Ltd., “Health & Safety, Compliance & Ethics and Quality remain our utmost priorities in everything we do”. CELEBRATING SAFETY BRINGS US ALL TOGETHER We all “celebrate” our safety approach on the United Nations World Day for Safety and Health at Work an annual international campaign to promote safe, healthy and decent work, held on 29 April and observed by the International Labour Organization since 2003. Our Global Safety Day will further evolve to become a “Safety Week” and sometimes even a “Safety Month” at the sites. In 2018, our celebrations focused on individual safety; in 2019, “Safer Together” was the chosen theme – a way of building on the 2018 learnings, reinforcing teamwork, increasing safety among colleagues and strengthening the sense of belonging. Various trainings were held in many locations, and a pedagogical yet fun challenge was organized: a global painting workshop to promote Safety! We are building a strong safety culture, through frequent trainings and local events in all workplaces. 2019 Report 16 2019 SAFETY DAY THROUGHOUT THE BRAKE BUSINESS UNIT THE ANGERS PLANT placed special focus on road safety and raised awareness through a workshop and in-house exhibitions. The Angers plant is particularly active, as it also organizes Awareness Weeks on topics such as addiction or chemical risks at the plant. ANGERS France THE WROCLAW PLANT gathered WROCLAW all employees to talk about safety based on THE BUELNA PLANT’s “Shared Surveillance BUELNA Spain Poland the new corporate Safety Video Campaign. Workshop” reminded all managers and team A painting workshop and exercises with leaders about the basics of safety and security a physiotherapist reinforced the message, at work. A 28-question quiz increased and each participant received a rescue 100 participants’ awareness in a game-like blanket – a very useful gift! manner – a great way of facilitating memorization. CAMPINAS Brazil THE CAMPINAS PLANT focused on on-site training. The shop floor is precisely where the employees need to implement safety measures; hands-on training in the “real” environment ensures that reactions will be quick and efficient if need be. 2019 Report 17 2019 SAFETY DAY THROUGHOUT THE BRAKE BUSINESS UNIT THE EINDHOVEN OFFICE based its office Safety Day on the various meanings of safety – the topic is wide! The employees were encouraged to be “creative painters” in expressing their perception and ideas about safety and how to increase it. This activity was organized not only in Eindhoven, but in all former Chassis Brakes International sites, in order to widely support safety awareness through creativity and team spirit. THE BURSA PLANT promotes Health and Safety every year through various initiatives involving all EINDHOVEN Netherlands THE GUANGZOU PLANT is very pro-active on safety of the employees. It’s important that everyone feel matters through its continuous Safety Promotion concerned by this topic, as it impacts the employees’ BURSA Turkey SUZHOU program. Every month, in turn, a department identifies professional as well as personal lives. In 2019, the Bursa China a theme related to road safety – a topic which directly employees produced a video to spread the Health & concerns our activity as brake manufacturer. Safety culture throughout the company. The video GUANGZOU China The department employees work together, as was a great success, and it won the local union’s HSE a team, to design a poster which illustrates their competition: well-deserved recognition of the Bursa theme in a visual way. The poster is then printed and employees’ efforts to ensure that the HSE culture distributed by the team members and the General is known, understood and implemented by all. Manager to all of the plant employees. An approach which combines safety awareness, teamwork and a bit of intra-plant challenge! THE SUZHOU OFFICE taught its employees the basics of first aid, right inside the offices. The participants learned how to deal with various situations, from minor issues to dramatic cases – when “doing the right thing” can save a person’s life. 2019 Report 18 TODAY’S PRODUCTS, TOMORROW’S TRENDS: SUSTAINABILITY IS THE COMMON FACTOR Our timeframe extends over 10+ years: we must meet today’s needs with our current offer and prepare the future with innovative products, able to shape tomorrow’s automotive industry. Erwan Quemener, Global Sourcing Director, and Natacha Torres, Product and Innovation Manager, have complementary responsibilities on this topic. T he levers to action can be ethics and supply chain. In 2018 we rated summarized as follows: work 50 suppliers; in 2019, we achieved closely with our suppliers, innovate 151 supplier ratings which represents THE NEW on several fronts, and detect nearly 1/3 of the 560 direct suppliers BRAKE up-coming megatrends. Three directions, we work with, and many more BUSINESS UNIT Natacha Torres, one goal: build on expertise. suppliers are currently undergoing Product and Regarding suppliers, Erwan Quemener their assessment. In terms of purchasing HAS BOOSTED details our scope: “Today, we have spend, our assessments cover over CREATIVITY Innovation Manager, a particularly interesting supplier base 25% of the €600 million ex-Chassis Brakes and comprising former Chassis Brakes International purchasing spend, and THROUGH Erwan Quemener, International suppliers in Europe, India we have yet to include the new Hitachi INCREASED and Latin America, Hitachi suppliers Automotive Systems supply base”. Global Sourcing who have consolidated our positions in In parallel with our supplier selection SYNERGIES Director Mexico, Thailand and China, plus Hitachi processes, innovation is going strong. WHICH ENABLE suppliers based in Japan. Our aim is Natacha Torres has a wide-scale view: to select the “right” suppliers for today’s “I am in charge of current disc and drum US TO HAVE A products and build long-term relationships brakes product lines, and I coordinate MORE GLOBAL with them to prepare future products”. innovation activities in the Brake Business APPROACH”. Suppliers are selected following a rigorous Unit. I am therefore directly involved in assessment, which includes the Chassis today’s needs and constraints, and fully Natacha Torres Brakes International’s Risk Monitoring aware of future opportunities which process and CSR Monitoring process. require a pro-active innovation approach”. These processes are fully in line with In-depth market intelligence supports our Continuous Improvement approach and orients our innovation dynamics. and Hitachi Automotive Systems’ LEAP We must take into account the global (Leadership, Engagement, Acceleration, market, establish contacts with Performance) strategy, and are planned “knowledgeable” people in various for deployment throughout the Brake organizations, and stay informed of new Business Unit in the near future. legislations. Natacha adds: “Automotive Erwan continues: “The Risk Monitoring industry megatrends are carefully process comprises 61 assessment analysed in order to focus our innovation criteria, and the CSR Monitoring process strategy on needs which are taking form adds 21 more criteria organized in – even if some of them resemble fiction four categories: environment, social, when considered out of our professional 2019 Report 19 context. A few years ago, who would have imagined autonomous cars without drivers? Yet they will probably be a mass WE HAVE market by 2030…” INCREASED OUR COMPLYING WITH REGULATIONS The future trends we detect largely include sustainability aspects. The major focus SUPPLIER RATINGS IS A COMPLEX “MUST” concerns emissions: CO ², dust, FROM 50 IN 2018 According to the United The US “Dodd Frank 1502” requires microparticles. This analysis is fully in line Nations, the automotive with the “Hitachi Environmental Innovation TO 151 IN 2019” checking supply chains for tin, industry is one of the largest tungsten, tantalum and gold originating 2050” approach, which includes the longErwan Quemener markets for chemicals. from conflict-affected and high-risk term environmental target of reducing CO ² Our industry is therefore areas, which entails precise tracking emissions throughout the Group’s global encouraged to continuously and reporting; a similar “EU Conflict value chain by 80% by fiscal year 2050 improve its management of Minerals Regulation” will be effective (compared to fiscal year 2010 levels), in 2025, which will concern emissions materials and substances in Europe in 2021. As for the “VHU with an interim target of 50% by 2030. from brakes in addition to pollution – in line with the Hitachi Global European directive 2000/53EC” which Natacha continues: “Innovation is then from engines. We are in touch with the Compliance Program and the concerns the recycling and disposal a matter of math and physics. European Union’s research group Global Compact principles of end-of-life vehicles (Véhicules For instance, we know that CO ² emissions dedicated to this topic, and we provide related to avoiding environmental Hors d’Usage in French), it entails are mainly linked to fuel consumption: information to our design engineers so damage and safely handling avoiding forbidden substances such if we reduce the weight of vehicles, we use that they can create a design compliant dangerous substances. as cadmium, chromium 6, etc., right less fuel and pollute less. We also know with this future legislation”. from the design phase. that big cars have big brakes; we can work As we detect future trends, we involve on increasing the performance our “best” suppliers more closely. Denis Bauwens, Material Manager, These are only a few of the regulations explains: “We must ensure that that impact our operations, bearing of our brakes to reduce their size or make Erwan explains: “Every year we organise we use the “right” materials to make in mind that we must also comply the same brake lighter by using five “Tech Days” to work on advanced our products. My role is to inform with customer specifications. different material”. solutions, in particular innovations all departments of the regulations We are also developing brakes able to reduce pollution from micro-particles, they must comply with, everywhere Hitachi Automotive Systems’ Brake to operate without brake fluid, CO ² or corrosion. During each Tech Day, in the world. These rules evolve Business Unit ensures compliance which eliminates the need to recycle supplier design engineers get together constantly, they may be international, by using the “International Material the toxic fluid. with the Brake Business Unit experts national or local, and they concern Data System” (IMDS), the automotive Regulations are also fully integrated to discuss innovation opportunities. many stakeholders.” industry reference system. The IMDS in our innovation strategy. Follow-up meetings and events complete collects, maintains, analyzes Natacha explains: “For example in Europe, the process in the longer term. For instance, the “REACH” and archives all materials used the current “EURO 6” regulation will be Our aim is to sign cooperation regulation (Registration, Evaluation for automobile manufacturing. followed by a “EURO 7” version, probably agreements, such as the strategic and Authorisation of Chemicals) Denis concludes: “Much progress has partnership agreement signed with requires reporting to customers any been made since last year to increase MANN+HUMMEL in September 2018, components containing “SVHCs” our scope, facilitate our tracking which developed a recyclable add-on (Substances of Very High Concern, and ensure compliance. Our objective brake dust particle filter able to “catch” carcinogenic, mutagenic, etc); REACH today is to share best practices and THE INNOVATION particulate emissions from passenger car has many local versions, in China, determine how we can implement brakes without consuming any energy. Korea, Turkey… Another regulation a global tool for automatic tracking PROCESS STARTS Our next step is to work with our friction is the California-specific “Prop 65” and comparisons, in order to simplify WITH MARKET and casting suppliers, to avoid rule, which requires labelling and the process and ensure optimum generating such particulate emissions: ultimately eliminating potentially compliance at all levels”. INTELLIGENCE” simply stated, rather than solve hazardous product ingredients. Natacha Torres a problem, don’t create it!”. 2019 Report 20 ENERGY AND WATER: WE ACTIVELY PRESERVE OUR RESOURCES We use them to make our products: energy and water are vital to our company, as is their sustainability for the entire planet. Hitachi Automotive Systems’ Brake Business Unit is acting with determination at the global level to preserve these precious resources. O ur strategy is in line with the five UN Global Compact SDGs identified by the Hitachi Ltd. as “top priority” for this year, especially the SDG 9 and SDG 11: SDG 9 Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure: Our approach combines several working with the right suppliers WATER CONSUMPTION objectives which are then adapted and purchasing the right products; Build resilient infrastructure, IN WUHAN to local needs and opportunities. for example, the Risk Monitoring process 48 15 promote inclusive and sustainable First, we improve our facilities, maps our suppliers according industrialization and foster manufacturing processes, equipment to 61 criteria, and our CSR Monitoring innovation and tools to increase their efficiency process adds 21 criteria focused From to TONS and environmental friendliness: visible on compliance with corporate social examples include LED lighting, modern responsibility requirements. SDG 11 machines, different choices of products… Second, we “spread the word”: specific By deploying these measures throughout Sustainable Cities training and awareness operations our geographical footprint and adopting per year (reduced by 2/3) and Communities: promote mindful consumption new ways of working, we ensure Make cities and human of resources – with a focus on energy the sustainability of our activities – settlements inclusive, and water – and create a positive mindset and that of the planet as a whole. safe, resilient and sustainable among all employees. Finally, several internal processes ensure that we are 2019 Report 21 IN WUHAN (CHINA), ELECTRICITY IN WUHAN 320,000 GOOD PRACTICES MAKE A DIFFERENCE Our Wuhan site (China) is exemplary • Chemicals are a particular issue, KWH in terms of good practices. Actions are as our industry uses a large amount numerous and diversified, and they and variety of substances. In Wuhan, concern all areas of the plant. The rule the drying agents are reused, which is simple: wherever an improvement can is very good in terms of environmental saved per year thanks to LED lighting be made, it is! preservation. See these examples regarding light, water, waste, chemicals and packaging • Finally, the packaging of our production – and our aim is to add more good is currently being upgraded. practices to this list in the future. The inner cardboard packaging is expensive, unreliable and hazardous • LED lighting has been extensively to the environment. Our aim is to switch installed. The former 400W sodium lamps to recycled packaging in the coming have been replaced by 150W LED lamps, months. This goal will require several which saves 320,000 kwh of electricity adjustments, but we’re taking the per year. This approach illustrates necessary measures to achieve it. Exemplary good practices are implemented how changing a “simple” product can be throughout the Wuhan site. largely beneficial, both for the company and for the planet. • A machine to recycle and reuse water has been installed and has immediately proven its efficiency: for a 420,000 CNY initial investment, the savings amount to 752,000 CNY per year. This system is safer for the employees, as it uses an automatic pump in place of the former manual one. Water consumption has been divided by three, dropping from 48 tons to 15 tons per year, and the generation of hazardous waste has also been reduced. In summary, a combination of business, human and environmental benefits. • On the subject of waste, the storage area has been upgraded to comply with the local standard regarding industrial waste – in line with our approach to achieve the highest level of compliance whenever possible. 2019 Report 22 “DOING THE RIGHT THING” FOR SOCIETY AND FOR THE PLANET As stated by Toshiaki Higashihara, President & Chief Executive Officer of Hitachi Ltd., it is important that we “increase economic, social and environmental value”. Hitachi Automotive Systems’ Brake Business Unit fully integrates these statements: in all of our locations, we do everything we can to support our people, include the local communities, and promote environment-focused actions which preserve our planet. 23 HUMAN RIGHTS, LABOR STANDARDS: A TOP PRIORITY For the United Nations Global Compact, the priority level is clear: six of its ten principles concern human rights and labor standards. The Hitachi Group is on the same line of conduct and Hitachi Automotive Systems’ Brake Business Unit is on the move throughout its scope of influence. T he Hitachi Code of Conduct reflects and Health at Work in April, the Human this credo statement and provides Rights Day and the International Anticlear guidance: section three Corruption Day in December… specifically refers to Human Rights, These focus days are an opportunity WE ENHANCE and Labor Standards are mentioned for the company to pay tribute to our local OUR PEOPLE’S throughout the document. In addition teams, through large-scale to ensuring awareness of these priority communication highlighting initiatives SKILLS rules via the Code of Conduct and other and publicizing the awards received. THROUGH communication means, our HR processes For example, our Bursa plant in Turkey TRAINING put the guidelines into practice by received the 2019 the “Job Board Award” promoting fairness in all operations such for the 6th consecutive year: In the Brake Business Unit, as objective recruitment and elimination this award recognizes the Brake Business we go beyond legal requirements of discrimination, in line with our high Unit locally as a respectful and responsible to help our people “grow”. ethics standards and in compliance with employer due to its positive actions For example in India, we support our employees to pursue their studies national and international labor rights. regarding society. and gain additional qualifications. Our HR people are also particularly The training periods range from attentive to each employee’s personal 3 to 36 months, and are organized situation: should anyone have a problem, in accordance with the local NEEM his or her HR representative is there regulation – the National Employability to support! Enhancement Mission of the All India Council for Technical Education. Our observance of Labor and Human In 2019, 50 Manesar employees Rights is a year-round commitment, followed various courses with special celebrations on official United at post-class-10, graduation Nations days: the Zero Discrimination Day or post-graduation level. and the International Women’s Day Throughout the Group, we promote actions in March, the World Day for Safety to reduce discrimination and promote healthcare, especially for women. 2019 Report 24 FULLY MOBILIZED TO SUPPORT LOCAL COMMUNITIES Wherever Hitachi Automotive Systems’ Brake Business Unit people are, things are moving! The company as a whole is strongly involved in supporting local communities. Numerous initiatives are dedicated to wealth sharing – an approach which tangibly enhances local development, fights poverty and reduces inequalities. O ur actions cover a wide range We also mobilize our forces to respond of themes: awareness campaigns to emergencies, as shown by the example on various topics, healthcare of our Jalgaon site in India. During promotion including sports the summer of 2019, the country activities, children-focused operations, experienced its heaviest monsoon support to elderly or disabled people, in the last 25 years, causing dramatic collections and donations of food, clothes, floods. The Maharashtra region equipment… Our employees demonstrate – where our Jalgaon site is located – a lot of “pragmatic imagination” to put was one of the most severely affected together and carry out actions, and we areas with over 400,000 people regularly team up with charities to increase evacuated. Our employees quickly our efficiency, in particular for operations launched a dynamic fund-raising which are repeated and amplified year operation to help the populations in need; after year. the result was 51000 INR (over 600€) An example of teamwork is illustrated collected and handed over to the Jalgaon by an initiative taken in Lisbon, Portugal; town district collector for proper eight volunteer employees donated blood distribution. in partnership with the Instituto Português do Sangue e da Transplantação: enough blood was collected to save several lives. During the dramatic floods of 2019 in the Maharashtra county (India), the plant of Jalgaon organized a fundraising operation to support the local communities. 2019 Report 25 IN WROCLAW, Poland, IN SUZHOU, China, our plant 15 employees participated donated several second-hand in a fundraising race organized items – a table tennis table, by the Everest Foundation, a badminton blanket and an organization which takes a pool table – to a local care of sick children and promotes disadvantaged school. a healthy lifestyle. IN WUHAN, China, our employees visited a group of elderly people without family in a care center – an important activity, organized every year, which limits solitude and brings smiles back! IN CAMPINAS, Brazil, employees organized a large food donation to celebrate the International Day of Charity: 120 kg of food and several toys were collected and given to a local foundation. 2019 Report 26 BY PROMOTING EDUCATION, WE MAKE BETTER LIVES POSSIBLE VISIT OF… There are many ways a company can transform people’s lives – and promoting education is perhaps the strongest one. In certain areas, the Brake Business Unit plant is the main employer; as such, it is our responsibility to take the lead and act on several registers. M any initiatives “start at Regarding teenagers and young adults, created vocations and that some …Burapha students at Rayong the beginning” by supporting partnerships with schools and universities of the youngsters who spent time plant, Thailand: On September 27th, standard academic education are set up in numerous Hitachi Automotive with us this year will join us permanently 2019, five students from the University to help younger children acquire Systems’ Brake Business Unit locations, in the future. of Burapha – located 30 km from our all necessary basic knowledge, through and students regularly visit our plants. site – came to visit the plant and learn various scholarship programs organized Such actions achieve several goals The bottom line of our initiatives about our performance review process. locally. For example in Lerma, Mexico, at the same time: they promote and to promote education can be simply It is to be noted that the plant regularly offers internship positions to the local our employees’ children were honored teach our know-how while giving the stated: wherever they are organized universities (four interns in 2019). for their outstanding academic participants a longer-term view – our aim and whatever form they take, our initiatives performance during a ceremony being to provide them with a larger are memorable events for the participants at the plant. The children received number of options for their future. In 2019, – and an excellent way of encouraging diplomas, scholarships and school 1000 trainees, 121 apprentices them to push their limits further! supplies as a reward. Along the same and 6 “V.I.E.” (the French “Volontariat lines, one of our two plants in Queretaro, International en Entreprise”, i.e. Volunteers Mexico organized a complete celebration for International Experience) joined us combining an award ceremony, a fun to learn from our teams and provide us lunch and a plant tour for 30 children; with their own knowledge and in addition, all employees whose children experiences. were in Kindergarten, Elementary Their presence was acknowledged …Maharashtra Institute of and High School received a gift by events on the UN World Youth Skills Technology (university) at Manesar of school supplies. Day on July 15th, 2019; we hope to have plant, India: In December 2019, 40 students from the Maharashtra Institute of Technology visited the plant, guided In Lerma (Mexico), by the plant manager. Several topics various initiatives were presented: the manufacturing and promote the commitment of assembling of parts, the operations layout, employees’ children the various policies implemented in the to schooling. plant… The students’ overall feedback was very positive, and they were thankful for this practical experience in the automotive industry. 2019 Report 27 GENDER EQUALITY OPENS OUR COMPANY TO MORE TALENTS Hitachi Automotive Systems abides by the rules: in all Business Units, the Code of Business Conduct states that fair and equitable treatment must be ensured for all, with no discrimination based on gender, in particular with regard to salary, and in application of local jurisdictions. O ur headcount numbers are our Regarding large categories, men definitely main indicator in terms of gender outnumber women in many blue-collar THE 7 WOMEN’S equality. In looking at our numbers, positions: to mention only a few, there we note that gender equality has are 2,757 men operators versus EMPOWERMENT PRINCIPLES improved since last year, although there is 333 women, 151 men forklift drivers versus still room for improvement due to the fact two women, and 155 maintenance that the automotive industry has always technicians versus only one woman. been, and still is, more attractive to men. The situation is more balanced in other 1 5 This is clearly illustrated by the former positions, such as controllers (19 men, Establish high-level corporate Implement enterprise Chassis Brakes International population 15 women), finance managers (6 men, leadership for gender equality development, supply chain and marketing practices (5,500 of the 9,500 employees of the 5 women), or production planners (17 men, that empower women Brake Business Unit): men represent 14 women). Going further, we have many approximately 85% of the total headcount more women than men in more white-collar versus 15% women. positions – customer contact employees 2 However, there are major differences (15 women, 8 men), HR administration (16 Treat all women and men fairly at work – Respect and in the male-female ratio depending women, 4 men), assistants (33 women and support human rights and non6 on the type of position. For instance, only one man) – and the extreme example Measure and publicly discrimination among the managers – who represent is the Global Communications department report on progress 10% of the total headcount – 8% are men with 100% women. to achieve gender equality and 2% are women. At the same time, The general conclusion of these numbers in the central functions, five manager is that although women are increasingly positions are held by women (three present, we must still work on this issue. 3 in finance, two in HR-Communications). Our objective is to encourage women to join us through various awareness Ensure the health, safety 7 and well-being of all women operations explaining the opportunities Promote equality through and men workers community initiatives and career paths we can offer. and advocacy In particular, we aim to enhance recruitment of women in R&D and Product Engineering, activities at the heart of the company. The objective is clear: 4 to keep fighting stereotypes to attract Promote education, training the talents of more women, which will and professional development for women contribute to a more dynamic and comprehensive grasp of how our company can contribute to building a more sustainable automotive industry. 2019 Report 28 BURSA: OUR TURKISH Furthermore, Bursa actively supports our plant, with a major focus on awareness CHAMPION FOR GENDER the Women’s Empowerment Principles and education. We also sponsor EQUALITY AND WOMEN (WEPs) a set of 7 Principles established the annual conference to promote gender “MY PROFESSION, EMPOWERMENT by the UN Global Compact and UN equality and women empowerment MY FUTURE” Women. These principles offer guidance in business: in 2019, this event was Turkey is a challenging country to business on how to promote gender attended by over 500 persons working PROJECT when it comes to gender equality. equality and women’s empowerment in companies in Bursa and Istanbul. In order to hire more The Organisation for Economic in the workplace, marketplace and qualified women for Cooperation and Development (OECD) community. So far, nearly 3,000 business From a human resources standpoint, the shop floor, Bursa estimates the world’s average female leaders around the world have signed the number of women working in the plant’s “My Profession, employment at 63% a number which drops a Statement of Support to the Women’s Bursa plant remains steady due to a small My Future” project promotes to 29.3% in Turkey. The main obstacle Empowerment Principles, including former turnover. In 2019, 25 of our 300 employees technical education for girls. lies in culture and stereotypes, which are Chassis Brakes International in 2018 were women, including four managers. In 2019, we organized three not in favour of women holding jobs. and Hitachi Automotive Systems in 2020. To further raise awareness of gender conferences: over 1,000 parents equality, an internal training provided and their daughters attended, Yet for the second year, our Bursa site Bursa’s local program for women’s by both male and female employees and ten new schoolgirls registered in Turkey stands out as a pioneer plant. empowerment and gender equality, will be implemented in 2020. in the pilot High School For example, there is no salary difference led by Cisil Güler, Bursa HR manager, (Karacabey Farabi Health between Bursa male and female employees in partnership with several local Vocation High School) – bringing holding the same position, whereas in associations, deploys a large span the total number of girl students Turkey, for the same job, a woman earns of activities for both our employees up to 16. This positive influence on average 41% less than a man. and the communities of women around of our awareness operations was also noted in the three The women of the Bursa plant (Turkey), other technical and vocational gathered for Women’s Day 2019. High Schools of the region: the number of girl students registered increased from 112 in 2018 to over 450 in 2019 (+300%)! GIRLS FOLLOWING TECHNICAL STUDIES IN BURSA 6 129 from to in 2018 in 2019 2019 Report 29 BUILDING AN INCLUSIVE SOCIETY: NO ONE IS LEFT OUT In society as a whole, certain populations are targeted more than others by discrimination and disregard: physical or mental impairments create barriers which are difficult to overcome without help. The Brake Business Unit plays its part by contributing to local projects and associations, in particular those involved in inclusive initiatives, as part of our CSR commitments. I nside the Group, in all of our sites conditions, so that they can work the SOEMCA company which cleans around the world, we take special care in harmony with their colleagues. work uniforms. A similar approach exists of employees suffering from a physical Regarding the communities around our in Paris, France, where we have impairment. Showing respect is the sites, we participate in numerous initiatives partnered with an “ ESAT” first rule, and perhaps the most dedicated to people who need extra help. (“Etablissement et Service d’Aide OUR KORAT PLANT meaningful one for the employees For example, our Buelna site in Spain par le Travail” in French), an employment IS REWARDED FOR concerned. Recruitment discrimination is systematically eliminated. Moreover, outsources certain business activities to two companies employing disabled center for handicapped people. A very different approach is illustrated ITS OUTSTANDING we adapt the workplace or work schedule workers: the AMPROS company, which by our Abrantes site in Portugal DISABILITY whenever necessary to provide impaired is specialized in gardening, and and its “Cantar as Janeiras” SUPPORT employees with proper working (Sing The Januaries) project. In Thailand, the Ministry of Social Cantar as Janeiras is a long-standing Development and Human Security Portuguese tradition, during which has acknowledged the strong people play and sing traditional songs – commitment of the Korat plant and a festive event, during which disabilities its excellence in disability support “disappear” behind smiles. Every year by awarding us the “Thailand in January, the plant welcomes Excellence Disability Support children and young adults from Award” for the 4th consecutive the “Centro de Recuperação year. This award honors companies that e Integração”, a rehabilitation center have demonstrated extraordinary social for mentally incapacitated people, contribution in their support to disabled to sing together and have a good time employees. Receiving the award is tangible with our employees. evidence that we are doing the right thing: our support reflects the diversity of the company and of the Thai community, and our handicapped employees are treated fairly, with the same opportunities and benefits as other employees – including in terms of career path. The traditional “Cantar as Janeiras” organized in Abrantes (Portugal) with a local rehabilitation center. 2019 Report 30 HEALTH: CARING ABOUT ALL Our employees are our strength! They move things forward every day, with all their energy. The company acknowledges their efforts by deploying specific measures and actions in our sites in order to ensure that each person’s health is preserved. This, in turn, improves the general health situation of the communities around our sites, where most of our employees live with their families. I n most Hitachi Automotive Systems’ Our Lisbon site in Portugal promotes Brake Business Unit locations, medical health for its employees in a particularly support is ensured by the presence of dynamic way. The site’s “Healthy Week”, ROAD SAFETY on-site doctors and nurses who deal held once a year, encourages a healthy with occupational health issues as well as lifestyle by setting up activities such as Road safety is a major goal for Hitachi Automotive Systems’ Brake Business Unit. As a responsible manufacturer with a renowned expertise personal issues if necessary. First-aid sports, gymnastics, and massages, and in braking solutions, our primary focus is to provide equipment which ensures training is regularly offered, with both “Healthy Workshops” promote good a high level of safety – simply stated, our brakes save lives! theory and practice based on simulations; nutrition and cooking habits including We work and innovate to improve our customers’ safety, day after day, such know-how is important to enable the fruit baskets and wide sharing of recipes on all roads – wherever they are. participants to react the right way, both to make at home. In 2019 all Lisbon inside the plant and in case of departments participated actively in the Inside the Group, we also tackle road safety from another angle: we make emergencies during personal activities. various challenges; 31 office people sure that all employees are aware of road traffic risks and commit to take them enjoyed a massage, and the general into account. In 2019, numerous actions were set up. For example in Angers, Many other initiatives focus on prevention: feedback was excellent with a 4.7/5 France, training sessions and car checks were organized. In Guangzou, China, awareness campaigns provide information satisfaction score. A great way to reinforce our employees attended a simulation training about the “blind spot” the area about diseases such as diabetes, an overall positive mindset! on the side of the car which is not visible in the driver’s rear-view mirror. addiction, mental health illnesses… In Buelna, Spain, a driving Regarding cancer, we go even further by simulator was made available offering the employees special check-ups to the employees on the World for breast or prostate cancer; for example Day of Remembrance for Road in Bursa, Turkey, all 40 female employees Traffic Victims on November working in the site participated in our 17th, 2019. Our hope is that 40 FEMALE these initiatives will contribute breast cancer prevention operation in March. We also organize vaccination days EMPLOYEES WORKING to adopting safe behaviors when to protect our employees – as the saying on the road, in order to preserve AT THE BURSA SITE lives – and families – in the future. goes, “better safe than sorry”. PARTICIPATED IN OUR BREAST CANCER PREVENTION OPERATION” 2019 Report 31 IN THE YOKOHAMA OFFICE in Japan, all employees have IN THE SUZHOU PLANT, access to an in-house blood following an internal survey, we pressure device to make decided to focus on supporting sure their blood pressure our employees’ morale; is normal – a simple the activities included check to detect problems and promote selfpsychological guidance and teambuilding to care in the worksplace . encourage cohesion. IN THE CAMPINAS PLANT, Brazil, many annual awareness campaigns are organized. In 2019, the site observed the Suicide Prevention Day with training delivered by a mental health professional. 2019 Report 32 HEALTH AND WELL-BEING: OUR “FEEL-GOOD” INITIATIVES Sport is one of the most international activities in the world: whether collective or individual, as a long-term commitment or an occasional hobby, it’s a way to feel good – both physically and mentally. A ll kinds of sports activities take as the “ugly sweater contest” or “Secret resulting in financial gain and improvement place on our sites in many Santa” – when employees secretly draw of processes). About 70 employees countries: running, cycling, ball a co-worker’s name and give him or attended the ceremony rewarding EVERY YEAR, games, etc… Whatever the type her a small Christmas present. the 2019 winners. A great way to foster THE PARIS EMPLOYEES of sport, each activity achieves one – “Family Days” are also organized every engagement and reward the creativity COLLECTIVELY VOTE or several – goals: it favors a healthy year in numerous sites, to bring together of our employees! lifestyle, it promotes our company our employees and their families in TO SELECT A CHARITY externally, and in some cases, a relaxed atmosphere which creates OF THEIR CHOICE, it enables our employees to raise happy memories. An example of such money for a good cause. an event is given by our Abrantes site AND THEN GO!” The Paris example achieves all of in Portugal, which holds its Family Day these goals through its on the International Day of Happiness, “#QuiPartCourtDonne” (Running & Giving) a United Nations event celebrated operation – a concept based on the since 2013 as a way to recognise “Running Heroes” idea, which transforms the importance of happiness in the lives the distance you run into money for a of people around the world. 2019 GENTE QUE FAZ AWARDS charity. Every year, the Paris employees The recognition program organized in Brazil (Campinas plant) collectively vote to select a charity of their choice, and then GO! They run because PEOPLE WHO ACT • Business: We rewarded a team of six employees, whose outstanding they care, and the more they run, the more A comprehensive initiative to improve performance enabled us to obtain our first project with a new passenger vehicle manufacturer. money they collect for the charity – it is as “whatever can be improved” is illustrated simple as that. In 2019, the Paris by the Gente Que Faz (People who act) • Human Values: We rewarded an employee who organized a food employees collected 1€ for each 1.5km operation in our Campinas site in Brazil. collection operation, in order to support an outsourced employee they ran, which resulted in over 600€ The principle is simple: every year, whose family was in need. And two other employees were rewarded for distributed to five different charities. employees nominate co-workers providing the largest number of nominations of colleagues and actions. Well-being at work is also a subject that for their positive actions. In 2019, over we, as a company, are acting on. While 50 employees nominated 254 co-workers, • Both: Six employees received an award for registering the largest a safe, efficient working environment is and a total of 91 initiatives were included number of “Olhos Abertos” (reporting of unsafe conditions in the our first objective, we also aim to provide in the program. For example, a team plant) and implementing “KZTs” (improvement projects). All together, a lively place where our employees feel of 6 employees stood out in two they reported 90 unsafe situations and implemented 120 projects! good and thrive. Many activities are set up, categories: Human Values (helping including fun teambuilding events such and valuing people) and Business (actions 2019 Report 33 PRESERVING OUR PLANET IS PROTECTING OUR HOME From the United Nations Global Compact, preserving the environment is detailed in three principles: PRINCIPLE 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. PRINCIPLE 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. PRINCIPLE 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Hitachi Automotive Systems’ Brake Business Unit makes it a rule to support these principles, everywhere in the world – and our employees are our best advocates to do so. 2019 Report 34 LIFE ON LAND: EVERY LITTLE BIT HELPS From an official viewpoint, protecting “life on land” is the 15th United Nations Sustainable Development Goal but in everyday life, it is much more than that. It is an imperative obligation, all over the globe: by contributing to environmental preservation, in large and small ways, we protect ourselves and ensure that future generations can thrive. The environment is the central focus of a series of events. The Paris office welcomed several beehives on its Every year, the Campinas plant organizes roof in 2019. its Environment Day. T rees, in particular, are essential Morelos Park, where the annual planted during previous years. to us in that they provide oxygen reforestation operation was carried out. In France, where the Paris site has no and control heat. Many local The participants brought their own tools green area to plant trees, our employees initiatives therefore encourage and after receiving instructions, had a different idea: several beehives were reforestation: by planting trees we “green” they planted a large number of trees installed on the office rooftop, a “honeyour sites and promote a sustainable with their families’ help – in the years sweet” way of increasing awareness about mindset among the employees, whose to come, they will be able to watch the instrumental role played by bees families are involved in certain locations. “their” trees grow with pride. In India, in the global environment life cycle, The overall motto is easy to memorize: the Jalgaon employees planted 800 trees as well as the need to protect them. do the right thing while having fun! to reduce the heat level during the summer Trash disposal is also an important For example in Mexico, employees of both season, and Manesar also contributed environmental topic. This year In China, the Lerma and the Queretaro sites were to reforestation by planting 75 trees our employees rolled up their sleeves invited with their families to the Sierra in 2019, to add to the trees already in several sites: Wuhan volunteers 2019 Report 35 Tree-planting in Wroclaw, Poland. Tree-planting in Jalgaon, India. The Environment Day celebrated in Wuhan, China. collected about 50 kg of trash in two hours, and Guangzou employees picked up 9 kg of trash in the Wantian ecology park next to the plant. More generally, the United Nations World Environment Day was widely celebrated throughout Hitachi Automotive Systems’ Brake Business Unit locations; for instance in Campinas, Brazil, the employees were invited to “adopt” seedlings and plants, and in Suzhou, China, elementary students received booklets about how to protect the environment. Another environment-friendly approach is the organization of life in the workplace. For example, several locations such as Rayong, Thailand, have eliminated the use of straws in the cafeteria. Others have increased awareness through “Sustainable Weeks” The Forest & Water Day celebrated in Rayong (Thailand) or implemented waste separation. promotes responsible ways of consumption. 2019 Report 36 CLEAN AIR, PLENTIFUL WATER… WE ARE TAKING ACTION ON VITAL NEEDS Air and water have always been high-level priorities for the United Nations. In June 2019 the theme of the World Environment Day was “Beat Air Pollution”, and water has always been integrated in global environmental goals. Hitachi Automotive Systems’ Brake Business Unit is active on these particularly meaningful topics. AIR WATER Regarding air pollution, the United Nations Regarding our focus on water we used “invites us all to consider how we can OUR more resources in 2019 (+33% of water change our everyday lives to reduce PRODUCTION IS consumption), though we focused the amount of air pollution we produce, READY TO DO on improving our recycling processes and thwart its contribution to global (from 10.45% to 10.65% of reused water warming and its effects on our own BATTLE TO LIMIT between 2018 and 2019). health”. Our actions cover several aspects. AIR POLLUTION The Brake Business Unit also largely • Our “Safer, Cleaner, Smarter” systems Several local initiatives promotes a water-saving mindset through and products are systematically designed are particularly smart annual “Water Day” campaigns organized to decrease air pollution by reducing CO ² in the way they include throughout our sites with different kinds emissions from brakes. A promising environmental protection of local initiatives such as seminars. example is our disc brake ZOHe AST TM in their production. In Jalgaon, (Active Shape Technology) which has India, an in-house alloying already achieved a very low residual drag system produces two tons of of 1 Nm our goal being a zero residual alloy per month while reducing drag by 2025. CO2 emissions thanks to its • Around our sites, actions include fuel-efficient induction furnace. collective transport systems such In Dalian, China, a foundry as the company buses set up by Wroclaw, process set up in 2018 reduces Poland. In Paris, France, a “bicycle emissions of Volatile Organic incentive” launched in 2018 encourages Components (VOC) by 24 tons employees to ride their bike to work per year: it’s positive for the planet via a bonus in proportion to the distance as well as for the employees, covered with “personal muscle power”. who can benefit from healthier working conditions. Annual “water day” In 2019 the initiative gained campaigns are organized momentum with a bonus distribution by the sites to promote a to 20 employees. daily water-friendly approach (here in Abrantes, Portugal). 2019 Report 37 MAKING BETTER USE OF WHAT WE HAVE For a sustainable approach to be efficient, the Group’s long-term vision must be supported by pragmatic actions – even those which may seem limited in scope. Such actions, when multiplied and diversified, do, over time, have significant results! O ne of our rules is to be mindful of ageing furniture, computers or other our consumption in all processes, equipment to local charities. In Heilbronn, whether in offices or in plants. Germany, old IT equipment is sorted once An illustration of this rule is a year to be sold to employees, and the provided by our Guanzhou site, which money raised also goes to a charity. participates in the “Earth Hour” initiative As for our Lisbon site in Portugal every – a worldwide movement organized by the year, it organizes a poster campaign for World Wide Fund (WWF) and supported Fundação do Gil, an association which by 190 countries so far. Every year, millions recycles toners and ink cartridges – an of people around the world turn their lights operation which also preserves the off for one hour to show their steadfast environment, as such products are commitment to protecting nature. harmful if improperly disposed of. During the “Earth Hour”, our Guanzhou site in China switches the power off in the entire plant during two nights: a nice gesture for Nature as a whole. Recycling is another way of making optimum use of our resources. In the Hitachi Automotive Systems global manufacturing processes, 93% of the waste products are reused or recycled. Many local initiatives throughout our worldwide scope give products a “second life”, for example, by donating 2019 Report 38 GOING FOR THE CSR CHALLENGE AT FULL SPEED T This document illustrates oday, Hitachi Automotive Systems’ customer requests and boost the Brake Business Unit is a strong development of superior, original products our unfailing commitment business entity combining the and technologies. In 2020 we will build on to the United Nations strengths of Hitachi Automotive this positive trend, in line with the Hitachi Global Compact and Systems and Chassis Brakes Group Corporate guidelines, in order to our determination to International. Thanks to the harmony, contribute visibly and efficiently to the sincerity and pioneering spirit shared by evolution of society and its progress. promote its ten Principles our 9,500 employees, we are more than on human rights, labour ever able to deploy a sustainable CSR – We have focused more specifically rights, environmental strategy benefitting the company, on the areas selected for 2019: gender the planet, and society as a whole. equality, diversity, environmental preservation and antiawareness and safety at work. Thanks to corruption rules and The CSR commitments we presented one our teams’ imagination and motivation, behaviors, inside and year ago have been fulfilled and, in many numerous actions have favorably cases, exceeded. Despite the Covid-19 influenced attitudes and behaviors, both beyond our company. challenges, we have maintained and inside our locations and in the surrounding delivered on all goals: communities. In 2020, these aspects will remain top priorities for our company. – We have increased the number and In particular, we will join the ambitious visibility of our CSR actions, based on a Hitachi Automotive Systems Diversity consolidated calendar of events. In 2019, & Inclusion strategy supported by a large we organized specific actions on variety of local initiatives. 16 United Nations Days, in particular the Zero Discrimination Day, the International In conclusion, this past year brought Women’s Day, the World Day for Safety together separate companies which saw and Health at Work, the Human Rights a huge potential in joining their forces Day and the International Anti-Corruption to build a global leader, able to tackle new Day. In 2020, we will intensify our challenges head-on. Today, by working approach by organizing actions on all together as one within Hitachi 20 United Nation days – a 25% increase! Automotive Systems’ Brake Business Unit, we can “make a difference” in – We have strengthened the alignment building a sustainable future. Our overall of our products with our “Safer, Cleaner, goal is stronger than ever: we can, and Smarter” philosophy. Our innovative will, “Do the right thing right”. processes blend CSR requirements into 2019 Report 39 Hitachi Automotive Systems’ July 2020 Brake Business Unit
