더 아리따운 2019 세상을 위하여 Amorepacific Group Sustainability Report 더 아리따운 02 Brand Portfolio Sustainability Management System 08 Prologue 66 Materiality Analysis 68 Stakeholder Engagement 70 Business Ethics First Step to 72 Risk Management the Sustainable Transition 76 Customer Satisfaction 12 Global Network 77 Sustainability Management System 14 Our Value System 15 Our Vision Sustainability Management Performance Our Journey of Transition into the Better World 80 Developing Sustainable Products 81 Brand CSR Activities 18 2020 Sustainability Commitments 83 Implementing a Great Workplace 20 Sustainable Lifestyle 90 Building Trustworthy Business 32 Inclusive Growth Partnership 세상을 위하여 42 Circular Economy 94 Positive Social Impact 99 Response to Climate Change 102 Improving Resource Efficiency Changes for Coexistence 52 Amorepacific Group’s Key Achievements 58 Financial Performance 2019 Sustainability Report Microsite CEO Message Dear valued stakeholders, growth with various communities in society and finding ways to realize a circular economy for future generations.Further, Amorepacifc Group aims to take on a more active pursuit of the beautiful journey towards a For the past seventy-five years, Amorepacific Group has dedicated itself better world by closely interacting and communicating with all members to the great vision of changing the world with beauty, communicating of our corporate ecosystem, from customers and environment to society with the world through the essence of ‘Asian Beauty.’ Having the as a whole. unwavering ‘customer-centric’ perspective at the heart of our principle, Amorepacific Group supports The Ten Principles of the UN Global we have pursued values of beauty, leading the innovation of the beauty Compact on human rights, labour, environment, and anti-corruption, industry with perseverance and indomitable spirit against various and the Group will accelerate the implementation of the UN Sustainable obstacles and hardships. Development Goals, the shared mission of the entire humanity. In Amorepacific Group inherits the founding spirit of “contributing to particular, as a corporation that has grown and developed together humanity through beauty and health.” Thus, it is our prescient goal to with women, Amorepacific Group will continue our tireless effort in move towards a sustainable business by our founding spirit, which has promoting gender equality SDG 5 . The Group also endeavors to contribute long been present in our corporate efforts to address sustainability. In to responsible consumption and production SDG 12 . 1993, Amorepacific Group declared the ‘Total Commitment Initiative Every members of Amorepacific Group is devoted to the creation of (Service, Quality, Environment),’ which was later followed by the ‘A MORE Beautiful World’ with the belief that beauty is a gift to change establishment of ‘2020 Sustainability Commitments.’ At this very the world. So I would like to ask for your warm encouragement and moment, Amorepacific Group is striving to support all the stakeholders support to Amorepacific Group’s effort for the better, more beautiful within our corporate ecosystem to make a transition towards a more future of humanity. sustainable lifestyle. At the same time, we are also promoting inclusive May 2020 Suh Kyung-bae, Chairman & CEO of Amorepacific Group Brand Portfolio Timeless Wisdom, Ageless Beauty Sulwhasoo formulates innovative skin science by infusing wisdom with modern science for ageless beauty with healthy radiance. www.sulwhasoo.com Natural benefits from JEJU innisfree is one of the most well-known natural skincare brands in Korea. innisfree means ‘an island where skin rest.’ It is a natural brand that delivers benefits of nature and youthful beauty to customers, realizing green life to maintain wellness. www.innisfree.com Luminous Beauty LANEIGE is a global and young premium brand specializing in moisturizing cosmetic products. The brand focuses on ‘Luminous Beauty’, filling the skin from deep inside with moisture to shine with healthy glow and make life’s moment luminous. www.laneige.com 02 03 Contemporary The Artisanship of Beauty Seoul Beauty Flowering Energy and Vitality for You www.amorepacific.com www.hera.com With the know-hows on flowers from devoted and advanced research, Mamonde sincerely conveys the vitality and flowering energy of flowers in its products. Filled with the energy of beautiful flowers, Mamonde is a companion to your blissful and blossoming life. www.mamonde.com Natural Brand filled with VITALBEAUTIE, the Beginning the Vitality of Seeds of Healthy Beauty www.primera.co.kr www.vitalbeautie.com Play Pink, Play ETUDE! ETUDE is global makeup brand which spreads the fun make-up play culture. With extensive color palettes and vibrant experiences of makeup, ETUDE provides every woman with an experience to discover and develop their own beauty. www.etude.com ‘Author of Perfumes’ Prestige Marine Cosmetics Emotions into Scents Conveying the Vitality Perfumes into Dreams of the Seas www.goutalparis.com www.lirikos.com Premium Haircare Brand Embodying Asian Wisdom and Beauty Ingredients from Korea’s Nature, Remedies Ryo provides fundamental solutions for scalp and hair through Asian from the Wisdom of Tradition HANYUL heritage herbal ingredients with modern technology. Ryo’s delicate and is a Natural Brand Conveying Traditional precise resolutions deliver the value of true benefit to customers. Lab-based High Functional Korean Qualities and Delivering Benefits Skincare Brand to Your Skin and Everyday Life www.ryo.com www.iope.com www.hanyul.co.kr 04 05 Wellness Life is Beauty ARITAUM Means Beautiful CUBE ME is an Inner-Beauty Brand in Korean. Beauty Brand for Providing Simple and Easy Solutions Fashion & Trend of Beautiful Life Pump Happiness! for Wellness Life Real Tips for Bros www.aritaum.com www.happybath.com www.cubeme.co.kr www.brontips.com Total Hair Cosmetics Brand Cool, Natural Brand Valuable Relaxation Provided Leading Hair & Style Trends for Healthy Lifestyle Blast Your Potential by Tea from Jeju www.miseenscene.com www.instagram.com/rarekind_official www.osulloc.com Real Beauty Crew Customized Oral Care Professional Haircare Brand espoir is a Makeup Brand for Your Health Natural Fresh Pleasia for Unique, Confident Style for True Self-Expression www.median433.co.kr www.amosprofessional.com www.espoir.com Synergy of the Natural Energy of Asia and Skincare Science Life Beauty Device, Makeon Medi Becomes Beauty www.makeonbeauty.co.kr www.aestura.com 06 07 Prologue Small Changes to Transform the World The driving force to change the world lies in our ventures, challenges, changes, and innovations for A MORE Beautiful World. As a leader of Asian beauty, Amorepacific Group is tirelessly pioneering the ocean of beauty. We believe that beauty of confident self-esteem changes the world; beautiful ‘together’ with empathy on our time open up the ways of co-prosperity; and the beautiful practices for the Earth and our environment awakens the value of harmonious co-existence. The sustainability vision for the harmony of nature, humans, and corporation is an important responsibility and mission of Amorepacific Group. For this vision of sustainable corporate management, Amorepacific Group embarks on a beautiful journey of challenges and innovations. First Step to the Sustainable Transition Every voyage is led by great explorers – courageously enjoying challenges with anticipation and hope for the new world. A success of a voyage depends on the teamwork between the leader who commands his crew towards the destination and those who persistently work through hardships. In this Sustainability Report, we will meet our explorers in Amorepacific Group – doing best of their roles and leading successful innovations. Global Network Sales Number of Employees Korea ● Countries with Brand Launched Location of Major Holding 4,064.5 billion KRW Companies and Subsidiaries 7,603 employees North America 93.6 billion KRW 195 employees Asia1) Sales 2,092.0 6,284.3 billion KRW billion KRW 5,381 1) Australia included employees Europe and Others Employees 34.2 13,257 billion KRW employees 78 employees 12 13 Our Value System Our Vision With the founding philosophy of ‘contributing to humanity through beauty and Amorepacific Group is exercising a wide variety of innovations with a goal health,’ Amorepacific Group is taking steps in the journey of beauty to make of becoming a great company. Through a transformation into a digital-based ‘A MORE Beautiful World with more beautiful people.’ While each brand, beauty platform, exploration of new products and distribution channels, and product, distribution channel and country has different roles, everyone keeps development of unique beauty of Asia, Amorepacific Group desires to change the Group’s promise with the world by sharing the ‘mission’ and the ‘ABC spirit’. the world into a more beautiful and healthy place. In addition, we are also investing efforts to minimize the environmental effect of the corporate activities, co-exist with diverse stakeholders, and fulfill our social responsibilities. Mission We make A MORE Beautiful World Great Beauty Company ABC Spirit Amorepacific Group has a firm belief that the world becomes more beautiful when each and everyone shines with their own unique beauty. It is our dream and mission to make ‘A MORE Beautiful World.’ To realize our dream, we propose five principles. Customers first Asian New Digital We analyze situations and issues from the perspective of our Beauty Beauty Beauty customers and prioritize the customer value in decision making ensuring prompt actions upon our customers. Be the first and the best We proactively adapt ourselves to changes, present innovative ideas and never stop trying to achieve our goals. Collaborate with open mind We empathize with our shared goals and share our thoughts and information with our colleagues. To achieve our goals, we actively participate in the collaboration with our colleagues. Asian Beauty New Beauty Digital Beauty · Reinforcing market · Entering new markets · Establishing a virtuous Respect differences leadership in Asia · Global expansion circle of hyperconnection We commit to accepting differences. In respect to every · Delivering Asian beauty in new ways between digital assets member, we practice the good in our everyday work. and heritage to customers and physical stores Act with integrity As proud members of Amorepacific Group, we do our best to keep our promises and observe our principles. 14 15 Our Journey of Transition into the Better World Challenge for novelty is never easy. We have to fight against wild waves and unexpected obstacles. The anxiety of the unknown also blocks the way. Nevertheless, we move forward. We know that small yet meaningful challenges become the driving force to change the world. What is sustainable coexistence? How can we achieve inclusive growth? How can we lead the circular economy? Amorepacific Group tirelessly asks questions with opened mind to find new ways for sustainability. With such questions in mind, we attempt to challenge in different scales in everyday life. As a result, we come close to sustainable life with our employees, local communities, and business partners, realizing mutual growth. We also lead the circular economy by minimizing our environmental impact to protect our planet. All these sincere steps contribute to our journey of transition into the better world. 2020 Sustainable Amorepacific Group will support all stakeholders’ transistion to a “Sustainable Lifestyle” with better understanding of environmental and social values. Sustainability in everyday life is proposed Sustainability Lifestyle by both the products and stores with environmental and social benefits and a wide range of corporate campaigns. Commitments 01 02 03 Integrate environmental Incorporate at least one Enhance our customers’ and social consideration environmental or social awareness of environmentally into the design and operation benefits into more than 40 and socially sustainable of our stores and disclose percent of our new products lifestyles our improvement Inclusive Amorepacific Group will achieve inclusive growth by creating a great workplace for employees, growing together with our business partners, and contributing to the health, well-being, and economic Growth empowerment of women. 04 05 06 Support the health, wellAchieve inclusive growth Create a good place to work being, and economic by actively supporting by improving employees’ empowerment of 200,000 our business partners’ health and welfare women under ‘20 by 20’ development and growth Through our 2020 Sustainability Commitments, commitment Amorepacific Group seeks to help our stakeholders realize the “sustainable lifestyle” in their everyday lives, achieve “inclusive growth” with economic and social communities, and contribute to the “circular economy” Circular With a goal to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to preserve nature and ecology for future generations, for future generations. Amorepacific Group will implement “Carbon Free” by 2030. In addition, we will contribute to circular Economy economy by increasing the efficiency of resource usage and decreasing the disposal of resource after production and consumption. The 2020 Sustainability Commitments are closely linked to 2030 Sustainable Development Goals(SDGs) adopted by the United Nations General Assembly in 2015. Through the 07 08 Reduce our CO2 emissions Increase resource efforts to execute the 2020 Sustainability by 30 percent per tonnes efficiency by reducing water Commitments, Amorepacific Group seeks to of production and packaging, reusing contribute in solving the rising global issues (compared to 2015) and recycling and endeavor to create ‘A MORE Beautiful World’ for all. 18 19 Sustainable Lifestyle A Beautiful Proposal for Coexistence with Environment Cosmetic products are made with various resources and technologies. Amorepacific Group takes a great responsibility in the whole process from producing to retail, investing in development of resource and packaging that reduce the environmental burden and remodelling stores to enhance environmentally friendly lifestyle in everyday life. With much considerations of nature and environment for the sake of the value of beauty in each and every product, Amorepacific Group proposes a sustainable lifestyle to be implemented together. Sustainable Lifestyle Highlight Major Performance in 2019 Incorporating Environmental and Social Benefits in New Products Making Our Stores Sustainable Ratio of new products incorporated with Reduction of plastic usage Ratio of ARITAUM using eco-friendly shopping bag Ratio of LED lighting installed in all new and environmental and social benefits renovated stores in Korea 38.1% 45.9% 159 tonnes ARITAUM ETUDE innisfree 100 % 28.8% Usage of recycled Ratio of eco-friendly materials used and bio-based plastics 2017 2018 2019 281 tonnes 99.7% ETUDE Domestic store 74 % Expanding Consumption for Values Sulwhasoo LANEIGE innisfree primera 3 countries 9 countries 2,897 people 1,503 people Beauty from Your Culture Refill Me Campaign PLAYGREEN Campaign Love the Earth Campaign The number of countries The number of countries The number of people The number of people participating in the participating in the joined PLAYGREEN participated in campaign campaign to reinterpret campaign to support campaign which is fun to preserve disappearing beautiful traditional suffering water scarcity and easy eco-friendly wetlands. culture with modern and preserve water activities to be done in values. resources. everyday life. 20 How Are We Dealing the Plastic Issue? Plastics – How Can We Reduce Them? The plastic waste issue is one of the most urgent and crucial global problem Amorepacific Group is deeply aware of the environmental impact of plastic to be solved. Amorepacific Group is investing in ways to reduce waste. To achieve the goal to reduce the use of plastic in the whole process of the consumption of plastic, taking responsibility for the environmental production and distribution, we seek eco-friendly alternatives and implement impact of plastic. ways to coexist with the environment. Less Plastic Amorepacific Group is implementing ‘Less Plastic’ Strategies to Product Containers Plastic containers are light and durable. However, they bear heavy environmental reduce unnecessary consumption of plastic and encourage the use of With Less Plastic burden. To solve this issue, Amorepacific Group is continuing the efforts to plastics that are easier to dispose and recycle. produce more beautiful products with less plastic input. For example, HAPPY BATH’s ‘Natural Real Moisture’ and ‘Natural Real Mild’ body washes reduced 19 percent of weight of plastic in the packaging while maintaining the quality. The Less Plastic Strategies brand also reduced the plastic weight of 10 products, saving 11 tonnes of plastic materials. 1 Reduce our plastic packaging By reducing weight of packaging, eliminating plastic and substituting Alleviating Fixtures are indispensable in cosmetic packaging. But do they have to be plastic with other materials, we will reduce 700 tonnes of plastic made with plastics? By making paper-based fixtures as durable as the plastic Environmental Burden, consumption by 2022. counterpart, Amorepacific Group replaced the plastic fixtures with more Fixtures Made of Paper recyclable and more decomposable paper ones. primera applied paper-based 2 Increase the recyclability of plastic packaging fixtures in five bundled products including Organience Set and Wild Seed Firming Serum. LANEIGE also changed fixtures for limited-edition products of the worldWe will increase the ratio of recyclable packaging through various wide Holiday Campaign, actively responding to the issue of plastic waste. means, such as unifying the type of plastic materials used and transferring to transparent PET. Increase the recycling efficiency of containers collected 3 from GreenCycle campaign The recycling and upcycling of cosmetic containers collected by GreenCycle campaign will be continued. Through collaboration with TerraCycle, we will recycle at least 100 tonnes of plastic containers each year in the next three years. In addition, we will increase the use of PCR and bioplastic packaging. Continue our research on eco-friendly packaging to 4 realize our goal of plastic waste reduction primera’s Organience used the paper-based fixtures 700 tonnes 19% By 2022, we will reduce 700 tonnes of HAPPY BATH lessened the weight of plastics by 19 percent plastic waste in the containers of ‘Natural Real Moisture’ and ‘Natural Real Mild’ body washes 22 23 How Can We Improve Recycling Efficiency of Plastic? What is Plastic with Less Environmental Impact? Amorepacific Group is paving a new path towards the reduction of plastic waste Along with efforts to reduce plastic waste, Amorepacific Group is continuing by increasing the recyclability of plastic packaging. research on better plastic materials. By developing plastic materials that produce less environmental impact while maintaining the light-weight and malleable properties, we are participating in a global movement to solve the plastic waste problem. Recyclable Product Plastic containers are difficult to recycle if they are not transparent or Containers if they have adhesive films attached. HAPPY BATH and Ryo introduced transparent plastic containers and HAPPY BATH employed non-adhesive shrink films, enhancing the recyclability. In addition, each shrink film has an additional Recycled Plastic, Since 2003, innisfree has been collecting empty product containers, and turned perforated line for easy removal. Reborn as New Containers them into recycled material of PP(Polypropylene). Other than that, 30 percent of the container of ‘Forest For Men Hair Wax’ is comprised of PCR(Post-Consumer Recycled) plastic. innisfree enhanced the filtering of impurities in recycled materials using advanced techniques, developing containers made of 100 percent PCR PET which is applied to innisfree’s Olive Real Body Lotion and Cleanser. At the same time, more brands are using recycled plastic. Mamonde implemented PCR plastic containers in ‘Age Control Skin Softner’ and ‘Men Recharging Toner.’ HANYUL used PCR plastic in 20 percent of containers for ChaeUm. primera used PCR plastic for two of ‘Love the Earth’ limited-edition ‘Alpine Berry’ facial cream products, and caps for three of pore treatment products. Such circulation of plastic is part of our efforts to reduce plastic waste. HAPPY BATH’s body wash products with transparent containers and non-adhesive shrink films Smart Containers It is often difficult to use up the content of certain cosmetic products due to their That Empty shapes and structures. innisfree upgraded the container of ‘Forest for Men Allto the Last Drop in-one Essence’ by fixing the tip of the tube to face the same way as the mouth of the pump, enabling the content to be used up simply by tilting the container when pumping. Easier Recycling Plastics are not easy to recycle without careful seperate collection of waste by with Single-Material materials. Due to the characteristics of cosmetic containers that need to preserve Containers contents well, it is not easy to make them from a single material. Through continuous packaging research, we have been able to apply a single-material innisfree’s Olive Real Body Lotion and Cleanser plastic container to the Illiyoon’s ‘Probiotics Skin Barrier Essence Drop’. 22 products PCR 100 % HAPPY BATH uses shrink films innisfree’s Olive Real Body Lotion and Cleanser use on 22 products containers made of 100 percent PCR PET 24 25 Plant-Based, Eco-Friendly The increase in plastic usage results in the depletion of petroleum resources. Amorepacific Group seeked alternatives, plant-based plastic from corn and Everyday Life with Sustainability Plastic Containers sugarcane. Producing less GHG emission than petroleum-based plastic, plantbased plastic is becoming a major source of eco-friendly materials. HAPPY BATH Amorepacific Group’s efforts to care for the environment and our planet is with implemented containers, 26.5 percent of which is plant-based plastic, in 53 us in our everyday life. In order to make sustainable life easier and more natural products, focusing on its body wash product line; mise-en-scène used plantfor everyone, we are also gradually changing stores and office spaces. based plastic in 26 products; Ryo in mild shampoo line; primera in two ‘Mango As such, Amorepacific Group’s yearning for realizing the sustainable life is Butter Comforting Body Lotion’ products; and Illiyoon in a number of products omnipresent in our everyday life. including ‘Fresh Moisture Deep Cleansing Oil.’ These are part of Amorepacific Group’s continued effort to preserve resources and reduce GHG emission. Nature-Friendly Disposable cosmetic applicators for in-store makeup tests are made mostly Cosmetics Applicators of plastic materials. After continuous research on design processing methods and materials with less environmental impact but maintaining same functionality, Amorepacific Group developed four eco-friendly materials as sustainable alternatives for plastic: paper sticks with no PVC coating, pulp sticks made by steaming processes, paper dedicated for food to replace spatulas, and rice sticks made of rice and tapioca. In particular, the rice stick is certified by the Korean Ministry of Food and Drug Safety as an edible substance, so it can be collected as food waste and is biodegraded in nature, realizing the goal of zero waste. HAPPY BATH’s body wash products uses plant-based plastic Biodegradable It takes more than five-hundred years for plastic to completely decompose. Once Plastic Fixtures discarded as waste, plastic influences our environment over generations. Thus, Amorepacific Group is investing in research to develop biodegradable plastic materials. Since March 2019, Sulwhasoo has gradually introduced biodegradable plastic fixtures in more than 2.5 million bundled products, replacing 90 tonnes of regular plastic. IOPE also implemented biodegradable plastic fixtures in eight of its products including bundled products of ‘Super Vital’ line. The brand will expand the use biodegradable plastic. Eco-friendly, biodegradable cosmetic applicators at Amore Seongsu beauty lounge 90 tonnes 4 new applicators Sulwhasoo used 90 tonnes of biodegradable Amorepacific Group developed four new eco-friendly plastic fixtures cosmetic applicators 26 27 ‘Bye Plastic Bag’ Whenever we buy products, we get yet another disposable shopping bag. Then, Eco-Friendly Each day, more than 300 visitor passes are issued at the headquarter of No More Disposable what about a reusable shopping bag? innisfree created a reusable ‘Bye Plastic Visitor Pass Amorepacific Group, which lose their use-value after the one-time use. Shopping Bags Bag,’ replacing a total of 75,000 disposable shopping bags in 2019. innisfree also To reduce the use of plastic and ink, we developed a visitor pass made of ecocollaborated with Toy Story and FILA for the bag design, making environmental friendly paper. Materializing the essence of ‘sustainability’, the tidy new visitor preservation more interesting for customers. pass is printed on FSC-certified paper using micro-3D foil printing technique. Visitors can take their passes, which is decorated with a fine architectural image of headquarter’s building. Bye Plastic Bag, designed in collaboration with the movie Toy Story Energy from innifree Jeju House became brighter by solar energy, one of major alternative Eco-friendly visitor pass made of paper with an image of Amorepacific Headquarters building the Sun of Jeju energy sources. The roof of the annex building houses solar panels, sourcing a portion of necessary electrical power resource for its store. As a result, the solar 2020 Stationery – The yearly Amorepacific Group stationery set is designed with consideration on panels produced 33MWh of energy over a year, saving more than 4 million KRW of A Beautiful environment. Certified paper was used and the amount of paper were minimized electricity charge. At innisfree Jeju House, the beauty from nature is brightened Everyday Reminder of by reducing the thickness and the number of pages and meticulously calculating by the energy of nature. the size of paper to be cut. The calendar used eco-friendly paper for the stand Our Environment instead of canvas and for the springs, unifying the material for better recyclability. The contents of calendar includes icons for sustainable everyday practice. innisfree Jeju House with solar panels Stationery items with environmental themes 75,000 bags 33 MWh 300 visitor passes EcoFriendly ‘Bye Plastic Bag’ replaced 75,000 disposable shopping bags innisfree Jeju House produced electricity More than 300 plastic visitor passes were saved each day 2020 stationery items deliver the message with reusable bags with solar panels thanks to the new paper visitor pass of sustainable lifestyle 28 29 “ We develop Eco Philosophy by applying recycled plastic to the containers of ‘Love the Earth’ environmental campaign products.” Shin Sunhwa, primera BM Team PCR plastic comprises 48 percent of the container of primera Alpine Berry Watery Cream and Intensive Cream. The brand chooses materials that generate less environmental impact, avoids subsidiary materials that are difficult to separate for disposal, and enhances recyclability by making it easy to remove labels from containers. With such products that contribute to a sustainable life, the brand is leading the change towards coexistence with nature. 30 31 Inclusive Growth Making a Beautiful, Healthy Workplace Together Working together with others might make things a bit slower than we often expect. However, we can achieve more by collaborating with partners and colleagues. Amorepacific Group has a deep knowledge about the beauty of going together. We work together with our employees and business partners. We support challenges of our disabled colleagues and walk together with teenagers for their future. We work for the healthy and beautiful life of women around the world and spread the under-recognized values of our neighbors and local communities. Amorepacific Group endlessly reaches out to partners for a more beautiful, great journey towards a better world. Inclusive Growth Highlight Major Performance in 2019 Great Workplace Positive Social Impact Ratio of women managers Ratio of local employees in 20 by 20 Commitment overseas branches 33% 34% 30% Number of Beneficiaries of Women’s Health Number of Beneficiaries of Women’s Economic and Well-being Support Programs Capacity Enhancement Programs 152,138 2,103 97% 143,697 140,387 1,683 1,450 2017 2018 2019 2017 2019 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 Conscious Business Partnership Expenditures on philanthropic activities Ratio of suppliers that meet the Ratio of business partners who got more than 70 points in Execution amount (KRW mn) Ratio to sales (%) ‘good performance’ sustainability assessment the annual sustainability assessment conducted for major business partners 23,610 22,640 0.38 20,600 0.37 63% 70% 92% 0.34 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 32 How Can We Make A MORE Beautiful Workplace? ‘AP Pride’ – From Compliments How powerful can a word of compliment be? ‘AP Pride’ is a company-wide campaign to relay compliments between employees, to Donations building a more intimate organizational culture and expanding into donations and Amorepacific Group is striving to make a healthier and safer workplace where sharing. Through Workplace, an enterprise service provided by Facebook, a total social responsibilities are faithfully observed and everyone works in happiness. of 1,958 compliments were shared by employees. The compliments with trust Providing safer and healthier workplace, full of opportunities, and acknowledgement towards coworkers improved the corporate self-esteem Amorepacific Group creates a beauty that changes the world. and emotional bond. When employees donated their prize money for making compliments, the Group additionally donated the matching amount of money. Facebook also selected ‘AP Pride’ as an exemplary case of using its workplace solution to “make a pleasant workplace.” Safe Workplace At workplaces, safety should be guaranteed for everyone. Having diverse for Everyone facilities ranging from research and development to production, Amorepacific Global Ward – The first step in capturing the global market is establishing a deep understanding Group is implementing strict management standards that meet global standards. A Study Group of different regions around the world. ‘Global Ward’ is an internal, self-driven The safety and health of employees are guaranteed by an objective audit system study group, developing the understanding of the global market and accumulating for Global Knowledge from both internal and 3rd party. the big data on respective countries and regions. It was established as a starting point to strengthen Amorepacific Group’s global competitiveness. In 2019, a total In 2019, Amorepacific Group instituted ‘APG Safety Week’ from April 22 to 26. of 179 employees grouped into 18 teams participated in the program, suggesting 11,391 employees(including duplicate participation) of Amorepacific Group and and learning diverse subjects including the trends of millennials in Thailand, suppliers in 12 workplaces participated in the campaign. The campaign raised luxury market in Italy, and trends K-beauty and makeup in Mexico. As a result, awareness on safety at workplaces with presentations of accidents and ideas Amorepacific Group procured a unique, valuable knowledge on global trends competition as well as demonstrations of personal protective equipment and VR and markets. safety training. A total of sixteen programs were provided, strengthening the value of a safer and more secure workplace. Global Ward, an employee-initiated study group Emergency response training 11,391 employees 1,958 compliments 18 teams ‘APG Safety Week’ was conducted across 12 workplaces Employees shared 1,958 compliments 179 employees grouped into 18 teams through a relay campaign participated in the Global Ward program 34 35 An Inclusive Workplace without Barriers Everyone has rights to pursue her dreams, and any disability shall not be an obstacle. Through ‘WeDream’ program, Amorepacific Group hires disabled How Can We Find Answers Together? employees, who are often isolated from the job market, and support their economic independence. More than 70 percent of ‘WeDream’ employees have Even difficult questions can be solved with ease when we work together. severe disabilities and 56 percent are women. They work with confidence as The environmental issue is a shared concern beyond any sides or economic packaging workers at the Amore Beauty Park and health keepers at LAON, the interests. Amorepacific Group shares eco-friendly values with our suppliers and in-house massage center. business partners, actively finding solutions to environmental issues. In 2019, the Group developed additional job positions, with the launch of a car washing business ‘CarOn’. Also, service fees to LAON of more than 46 million KRW were donated to Korea Childhood Leukemia Foundation. ‘WeDream’ program Green Alliance – In order to respond to the environmental issues more actively and preemptively, also donated 5 million KRW to Osan Welfare Center for the People with Severe An Eco-Friendly Value Amorepacific Group established ‘Green Alliance’ program to share sustainable Disabilities. ‘WeDream’ was awarded “Workplace of the Year” by the minister for the Better values with suppliers and business partners. In the program, the Group developed of the Ministry of Employment and Labor, and “the citation of excellence in green technologies through collaborative research and development, which are employing disabled persons” by Gyeonggi-do. the foundations of increasing the capability of the corporation and partners. innisfree improved diversity of workplace under the slogan of ‘Working Together One of the fruitful outcomes is the development of paper fixtures. Developed at innisfree,’ hiring six employees with severe disabilities as gardeners and by collaboration with Pungnyun Greentech, the fixtures are used in primera’s nail artists. Female employees with severe hearing disabilities were hired as Organience products to replace plastic fixtures. nail artists at innisfree’s corporate welfare facility ‘inninail.’ Service fees paid Amorepacific Group also improved the environmental safety of suppliers. by innisfree employees were donated to Autism Society of Korea. In addition, Professional environmental consulting was provided to 9 major suppliers, ‘inninail Outreach’ by nail artists of inninail provided hand care services and ‘My assessing environmental legal issues and setting up solutions to reduce Valuable Self Beauty Class’ gave skincare and makeup classes to people with environmental and safety risks. For second-tier suppliers, the Group implemented developmental disabilities, supporting them to lead more confident lives. self-assessment of safety risks. The Group also supported the purchase of safety gear for suppliers with high-risk duties. Sharing with suppliers the value of sustainable management is paving a robust path for inclusive growth. Environmental assessment and consulting for suppliers inninail improved diversity of workplaces by hiring people with severe disabilities The Greatest Workplace of the Year 100 people 24 billion KRW WeDream was awarded by the minister of ‘My Valuable Self Beauty Class’ gave Financial support for suppliers through Ministry of Employment and Labor at the classes to more than 100 people Mutual Growth Fund and Mutual Growth ‘Workplace of the Year’ award with disabilities Investment Fund 36 37 How Can We Make A MORE Beautiful World? Revitalize the Daily Life for Female Cancer Patients Amorepacific Group cares for every corner of society, to make the world a Makeup better place shining with the beauty of individuals. The Group supports the Your Life health, wellbeing, and economic empowerment of every woman around the world and endeavors to coexist with neighbors and local communities. 20 by 20 Commitment Amorepacific Group aims to enhance health, well-being and economic capability for A MORE Beautiful Life of 200,000 women by 2020. ‘20 by 20 Commitment’ is the Group’s promise of Women to achieve this goal. Since the Group has grown with women customers and partners, we believe that a healthy, beautiful life of women makes the world a more beautiful place. Through the commitment, the Group is supporting women Cancer patients suffer from stress caused by the changes in their physical appearance in Korea and in a number of other countries including China, Singapore, Vietnam, due to chemotherapy. ‘Makeup Your Life’ is a campaign that offers makeup and skincare and Malaysia, reducing the mortality rate from cancer of women, enhancing lessons to female cancer patients to help them to return to their lives with confidence. the quality of life of cancer patients, and supporting women’s employment and Celebrating twelfth anniversary in 2019, the campaign was conducted in Korea, China, founding new businesses. Moreover, the Group supported UN’s ‘Every Woman Singapore, Thailand, and Malaysia along with 899 volunteers and 1,985 cancer patients Every Child’ campaign, realizing the corporate vision in a broader context. From for a total of 2,694 hours of service. 2017 to 2019, Amorepacific Group supported a total of 441,458 women, achieving 221 percent of the original goal. Support Breast Cancer-Free Healthy Life Pink Ribbon Campaign Accumulated Number of Beneficiaries of 20 by 20 Commitment 441,458 Enhancement of Women’s Economic Capability Support of Women’s Health and Well-being 5,236 287,217 ‘Pink Ribbon Campaign’ supports every woman to lead a healthy life with more 3,133 awareness of their body. The campaign raises awareness of breast cancer with ‘Pink Run,’ a running festival emphasizing the importance of early detection of breast cancer, 145,380 436,222 and ‘Pink Tour,’ a training program on self-examination of breast cancer. The campaign is expanding beyond Korea to China. 5,000 people participated in ‘MORI 1,683 284,084 Run’ in Shanghai. Screening service and education of breast and cervical cancers were conducted in ten counties in three provinces, including Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region, 143,697 Guizhou Province, and Heilongjiang Province. As a result, 19,108 women were examined for breast and cervical cancers, and 82,100 women were provided with free education to 2017 2018 2019 raise awareness of the two major cancers in women. 38 39 “With various public participation activities like Pink Run, we support healthy life without breast cancer.” Kim Kisun at CSR Team and An Yujin at Korea Breast Cancer Foundation Pink Ribbon campaign has been supporting healthy life without breast cancer by raising awareness on breast cancer and early examination. ‘Pink Run’ is the representative program of the campaign, educating women a way to love their bodies and the importance of healthy habits. Participation fees to Pink Run are donated for operations and care for low-income breast cancer patients, generating a virtuous cycle of participation and donation. 40 41 Circular Economy A Beautiful Circulation for Better Future Global environment and life-threatening climate change is making everyone around the world to work together for solutions. As a global corporate citizen, Amorepacific Group is partaking in the efforts to solve the climate issue by using resources more efficiently and reducing energy use and greenhouse gas emissions. As a result, Amorepacific Group is preserving nature for a sustainable future and realizing a circular economy with a healthy beauty. Circular Economy Highlight Major Performance in 2019 A Beautiful Circulation for Better Future Global environment and life-threatening climate change is making everyone around the world to work together for solutions. As a global corporate citizen, Amorepacific Group Climate Change Response Innovation in Resource Efficiency is partaking in the efforts to solve the climate issue by using resources more efficiently and reducing energy use and GHG Emissions Intensity (tCO2eq/tonnes of production) Water Use Intensity (tonne/tonnes of production) greenhouse gas emissions. 0.805 8.369 As a result, Amorepacific Group is preserving nature for a Amorepacific Group 0.729 0.732 Amorepacific Group 8.059 7.849 sustainable future and realizing a circular economy with a Amorepacific Amorepacific 5.727 healthy beauty. 5.393 0.624 5.021 0.488 0.523 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 Renewable energy in Amorepacific Reduction of GHG emissions Rainwater use in Amorepacific Reduction of water use per tonnes of production in per tonnes of production in Amorepacific (Compared to 2015) Amorepacific (Compared to 2015) Generation Ratio Usage Ratio Korea Shanghai 6,221 MWh 6.6 % 9.4 % 38,499 tonnes 7.4 % 12.6 % 44.2% Number of products implementing Amount of empty containers collected (tonne) 256 278 263 energy-saving emulsion process Products made with low-temperature manufacturing technology 43 79 96 Amount of empty bottles collected through GreenCycle campaign 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 42 What is the Smart Way to Co-exist with Our Earth? Campaigns to Protect Environment in Everyday Life It is not difficult to preserve our planet and revive nature – increasing the ‘Love the Earth’ – A Summer Camp for Children use of green energy, reducing energy waste, and considering environment in Protecting the environment is protecting the dreams and hopes of everyday life can be more than enough. Now is the time for an action to save our children. In 2019, Amorepacific Group ran ‘Love the Earth’, a the environment of our planet. summer camp to educate children about eco-friendly lifestyle. 31 elementary school students from all around Korea participated in this two-day camp, discovering ways to protect the environment, sharing good influence, and growing into eco-influencers. Saving Energy, Amorepacific Group is leading the way to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by Reducing Greenhouse Gas actively implementing renewable energy sources. In 2019, Amorepacific used 6,221 MWh of renewable energy. 6.6 percent of the total electricity consumption of Amorepacific was covered by solar energy. At the Amorepacific Headquarters geothermal, solar photovoltaic, and solor thermal energy accounted 11.2 percent ‘Earth Hour’ – An hour without Electric Lights of energy use. Amorepacific Group joined a global campaign to turn off non‘Energy Innovation Task Force’ played a great role in saving energy. To reduce essential electrical lights at the same time. Major corporate greenhouse gas emissions, lighting at every production and distribution facilities locations including the Group’s headquarter participated in was replaced with LED lighting and AI systems were introduced for better energy the campaign. A company-wide campaign was also implemented, efficiency. The facilities include a production site in Shanghai, China as well as encouraging employees to turn the lights off for an hour distribution centers in Osan and Daejeon, Korea. In 2019, the Group implemented at their homes. actions to respond to the climate change not only at production sites but also at non-production locations. As a result, Amorepacific Group reduced 3,851 tCO2eq of GHG emissions – 7.4 percent less than the original goal and an equivalent of planting 1.39 million nut pine trees. To implement more professional and systematic responses to climate change, the Group will train a team of 15 energy ‘Be Cool’ – Saving Energy Together management auditors. Amorepacifc Group conducted an ‘Energy Saving Week’ under the theme of ‘Be Cool’ in order to raise awareness of and encourage energy saving. During the week of campaign, various activities were done to save more energy. A total of 26 energy-saving activities were carried out at different locations, inviting every employee of Amorepacific Group to communicate the importance of saving energy and partake in the action. Daily beauty production site with solar panels 3,851 tCO2eq 100 % #APEarthhour 26 campaigns The savings compared to expected emissions Replacement of lighting into LED An environment-focused summer camp, Every corporate sites and employees’ houses Every employee participated in differnt in 2019 at every production sites in Korea inspired by ‘Taepyungyang Green Movement’ participated in ‘Earth Hour’ campaigns to save energy in 1993 44 45 What is Beautiful Circulation? Can We Give Back the Power of Nature? Amorepacific Group is striving to seek more efficient and effective ways to Every day, we gain a lot, owing to exploiting nature. Amorepacific Group respond to the coming climate change. In order to realize this goal, the Group is endeavored to return these benefits to nature, which led to the preservation investing in developing new technologies. of biodiversity. Efforts to rejuvenate organic ginseng cultivation and use it as a beauty ingredient is the Group’s new beautiful challenge. From Green Tea Amorepacific’s Cosmetics Technology Institute discovered new functionality from Byproducts to green tea byproducts, nearly 200 tonnes being disposed each year. To increase A Beauty found Amorepacific Group has a particular interest in Korean ginseng. The Group Green Technology Products recycling and reduce waste, the institute started a research in 2016 to extract in organic Ginseng concentrates on maintaining agricultural sustainability and organic production of new functional ingredients from green tea byproducts. As a result, ‘Green tea ginseng for the sake of safety of customers. polysaccharide powder’ and ‘Camellia sinensis leaf dietary fiber’ were developed Amorepacific Group set out the ‘Beauty Ginseng’ plan to develop an optimal and received the Green Technology Certification(Certificate Number GT-19ginseng breed for cosmetic products and acquire techniques to cultivate organic 00682). Thanks to the green technology, more than 90 percent of waste was ginseng. In 2018, the Group signed a contract for an approximately 1,000m2 reduced from the production process of green tea-based dietary supplements. ginseng field with a farm in Anseong, Korea, and planted one breed of Panax VITALBEAUTIE’s product ‘Meta Green’(Certificate Number GT-19-01505) contains ginseng and four potential new breeds. This is the first step for an experiment these functional ingredients extracted from green tea. that requires more than four years of meticulous tracking. The Group’s challenge for the organic, non-pesticide and highly functional ‘Beauty Ginseng’ has just Upcycling Beauty, Found innisfree initiated ‘Upcycling Beauty’ campaign to discover cosmetics ingredient started. in Ingredients of Beer from discarded resources. innisfree collaborated with Jeju Beer and discovered brewer’s spent grain – a residue of barley and flour – as a raw material for hair and body care products. In addition, innisfree is continuing its effort to enhance the infrastructure of upcycling beauty. A ginseng farm developing a strong new breed for cosmetics innisfree’s upcycling beauty products containing brewer’s spent grain 90 % 60 % Thanks to the development of functional ‘Meta Green’ is the first dietary supplement Amorepacific Group uses 60 percent of ingredients from green tea byproducts, in Korea with a ‘Green Technology Product’ organic ginseng produced in Korea more than 90 percent of waste was reduced certificate (by area of production) 46 47 “ To reflect on how precious our planet is, Amorepacific turned the lights off for an hour.” Lee Haengjin, SHE Team The participation to Earth Hour happened at different business locations as well as homes of the Group’s employees, providing an opportunity to reflect on the weight of the impending climate change. As a way to partake in the positive change, Amorepacific Group will expand the participation in Earth Day to the Group’s locations around the world. 48 49 Maintaining a clear direction is crucial in leading a journey. Although stopping from time to time or making detours, the compass always has to point to the direction of destination. The reasons and goals of the journey have to be constantly reminded to reach the destination with new possibilities. Where is the destination the beautiful journey of Amorepacific Group has reached? We showed that beauty can change the world, by developing innovative products, enhancing customer experiences, innovating digital assets and spreading global networks. In 2019, we continued the beautiful journey towards sustainable management, discovering the future value of coexistence and inclusive growth. Facilitating such values, we will continue our efforts to make A MORE Beautiful World. Changes for Coexistence Amorepacific Group’s Key Achievements Innovative Products Amorepacific Group has been loved by the customers over the decades, thanks to innovative new products that strengthen the brand’s identity. The advanced technologies accumulated through years of research lead the evolution of the products, enabling us to lead the cosmetics market by launching new brands and products that reflect market trends and customer needs. Delivering Brand Values ‘Ice Beauty’ Skincare with Innovative Products Amorepacific Group launched a Amorepacific Group is strengthening number of new skincare products its competitiveness by developing under the category of ‘Ice Skincare’, innovative products that deliver the an innovative technology developed core values of the brands. Sulwhasoo after years of research. These focused on the marketing of antiproducts are to be used in a halfaging products. HERA released frozen condition on hot summer days. innovative make-up products such 8 brands launched the ‘Ice’ products, as ‘Black Foundation.’ IOPE released including HANYUL’s ‘Moonlight Citron ‘The Vitamin C23 Ample,’ a lab-based Sleeping Mask.’ functional skincare product, showing its outstanding technological capabilities. Targeting diverse market Surfactant-free Emulsifying segments Technology In 2019, Amorepacific Group launched Amorepacific R&D Center acquired new brands to target the segmenting NET(New Excellent Technology) domestic cosmetic market and certificate for the microemulsion capture the Millennials. CUBE ME, the technology. This unique emulsifying inner beauty brand, launched various technology uses hydrophilic capsules products for different skin concerns. to stabilize oil without surfactant, The amples and chewable tablets employing technologies from both were sold at more than 700 online cosmetics production and medicines. and physical stores, within a year of launching. We also launched BLANK, a makeup brand targeting different tastes with stylish designs, and Be Ready, a makeup brand for men of Gen-Z. 52 53 Amorepacific Group’s Key Achievements Digital Amorepacific Group aims to transform into a ‘digital beauty company’ to adapt to Transformation the ‘On-Life’ era. In 2019, the Group strengthened the foundation for digitization Digital Innovation by establishing and implementing missions in different digital domains with a focus on the domestic market. In the coming years, the Group will also expand Digital transformation has become inevitable and is a core growth engine to digital establishment in other countries. To achieve theses, the Group will also enhance the future value in the midst of the Fourth Industrial Revolution. accelerate e-commerce growth and optimize the omnichannel experience in 2020, and offer a personalized omnichannel experiences in 2021. Amorepacific Group has implemented aggressive and preemptive measures to lead digital transformation by building a business environment based on big data, launching innovative products and services that incorporate digital technologies, and strengthening digital capabilities of our employees. MOU with Alibaba Group Collaborate with Outside Partners Build a Dedicated Digital Hire and Nurture In September 2019, Amorepacific Group signed an MOU with for Strengthening Transformation Organization Digital Workforce Alibaba Group to expand its digital business. A collaboration Digital Capabilities office ‘A2 Hangzhou Camp’ has opened nearby Alibaba · A dedicated digital transformation · Strengthening and implementing · Big Data Analytics at Alibaba Cloud Group Campus in Hangzhou, where we executed big datateam directly responsible to capabilities for data-driven based consumer research and developed new products · Cloud Storage Services at Amazon the Chief Digital Officer management with Tmall Innovation Center. Also, ‘Amorepacific × TMIC Web Services Innovation Plant’ was established to develop, distribute and · Guiding and implementing digital · Providing customized learning paths communicate products specialized in the Chinese market. transformation goals in business based on educational levels of the A business agreement ceremony with Alibaba Group sectors and brands Group’s digital academy · Establishing and expanding · Providing data literacy education 3D Printed Tailored Facial Mask Pack exemplary cases in different · Organizing digital conferences Wins CES Innovation Award digital domains At CES(Consumer Electronics Show) 2020, Amorepacific Group introduced a facial mask 3D printing system, which enables printing of a tailor-made hydrogel mask that matches the facial size and skin characteristics. Category Plan Key Details The technology won the CES Innovation Award. We also Planning Enhance customer insight Young Millennial customers exhibited ‘LED Flexible Patch’, a patch-shaped LED module Chinese Tmall·Taobao customers that closely attaches to skin to provide personalized deep Production/ Increase efficiency of Improving order confirmation rate with 3D Printed Tailored Facial Mask Pack skincare. Distribution demand prediction and advanced demand prediction algorithm distribution system Digital Marketing for Sulwhasoo and Osulloc Marketing/Sales Enhance digital marketing Advanced performance marketing Sulwhasoo implemented on-line and off-line digital Better omnichannel experience marketing campaigns ‘BLOOMSTAY’, a digital pop-up Better personalized experience through more diverse measures, such as subscription store for ‘Sulin Cream’ provided a variety of contents to services customers. At physical stores, ‘Into Bloomstay’ events gave Digitalization Goals for Optimize customer experience Advanced target marketing of AP Mall customers opportunities of VR experience of a mysterious Different Value Chains in digital stores customers plum tree garden. Osulloc revamped its website. The Increase growth of brands in Stronger partnership with domestic and brand introduced an AI-assisted automation solution in other commercial premises international e-commerce markets (Amazon its promotion activities, providing customized product and Tmall) recommendations. Customer Service Enhance CRM CRM personalization and automation Sulwhasoo’s digital pop-up store 54 55 Amorepacific Group’s Key Achievements Amorepacific Group’s Key Achievements Better Customer Experience Global Expansion Amorepacific Group offers new and diverse experiences to customers. At the To fortify positions in the global market, Amorepacific Group strengthened stores of Amorepacific brands, customers can experience different products ties with global retailers and distributors. In Europe and North America, we and actively find their own beauty. Moreover, they can get makeup done by established status as a global brand by entering local distribution chains and a professional and create their own products. The stores even hold concerts retail stores. In Southeast Asia, we signed MOUs with leading e-commerce for customers. Amorepacific Group will continue the efforts to communicate companies, Lazada Group and Alibaba Group, to enhance the foundations of beauty with customers. online business. Through such partnerships beyond boundaries, Amorepacific Group spreads out to the wider world. ◀ Opening of Amore Seongsu In October 2019, Amore Seongsu opened the doors to public as a new kind of beauty lounge that presents a novel spatial experience for customers. The place does not focus on the sales of products. Rather, it is a space where customers can experience diverse products from more than thirty Amorepacific brands. AMOS ‘Hair Design Concert’ AMOS held numerous concerts dedicated to its hair care products for professional customers in July and October 2019. Held in five major cities in Korea with hair designers from more U.S.A Europe Southeast Asia than 3,500 hair salons, the concerts introduced practical and trendy hair Strategic Partnership LANEIGE at Sephora MOU with Lazada Group technology guidelines. with ‘Milk Makeup’ Available at more than 800 stores and Alibaba Group Cooperation and support for global in 18 countries, including France, Russia, Partnerships to deploy e-commerce ▲ ▲ expansion of the cruelty-free, Spain, and Italy networks in Southeast Asia and Renewal of innisfree’s Gangnam ARITAUM ‘Pro Makeup Studio’ AESTURA at More Stores 100% vegan ‘clean beauty’ brand China, strengthening digital business Flagship Store ARITAUM launched ‘Pro Makeup AESTURA, a medical beauty brand capabilities Sulwhasoo at Sephora innisfree renovated its Gangnam Studio,’ a new kind of store run by that previously focused on professional Available at stores in major US cities Flagship Store with a concept of ‘nature professional makeup artists. Customers distribution channels, renovated itself and sephora.com in urban space.’ The flagship store can experience and purchase as a consumer brand. The brand is Mamonde at Ulta Beauty provides experiential contents such as carefully selected products, along with now available at more than 1,500 Olive Available online and at more than ‘My Recipe Bar,’ where customers can professional makeup services. Young and ARITAUM stores. In addition, 200 stores in USA produce their own cosmetics. the brand also launched its own online store to raise customer accessibility. 56 57 Financial Performance Amorepacific Amorepacific, a major subsidiary of Amorepacific Group, actively responded to the changes of distribution structure in the market. Physical stores focused on enhancing quality in response to the growing online market while the brand’s Amidst the long-term low-growth trend of the world economy that continued in online mall focused on growth. As a way to strengthen communication with 2019, Amorepacific Group strived to find ways through challenge and innovation. customers, ‘Amore Seongsu’ was launched as a space for customers to experience Innovative product development and digitization provided new experiences to every brand of Amorepacific Group. We also focused on promoting digital popcustomers. Active expansion in the international market and diversification of up stores and SNS channels, establishing direct communication channels that are up-to-date with customers. Sulwhasoo, LANEIGE, primera, HANYUL, and Ryo distribution channels enriched the foundation for growth. launched innovative new products, bringing new energy to the market and laying Innovative new products of the brands brought new energy to the market. New foundations for growth. In the international market, we paved ways to brand brands targeting Millennials and Generation Z took the trend initiative. We also expansion and entrance to new markets with a heavy focus on five major global continued efforts to facilitate our future growth engine in Southeast Asia, Europe, brands – Sulwhasoo, LANEIGE, Mamonde, innisfree, and ETUDE, driving growth and North America. With the main principle of ‘customer-centered management’, through qualitative means. we pushed forward the agendas of ‘innovative product development’, ‘customer experience enhancement’, and ‘digitalization.’ As a result, revenue totaled 6,284.3 Domestic Cosmetics Business billion KRW, increasing 3.4 percent over last year. Operating profit totaled 498.2 In cosmetics business, We maintained growth by attracting customers with the billion KRW, decreasing 9.3 percent over last year. launch of innovative product lines that deliver the core brand values and flexibly responding to diverse distribution channels encompassing online stores, multibrand retailers and duty-free shops. In 2019, the total revenue from domestic Amorepacific Group Financial Performance Unit: KRW bn cosmetics sales engrossed 2,997.3 billion KRW, increasing by 5.7 percent over last year. Sulwhasoo strengthened its key anti-aging product line and launched Category 2017 2018 2019 pop-up stores emphasizing digital experiences to fortify its position as a leading Revenue 6,029.1 6,078.2 6,284.3 luxury brand in the Korean market. HERA launched an array of new facial and Operating Profit 731.5 549.5 498.2 lip makeup products, along with aggressive SNS marketing and entering multiNet Profit 489.5 376.3 282.4 brand retailers. LANEIGE enhanced its brand competitiveness by reinforcing its key moisturizing products while focusing on communicative digital contents. IOPE launched innovative new skincare products to establish the foundation for growth Amorepacific Financial Performance Unit: KRW bn as a lab-based functional skincare brand. We also launched smaller-scale brands Category 2017 2018 2019 to capture the diversifying trend of the Korean cosmetics market, including Revenue 5,123.8 5,277.8 5,580.1 BeREADY, a makeup brand for men and BLANK. Operating Profit 596.4 482.0 427.8 Domestic Daily Beauty & OSULLOC Business Net Profit 398.0 334.8 223.8 Daily Beauty & OSULLOC generated a total of 520.7 billion KRW revenue, increasing 1.5 percent over last year. In 2019, Daily Beauty & OSULLOC pushed forward the continued emphasis on the competitiveness of the brand and digital channels, establishing the ground for growth. In particular, Ryo secured its Revenue from Revenue from position as a premium haircare brand in the market by expanding the sales of key Domestic Business Overseas Business products. Meanwhile, OSULLOC, started anew as an independent subsidiary of Amorepacific Group, maintained its reputation as a premium tea brand. 64.7% 35.3 % 58 59 International Business Activities innisfree Despite difficult market circumstances with stale roadshop sales, innisfree widened Corporate presence in the international market is a growth engine for future the launch of natural and functional products to attract Millennial customers. To business, which requires long-term and consistent investment. We established strengthen customer experience, Gangnam Flagship Store was opened and Jeju paths for brand expansion and entering new markets, focusing on the five major House, the site to experience the island’s heritage, opend after renewal. global brands – Sulwhasoo, LANEIGE, Mamonde, innisfree, and ETUDE. ETUDE ETUDE decreased the number of company-operated stores in response to stale In Asian countries, Sulwhasoo, LANEIGE, and innisfree maintained sales of the roadshop channel, and focused on its digital channels to overcome consistent growth by launching innovative products and collaborating with global the situation. In particular, ETUDE launched ingenious products in collaboration business partners, providing grounds for qualitative growth. Brands portfolio with other brands such as KitKat and Disney, enhancing product competitiveness. became more diverse and our brand competitiveness became stronger thanks to the expansion of digital marketing. In addition to the existing Chinese and ASEAN markets, we accelerated expansion into the new Asian markets, including India espoir espoir maintained consistent revenue growth through sales at multi-brand retailers. The brand strengthened its image as a professional makeup brand, and Australia. As a result, the revenue generated in Asian countries totaled 2,092 providing makeup suggestions at each quarter and providing personalized billion KRW with an increase of 4.4 percent over last year. products and services via its showrooms and SNS channels. In North America, skincare brands maintained consistent growth. The revenue totaled 93.6 billion KRW, increased by 30.1 percent over last year. LANEIGE AESTURA With the launch of ‘365 Line,’ AESTURA diversified its product categories and products are now available at Sephora stores, expanding grounds for continued expanded multi-brand retailer channels, continuing trend of growth. It also sales growth. innisfree made a debut in multi-brand retailers in North America. increased brand awareness through continued digital marketing, collaborating The brand also expanded its customer interface by launching its first flagship with influencers and naming new models to represent the brand. store in Canada. primera also debuted in the North American market, strengthening the brands portfolio in the region. AMOS Professional To gain dominance in the highly competitive hair product market, the brand Due to the decline in the fragrance business in France, the revenue generated renewed its representative ‘Feel the Green Tea’ product line and newly launched in European countries slightly decreased to 34.2 billion KRW. However, LANEIGE ‘Moist Essence’. The brand also strengthened digital communication by launching laid a foundation stone for expanding in the European market by entering ‘AMOS TV,’ a video content platform for professional hair care. eighteen countries through multi-brand retailers. Performance of Subsidiaries Unit: KRW bn 2018 2019 YoY innisfree Revenue 598.9 551.9 -8% Operating Profit 80.4 62.6 -22% ETUDE Revenue 218.3 180 -18% Amorepacific Overseas Revenue Operating Profit -26.2 -18.5 Reduced loss Asia North America Europe and others 2,219.8 espoir Revenue 42.1 46.7 11% 2,110.5 34.2 Operating Profit -1.8 0.1 Positive turnaround 34.9 93.6 AESTURA Revenue 100.1 111.1 11% 1,924.3 71.9 34.5 Operating Profit 0.9 6.8 655% Unit: KRW bn 57.1 AMOS Professional Revenue 84.5 83.4 -1% Operating Profit 17.1 16.8 -2% 2,092.0 2,003.7 1,832.7 2017 2018 2019 60 61 Major Awards and Recognitions DJSI Korea Index FTSE4Good Index MSCI ESG Rating for 10 Consecutive Years for 9 Consecutive Years Class A 62 63 Sustainability Management System Materiality Analysis HIGH Business impact Amorepacfic Group carried out the materiality analysis in order to gain an accurate 1 understanding of importance to stakeholders and impact on the business and use it to better 2 achieve our sustainability goals. In compliance with the reporting topics recommended by GRI 8 Standards, the analysis comprehensively included the perspectives of external stakeholders and media, domestic and global social and economic issues, and key issues regarding our business. 3 6 5 Materiality Analysis Identification of Material Sustainability Issues Issues 7 Impact on the Business Importance to Stakeholders 4 Configuring recent ESG issues in Requirements Internal Media External Selection 9 sustainability issues the industry of strategies and research experts and of 9 material (Demands of stakeholders, public international risks government issues regulations, industry trends, etc) standards policies Analyzing international standards and metrics Analyzing GRI Standards Analyzing Analysis of Reflecting issues related DJSI business risks, economic, experts’ Media research to 8 leading ISO 26000 Sustainability social, and opinions on our (Issues with regard to companies of UNGC Management environmental sustainability Amorepacific Group and the the industry SASB Committee issues from and policy cosmetics industry) and corporate 1,190 articles trends strategic tasks Impact on the We carried out an analysis of major sustainability reporting issues in the industry, international standards, Amorepacific Group’s internal strategies, and business risks. As a Stakeholder interest HIGH Business result, we identified the following as core issues: response to climate change, promotion of resource circulation, strengthening product sustainability, water resource management, respect for human rights and diversity, and enhancing employees’ health and quality of life. NO Material Issue Cost Profit Risk 2020 Commitments GRI Topic Page 1 Enhancing sustainability of products ○ ○ ○ Sustainable lifestyle Customer health and 20, 80 safety 2 Promoting circulation of resources ○ ○ ○ Sustainable lifestyle Customer health and 20~29, 46, 103~104 Importance to To understand what is important to stakeholders, we analyzed media coverage, government Circular Economy safety, Effluents and Stakeholders policy trends, and experts’ opinions related to Amorepacific Group. Our analysis of 1,190 waste 3 Improving health, safety, and quality of life of ○ ○ Inclusive Growth Occupational health and 34, 83, 85~87 media articles on the Group published between January 1 and December 31, 2019 identified employees safety several key issues including CSR activities such as ‘20 by 20 Commitment’, economic 4 Supporting suppliers’ growth and development ○ Inclusive Growth Supplier social 37, 90~93 outcomes, and innovative sustainable technologies. The 2019 Sustainability Report presents environmental assessment issues drew from various media coverages as well as our activities in response to government 5 Respecting human rights and diversity of employees ○ Inclusive Growth Human rights assessment 36, 84 6 Minimizing the impact by corporate activities on ○ ○ Circular Economy Energy, GHG emissions 42~45, 99~101, 105 policies and demands of external experts. global warming 7 Technological innovation and innovative products ○ Sustainable lifestyle N/A 46, 52~57 8 Strengthening product safety ○ ○ Sustainable lifestyle Customer health and 27, 80 safety www.apgroup.com/int/ko/ sustainability/sustainable-life/ incorporating-sustainabilityinto-new-products/strongerproduct-safety.html 9 Promoting CSR activities aligned with ○ Inclusive Growth Indirect economic impacts, 38~41, 81~82, 94~98 the businesses Local communities 66 67 Stakeholder Engagement Talk with Stakeholders Since 2011, Amorepacific Group has been hosting the annual ‘Talk with stakeholders.’ In 2019, we invited our customers, NGO members, journalists, academics, and experts to share to discuss the topic ‘What do future customers want from Amorepacific?’ The event Amorepacific Group defines stakeholders comprehensively, including customers, employees, took place on October 15, 2019. The Group shared strategies to respond to the future shareholders, local communities, and business partners that directly and indirectly influence or customers, such as the establishment of sincere communication strategies in response to are influenced by the company’s business activities. For each stakeholder group, we identify and the new consumption paradigm and changing market situations as well as precise delivery of reflect key issues in our business activities. We also gather their opinions and understand their information through influencer networks. expectations through various communication channels available on a permanent or regular basis. Furthermore, we draw key issues through communicating with stakeholders and report What Do Future Customers Want from Amorepacific? Panels Kang Junghwa (President, The Voice for Consumers), Cho Yoonmi (Director, C&I Consumer Research Institute), them in our Sustainability Report transparently. Choi Jihyun (Cosmetics critic), Kim Hakkyun (Professor, Sungkyunkwan University), Ko Seungyeon (Journalist, DongA Ilbo Future Strategy Research Institute) Main Topics Stakeholders Communication Channels Frequency Key Opinions Measures Taken Topic 1 Understanding the New Consumption Paradigm and Assessing the Changes in Cosmetics Market Talk with stakeholders Introduction of the new lifestyles and consumption trends of the new consumer generation in the domestic and Customers Corporate and brand On demand Strengthen products and customer Expand the executives' and employees' international markets website, SNS services accessibility to VOC through CGAP Assessment of changing consumption patterns in the diversified market environment with expansion of digital exhibitions Customer Service Center On demand e-commerce and SNS Employees Employee engagement survey Once a year Strengthen internal corporate Corporate engagement enhancement Topic 2 Establishment of the Group-wide Response Strategy for the Future Consumers communication on sustainability workshops Preemptive responses and practical goals to respond to the change of the consumer paradigm Regular labor-management council Once per quarter performances Communication channels and Finding ways for establishing two-way communications with customers under the changing situations of In-house online community On demand participation opportunities distribution (Workplace, survey, etc.) enhancement Achievements and Future Goals Shareholders Annual General Shareholders’ Meeting Once a year Establish appropriate corporate value Quarterly and yearly earnings release Enhance shareholder values Shared mid to long-term business Understanding the New Consumption Paradigm and Assessing Consumer Trends Quarterly performance announcement Once per quarter Promote corporate accessibility strategies conference calls Digital-native Gen-Z consumers seek value and experience in consumption. They also have the culture of fandom. In addition, Presented market trends and future there are issues of misunderstanding and distrust caused by the incomplete information circulating on SNS and rise of Domestic/Overseas investor conferences Two to three outlook influencer marketings, which raises the need for fostering appropriate judging abilities. and NDR(Non Deal Realshow) times per quarter Expanded 1:1 meetings with shareholders and investors Amorepacific Group’s Strategy to Respond to the Shift of Future Consumer Paradigm Face-to-face meetings and conference On demand As a leading company in the cosmetics industry, Amorepacific Group will continue its effort to generate a sustainable business calls for investors environment by resolving potential risks caused by incomplete information such as misunderstanding of chemicals used in IR website and IR representative email On demand cosmetic products. To achieve the goal, the Group will establish strategies to communicate with customers using various means account including one-person media platforms. The Group will also facilitate ways to deliver information for building a safe consumer environment by networks with influencers. e-Disclosure system On demand Local communities Local consultative meetings On demand Strengthen coexistence with local Community based problem-solving communities activities BOD meetings of foundations Once a year Act for ‘20 by 20’ commitment Discovered partners to solve problems CSR portal sites SNS On demand Suggestions on collaborations or in local communities financial sponsorship Promoted collaborative projects with A MORE Beautiful Day Once a month Expand a sharing culture local businesses Strengthened cooperation with major institutions in CSR sector Business partners Mutual growth general meetings Once a year Strengthen customer experience Strengthened the synergy of (for each sales channel) Support business activities and omnichannel networks establish inclusive growth culture Collaborative research and Win-Win practice seminar and general Once a year development, fundings and human meeting resource support Business partners satisfaction survey Once a year NGOs Talk with stakeholders Once a year Transparent disclosure Participated in the disclosure of Active responses to the climate ingredients of fragrances Collaboration and sponsorship On demand change Participated in the Earth Hour event Meeting with Korea Cosmetics Association On demand Resolution of plastic waste issues 68 69 Business Ethics Implementation of Business Ethics Campaigns As a result of the ‘AP Staff Dining Campaign,’ there are less additional after-work dinners after 9 p.m. In addition to the ‘No Gift Exchange Campaign,’ the Group also operates a center to report briberies to eliminate unnecessary exchange of gifts and favors. The Group’s ‘Ethics Hot Line’ also has contacts to report sexual harassment and Amorepacific Group continuously updates the Code of Ethics in an effort to spread its corporate workplace harassment. ethics built on ‘integrity’, one of the core values of the AP WAY, to the overall business ecosystem. In addition, the Group also conducts with diverse campaigns, education, and survey Education for employees, all of which intend to realize the social and ethical responsibility as a corporate In 2019, Group-wide online education was implemented to enhance the awareness of Business Ethics and major citizen. compliance guides. In the first half of 2019, the Group operated the ‘AP Corporate Ethics Online Education’ on business manners, conflict of interest, internal and external corporate communication. In the second half of the year, the Group implemented education sessions on ‘Workplace Harassment Prevention.’ New employees, promoted employees, newly appointed team leaders, and employees sent to overseas for the first time also receive off-line education sessions. Reestablishment of Amendment of Code of Ethics Completion Rate of Participation Rate of Code of Ethics In order to respond to the changed business environment and social responsibilities, Amorepacific Group amended Online Education Pledge for Business Ethics the code of ethics. As a result, the Group elevated the responsibility of unethical actions by our members and heightened the restriction of actions against the social consensus. The newly amended code of ethics also reflected the changed laws and regulations. The new code of ethics is applied in all subsidiaries of the Group in Korea. A campaign on the new Code will be implemented to enhance the ethical awareness of the Group’s employees. Changes in the Code of Ethics New articles: Establishment of sound working environment, Compliance to laws and social norms Strengthened articles: Prohibition of corruption and private gains, Avoidance of conflict of interest, Protection of 90 % 94 % trade secret and information security, SNS activities guide Establishment of the Ethical Action Guide Group-wide Ethical Awareness Survey AP Employee Dining Guide Amorepacific Group is conducting group-wide surveys every year in order to assess awareness of employees and The new edition of AP Company Dinner Guide recommends staff dining without alcohol. The guide also draw issues to enhance ethical management, surveying culture of after-work dinners, sexual harassment, business recommends that after-work dinners shall be notified at least one week prior to the events and end before 9 p.m. manners, protection of trade secrets, and management of reputation. Organizations with potential risks or who need In addition, after-work dining events are monitored on a monthly basis to encourage employees’ compliance to improvement go through consultation and education, preventing risks related to ethical issues. the guide. Ethics Education and Campaigns at Amorepacific China Guide to Prevent Workplace Harassment Amorepacific China conducted sixteen education sessions on workplace sexual harassment, prohibition of The Korean Labor Standards Act was amended on July 16, 2019, to add the ban on workplace harassment. To employment discrimination, protection of intellectual properties and trade secrets, and prohibition of bribery. comply with the amended law and enhance the understanding of employees, a guide was established to prevent Online educations sessions were also conducted with the same subjects, followed by the signing of the Pledge for potential risks and generate a sound corporate culture. Business Ethics. Guide to Prevent the Conflict of Interest 1,198 Number of Participants The Group strengthened an assessment process to detect potential conflict of interest, requiring employees in Education and to apply strict measures on the conflict of interest and follow the ‘principle of self-disclosure.’ As a result, the Compliance Group enhanced the clear and fair process of nominating and selecting suppliers. Gentle AP(Business Manner) Guide Reporting of Unethical Conduct by Stakeholder Groups (2019)1) In order to enhance the inclusive growth of our suppliers and business partners and prevent disrespectful and Clients Suppliers Employees Customers Others Total unethical behaviors, an action guide was created to facilitate proper business manners. 7 4 27 8 21 67 1) Current status of disciplinary action: Heavy penalties 6 cases (Asset embezzlement and misappropriation 1 case, Sexual harassment 5 cases), Light punishment 4 cases 70 71 Risk Management Risk Management Process The risk management system of Amorepacific Group is operated based on the following keywords: ‘Precaution’, ‘Response’ and ‘Recurrence Prevention’. Risk Detection and Prevention Based on an analysis of internal and external environments, we prioritize high-impact, high-potential risks and Risk Management Amorepacific Group has an effective risk management system to respond to various risks establish a detection system by which we can proactively respond to key risks by identifying their causes. System such as fastchanging domestic and global political and economic conditions, fluctuating business environments, increased influence of social media including social networking Risk Response services and blogs, and heightened expectations of stakeholder demands. The Risk Risk managers in each division monitor and report risks pertaining to their division. A unified system enables Management Team communicates with subcommittees on each issue, undertakes potential prompt decision-making and immediate response in the case of risks. risk prevention activities and forms early responses to actual risks. To allow prompt decisionmaking and maintain stable business operations, we formed a group-wide risk management RM Diagnosis and Prevention of Recurrence committee consisting of executives. Since the possibilities and impact of global risks continue Following the risk scenarios and risk management policies, we minimize the impact of risks. We also prevent to increase, Amorepcific Group established an advanced risk management system in its recurrence of those risks by analyzing their causes. The Risk Management Team provides trainings on the risk overseas branches. In the future, Amorepacific Group will build a solid basis for sustainable management system on a regular basis and carries out various campaigns to establish a healthy and effective risk management culture throughout the company. growth by gradually upgrading the risk response systems of overseas corporates. CEO Risk Management To effectively manage risks, Amorepacific Group categorizes risks identified through its risk Activities management process into the following four categories, and separately manages factors that Risk Management Committee may potentially have a significant impact on the company’s reputation as well as ethical and legal matters. CRO Sales & Distribution Market Risk Product Risk Supply Chain Risk Risk Compliance Team · Increased global · Increased importance · Increased importance · Increased need ㆍ Ethical and compliance risk regulations on safety of managing product of demand for efficient management and environment safety and harmful prediction and management attuned · Diversification of materials supply management to each country customer needs · Measures to prevent in accordance with · Response to changes Risk Management Team changes in the · Increased possibility recurrence of in regulatory of major disasters customer complaints market environment environment of each APG Risk Management Control Tower and natural · Fluctuations in the sales and distribution calamities supply environment channel ㆍ Establish risk management policies and of raw materials standards due to external ㆍ Monitor operational risks influences ㆍ Perform risk assessments and establish response measures Reputational Risk Subcommittees for Each Type of Risk Subcommittee on Subcommittee Subcommittee Subcommittee on R&D Unit communication on quality on SHE1) mutual growth Crisis management management committee 1) Safety, Health, Environment Executing Divisions *Under the guidance of the head of each division, responsible units collaborate with the Risk Management Team(Control Tower) and relevant subcommittees to effectively respond to and manage individual risks 72 73 Managing Through regular analysis of internal and external environments and social changes, Transparent Tax Amorepacific Group pays its fair share of taxes transparently by complying with the Emerging Risks Amorepacific Group identifies long-term risks and implements countermeasures to effectively Payment Commercial Act and tax-related laws and regulations in Korea and all other jurisdictions in respond to those risks. which it operates, and we are committed to fulfilling their obligations to pay tax. In particular, we adopt a reasonable transfer pricing policy in global transactions with foreign companies, Description Change of Distribution and Sales Emergence of reinforced environmental in accordance with the domestic tax laws and the OECD Guidelines, and do not utilize tax of risk Environment Due to the Outbreak of New regulations and changes in physical external structures for tax avoidance and do not transfer value created to low tax jurisdictions. Infectious Diseases environments due to climate change In addition, pursuant to the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting(BEPS) Action Plans for the Economic ·C  ontinued growth in online and mobile markets · Increased market and operational risks as each country and Social due to ICT development strengthens regulations to mitigate climate change prevention of tax evasion of multinational companies, we submit the BEPS report(Master file, Environments ·S  tronger regulations enforced by the Fair Trade · Increased physical risks caused by climate change such Local file and Country by country report). Through these activities, the headquarters and Commission of Korea, including the Act on the as extreme weather and natural disasters Fairness of Franchising Transactions and the Fair overseas offices are committed to fulfilling their obligations to pay tax in full compliance with Transactions in Agency the relevant laws and regulations. For important tax reporting affairs or any ambiguity in Potential ·D  ecline in sales of existing offline retail channels · Possibility of restrictions on the export of cosmetics to interpreting tax laws, the company receives consultation from external professionals such as business due to increase in online or mobile purchasing europe according to the expected enforcement of EU’s accounting firms for best response measures and to minimize tax related risks in advance. impact of the · Impediment to mutual growth due to recess in Product Environmental Footprint regulation risk business of franchise and agent stores · Possibility of being included in legal management as Korean government tightens regulations on greenhouse We do not employ a tax structure that abuses the differences and loopholes in the tax gas emissions · Fluctuation of prices and difficulties in stable sourcing system between different countries to unreasonably reduce its tax liabilities. We legally of natural raw materials for cosmetics and household allocate the taxable income depending on values generated in each country where we products due to climate change operate our business. In particular, we prohibit the transfer of values, including intangible or Mitigating ·E  xpansion of O2O services in offline stores · Strengthening the development of products with actions improved environmental impacts and establishing financial assets, to any region with a loose tax jurisdiction, such as low effective tax rates. ·D  igital transformation ·P  roviding unique customer experience at offline lifecycle assessment system We also stringently restrict the use of tax havens. stores · Through establishing midto long-term strategies for · Strengthening e-commerce strategies climate change, expand the use of renewable energy and increase the energy use efficiency Tax Payment Status1) Unit: KRW bn · Monitoring and reporting the changes in market price of critical raw material crop such as palm oil Major Regions Amount Korea (Amorepacific Group) 122.15 Korea (Amorepacific) 94.83 Asia 47.39 Europe North America 1) Payed in 2019 for tax charged from 2018 Tax Amount and Tax Rates2)3) Category 2018 2019 Amorepacific Group Earnings before Tax (mil. KRW) 534,836 431,371 Reported Taxes (mil. KRW) 158,565 148,966 Reported Tax Rate (%) 29.65% 34.53% Cash Taxes Paid (mil. KRW) 169,542 136,575 Cash Tax Rate (%) 31.70% 31.66% Amorepacific Earnings before Tax (mil. KRW) 452,987 370,602 Reported Taxes (mil. KRW) 118,142 146,841 Reported Tax Rate (%) 26.08% 39.62% Cash Taxes Paid (mil. KRW) 142,221 113,848 Cash Tax Rate (%) 31.40% 30.72% 2) The costs of paying corporate tax not included for corporations in the countries below as the 2019 corporate tax reporting deadline has not yet arrived (However, they are included in the pre-tax profit and nominal corporate tax breakdown) : France, Hong Kong, Malaysia, Singapore, USA, India 3) Reasons for the difference between nominal and real tax rates : Reduction of tax credits, adjustments to corporate income tax for the previous year, changes due to consolidated tax payments, deductions for carryover losses, effects of corporate tax on the net income of subsidiaries and affiliates, and changes in deferred tax not feasible, etc. 74 75 Customer Satisfaction Sustainability Management System Customer Privacy Amorepacific Group is continuing the effort to protect personal information of customers. Sustainability In an effort to create A MORE Beautiful World, Amorepacific Group has set out three main Protection As the EU’s GDPR(General Data Protection Regulation) came into effect in 2018, laws and Management Commitments-Sustainable Lifestyle, Inclusive Growth, Circular Economyand eight goals International regulations to protect personal information have been strengthened around the world. In Committee of the 2020 Sustainability Commitments. Each year, we plan and implement new tasks to response, Amorepacific Group analyzed and assessed personal information protection laws achieving these goals. In 2019, the Group built more systematic strategies and strengthened in different Asian countries including Thailand, Malaysia, Vietnam, and Indonesia in 2019. working group activities with employees through the Sustainability Management Division. Sulwhasoo, LANEIGE, Mamonde, innisfree, and ETUDE respectively implemented detailed Sharing the outcome of sustainability management with transparency, Amorepacific Group analyses of membership process, safety of storage, distribution, and termination of personal shares and spreads the value of sustainability by operating the Sustainability Management information, and customer rights infringement in marketing, and the Group discovered a total Committee, the highest decision-making body that makes strategic decisions on sustainability of 170 risk items. 63 of the items, including specific requirements from the law or high-risks, and monitors the implementation of core tasks. In 2019, the Committee was convened twice, have all been resolved by the end of 2019. enhancing the execution of sustainability management by reflecting key indexes on the performance evaluation of executives in charge. The process of membership registration or marketing have been revamped to eliminate elements that might omit the customer consent or intentions. Personal information protection CEO and ombudsman process have also been additionally implemented. In addition, the Group signed Data Transfer Agreements with suppliers and business partners to guarantee the safety of personal information. The efforts will continue in 2020. A new process to monitor Sustainability Management Committee the compliance to personal information protection laws and regulations will be implemented ㆍ Consists of Amorepacific Group executives internationally. ㆍ Highest decision-making body for sustainability Sustainability Management Division management ㆍ Coordinator of sustainability management Customer Privacy Amorepacific Group is operating daily monitoring activities to prevent personal information ㆍ Establishes Amorepacific Group’s sustainability Protection breach caused by negligence or unfair actions in accessing or using the information for management strategies and plans relevant Domestic marketing purposes. In 2019, the Group launched the ‘Breach Detection and Analysis System,’ tasks a more complex, advanced monitoring system to detect abnormal activities. The system is expected to effectively respond to attempts on bypassing the corporate data security measures. In 2020, the Group will establish the ‘Security Risk Management System’ to deal with customers’ personal information risks, continuing our activities to value the personal information of customers, which are the fundamental element of the whole business. Working Group on Sustainability Management Strategies Customer Amorepacific Group has been holding an annual CGAP exhibition to deliver various VOCs to ㆍ Draws tasks for each job category as Relationship employees and executives so as to empathize with customers. In 2019, a digital exhibition the implementing body of sustainability management Management overcoming time and space was held. Exhibition included E-commerce Experience where ㆍ Operates working groups on sustainable visitors could try out actual customer experience, and various VOCs arranged on social issues packaging, sustainable stores, SHE, mutual or products. growth, etc Satisfaction Management Performace1) 2017 2018 2019 Percentage of Resolved Customer Complaints (%) 99.3 99.6 99.7 2) Satisfaction Measurement Results (scores) 61.4 66.8 70.7 1) Calculation scope based on domestic Amorepacific businesses 2) NPS(NET PROMOTER SCORE) 76 77 Sustainability Management Performance Developing Sustainable Products Brand CSR Activities Products with Less Sulwhasoo Environmental Impact Beauty from Your Culture Campaign In 2017, Sulwhasoo expanded its traditional culture preservation activity ‘Sulwha Cultural Exhibition’ into a Sustainable Paper Packaging global CSR campaign ‘Beauty from Your Culture’. The exhibition program was initiated with a goal to establish Amorepacifc Group uses FSC-certified papers and papers made from plant by-products to produce paper boxes communication between different generations through the encounter of tradition and contemporary issues for used in the secondary packaging of products. In 2019, APG brands including Sulwhasoo, LANEIGE, Mamonde, young generations, continuing for 14 years since 2006. HERA, primera, IOPE, and HANYUL used FSC-certified papers in 303 products. primera used FSC-certified papers In 2019, ‘MICRO-SENSE: House of Pattern’ was organized as a way to present traditional patterns of butterflies, in packaging boxes for all of its products. inisfree, ETUDE, and LIRIKOS used product boxes made of by-products birds, and flowers as symbols of happiness and beauty in forms of contemporary drawings. The exhibition provided primera Alpine Berry Watery Cream derived paper, which used the mixture of byproducts of tangerine, sugar cane, with seaweed and wood pulps. an opportunity to acknowledge the value and beauty of traditional patterns, showing such patterns in living spaces. Sulwhasoo also launched a limited edition product made of Shine Classic Multi Powder Compact and Color Pact, giving customers an opportunity to join the company’s cultural Mecenat activities. The proceeds from sales were Improving the Resource Efficiency of Packaging Materials used to support activities to preserve cultural assets in different countries. In Korea, artisans were provided with Amorepacific Group has been using plastic packaging mixed with plant-based plastic or recycled materials, In support; in China, intangible cultural assets were restores; and in Singapore, the Asian Civilization Museum in 2019, mise-en-scène implemented plant-based plant-based plastic or plastic in 26 products; HAPPY BATH in Poster for Singapore received support for its maintenance. ‘MICRO-SENSE: House of Pattern’ 21 products; and innisfree in 25 products, total of 83 products. ETUDE and primera applied recycled plastic in 27 products, improving the efficiency of resource usage. For packaging, Amorepacific used 3,450 tonnes of glass, HAPPY BATH 12,520 tonnes of plastics and 267 tonnes of metal in 2019 based on allocated charge by EPR(Extended Producer LANEIGE Eau thermale body wash Responsibility) system. Refill Me Campaign Using Sustainable Palm Oil As a campaign to provide drinking water to water deficit countries and onserve water resources, Refill Me campaign has been expanded as a global effort since 2016. Each year, the campaign has been proceeded with LANEIGE’s Amorepacific Group is deeply aware of the environmental issues caused by the reckless cultivation of palm key products. The proceeds from sales are donated to a Korean NGO to conserve water resources, supporting plantation. Through the compliance to RSPO certification system, we support the use of sustainable palm oil in the drinking water provisions and emergency projects around the world. In addition, the sales proceedings are donated cosmetics industry and continue the effort to purchase sustainable palm oil without damaging forests. In 2019, a to NGOs in ASEAN countries, helping children in water deficit countries by providing clean drinking water. Through HERA total of 283 products, including 99 products by innisfree and 33 products by HERA, used sustainable palm oil to the campaign, additional ten underground water wells were installed and a number of outdated water pumps were Black Foundation improve the environmental impact of cosmetic products. Refill Me campaign fixed. Products with Better innisfree Social Impact Using Raw Materials from Beautiful Fair Trade PLAYGREEN Festival Amorepacific Group pursues mutual growth with local communities by using raw materials purchased through PLAYGREEN Festival delivers that eco-friendly life can be realized with fun and pleasure in everyday life. The Beautiful Fair Trade and creating products with locally produced ingredients. In 2019, a number of Amorepacific 6th PLAYGREEN Festival took place in October 2019 at Seoul Forest under the slogan, “I like zero,” promoting the brands, including Sulwhasoo, primera, HANYUL, mise-en-scène, and innisfree, developed products that include practice of zero-waste life. At the festival, visitors were provided with multi-use food containers made of bambooingredients purchased through the Beautiful Fair Trade program. By using trustable ingredient in products, based materials. Visitors with tumblers were given free beverages. The benefit made by the festival was donated Amorepacific Group tries to ensure customers the quality of products and contribute to the local community to forestation projects through the innisfree moeum foundation. through fair and proper trade. primera Mango Butter Comforting Body Lotion Eco Handkerchief Campaign Developing Product Containers with Universal Design Eco Handkerchief campaign promotes the use of handkerchiefs to save our green planet. Celebrating its 10th Amorepacific Group is expanding the application of universal design to its product containers so that anyone, anniversary in 2019, the campaign delivered the positive message of doing small actions to save the environment regardless of their age or physical disability, can easily use our products. In 2019, Ryo applied tactile markings under the slogan, “I play green, I like me.” The eco handkerchiefs came in three different designs depicting on the surfaces of shampoo containers of Camellia and Peppermint edition, and mise-en-scène on the pumps of Poster for PLAYGREEN Festival PLAYGREEN actions. The handkerchiefs were distributed at innisfree stores and PLAYGREEN Festival. Perfect Serum shampoo and conditioner to make it easy to distinguish between shampoo and conditioner. mise-en-scène Green Holiday Campaign Perfect Serum Original Shampoo Every Christmas, innisfree launches limited editions to promote its Green Holiday campaign under the motto of “Make Developing Vegan Certified Products my joy become warmth for someone.” Customers who buy the campaign’s DIY kits participate in donation activities. Amorepacific Group is developing vegan certified products to support valuable consumption of love and protection In 2019, the campaign was presented under the theme of “Turning our minds on, sharing our joy with others.” for animals. In 2019, innisfree launched vegan certified products for its total clean beauty and makeup lines. The proceeds from sales from the paper speaker DIY kit were donated to Save the Children’s support program for Mamonde also led animal protection by launching Rose Water, Pore Clean Toner, and Vital Vitamin Essence with no foster care homes. animal-based ingredients or animal testing. innisfree Simple Label Lip Colorbam 80 81 primera Implementing a Great Workplace Love the Earth Campaign Since 2012, primera has been organizing Love the Earth campaign to preserve wetlands where the vitality of the Earth is accumulated. In April 2019, ‘My Wetland Home in Seoul’ was hosted in Seongsudong, Seoul, providing an opportunity to experience the ecological wetland in the urban environment. In October, primera also launched Alpine Berry Watery Cream Love the Earth Limited Edition. The product containers were designed with characters Great Workplace Employee Engagement depicting cute otters – the endangered species living in the habitat of wetlands. The limited edition product was In order to create an organizational culture where everyone enjoys their work and are creative, Amorepacific Group also packaged in recycled plastic containers, emphasizing Amorepacific’s effort to preserve environment. conducts annual Engagement Surveys. Since 2017, the assessment model was improved by revising certain criteria and specifying the definition of engagement. Through the assessment, Amorepacific Group comprehends the direction of improvements and reflect them in overall business activities. Let’s Love Campaign Every winter, primera launches the limited edition of Mango Butter Comforting Line and implements Let’s Love Engagement Survey Results Love the Earth campaign campaign. Launched in 2013, the campaign improves the living conditions of girls in Jamui, India, who have no access to education due to poverty and gender discrimination. In 2019, a total of 1,500 trees were delivered to Category Amorepacific Group Amorepacific homes in Jamui. In November, the brand launched limited edition products inspired by letters and drawings by 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 girls in the region, conveying the message of love and hope. In addition, the girls in Jamui were provided with an opportunity to visit Patna, the capital of Bihar Province, to experience the broader world. Engagement (%) 46.6 48.2 45.5 42.0 45.1 41.5 Support for the Pregnants and Parents HAPPY BATH Amorepacific Group operates the ‘Care for Expectant Moms’ program to create a working environment better Less Plastic Campaign for the pregnants. The program promotes shortened working hours, prenatal testing during working hours and HAPPY BATH implemented Less Plastic campaign to recycle plastic in everyday life for “Happier Earth and the compliance to no excessive working hours. The program also provides ergonomic chairs, footrests and radiation Environment” realizing the core brand value of ‘wishing every moment of encounter to be happy.’ On the World shielding blankets to help relieve physical discomfort of the pregnants and stretch mark creams and supplements Environment Day in June 2019, promotional campaigns to reduce plastic were implemented both on and offline. for the pregnants to stay healthy. Along with the campaign, HAPPY BATH applied easy-peel film in its essence body wash products and donated part Less Plastic campaign of the proceeds from sales to World Wildlife Fund. From the development of easy-to recycle product packaging Furthermore, we encourage the parents of newborns to use parental leave and we also operate on-site daycare of body wash products, HAPPY BATH will actively respond to the plastic waste issue and expand its campaign to centers at Amorepacific headquarters, Amore Future Park, and Amore Beauty Park. The Group also implemented promote convenient ways to preserve the environment in everyday life. maternity and parental leaves according to laws and regulations of respective country, including shortened working hours during the early years of parenting. Parental Leave Status (Domestic) mise-en-scène Category Amorepacific Group Amorepacific mise-en-scène Short Film Festival For the past 18 years, mise-en-scène has been sponsoring the mise-en-scène Short Film Festival, believing that 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 genuine support for culture and arts makes the world a more beautiful place. By sustaining its support for the Number of Employees Using 289 289 321 259 248 273 Parental Leave minor artistic genre of short films, the film festival is contributing to the production of short films and the longterm development of Korean film industry. In 2019, the 18th mise-en-scène Short Film Festival was held under Return-to-work Rate After 99.0 92.4 96.4 98.8 92.2 97.3 the theme of ‘Imagination of Genre’. A total of 1,184 entries were submitted to the film festival, of which 59 were Parental Leave (%) shown at theaters. One-year Retention Rate After 84.3 84.9 81.4 84.6 83.1 80.2 Returning to Work (%) Support of Health and Well-being Category Key Programs mise-en-scène Short Film Festival Stress Management AP-Severance Clinic: Autonomic Nervous System testing (stress test) and mental health clinic -H  appy Life Consulting: Psychological counseling service operated regardless of time and space Healthy Working Management of lighting, noise, air quality, humidity and temperature to create an ergonomic Environment working environment Physical Health Training On-site fitness centers and healing facilities Supporting Health of AP-Severance Clinic: Vaccination, nutrition counseling, gynecology, otorhinolaryngology, Employees physiotherapy and manipulative therapy facilities for muscoskeletal treatments. Post-examination care service for employees with potential health risks. Operation of health fund and no-smoking fund Success rate of health fund in 2019: 42% 82 83 Human Rights Amorepacific Group endorsed the UN Global Compact in 2007 and fully respects the SHE Management Amorepacific Group is putting effort in protecting employees from various risk factors related Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the recommendations of the National Human to SHE(Safety, Health, Environment) and observe our social responsibilities and duties. In Rights Commission of Korea. We have also established and publicly announced our own addition, the Group is making efforts to support assessment and improvement of suppliers to human rights policies reflecting our commitment toward respect for human rights, while enhance SHE management in the supply chain. promoting the implementation of human rights management not only in our subsidiaries but the overall value chain. SHE Response as Preemptive Measures Amorepacific Group introduced advanced group-wide management standards in order to manage global SHE risks and respond to different regulations. By establishing the group-wide SHE standards and SHE audit system, Identifying Human Rights Risks and Areas of Improvement Amorepacific Group proposed the minimum standard of management and built a system to monitor, assess, Amorepacific Group identifies potential human rights issues in its supply chain and subsidiaries by considering past maintain, and improve. In particular, Amorepacific Group established 31 management items that are related to incidents and frequency and the seriousness. The human rights assessment focuses on weak areas based on the SHE issues and operate the entire PDCA structure as the Group SHE standard from the perspective of SHE characteristics of each subsidiary and local laws and regulations, and the results are reflected in the Group's action administrator. The Group operates SHE risk-based audit system and continuously manage quantified SHE to correct and to prevent recurrence of issues. performances. Also, high-risk issues are given higher priorities in improvement measures. Human Rights Assessment SHE Management System Amorepacific Group regularly holds sustainability management committee, chaired by the CEO. In the cases Risk Identification Risk Assessment Inspection Improvement of major SHE issues including occupational health and safety, climate change, chemical substances, resource circulation, and environmental pollution, the executives as well the board of directors receive reports on them. Employees, supply chain, Compliance to the Self inspection Implentation of and customers guidelines on Universal and on-site inspection of correctional requests Through group-wide approaches and collaborations, Amorepacific Group continues to invest in responding to risks Declaration of Human human rights compliance and monitoring the and finding potential opportunities. Rights and APG human improvements rights policy, analysis of violation of labor Management System related laws Members CEO, Executives, presidents of subsidiaries Role The final decision-making body for SHE management On-site Assessment of Human Rights Sustainability Management Committee Cycle Six months Committee Amorepacific Group conducts self-inspections of human rights status in all of its 11 subsidiaries including * The Board of Directors is reported on cases of major issues. Amorepacific on labor and human rights such as the compliance to Labor Standards Act as well as wage standards and the non-discrimination principle. In 2019, two areas for improvement were found in two subsidiaries and corrective measures have been requested. They initiated plans for improvements, which will be monitored by Role Establishment of Sustainability management strategic departments in charge of inspection. Each year, Amorepacific inspects the human rights status of our suppliers tasks and decision making for key working groups through third-party agencies, identifying and requiring corrective actions for areas of improvement such as Sustainability Management providing education and training to employees and ensuring the freedom of association. Division Sexual Harassment Prevention Education Role Establishment and management of SHE Management Amorepacific Group conducts sexual harassment prevention education to prevent sexual harassment in the strategic tasks workplace. In July 2019, the Group ran the regular online education on sexual harassment prevention. In December, Organization SHE Management Team additional courses were held for new employees and those who did not complete their courses. Education to Improve the Perception of Disability Role Performing and managing strategic tasks To broaden the value of living together and improve perception on employees with disabilities, Amorepacific Group SHE Organizations in conducts ‘disabilities perception improvement education’. In September 2019, the regular online education session Subsidiaries was held. For new employees and those who did not complete the session, an additional session was held in December 2019. Establishing a Trustworthy Labor-Management Relationship For the past 28 years, Amorepacific has maintained a dispute-free labor-management relationship by building mutual trust and communication. Amorepacific and every subsidiary carry out self-inspections of work conditions at least once a year Amorepacific's Labor-management Cooperation Team and HR Team provide active support to areas that need improvement from inspection results. As of the end of 2019, the Amorepacific Labor Union consists of 2,846 members, which accounts for 50.5% of all employees. Employees are entitled to freely join or withdraw from the union and the biennial collective agreement applies to all employees. Amorepacific labor-management council is held each quarter as a place to discuss employee welfare, grievance handling, safety management and other ways to achieve mutual growth. 84 85 Amorepacific Group’s Seven Principles on Safety and Health Amorepacific Occupational Safety and Health Amorepacific Group is making the best efforts to create safe and healthy working environment following the seven Category 2017 2018 2019 principles of occupational safety and health based on the SHE standards. Domestic Accident rate (%) 0.032 0.097 0.065 Injury frequency rate (%) 0.166 0.504 0.340 Awareness Behavior Check Occupational disease rate (%) 0.000 0.000 0.000 Safety and health training Safety management of facilities Measurement and monitoring Expert management and equipment Auditing and corrective actions Overseas Accident rate (%) 0.119 0.286 0.000 Safety management of hazardous (Mainland China) Injury frequency rate (%) 0.617 1.490 0.000 and dangerous work Preparation for and response to Occupational disease rate (%) 0.000 0.000 0.000 emergency situations SHE Audit & Assessing Compliance to Laws and Regulations Amorepacific Partners’ Occupational Safety and Health1) In order to manage global SHE risks as well as laws and regulations, Amorepacific Group has introduced groupwide advanced management standards and established SHE standard and SHE audit system. As a result, the Group Category 2017 2018 2019 constantly monitors, assesses, and improves related issues and risks. SHE achievements are constantly managed Domestic Accident rate (%) 0.066 0.027 0.021 through various means ranging from self-audit at business sites, cross-audit between different sites, as well as third-party audits by professional external institutions, resolving and improving issues by prioritizing higher risks. Injury frequency rate (%) 0.343 0.139 0.108 In 2019, 16 sites in Korea were assessed in response to the scheduled amendment on the Occupational Health and Occupational disease rate (%) 0.000 0.000 0.000 Safety Act in 2020. A total of 946 risk issues were identified and they are in the process of improvement. Overseas Accident rate (%) 0.129 0.084 0.042 (Mainland China) Injury frequency rate (%) 0.672 0.439 0.218 Strengthening Safety Management of Suppliers Occupational disease rate (%) 0.000 0.000 0.000 Amorepacific Group is continuing its effort to reduce industrial disasters. In 2019, professional safety and assessment sessions were implemented through thirdparty assessment institutions for the Group’s suppliers to 1) In-house partners and Beauty partners reduce health and safety risks and enhance management levels. In addition, the Group produced safety education videos for all suppliers that enter every Amorepacific business sites. In 2020, additional safety education supplements and videos will be provided. In 2020, the Group will also participate in Health and Safety Collaboration Program and obtain the Grade A certification once again. Safety Leadership Tour Amorepacific Group runs ‘Safety Leadership Tour’ Program to foster the safety culture at business sites. It is a safety assessment program directed by employees in charge of management of business sites. The goal of the program is establishment of safe working environment by enhancing the level of safety and health management and improving awareness of employees. The program is based on Amorepacific Group’s SHE standard and related laws and regulations and inspects working environment, health and sanitation, education management, emergency response, chemical substance management, and supplier management. Amorepacific Group Occupational Safety and Health Category 2017 2018 2019 Accident Rate (%) 0.042 0.116 0.051 86 87 Employment Status Overall Employment Status Unit: Persons New Employees (Domestic) Category 2017 2018 2019 Category Amorepacific Group Amorepacifc Total 12,348 13,032 13,257 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 Domestic 7,703 7,596 7,603 Number of New Employees (persons) 996 731 744 756 549 459 Overseas 4,645 5,436 5,654 Turnover (Domestic) Domestic Employment Status Unit: Persons Category Amorepacific Group Amorepacifc Category Amorepacific Group Amorepacifc 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 Turnover Rate (%) 6.6 7.1 5.9 6.1 6.8 5.2 Employment Permanent 7,375 7,195 7,215 5,871 5,773 5,700 Status Temporary 328 401 388 265 318 276 Securing Women Leadership Gender Men 2,790 2,717 2,689 1,932 1,926 1,898 Amorepacific Group is committed to securing women leadership considering the cosmetics industry where the Women 4,913 4,879 4,914 4,204 4,165 4,078 majority of consumers are women. To generate a working environment where everyone can act upon leadership, the Group implements diverse cultural activities. In particular, the Group is focusing on creating a corporate culture Age Group Under 30 2,948 2,578 2,288 2,408 2,101 1,788 where employees in all genders work with other employees with consideration. The Group also introduced flexible 30-49 4,522 4,760 5,047 3,558 3,809 3,992 working hours as a policy to ensure the maximum efficiency of work and find a balance between work and life. 50 or higher 233 258 268 170 181 196 1) Women Employees and Managers Employees with Disabilities1) 56 76 96 52 70 87 Category Amorepacific Group Amorepacifc 1) Including the number of employees with disabilities hired by Amorepacific subsidiary WeDream 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 Ratio of Women Employees (%) 71.0 72.0 72.0 74.7 75.2 74.9 Employment Status in Overseas Offices Ratio of Women Managers (%) 30.4 33.4 33.6 32.8 35.6 35.5 Category 2017 2018 2019 1) Recalculation including the number of overseas employees Number of Local Total 4,515 5,286 5,493 Employees Asia2) 4,270 5,009 5,242 (persons) Employee Education and Training Status Europe and others 118 124 69 Amorepacific Group offers a variety of educational programs to enhance the competency of all employees. North America 127 153 182 Despite the slight decrease in the average educational expense and hours per employee in comparison to the Ratio of Local Employees (%) 97.2 97.2 97.2 previous year due to the reorganization of education programs, we will continue to carry out various programs to strengthen leadership, secure global competitiveness, promote our corporate culture and reinforce professional job Ratio of Local Women Employees (%) 85.3 85.2 84.4 competency. Ratio of Local Managers (%) 65.4 65.0 59.6 Ratio of Local Women Managers (%) 68.6 74.1 75.6 Training Cost and Hours per person (Domestic) 2) Overseas corporation in Australia is counted as Asia Category Amorepacific Group Amorepacifc 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 Training Cost per Person (KRW 10,000) 119.3 103.3 67.5 122.2 102.9 71.4 Training Hours per Person (Hours) 76.4 66.1 53.6 82.8 69.3 56.7 88 89 Building Trustworthy Business Partnership Additionally, the Group provided consulting for 6 suppliers to improve issues with product impurities. As a result, the rate of returned products due to impurities has been improved by 42%. In 2019, a total of 29 R&D projects were done in collaboration with suppliers through various measures, including the sharing of research results, providing 350 million KRW to suppliers. In the global business environment, competitiveness of overall corporate environment is the driver of sustainable growth. Coexistence and mutual growth with business partners is also the Expected Effects of Implemented Manufacturing Execution System Group’s responsibility as a corporate citizen. Through fair trade, Amorepacific Group strives to Lead Time Defective Rate On-time Delivery Rate 10% 40% 5%p build trustworthy business partnerships by supporting our partners’ growth and innovation. reduction improvement enhancement Mutual Growth Supporting Growth Infrastructures Mutual Growth Strategy Since 2015, Amorepacific Group has provided suppliers with both manpower and financial support for participating in trade exhibitions held overseas. In 2019, the Group sorted overseas trade exhibitions into packaging and raw Mission Enhancement of the fundamental competitiveness by supporting growth and innovation material and supported 7 suppliers. Suppliers that participated in Cosmoprof in Hong Kong at 2018 and 2019 signed ten new export contracts. Although HRD Consortium, an education program for employees of small and medium suppliers, is discontinued as of the end of 2018, the Group is continuing to provide education programs for Fair business relations Supporting growth Enhancing sustainability suppliers to enhance employee capabilities and stabilize human resources. In 2019, the Group launched 21 training Strategic Directions based on trust and innovation of our partners courses on key professional tasks in the cosmetics industry and provided education to 1,145 employees of 163 suppliers. Financial Support Technical Innovation Support Growth Infrastructure ㆍ 24 billion KRW of low interest rate ㆍ 29 collaborative research projects ㆍ Supported 7 suppliers to participate loan fund with suppliers in overseas trade shows ㆍ 600 million KRW of Mutual Growth ㆍ 42% improvement of rate of ㆍ Provided education support for 1,145 Key Activities Investment Fund returned goods due to impurities employees of suppliers ㆍ Mutual Growth Agreements 100% ㆍ Dispatched support staff to 191 ㆍ Supported 9 suppliers on cash payment within ten days of suppliers environmental regulation responses receiving an invoice ㆍ 7 cases of technical support for suppliers Financial Support Amorepacific Group provide direct assistance to suppliers using the 15.9 billion KRW Win-Win Partnership Fund. The Group also runs Mutual Growth Fund of 8.1 billion KRW and low interest rate loan fund of 24 billion KRW. As of 2019, the Group is also operating 600 million KRW of Mutual Growth Investment Fund. As of 2019, the Group is providing 100% cash payment within 10 days of receiving invoices with more than 120 suppliers. In September 2019, the Group introduced a mutual growth payment system to more than 130 suppliers to enhance the payment flow to primary suppliers, which resulted in the better payment process for secondary suppliers. As of November 2019, 85 billion KRW was paid through the mutual growth payment system. Supporting Technological Innovation In 2019, Amorepacific Group signed an MOU with the Korean Ministry of SMEs and Startups to participate in the Private and Public Joint R&D Project. As a result, the Group will provide a total of 5.1 billion KRW across three years. In 2020, the Group will partake in joint R&D projects to develop eco-friendly packaging for reducing plastic waste and circulating resources and create devices for digital transformation. In 2019, the Group supported two suppliers for developing a smart manufacturing execution system. As a result, real-time manufacturing and operation systems, supply plans in sync with the Amorepacific’s system, and data-based inventory management system were developed. 90 91 Sustainable Supply Recently, laws and regulations on labor standards, safety, and environment are strengthened Supplier Sustainability Assessment Chain Management as a result of various incidents such as forced labor and child labor within the global Amorepacific Group has established, and requires all suppliers to comply with, the Supplier Sustainability corporate supply chain and environmental disasters and accidents. In response, stakeholders Guidelines, which set out 34 items on human rights and labor, health and safety, environmental protection, ethical management, and other areas that need to be considered in order to fulfill their social responsibilities. The Group are also requesting stronger measures on such issues. As Amorepacific Group is expanding has also prepared a manual on how to translate the guidelines into actions, publishing it on Amorepacific Group to the global market, the sustainability of business partners within the corporate ecosystem website. both serves as a risk and an opportunity. To manage business risk and observe social Amorepacific Group conducts annual sustainability assessment of key suppliers, reflecting the results in supplier responsibility of the overall value chain, Amorepacific Group is building a healthy corporate assessment. Based on the results, the Group offers incentives such as giving priority to receiving support for ecosystem and realizing its 2020 sustainability management vision of inclusive growth. inclusive growth programs or in allocating the quantity of goods supplied. In order to achieve the goals, the Group established sustainable management guidelines Over the past three years, 89 suppliers including all of the key suppliers and new suppliers have received to provide ways to assess their sustainable management and help suppliers to improve sustainability assessment by an independent third party. Suppliers that have been found to have significant social inadequacy in sustainability. or environmental risks are required to take actions to handle the risks and follow up with measures to confirm that such risks have been dealt with. SCM Status Amorepacific Group designates and manages its key suppliers by strategic significance in response to the change Category 2017 ~ 2019 of business environment, scale and importance of business transactions, and capacity of supply and development. Ratio of new suppliers that have received sustainability assessment (%) 100 As of the end of 2019, the Group categorized 52 suppliers as key suppliers out of its 450 suppliers. Among them, 22 supply packaging materials, 17 supply raw materials, and 13 provide ODM products. Amorepacific Group Ratio of key suppliers that have received independent assurance on their sustainability 100 purchased a total of 970 billion KRW from the suppliers. To share the business performance with local communities, in the past three years (%) Amorepacific Group promotes purchasing products and materials from local businesses. Number of key suppliers that have received independent assurance on their sustainability 89 in the past three years Amorepacific Group Supplier Status Category 2017 2018 2019 Supplier Sustainability Assessment and Improvements Number of Suppliers 431 456 450 Through supplier sustainability assessment, Amorepacific Group identifies potential risks and requires suppliers to Number of Key Suppliers 52 52 52 take corrective measures. Through the 2019 sustainability assessment, all suppliers found potential risks. In cases where suppliers did not meet our standard or had critical violations, the Group applied follow-up measures such as Total Purchasing Amount (KRW 100 million) 10,387 9,793 9,690 reduction of business with suppliers that have been found to have significant violations or performance under a Purchasing Amount from Key Suppliers (KRW 100 million) 5,872 4,250 4,065 certain level, while providing support programs for suppliers in need of building capacity of sustainability. Rate of Local Purchasing in Overseas Business Sites (%) 69.6 70.0 75.5 Corrective Action for High Risk Suppliers (2019) Main Target and Performance of Supplier Sustainability Management Corrective Action Corrective Action Plan Completion Rate Category Request Rate Establishment Rate Target KPI Progress High Risk Suppliers 100% 100% 100% 2017 2018 2019 80% of ‘Good To improve our partners’ sustainability Supplier sustainability 63 70 92 Corrective Action by Areas (2019) Performance’ rated performance, we will increase the percentage index suppliers by 2020 of business partners who are able to meet Category Item Risk Corrective Action Corrective Action ‘good performance’ rated Level Request Rate Establishment Rate Doubling the number To support and collaborate with suppliers for Number of the benefit 30 35 29 Human Rights Inadequate regulations and procedures High 100% 100% of the benefit sharing technology development and productivity sharing projects and Labor on hiring minors under 18 projects by 2020 increase, we will double the number of the Standards benefit sharing projects (At the base year Inadequate policies to prevent workplace High 100% 100% 2016, 15 projects were in place) harassment Over 1,000 suppliers’ To operate Amorepacific Group’s Training Number of suppliers’ 1,538 2,364 1,145 Inadequate regulations on minimum wage High 100% 100% employees participating Center consistently1) employees participating and ordinary wage in the Supplier Training in the training program Program yearly Safety and Health Inadequate procedures of reporting High 100% 100% disease and illness 1) HRD consortium contract with the Ministry of Labor expired in 2018 and have operated spontaneously since then. Environment Lack of dedicated organization for Low 100% 100% environment management Supplier Selection Policy Inadequate measures to reduce resource Low 100% 100% consumption Amorepacific Group conducts business transactions only with those that satisfy the minimum sustainability requirements at the point of the business contract. The Group executes sustainability assessment of all new Corporate Ethics Lack of contribution to local communities Low 100% 100% suppliers reviewing compliance with legal requirements regarding quality, product safety, labor standards, safety and health, and environment, which is a standard by which the Group decides whether to make the contract. When signing contracts, Amorepacific Group requires all suppliers to comply with the Amorepacific Group Code of Ethics and Supplier Sustainability Guidelines. 92 93 Positive Social Impact Hope Store Hope Store is a ‘micro credit’ program that supports single mothers to launch businesses, making positive changes to the lives of their families. It was started by ‘Heemang Seed Money,’ a fund donated by family members of Jangwon Suh Sungwhan, the founder of Amorepacific Group, on June 30, 2016 to commemorate his efforts to Amorepacific Group strives to realize a more beautiful world. To achieve this vision, the Group support welfare of women and children. operates diverse CSR programs to contribute to Gender Equality and Responsible Consumption Hope Store seeks to help single mother households to achieve the stabilization of livelihood by supporting single and Production, which are the 5th and 12th agendas of UN Sustainable Development mothers to launch new businesses in various fields from food, beauty, service, retail and wholesale manufacture, Goals(SDGs). Hope Store and education. Since the launch of the first ‘Hope Store’ in 2004, the program saw the launch of 100th store in 2011, the 200th and 300th stores in 2011 and 2013. In 2019, Hope Store steadily grew by opening its 400th store. The cumulative number of stores opened as of the end of 2019 was 402. In 2019, store owners who have received and redeemed financial support from Hope Store program participated in Amorepacific Group CSR Activities a mentoring program as mentors. As a result, new participants to the program could learn know-hows of operating businesses. Health and childcare support were also expanded. As of the end of 2019, the average income of Category 2017 2018 2019 beneficiaries of the program is 2.42 million Korean Won with the average repayment rate of 83%. Expenditures on Amount of Expenditure (KRW million) 20,600 22,644 23,610 Philanthropic Activities Ratio Compared to Sales (%) 0.34 0.37 0.38 Beautiful Life Employee Volunteer Participation Rate (%) 80.8 74.7 64.8 Beautiful Life is a corporate social responsibility program launched in 2008 in partnership with the Community Activities Chest of Korea through a designated donation made by Amorepacific Group. The program helps underprivileged Average Hours of Volunteer (hours per person) 9.2 8.8 6.9 women(immigrants, North Korean defectors, single mothers, elderly women, youths from correctional facilities, Public Foundation Amorepacific Foundation (KRW million) 923 1,275 1,086 etc.) to achieve economic autonomy, providing support for them to find new jobs. Along with support programs Disbursement through designated contributions, Beautiful Life also organizes open calls to extend beneficiaries such as small Amorepacific Welfare Foundation (KRW million) 650 792 816 organizations helping women in need. Korea Breast Cancer Foundation (KRW million) 2,761 2,839 3,042 Beautiful Life employment training In 2019, 662 women received education for job seeking and license acquisition. Among the beneficiaries of innisfree Moeum Foundation (KRW million) 926 885 602 Beautiful Life 2018, 48%1) of women who received designated contributions and 42%2) of women who received support through open call found employment. In 2019, the program launched a new service for supporting 1) Designated contributions: women’s economic autonomy which got a high rate of beneficiary satisfaction, the average times of care service Types of Contributions 48.4%(59 persons) found received per person reaching 19.53. The rate of quitting the support program also decreased by 1% over the employment(122 of 139 beneficiaries previous year. Category 2018 2019 responded to the survey) Cash Contribution (KRW million) 12,962 15,132 2) Open call: 42%(92 persons) found In 2020, Beautiful Life will adjust programs to strengthen its brand identity. Amorepacific China will also implement employment(219 of 281 beneficiaries a global campaign of Beautiful Life in collaboration with China Women Development Fund and UNDP, contributing In-kind Giving: product or services donations, projects/partnerships and etc 1,013 899 responded to the survey) the contributing to the advancement of women’s social status by helping impoverished women in rural areas (KRW million) through home services, education, and occupational support. Management Overhead (KRW million) 5,475 4,594 MEET YOUR DREAM MEET YOUR DREAM is a mentoring and technical education program run by Amorepacific employees to advise 20 by 20 Activities and Beneficiaries by Corporation (2019) and educate teens who dream of becoming makeup artists, hair designers, cosmetics researchers, marketers, and designers. As one of Amorepacific Group’s key pro bono activities, the program has continued since 2013. In 2019, Commitment Region Program Beneficiaries Expenditure the program was renamed as MEET YOUR DREAM, expanding its scope to provide more opportunities to teens with (persons) (KRW million) various dream and passion. Korea Makeup Your Life, Pink Ribbon Campaign(Pink Tour, 52,396 5,746.6 Pink Run), Hope Store, Beautiful Life, MEET YOUR DREAM In 2019, the program supported a total of 1,242 teens through monthly talent donations by Amorepacific Youth career education employees. 18 participants received a 50 million KRW worth of scholarship (10 persons for makeup and 8 persons Mainland Makeup Your Life, MORI Run, Screening for Two Major 101,420 2,156.4 for hair design). In 2020, the program will expand its scope to include environmental consciousness in the career China Cancers(Breast cancer/Cervical cancer) mentoring sessions, helping the teens to grow as responsible citizens. Taiwan Makeup Your Life 120 124.2 Hong Kong Makeup Your Life 127 9.7 Singapore Makeup Your Life 50 5.1 Thailand Makeup Your Life 59 3.1 Malaysia Makeup Your Life 69 22.1 94 95 Promoting Sustainable GREENCYCLE Public Foundations Amorepacific Foundation Consumption GREENCYCLE campaign promotes coexistence with nature by collecting used cosmetic containers from customers, Amorepacific Foundation was established for the purpose of supporting academic, educational and cultural recycling them as new resource or upcycling them as artworks. In 2017, innisfree opened ‘Gong Byeong Gong programs to explore the values of culture and communicate those values to the public. Since its establishment in Gan’ in Samcheong-dong, Jongno-gu, Seoul, upcycling 230,000 used containers. In 2018, Amorepacific Group 1973, Amorepacific Foundation has been dedicated to supporting academic research on ‘Asian Beauty’ and ‘Women collaborated with a social enterprise to develop a new technology for reusing used bottles as raw material for and Culture’ from a multidisciplinary approach and using the research findings to communicate with the world and containers. In addition, in 2019, the Group signed an MOU with TerraCycle, a global recycling company, to recycle generate new values. more than 100 tonnes of plastic containers every year for the next three years. The MOU is part of the Group’s goal of recycling 100% of the collected containers and 50% of them to be recycled into products and appliances Women and Culture by 2025. Amorepacific Group will continue the research on expanding the use of collected product containers. Since 2007, the foundation has been supporting personal research of academics with doctoral degrees. ‘Women and Culture’ is a long-term research topic of Amorepacific Foundation. This support program is organized do MOU with TerraCycle Unit: tonne Empty Container Collection by Channels discover excellent studies in various research fields, helping complex research projects on the life and culture of women’s lives throughout different space and time. Outstanding research results are published as books, raising Category 2017 2018 2019 public awareness of the topic and fostering communication with the public. ARITAUM Glass 38.5 38.2 39.3 Asian Beauty Plastic 30.5 36.2 33.0 The research on ‘Asian Beauty’ has been continued since 2011, focusing on the Asian concept of beauty that Large Retailers Glass 4.1 6.1 16.2 values the beauty in everyday life and aesthetic experiences, which is different from the Western concept of art Plastic 3 4.1 8.1 and the beauty of the human body that centers around visual senses. The research results are published in a series entitled ‘Asian Beauty,’ which was first published in 2014. The series is planned as an anthology of twenty books Department Stores Glass 33.2 22.7 22.1 and ten books have been published. Plastic 7.1 7.1 5.9 Asian Beauty Lectures innisfree Glass 1.7 3.5 2.3 Asian Beauty publications Asian Beuaty Lectures was launched in 2012 to share the research results of Asian Beauty program with the Plastic 144.3 158 134.9 public. The lecture series focuses on the communication between experts from various fields and the participating ETUDE Glass 0.3 0 audience. In 2019, two lectures were held under the theme ‘beautiful people’ with more than 200 participating audiences. With Asian Beauty Lectures, Amorepacific Foundation will continue the communication with the public Plastic 2 2 1.7 with interesting and unique themes. Total 265 278 263 Amorepacific Welfare Foundation Beauty Inside Journal Amorepacific Welfare Foundation aims to ‘improve well-being through the beauty of space,’ providing support for women who need social care. Through different programs, the foundation helps its beneficiaries change their lives Amorepacific Group strives to take its social responsibility by supporting more people to develop awareness on and find ways to achieve autonomy. UN’s SDGs and take part in realizing them. As part of the effort, Amorepacific Group introduces contents of UN General Assembly that are not easily accessible to many people. The Group also delivers stories about activities to Space Design Improvement Project accomplish global goals and make various efforts to make everyone be aware of sustainable lifestyle by 2030. A special monthly journal presents themes that can be practiced in everyday life and ways to understand SDGs more Space Design Improvement Project transforms facilities and space for women and non-profit organizations in poor easily, activating communication inside and outside the company. In 2019, ‘Beauty Inside Magazine’ was published condition into space of caring and healing, fostering the change of women’s lives. Launched in 2005, the project to introduce the details of the UN General Assembly week in 2018. The magazine will help more people understand has transformed a total of 206 facilities and non-profit organizations for women. Beauty Inside Magazine publication SDGs. Sales proceeds of the magazine were donated to World Wildlife Fund in order to support ‘Life Below Water,’ the 14th goal of SDGs. Cleaning and Reorganization Consulting Project Launched in 2016 as a new project of Amorepacific Welfare Foundation, the Cleaning and Reorganization Consulting Project educates women with interrupted careers with a cleaning and reorganization consultant course and provide consulting to the beneficiaries of the project. The project operates along with Space Design Improvement Project, improving satisfaction and work efficiency of facility users. Moreover, it contributes to the job creation for women with interrupted careers and empowers the women to lead their lives with more autonomy. Space Utilization Support Program Cleaning and reorganization consulting Since its launch in 2016, Space Utilization Support Program has been held every year to select outstanding programs to utilize the space improved by the foundation’s other support programs. By supporting various activities at the improved spaces, the program intends to generate positive impacts on the lives of women who had been marginalized. The program is not limited to a concept for improving the physical space. It provides active support to improve the quality of life by enhancing the self-esteem and capacity of women through various programs. 96 97 Korea Breast Cancer Foundation Korea Breast Cancer Foundation is Korea’s first non-profit organization dedicated to breast health, established Response to Climate Change entirely funded by Amorepacific Group in 2000. The Foundation runs various initiatives on multiple fronts to raise awareness of the importance of breast health, which include the Pink Run, breast health lectures, financial support for low-income breast cancer patients, support for academic research, sponsorship of breast cancer patient As a responsible global corporate citizen, Amorepacific Group is aware of the seriousness and associations, and activities to promote breast health among unprivileged women including those from multicultural urgency of climate change. Accordingly, the Group strives to reduce GHG emissions throughout families. Celebrating its 20th anniversary in 2020, the Foundation will take a step further and promote the awareness of healthy practices for better and healthy life. all processes of production and overall business activities by introducing renewable energy and improving efficiency of energy consumption. Especially, we strive to reduce regulatory Support for Cancer Exam and Operation risks, produce recovery scenarios on natural disasters and expand various low-carbon or By providing free breast cancer X-ray through mobile screening vehicles, Korea Breast Cancer Foundation raises awareness of the importance of regular exam and early diagnose and provides financial support for operation and water-efficient products. In addition, our long-term climate change mitigation and adaptation treatment of underprivileged cancer patients. strategies reflect the decisions of the head executives, and their performance statuses are also Support for Academic Research Fund followed up. Through the support of academic research funds for breast cancer and breast health, we contribute to the direct and indirect use of the Pink Ribbon Campaign and the development of research for practical benefits of patients. innisfree Moeum Foundation Expanding Amorepacific Group is continuously investing in renewable energy. In 2019, the amount innisfree Moeum Foundation is a public foundation established in Jeju Island in 2015. The foundation is funded Renewable Energy of generation from renewable energy at Amorepacific domestic business sites reached entirely by innisfree with a donation contract of 10 billion KRW. The Foundation discovers and preserves the value Generation 6,221MWh, accounting for about 7% of total energy use. The amount of global generation of of Jeju’s natural and cultural heritage, creating new values by combining nature and culture. Through its activities, Amorepacific from renewable energy increased by 63% compared to 2018. innisfree Moeum Foundation also strives to foster future talents that will open the future of Jeju. Amorepacific’s Renewable Energy Generation Preservation of Nature innisfree Moeum Foundation organizes ‘Jeju-daumi,’ a program to preserve and promote the value of Jeju with Category 2018 2019 university students. In 2019, more than 100 university student volunteers from across the country participated in Total Renewable Energy Generation (MWh) 3,821 6,221 the maintenance of 2,675 meters of Mae-oreum and Docheong-oreum trails. 60 overseas employees of innisfree also participated in the restoration of Gotjawal trail, which had been damaged by typhoons. The Foundation also Amore Beauty Park 718 2,660 planted pine trees with more than 80 local volunteers to restore the pine tree habitat affected by nematode Daejeon Production Site 124 297 infestation. Amorepacific Headquarters 2,979 2,953 Jeju-daumi activities Support for Culture and Arts Logisitics 251 2019 Jeju Recipe Concert was organized to add new values to local food ingredients of Jeju Island and promote Overseas 60 growth of farms and local economy. Through the event, six eco-friendly farms were connected with six cafes in Jeju under the premise of creating new menus made of local ingredients. With a mentorship of Yang Yongjin, a chef specialized in Jeju Island’s local food ingredients, six new menus were created so that customers of participating cafes could realize the excellence of food ingredients of the island. Reduction of Energy At Amorepacific Group’s production sites, the Group continues to find tasks to reduce the 2019 Jeju Recipe Concert introduced the following ingredients: Samdachal, a traditional millet flour that has been Consumption in GHG emissions. In particular, the Group regularly organizes an internal ‘Energy Technology 2010 Jeju Recipe Concert discontinued during the Japanese occupation; Jeju bananas that have been grown without any preservatives Production Sites Exchange Meeting,’ sharing notable energy reduction technologies at different business sites and chemicals; Samdong, an indigenous fruit of Jeju Island; Borigaeyeok, a Jeju-style mixed grain powder made of Korean barley; tangerine flower honey harvested by young beekeepers who hope to revitalize the beekeeping as well as providing incentives to employees based on the performance of improvements. industry of Jeju; and organic tangerine harvested in Jeju Island. innisfree Moeum Foundation will continue to As a result, COSVISION developed an automatic control system to regulate thermo promote the value and excellence of food ingredients from Jeju Island to grow together with local farmers and hygrostats and air conditioners at the peak of electricity use. PACIFICGLAS reduced energy communities. consumption by enhancing the efficiency of the heat exchanger of furnaces. Fostering Future Talents Through its Tangerine Scholarship Program, innisfree Moeum Foundation discovers and supports outstanding Key Reduction at Amore Beauty Park talents to lead the tangerine industry, a business that represents the island of Jeju. In 2019, the Foundation increased the number of scholarship recipients from 9 to 20 people. The range of beneficiaries was also expanded Items Energy Reduction (KWh) Cost Savings (KRW million) from high school and university students to graduate school students. The amount of scholarship was also Solar panels 2,902,343 587.72 increased from 13 million KRW to 30 million KRW. AI system and invertor in air conditioning equipment 219,839 29.68 In addition, the Foundation also inaugurated Jeju Heritage Science Award, awarding 5 million KRW to a scientist Enhancement of efficiency of air compressor and 94,860 4.84 Tangerine Scholarship Program who raised value and awareness of precious legacies of Jeju Island. The award was organized with a goal to elevate refrigeration equipment the heritage value of the island through scientific research and award scientists for their visions for the future. The award will continue to support scientists for the future of Jeju Island. Insulation of packaging facilities for makeup 29,168 3.94 products 98 99 Low-Carbon Amorepacific Group’s every distribution center replaced all of its lighting with highPerformance of Reducing Amorepacific Group GHG Emissions GHG Emission Logistics efficiency LED lighting and optimized the operation of heating and cooling facilities. In 2019, (tCO2eq/tonnes of production)1) Category 2017 2018 2019 the distribution center in Gwangju enhanced energy efficiency by installing high-capacity Total GHG Emissions 87,627 100,496 101,143 9.4 % and low-velocity ventilators. As a result, Amorepacific logistics operations saw their GHG (tCO2eq) 2019 Amorepacific (Domestic) 35,163 48,881 48,096 emissions drop by 13.8% year-on-year. Amorepacific (Overseas) 6,739 7,643 5,801 Goal 1.4% PACIFICGLAS 27,332 28,090 32,818 Amorepacific Group Energy Consumption 2020 Goal 30.0% PACIFICPACKAGE 4,510 4,645 3,995 Category 2017 2018 2019 COSVISION 6,057 4,880 4,334 Total Energy Consumption (TOE) 31,882 44,602 44,548 1) Compared to 2015 AESTURA 4,670 3,263 2,642 Amorepacific (Domestic) 10,881 23,589 23,194 OSULLOC 3,156 3,094 3,457 Amorepacific (Overseas) 2,199 2,508 1,938 Total Consumption Direct (Scope 1) 29,558 30,892 34,197 PACIFICGLAS 10,508 11,155 12,804 by Fuel Types Indirect (Scope 2) 58,070 69,604 66,947 (tCO2eq) PACIFICPACKAGE 2,180 2,246 1,933 GHG Emissions Intensity 0.729 0.805 0.732 COSVISION 2,892 2,339 2,077 (tCO2eq/tonnes of production) AESTURA 2,206 1,548 1,257 OSULLOC 1,017 1217 1,345 Amorepacific GHG Emissions (Domestic) Total Consumption Electricity 22,698 33,201 32,241 by Fuel Types (TOE) Category 2017 2018 2019 LNG 5,649 8,319 8,188 Total GHG Emissions 35,163 48,881 48,096 Bunker-C Oil 2,753 1,950 2,893 (tCO2eq)1) Direct (Scope 1) 7,356 9,620 10,279 Others 782 1,132 1,225 Indirect (Scope 2) 27,807 39,261 37,817 Energy Intensity (TOE/tonnes of production) 0.265 0.357 0.322 Other indirect (Scope 3) 3,531 3,757 1,994 GHG Emissions Intensity 0.434 0.584 0.500 Amorepacific Energy Consumption (Domestic) (tCO2eq/tonnes of production)1) 1) Other indirect (Scope 3) excluded Category 2017 2018 2019 Total Energy Consumption (TOE) 10,881 23,589 23,194 Total Consumption Electricity 8,884 19,494 18,786 Amorepacific GHG Emissions (Overseas) by Fuel Types (TOE) LNG 1,983 3,930 4,272 Category 2017 2018 2019 Diesel 13 43 38 Total GHG Emissions 6,739 7,643 5,801 (tCO2eq)2) Others 0 122 98 Direct (Scope 1) 736 899 884 Energy Intensity (TOE/tonnes of production) 0.134 0.282 0.241 Indirect (Scope 2) 6,003 6,744 4,917 GHG Emissions Intensity 1.371 1.122 0.853 (tCO2eq/tonnes of production)2) Amorepacific Energy Consumption (Overseas) 2) Other indirect (Scope 3) excluded Category 2017 2018 2019 Total Energy Consumption (TOE) 2,199 2,508 1,938 Total Consumption Electricity 1,847 2,075 1,513 by Fuel Types LNG 343 425 416 (TOE) Diesel 0 0 0 Others 9 9 9 Energy Intensity (TOE/tonnes of production) 0.447 0.368 0.285 100 101 Improving Resource Efficiency Wastewater Discharge and Reuse Amorepacific Group tries to minimize the impact of effluent water discharged from its business sites on adjacent ecosystems. In particular, the Group reuses wastewater as gardening water and others. In 2019, the Group enhanced the membrane in the wastewater processing, making wastewater cleaner and safer. The Group also installed additional aeration tanks to enhance the wastewater processing efficiency and reduce the use of chemicals for Improving Water Amorepacific Group is deeply aware of the need for efficient use of water resources, water treatment. Resource Efficiency optimizing its water consumption under the principle of 3R – Reduce, Recycle, and Reuse. On a 2015 baseline, Amorepacific Group aims to reduce water consumption per tonne of production by 22% in Korea and 41% overseas by 2020. In 2019, the rainwater was used for Amorepacific Group Wastewater Discharge and Reuse washing, and we enhanced the structure of the rainwater tank to procure more amounts of Category 2017 2018 2019 rainwater. Through such tasks to save water resources, we reduced the amount of water used Reuse of Wastewater 22,191 41,046 33,169 per unit of production. In 2020, the Group will continue to minimize the use of water resource (tonne) Amorepacific 18,544 36,880 31,322 and maintain effective resource use by implementing various measures such as expanding PACIFICGLAS 3,647 4,166 1,847 the use of rainwater. PACIFICPACKAGE recycled the city water from the cooling tower and Discharge (tonne) 431,070 481,520 469,969 reused the purified heavy water from waste water purifying system, into gardening water. As Amorepacific 268,702 305,530 296,566 a result, the amount of water consumption decreased by 37% in 2019 compared to 2018. PACIFICGLAS 88,359 94,754 97,006 PACIFICPACKAGE 153 152 159 Amorepacific Group Water Consumption COSVISION 60,232 61,946 57,749 Category 2017 2018 2019 Others 13,624 19,138 18,489 Total Water Consumption 943,691 1,044,441 1,113,792 Total COD 23.4 26.4 15.2 (tonne) (tonne) Amorepacific 463,523 518,426 517,276 Amorepacific 17.3 20.3 11.3 PACIFICGLAS 89,597 96,070 104,925 PACIFICGLAS 0.9 0.8 1.5 PACIFICPACKAGE 26,059 30,077 18,940 COSVISION 4.6 5.0 2.3 COSVISION 81,914 80,586 71,772 Others 0.6 0.3 0.2 Others 282,598 319,282 400,879 Water Consumption Municipal water 602,364 670,923 658,430 by Source of Water (tap water) (tonne) Industrial water 36,118 36,962 34,892 Ground water 268,794 295,524 381,971 Rainwater 36,415 46,510 38,499 Intensity of Water Consumption 7.849 8.369 8.059 (tonne/tonnes of production) Reduction of Water Consumption Amorepacific Water Consumption (tonne/tonnes of production)1) Category 2017 2018 2019 Total Water Consumption (tonne) 463,523 518,426 517,276 Domestic Overseas Water Consumption Municipal water 384,799 440,432 437,323 2019 12.6 % 44.2% by Source of Water (tonne) (tap water) Goal 7.7% Goal 43.5% Industrial water 35,293 31,484 34,892 Ground water 7,016 6,562 2020 Goal 22.0% Goal 41.0% Rainwater 36,415 46,510 38,499 1) Compared to 2015 Intensity of Water Consumption 5.393 5.727 5.021 (tonne/tonnes of production) 102 103 Waste and Recycling Amorepacific Group has developed detailed categories of wastes by particular properties Reduction of Amorepacific Group strives to reduce the emissions of air pollutants. The Group regularly and types, implementing optimized measures to recycle each category of waste. The Air Pollutants inspects facilities through SHE Audit sessions. Furthermore, the Group regularly monitors the Osan Beauty Park is especially designated as a closely watched business site for resource emission of air pollutants at each production site in order to minimize the impact upon local circulation by the Ministry of Environment. By continuously enhancing the recycling of waste, communities. In addition, the standard environmental impact assessment process enforces the Group will contribute to the establishment of circular economy. investigation, projection, and assessment of the environmental impact of new business sites, eliminating or reducing harmful impact on the environment. Environmental impact assessment is performed and audited in accordance with the standard process. Amorepacific Group Waste Generation and Recycling Category 2017 2018 2019 Amorepacific Group Emission of Air Pollutants Waste Generation (tonne) 18,483 13,035 13,164 Category 2017 2018 2019 Amorepacific 15,516 9,822 10,249 Dust (tonne) 3.7 4.3 2.4 PACIFICGLAS 1,671 1,706 1,758 Amorepacific 2.7 3.0 1.7 PACIFICPACKAGE 207 373 368 PACIFICGLAS 0.3 0.5 0.3 COSVISION 714 820 610 Others 0.7 0.8 0.4 Others 376 314 178 SOx (tonne) 18.8 19.5 19.3 Recycled (tonne) 10,663 10,465 11,055 Amorepacific 1.6 0.0 0.0 Rate of Recycling (%) 58 80 84 PACIFICGLAS 17.2 19.5 19.3 Waste Amount by Non-hazardous waste 16,293 11,226 11,274 NOx1) (tonne) 24.8 30.2 22.7 Disposal Methods Landfill 395 132 82 Amorepacific 10.4 14.5 10.3 (tonne) Incineration 6,899 1,829 1,488 PACIFICGLAS 14.3 15.7 12.4 Recycling 8,999 9,159 9,704 1) Change in calculation applied, from basing on capacity design to actually discharged emission Others 107 Hazardous waste 2,189 1,808 1,889 Landfill 34 41 25 Environmental In 2019, Amorepacific Group developed a number of eco-friendly processing technologies Investment and products, continuing to add managerial efforts and investment in environmental Incineration 491 461 513 protection. The Group invested a total of 4.93 billion KRW in environmental operations and Recycling 1,664 1,306 1,351 investments in 2019. There have been no heavy violations of environmental regulations and no penalties. Amorepacific Waste Generation and Recycling Category 2017 2018 2019 Amorepacific Group Environmental Operations and Investments Waste Generation (tonne) 15,516 9,822 10,249 Category 2017 2018 2019 Recycled (tonne) 8,633 8,488 9,081 Total Cost 55.1 53.9 49.3 (KRW 100 million) Rate of Recycling (%) 56 86 89 Amorepacific 37.0 35.5 33.1 Waste Amount by Non-hazardous waste 13,965 8,612 9,012 PACIFICGLAS 11.4 10.2 9.5 Disposal Methods Landfill 339 97 80 Others 6.6 8.2 6.7 (tonne) Incineration 6,418 1,097 974 Recycling 7,209 7,387 7,958 Others 31 Environmental As a way to actively implement preemptive measures to changing environmental laws and Hazardous waste 1,550 1,210 1,238 Education regulations, Amorepacific Group provided employees education sessions on related issues Landfill 7 9 such as plastic waste, micro dust, climate change, and chemical substances. In 2019, a total of 188 employees received 489 hours of education. In particular, the Group trained climate Incineration 118 101 114 change specialist, considering the introduction of ISO-50001 certified energy management Recycling 1,425 1,101 1,124 system in a serial process. As a result, the Group established sixteen internal audit members for energy management. 104 105 Appendix Consolidated Statements of Financial Position End of 2019: As of Dec. 31, 2019 End of 2018: As of Dec. 31, 2018 01 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position Unit: KRW mn Amorepacific Amorepacific Group 2019 2018 2019 2018 02 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income Assets Current assets 1,803,064 1,567,236 2,905,906 2,489,626 03 Independent Assurance Statement Cash and cash equivalents 673,580 735,511 1,417,441 1,297,453 Bank deposits 70,600 15,100 245,100 225,100 04 Verification Statement GHG Inventory Available-for-sale financial assets 0 0 0 0 Financial assets at fair value through net income 137,523 0 157,610 20,174 05 GRI Standards Index Financial assets at amortized cost 0 30,000 0 30,000 Trade receivables 365,884 286,689 394,717 308,917 06 Ten Principles of the UNGC Other receivables 32,485 31,275 25,818 29,150 Current tax assets 4,015 4,287 4,160 4,467 07 About This Report Other current assets 66,387 61,070 80,296 76,079 Inventories 452,589 403,305 524,544 498,286 Non-current assets as held for sale 0 0 56,221 0 Non-current assets 4,185,944 3,803,901 5,375,487 4,897,748 Bank deposits 16,426 14,828 19,654 17,657 Other receivables 145,165 168,382 194,891 223,091 Available-for-sale financial assets 0 0 0 0 Financial assets at fair value through net income 4,119 3,956 36,774 9,466 Financial assets at amortized cost 2,131 3,092 3,286 4,247 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 1,114 2,690 4,945 10,676 Property, plant, and equipment 2,661,842 2,713,128 3,200,097 3,321,645 Investment Property 493,011 501,437 364,765 367,138 Right-of-use assets 432,396 0 571,432 0 Intangible assets 226,517 254,115 739,426 773,737 Investments in associates 2,160 2,346 4,641 4,771 The net defined benefit assets 106,099 58,529 129,044 68,935 Deferred income tax assets 72,705 57,526 83,657 69,816 Other non-current assets 22,261 23,871 22,876 26,569 Total assets 5,989,008 5,371,137 8,281,393 7,387,374 Liabilities Current liabilities 1,066,567 763,212 1,225,876 897,638 Trade payables 172,459 111,833 104,780 88,803 Short-term borrowings 99,347 71,453 204,136 169,422 Other payables 264,809 249,629 304,811 276,585 Current income tax liabilities 67,399 62,967 79,366 75,914 Deferred revenue 0 0 0 0 Contract liabilities 50,059 56,178 57,382 66,838 Provisions for other liabilities 12,872 11,085 14,543 12,131 Current lease liabilities 197,592 0 245,845 0 Other current liabilities 202,032 200,067 215,012 207,945 Non-current liabilities 423,600 161,508 575,371 247,266 Long-term borrowings 0 44,687 0 44,687 Retirement benefit obligations 3,425 3,211 3,437 3,252 Deferred income tax liabilities 101,731 78,769 167,130 167,998 Provisions for non-current liabilities 19,136 13,781 21,409 15,382 Non-current lease liabilities 267,922 0 363,985 0 Other non-current liabilities 31,386 21,060 19,410 15,948 Total liabilities 1,490,167 924,720 1,801,246 1,144,904 Equity Equity attributable to owners of the parent 4,489,497 4,422,047 3,367,322 3,118,833 Capital stock 34,508 34,508 47,997 44,451 Additional paid-in capital 712,702 712,702 903,711 672,987 Capital surplus 10,807 7,770 (21,656) 22,624 Other components of equity (117,632) (17,624) (196,032) (145,997) Accumulated other comprehensive income (24,679) (41,312) (14,983) (21,030) Retained earnings 3,873,790 3,726,003 2,648,286 2,545,799 Non-controlling interests 9,344 24,371 3,112,824 3,123,637 Total equity 4,498,841 4,446,417 6,480,147 6,242,470 Total liabilities and equity 5,989,008 5,371,137 8,281,393 7,387,374 107 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income Years Ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 Independent Assurance Statement AS-PRJN-180553-2020-AST-KOR Unit: KRW mn Introduction Amorepacific Group (“APG”) commissioned DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd. (“DNV GL”), part of DNV GL Group, to Amorepacific Amorepacific Group undertake independent assurance of the Sustainability Report 2019 (the “Report”). The directors of APG have sole responsibility 2019 2018 2019 2018 for the preparation of the Report. The responsibility of DNV GL in performing the assurance work is to the management of APG in accordance with the terms of reference. DNV GL’s assurance engagements are based on the assumption that the data and Sales 5,580,142 5,277,845 6,284,255 6,078,179 information provided by the client to us as part of our review have been provided in good faith. Cost of sales 1,500,516 1,434,876 1,641,834 1,618,695 Gross profit 4,079,627 3,842,969 4,642,421 4,459,485 Selling and administrative expenses 3,651,792 3,360,988 4,144,171 3,910,011 Operating profit 427,835 481,981 498,250 549,474 Scope and Basis Based on non-financial data and sustainability activities and performance data of 2019 generated from APG, we have evaluated Finance income 14,739 12,690 31,767 33,079 the adherence to GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) Sustainability Reporting Standards Principles and assessed the quality Finance costs 19,977 2,687 26,987 7,332 of assurance of sustainability performance information. We have reviewed that the Topic-specific disclosures of GRI Standards which are Other non-operating gains (losses)-net (51,693) (39,028) (72,313) (41,319) identified in the process for defining report content; Share of profit of associates (302) 31 654 935 No. Material topic GRI Disclosure No. Material topic GRI Disclosure Profit before income tax 370,602 452,987 431,371 534,836 Income tax expense 146,841 118,142 148,966 158,565 1 Strengthening product 416-1 6 Minimizing the impact on global 302-1, 2, 3, 4, 5 Profit for the year 223,761 334,845 282,405 376,271 sustainability warming by corporate activities 305-1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7 Profit attributable to: 2 Promoting circulation of resources 303-3, 4, 5 7 Corporate & Product innovation Owners of the Parent 238,804 332,195 133,733 142,286 306-1, 2, 3, 4, 5 Non-controlling interests (15,043) 2,649 148,672 233,985 Post-tax other comprehensive income (loss) 7,287 23,558 4,993 25,301 3 Enhancing employee health and 403-8 8 Strengthening product safety 416-2 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss quality of life Actuarial loss on post-employment benefit obligations (8,917) 21,500 (10,918) 25,811 4 Supporting suppliers’ growth and 414-1, 2 9 Carrying out strategic CSR 203-1, 2 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income (426) 1,646 (792) (923) development activities aligned with our 413-1, 2 Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss businesses Change in value of available-for-sale financial assets 0 0 0 0 5 Enhancing human rights and 412-1, 2 Share of other comprehensive income of associates 19 (55) 19 (55) diversity of employees Loss on currency translation of foreign operations net 16,611 467 16,684 469 Total comprehensive income for the year 231,048 358,402 287,398 401,573 We performed our work using DNV GL’s assurance methodology VeriSustainTM1), which is based on our professional experience, Attributable to: international assurance best practice including International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (ISAE 3000). We applied Owners of the Parent Company 246,324 355,628 134,385 151,118 the limited level of assurance. The verification was carried out in March and June 2020. The site visits were made to APG Head Non-controlling interests (15,276) 2,774 153,013 250,455 Office and Factories. We undertook the following activities as part of the assurance process: Earnings per share Unit: KRW · interviewed representatives from the various departments; Basic earnings per share for profit attributable to the ordinary equity holders 3,477 4,815 1,444 1,708 · conducted document reviews, data sampling and interrogation of supporting databases and associated conducted document Basic earnings per share for profit attributable to the preferred equity holders 3,490 4,820 1,453 1,713 reviews, data sampling and interrogation of supporting databases and associated · reviewed the materiality assessment report. · test o f data gathering process; Site visit: Beauty Campus in Osan Online video conference: Amorepacific China office and Shanghai Beauty Campus in China 1) The VeriSustain protocol is available upon request at DNV GL website. (www.dnvgl.com/assurance/reporting/verification.html) Limitations The engagement excludes the sustainability management, performance and reporting practices of APG’ subsidiaries, associated companies, suppliers, contractors and any third-parties mentioned in the Report. We did not interview external stakeholders as part of this Assurance Engagement. Economic performance based on the financial data is cross-checked with internal documents, the audited consolidated financial statements and the announcement disclosed at the website of Korea Financial Supervisory Service (http://dart.fss.or.kr) as well as APG’s website (www.apgroup.com). These documents, financial statements and the announcements are not included in this Assurance Engagement. Limited depth of evidence gathering including inquiry and analytical procedures and limited sampling at lower levels in the organization were applied. The baseline data for environmental and social performance are not verified, while the aggregated data at the corporate level are used for the verification. DNV GL expressly disclaims any liability or co-responsibility for any decision a person or an entity may make based on this Assurance Statement. Conclusion On the basis of the work undertaken, nothing comes to our attention to suggest that the Report does not properly describe the adherence to the Principles in GRI Standards. The verification team has observed that there is general awareness of sustainability context across all different levels of the organization. Further opinions with regards to the adherence to the following Principles are made below; 108 109 Stakeholder Inclusiveness APG has identified internal and external stakeholder groups such as Customers, Employees, Shareholders, Local community, Business Verification Statement GHG Inventory DNV GL BUSINESS ASSURANCE NO.: AS_ PRJN-181904-2020-AST-KOR Partners and NGO (Non-Governmental Organization). APG engages with the stakeholders at the company and business unit levels through various channels. The examples of approaches to engagement with selected stakeholders are described in the Report. Introduction DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd.(“DNV GL”) was commissioned by AMOREPACIFIC Group to verify the AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Context Group’s Greenhouse Gas Inventory Report for the calendar year 2019(“the report”) based upon a limited level of assurance. AMOREPACIFIC Group is responsible for the preparation of the GHG emissions data on the basis set out within the WRI/WBCSD APG has stated the ‘2020 sustainability vision and goals’ and three directing points such as ‘Sustainable lifestyle’, ‘Inclusive growth’, GHG protocol: 2004 and 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories, and the principles set out in ISO ‘Circular economy’. In addition, APG presents how 2020 sustainability goals in line with UN SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals). 14064-1:2006. Our responsibility in performing this work is to the management of AMOREPACIFIC Group only and in accordance In particular, APG makes an effort to achieve gender equality through ‘20 by 20 Commitment’ activities aimed at promoting women’s with terms of reference agreed with them. DNV GL expressly disclaims any liability or responsibility for any decisions, whether health, well-being and economic competitiveness, and is leading responsible production and consumption through continuous investment or otherwise, based upon this assurance statement. improvement of environment-friendly products. APG presents the sustainability goals and 3 directing points through the website. (https://sr.apgroup.com/index.html) Scope of Assurance The emissions data covered by our examination comprise Direct emissions(Scope 1 emissions), Energy indirect emissions(Scope 2 emissions) and Other indirect emissions(Scope 3 emissions) from AMOREPACIFIC Group boundary of the report; Materiality APG has conducted the materiality assessment to prepare the Report. ‘Business impact’ such as peer review, international standards, · Organizational boundary for AMOREPACIFIC: HQ/Sale offices, Sites(Beauty 1 in Osan, Daejeon and Jincheon, Daejeon and internal strategy and ‘stakeholder interest’ are considered during the materiality assessment, issue pools were used on internal and Jincheon), Distribution centers(Gangbuk, Gwangju, Gimcheon, Daejeon, Busan, Songtan, Incheon, Jincheon and Osan), R&D/HRD, external stakeholder survey to rate the material topics and 9 material topics are prioritized accordingly. DNV GL has reviewed material Local Business unit(Gwangju, Daegu, Daejwon and Busan), Delivery and transportation by centers(Other indirect emissions) topics that could have a significant impact on the APG’s economic, environmental and social impacts or affect the decision-making of · Organizational boundary for PACIFICPACKAGE: Cheonan stakeholders in assessing materiality. · Organizational boundary for AESTURA: Ansung · Organizational boundary for COSVISION: Daejeon · Organizational boundary for OSULLOC: Hannam, Premium factory, Seokwang, Dolsongi, and Wolchulsan Completeness (in Jeju, Republic of Korea) The Report has covered the sustainability strategy, management approach and sustainability performances of APG for the reporting · Organizational boundary for AMOREPACIFIC SHANGHAI: Shanghai(China) period. The reporting boundary has been set to include all affiliates in APG. Amorepacific, a major affiliate, includes not only domestic sites but also some performances of overseas corporation. DNV GL has reviewed that the materiality assessment process and confirms relevant material topics prioritized from the process are addressed completely in the Report. Verification The verification has been conducted by DNV GL from 19th February through 23rd April 2020 and performed in accordance with the verification principles and tasks outlined in ISO 14064-3:2006. We planned and performed our work so as to obtain all the Further opinions with the principles of report quality of GRI Standards as follows; Approach information and explanations deemed necessary to provide us with sufficient evidence to provide a verification opinion with 5% materiality level, concerning the completeness of the emission inventory as well as the reported emission figures in ton CO2 equivalent. As part of the verification process; Report quality: Accuracy, Balance, Clarity, Comparability, Reliability and Timeliness · We have reviewed and verified the SHEQM system of AMOREPACIFIC Group(activity data, GHG emission calculation results, DNV GL has reviewed the quality of the report based on the 6 principles defined in the GRI Standards. DNV GL also has reviewed emission factors, and other parameters) the reliability of the disclosure data water consumption, the amount of waste water discharge and recycling, waste generation and · We have reviewed and verified the process to generate, aggregate and report the emissions data recycling, air pollution emissions, the we have interviewed the person-in-charge, reviewed the process of gathering and processing data and information, and the supporting documents and records. APG could compare the performances related to the material topics with appropriate benchmarks and use them to develop and adjust the sustainability goals. Any errors or misstatements identified Conclusions Based on the above verification of core elements, it is the DNV GL’s opinion that nothing comes to our attention to suggest during the assurance engagement were communicated and corrected prior to the Report being published. The information in the that GHG emissions are not properly calculated, and a significant uncertainty and error are included in the GHG Emissions from Report indicates the time period to which it relates. AMOREPACIFIC Group for the year 2019 below; GHG Emissions of AMOREPACIFIC Group from Yr 2019 Unit: tCO2-eq AMOREPACIFIC Group Direct emissions Energy indirect Other indirect Total emissions Competence and DNV GL applies its own management standards and compliance policies for quality control, in accordance with ISO/IEC (Scope 1) emissions emissions 17021:2015 Conformity Assessment Requirements for bodies providing audit and certification of management systems, and (Scope 2) (Scope 3) Independence accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control, including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. We have complied AMOREPACIFIC 10,279 37,817 1,994 50,090 with the DNV GL Code of Conduct2) during the assurance engagement and maintain independence where required by relevant PACIFICPACKAGE 323 3,672 3,995 ethical requirements. This engagement work was carried out by an independent team of sustainability assurance professionals. COSVISION 889 3,445 4,334 DNV GL was not involved in the preparation of statements or data included in the Report except for this Assurance Statement. DNV GL maintains complete impartiality toward stakeholders interviewed during the assurance process. DNV GL have no other OSULLOC 2,295 1,162 3,457 contract with APG and did not provide any services to APG in 2019 that could compromise the independence or impartiality of AESTURA 684 1,958 2,642 our work. DNV GL has conducted the verification of GHG emissions in 2020, which isn’t considered a conflict of interest in the AMOREPACIFIC SHANGHAI 884 4,917 5,801 Report verification. 2) DNV GL Code of Conduct is available from DNV GL website (www.dnvgl.com) ※ In order to report the GHG emissions as an integer, the rounded number on the statement might be different from the number on the system with ± 1 tCO2-eq. ※ Total emissions = Scope 1 + Scope 2(Total emissions of AMOREPACIFIC include Scope 3 emissions) June 2020 Jang Sup Lee 23rd April 2020 Lee, Jang Sup Seoul, Korea Country Representative Country Representative DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd. DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd This Assurance Statement is valid as of the date of the issuance (23rd April 2020). Please note that this Assurance statement would be revised if any material discrepancy which may impact on the Greenhouse Gas Emissions of AMOREPACIFIC Group is subsequently brought to our attention. In the event of ambiguity or contradiction in this statement between English version and Korean version, Korean shall be given precedent. 110 111 GRI Standards Index 2. Material Issues: Topic-specific Disclosures Classification Disclosure Indicators Page Economic Standards Economic Performance 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change 75 Indirect MA 32, 94 1. General Disclosures Economic Impacts 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 94~98 Classification Disclosure Indicators Page 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 94~98 Organizational Profile 102-1 Name of the organization 15 Environmental Standards 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 2~7, 52~57 Energy MA 19, 43, 45 102-3 Location of headquarters 12~13 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 42, 44~45, 99~100 102-4 Location of operations 12~13 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization 42, 44~45, 99~100 102-5 Ownership and legal form 12~13, 58~61 302-3 Energy intensity 42, 44~45, 99~100 102-6 Markets served 12~13 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 42, 44~45, 99~100 102-7 Scale of the organization 12~13 Water 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 102 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 12~13, 83~84 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 102 102-9 Supply chain 90~93 303-3 Water recycled and reused 42, 102~103 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 90~93 303-4 Water discharge 42, 102~103 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 72~75 303-5 Water consumption 42, 102~103 102-12 External initiatives 1, 62, 115 Emissions MA 19, 43, 45 102-13 Membership of associations 62, 115 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 42, 44~45, 101, 105 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 1 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 42, 44~45, 101, 105 Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior https://www.apgroup.com/int/ko/about-us/ethics-governance/ 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 42, 44~45, 101, 105 code-ofethics/code-of-ethics.html 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 42, 44-45, 101, 105 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics https://ethics.amorepacific.com/rule.do 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 42, 44~45, 101, 105 Governance 102-18 Governance structure https://www.apgroup.com/int/ko/investors/amorepacific-group/ board-of-directors/board-composition/board-composition.html 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and other significant air emissions 42, 44~45, 101, 105 Stakeholder 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 68 Effluents and Waste 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination 46, 103~104 Engagement 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 84 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 46, 103~104 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 68 306-3 Significant spills 46, 103~104 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 68~69 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste 46, 103~104 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 66~67, 68~69 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff 46, 103~104 Reporting Practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Amorepacific Group and Amorepacific Business Report Social Standards 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 116 Employment 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or 83 part-time employees 102-47 List of material topics 66~67 Diversity and Equal 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 32, 36, 88-89 102-48 Restatements of information 116 Opportunity 102-49 Changes in reporting 116 Human Rights MA 84 102-50 Reporting period 116 Assessment 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact 36, 84 102-51 Date of most recent report 116 assessments 102-52 Reporting cycle 116 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 36, 84 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 117 Local Communities MA 38~41, 81~82 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 116 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and 38, 41, 81~82, 94~98 102-55 GRI content index 112~114 development programs 102-56 External assurance 109~110 Supplier Social MA 90, 92 Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary MA Reporting for each issue Assessment 103-2 The management approach and its components MA Reporting for each issue 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 37, 92~93 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach MA Reporting for each issue 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 96~97 37, 93 Public Policy * Amorepacific Group Business Report can be viewed on the following website. Customer Health MA 73, 80 http://dart.fss.or.kr/dsaf001/main.do?rcpNo=20200429000864 and Safety 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of Amorepacific Group Business Report 315 products and services page Marketing and Labeling 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and Amorepacific Group Business Report 314, labeling 315 page 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications Amorepacific Group Business Report 314, 315 page 112 113 3. General Issues: Topic-specific Disclosures Ten Principles of the UNGC Classification Disclosure Indicators Page Environmental Standards Environmental Compliance 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Amorepacific Group Business Report 315 page Supplier Environmental 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 92~93 Ten Principles of the UNGC and Amorepacific Group’s Activities Assessment 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 93 Classification Amorepacific Group’s Principles and Activities Page Social Standards Human Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of Amorepacific Group supports the Universal Declaration of 84 Rights internationally proclaimed human rights; and Human Rights and UN Guiding Principles on Business and Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 89 Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Human Rights; Ruggie Framework. 401-3 Parental leave 83 Labor/Management Relations 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 84 Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the Amorepacific Group supports the employees’ right to join 32, 36, 84, effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; and leave the labor union and build trust between the 88~89, 92~93 Occupational Health and 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint management–worker health and 85~86 management and the employees through communication. Safety safety committees Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Amorepacific Group strictly prohibits any form of child labor, 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and 85~86 involuntary or forced labor and discrimination throughout Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities its entire business process, and conducts annual on-site Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment reviews of the company and its suppliers. 403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their 85~86 and occupation. occupation Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Amorepacific Group is committed to reducing greenhouse 20~31, 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 85~86 environmental challenges; gas emissions and water consumption intensity, introducing 42~49, 80, 96, Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental renewable energy and developing a sustainable package 99~105 403-6 Promotion of worker health 34, 83, 85~87 responsibility; and by 2020 as part of environmental protection and circular Training and Education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 89 economy strategy. Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 89 friendly technologies. 404-3 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 100% AntiPrinciple 10 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally Amorepacific Group puts “Integrity” as the top priority of 70~71 Corruption friendly technologies. the AP WAY values to promote ethical practice and raise Freedom of Association and 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and 84, 93 awareness throughout the corporate eco-system. Collective Bargaining collective bargaining may be at risk Child Labor 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor 84, 93 Forced or Compulsory Labor 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or 84, 93 compulsory labor Public Policy 415-1 Political contributions “There was no political donation *Amorepacific’s expenditure for industry associations and tax-free organizations is listed below” Customer Privacy 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and There was no violation of the applicable laws losses of customer data Socioeconomic Compliance 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area Amorepacific Group Business Report 314, 315 page * Expenditure (for 3years) : 572 million KRW (in 2019), 1,105 million KRW (in 2018) and 837 million won (in 2017) Major Expenditures : Korea Cosmetic Association 217 million KRW, The Korea Employers Federation 62 million KRW 114 115 Governance About This Report Amorepacific Group BOD1) Category Name Position / Responsibility Gender Date of the first appointment Expert area Executive Suh -C  hairperson of the board M 1994. 03. 18 Business Purpose of the This report was created to disclose Amorepacific Group’s sustainability management activities Directors Kyungbae -M  ember of Management Committee Administration -M  ember of Risk Management Committee Report to stakeholders transparently and collect various opinions to reflect them in management. The Bae Chairperson of Management Committee M 2016. 03. 18 Business scope of the Amorepacific Sustainability Report, which has been issued annually since 2009, Donghyun Chairperson of Risk Management Committee Administration was expanded in 2015 to be issued as Amorepacific Group Sustainability Report with the aim Member of Executive Compensation Committee Kim Member of Management Committee M 2013. 03. 22 HR of expanding communication with stakeholders. Seunghwan Member of Risk Management Committee Member of Internal Transaction Review Committee NonChoe Chairperson of Audit Committee M 2019. 03. 15 Account Scope and Boundary The scope of this report covers Amorepacific Group and all its subsidiaries (Amorepacific, executive Jonghak Member of Independent Director Candidate Recommendation Committee (Professor) innisfree, ETUDE, etc.).In the case of Amorepacific, the domestic production sites (headquarters Directors Chairperson of Internal Transaction Review Committee of the Report Member of Executive Compensation Committee in Seoul, R&D Center, HR Development Center, Regional BU, and Beauty Campus Osan, Daily Kim Member of Audit Committee M 2020. 03. 20 Business Strategy Beauty production site and Osulloc production site) were mainly under review, and, in some Eonsoo Member of Internal Transaction Review Committee (Professor) cases, includes performances of overseas offices. Kim Member of Audit Committee M 2020. 03. 20 Dipolomacy Youngsun Chairperson of Independent Director Candidate Recommendation Committee Chairperson of Executive Compensation Committee Lee Member of Independent Director Candidate Recommendation Committee F 2020. 03. 20 Marketing Reporting Period The reporting period is from January 1 to December 31, 2019 and data from 2017 and 2018 Kyoungmi (Professor) were included for comparative purposes. Amorepacific BOD1) Third Party In order to enhance the accuracy and reliability of this report, the content was verified Category Name Position / Responsibility Gender Date of the first appointment Expert area Assurance by an independent verification institution, DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd. Based Executive Suh -C  hairperson of the board M 2006. 06. 07 Business Directors Kyungbae -M  ember of Management Committee Administration on VeriSustain, the content was verified to a limited level of assurance and a reliability -M  ember of Risk Management Committee assessment was conducted regarding environmental performance. Ahn Chairperson of Management Committee M 2018. 03. 16 Business Saehong Chairperson of Risk Management Committee Administration Member of Executive Compensation Committee Reporting Standards This report was prepared in accordance with the sustainability reporting guideline standards Lee Member of Management Committee M 2016. 03. 18 Business assist Sangmok Member of Risk Management Committee (Certified (Core Option) of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and is based on major agenda of the Member of Internal Transaction Review Committee Accountant) Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and Amorepacific Group’s internal reporting guidelines. NonEom Chairperson of Audit Committee M 2016. 03. 18 Finance executive Yeongho Chairperson of Independent Director Candidate Recommendation Committee (Professor) Directors Member of Internal Transaction Review Committee Kim Member of Audit Committee M 2018. 03. 16 Customer Service Jinyeong Member of Independent Director Candidate Recommendation Committee (Professor) Chairperson of Executive Compensation Committee Date of Publication 2020.05.29 Kim Member of Executive Compensation Committee F 2019.03. 15 Customer (Professor) Publisher Suh Kyung-bae Gyeongja Lee Member of Audit Committee M 2019. 03.15 IT Publishing Organization Amorepacific Group Hwiseong Member of Independent Director Candidate Recommendation Committee Production Sustainability Management Team, Chairperson of Internal Transaction Review Committee Amorepacific Cha M 2020. 03. 20 ICT Sangkyun (Professor) Design Planning Corporate Design Team, Amorepacific 1) As of May 2020 Planning & Edit Bombaram Design Rudolph Studio Shareholders2) Amorepacific Group Amorepacific Category Proportion Category Proportion Artwork Hong Jihee Major shareholder and affiliated parties 62.9% Amorepacific Group 35.6% Foreign Investors 21.7% Foreign Investors 29.7% Hangangdaero 100, Yongsan-gu, Seoul, Korea 04386 Domestic Institutional Investors 5.8% Major shareholder and affiliated parties 14.1% Tel. 02 6040 5355 Treasury Stock 7.5% Domestic Institutional Investors 13.6% E-mail. csr@amorepacific.com Domestic Individual Investors 2.1% Domestic Individual Investors 6.1% www.apgroup.com Treasury Stock 0.9% 2) As of Dec 2019 116
