2020 Yokogawa Sustainability Report Sustainability Human Resources Environmental Responsibility in Data/ Introduction Sustainability Stories Management Management Management Value Chain Company Profile For Future Generations Yokogawa at a Glance News and External Ratings in FY2019 Message from the President Sustainability Initiatives To pass on our rich Earth to future generations. An electric meter research institute, founded in 1915, expanded its business in fields of measurement and control and evolved into the Yokogawa Group as we know today. Since its foundation, Yokogawa has been aiming to contribute to society and supporting industries worldwide for over a century. In recent times, unforeseeable social and environmental changes have been taking place, such as the increase in extreme weather events and the COVID-19 pandemic. In order to adapt to such changes and realize a sustainable future, it is necessary to take a leap forward beyond past initiatives. It is our responsibility to pass on our beautiful and healthy planet to our future generations by resolving issues in the changing society and industries while transforming ourselves. Statement on Yokogawa’s Aspiration for Sustainability The Yokogawa Philosophy Yokogawa will work to achieve net-zero emissions, ensure the As a company, our goal is to contribute to society well-being of all, and make a transition to a circular economy by through broad-ranging activities in the areas of 2050, thus making the world a better place for future generations. measurement, control, and information. We will undergo the necessary transformation to achieve these goals by 1. becoming more adaptable and resilient, 2. evolving our Individually, we aim to combine good citizenship businesses to engage in regenerative value creation, and 3. with the courage to innovate. promoting co-innovation with our stakeholders. (Statement released in 2017) 2020 Yokogawa Sustainability Report 01 Sustainability Human Resources Environmental Responsibility in Data/ Introduction Sustainability Stories Management Management Management Value Chain Company Profile Contents Yokogawa Sustainability Report 2020 To achieve sustainable growth and increase corporate value, Based on the Yokogawa Philosophy, we are working on Through co-innovation with customers,Yokogawa will Yokogawa operates its businesses by setting medium/ sustainability management through its businesses to make achieve a sustainable society by resolving social issues with long-term sustainability targets, having incorporated the world a better place for future generations. innovative technologies. sustainability into the focus of management. 03 Introduction 08 Sustainability Stories 17 Sustainability Management 03 Yokogawa at a Glance 05 Message from the 09 Renewable Energy and Energy 14 Making Safe Drinking 18 Roadmap to Achieving the 24 Code of Conduct and President Management Water Available Sustainability Goals Compliance 04 News and External Ratings in FY2019 06 Sustainability Initiatives 11 Improvement of Productivity 15 Innovation in Cell 19 Progress Towards the 28 Climate Risks and Leveraging Digital Technologies Research Sustainability Goals in FY2019 Opportunities (Response to TCFD) 13 Improvement of Safety Through 16 Response to COVID-19 21 Sustainability Governance Remote Monitoring Technology Pandemic 30 Community Engagement 22 Risk Management Companies are supported by people and Climate change and resource problems We conduct businesses considering society. Yokogawa seeks to provide all may impact the continued existence of not members of our diverse workforce with only business activities but also responsibility for not only our own This chapter contains social and opportunities to thrive at work, fulfill their humankind. Yokogawa has taken initiatives businesses but also throughout the value environmental data, third-party verification, potential, and grow with society. to protect the global environment. chain which the Yokogawa Group may affect. editorial policy and other information. 31 Human Resources Management 40 Environmental Management 47 Responsibility in Value Chain 56 Data/Company Profile 2020 Yokogawa Sustainability Report 02 Sustainability Human Resources Environmental Responsibility in Data/ Introduction Sustainability Stories Management Management Management Value Chain Company Profile For Future Generations Yokogawa at a Glance News and External Ratings in FY2019 Message from the President Sustainability Initiatives Yokogawa at a Glance Yokogawa operates its businesses over 80 countries around the world. We have proactively employed local human resources at our sites worldwide and built a long-term relationship based on trust with customers and local communities. We are engaged in business operations with the aim of making the world a better place as a good citizen, pursuant to the Yokogawa Philosophy. Net Sales by Region Employees by Region Global Network 2.3% 5.4% 2.2% 3.7% 13.7% 2.5% 31.3% 35.1% World Headquarters/ 8.1% 11.7% ￥404.4 18,107 Regional Headquarters 4.8% billion persons 9.7% Oﬃce/services 8.1% Manufacturing 16.3% 10.4% 11.7% 19.2% 3.8% ■ Japan ■ Southeast Asia/Far East ■ China ■ India ■ Europe ■ Russia ■ North America ■ Middle East/Africa ■ Central and South America External Ratings Activities with External Global Japan Organizations United Nations Global Compact 2020 Yokogawa Sustainability Report 03 Sustainability Human Resources Environmental Responsibility in Data/ Introduction Sustainability Stories Management Management Management Value Chain Company Profile For Future Generations Yokogawa at a Glance News and External Ratings in FY2019 Message from the President Sustainability Initiatives News and External Ratings in FY2019 Yokogawa makes CDP Water Security A List and CDP Yokogawa Group Sustainable Sustainability as a theme for FY2019 Yokogawa Supplier Engagement Leader Board Procurement Guidelines Innovation Fair Yokogawa achieved a place on the Revised The Yokogawa Innovation Fair is an annual event for employees to present Water Security A List of CDP, a nonWe have revised the “Yokogawa Group cutting-edge technologies and ideas to each other and hold discussions on them. profit organization known as a world Sustainable Procurement Guidelines” in Under the slogan “Co-creating for a sustainable society,” the FY2019 Fair included authority in the environmental field, order to build a sustainable society in holding such events as a lecture by an expert invited from outside the Group and in recognition of its sustainable water cooperation with business partners. We a workshop in which employees management initiatives and have also conducted a survey on the discussed the connection between their awareness of major business partners in disclosure of information on these work and the Sustainable Development accordance with these Guidelines. In each initiatives. Yokogawa was also Goals (SDGs) and what each of them of the fields of Labor and Human Rights, selected to the CDP’s Supplier Health and Safety, Environmental and could do at the individual level. Visitors Engagement Leader Board, having Ethics, we engage in procurement activities to the Fair totaled approx. 1,800 persons been recognized for its efforts in in accordance with international codes of over the two-day period, including measures to tackle climate change conduct in electrical and electronics exhibitions and participation from through supply chains. industries. overseas sites. Sustainability category “Award for Three goals” Sustainability Meeting created in Yokogawa Group Awards Yokogawa held a briefing session Yokogawa Group Awards is an annual awards on sustainability for the first time ceremony held on the anniversary of Yokogawa’s with the aim of deepening its foundation in which team members who have made shareholders/investors’ outstanding achievements and employees serving as understanding of its sustainability a role model are presented with an award and all initiatives. Board Members and employees of the Yokogawa Group are given the department heads in charge opportunity to learn a lesson. In the new category provided an explanation of named “Award for Three goals” established in FY2019 solution cases related to for commending contributions to sustainability goals, members involved in creating a business model for renewable energy and initiatives making demand and supply adjustments for in the life innovation business and electricity required for the widespread popularization exchanged opinions actively with of renewal energy won the Award. participants. 2020 Yokogawa Sustainability Report 04 Sustainability Human Resources Environmental Responsibility in Data/ Introduction Sustainability Stories Management Management Management Value Chain Company Profile For Future Generations Yokogawa at a Glance News and External Ratings in FY2019 Message from the President Sustainability Initiatives Message from the President Yokogawa will continue to transform as we adapt to the “new normal” Adapting to the new normal Achieving our Three goals Yokogawa does business with customers who serve as the Climate change is having an increasingly serious impact on our Yokogawa has been engaged in initiatives that help its backbone of society, such as those in the materials and energy world, as evidenced by the rising frequency and severity of customers resolve issues they face in their businesses as they industries. While giving due consideration to employee safety, we weather-related natural disasters. Under these circumstances, adapt to a changing business environment. Under the present are making an all-out effort to support our customers with digital any business that wishes to survive must be able to flexibly adapt difficult circumstances, where society is in flux and the future is and network technologies that will allow them to continue their to change and have resilience in the face of adversity. Moreover, uncertain, it is more important than ever for each and every one production and service activities even during the COVID-19 companies must be willing to tackle global issues such as of us to think for ourselves and not be bound by precedents. pandemic. We are taking stringent workplace hygiene resource shortages and environmental pollution, and in concert Together with our stakeholders, let’s use our collective strength management measures, relying on online meetings instead of with their customers and business partners shift toward practices to forge ahead in pursuit of a sustainable society that leaves no business travel, and exploring ways to change how work is that support a circular economy. one behind. performed while taking individual circumstances into account. In our 2017 statement on our aspirations for sustainability, we Thanks to advances in IT in recent years, people can now affirmed that Yokogawa’s “Three goals” for the year 2050 would choose where and when they will perform many kinds of work. be to achieve net-zero emissions, ensure well-being for all, and This trend has gained great momentum during the COVID-19 make the transition to a circular economy, and we set out a pandemic, as demonstrated by rising demand among our direction for transformations that would allow us to achieve customers for remote engineering and remote maintenance these goals. Then, to help ensure the fulfillment of these goals, solutions. And just as with the driverless vehicles that one hears Yokogawa set mid-term sustainability targets for the year 2020 about today, some day unmanned plants will be able to use that are aligned with the measures specified in the artificial intelligence (AI) and sensors to anticipate incidents and Transformation 2020 mid-term business plan. For the net-zero autonomously initiate corrective measures to keep operating emissions goal, in FY2019 we had a hand in the construction of efficiently. There will be less of a need for people to perform LNG and renewable energy infrastructure that will help to curb dangerous tasks and simple labor, freeing their hands for more greenhouse gas emissions. Regarding the goal of ensuring creative work in safer environments. Digital technology will allow well-being, we made progress in expanding and enhancing us to create more value with fewer resources, thereby reducing partnerships that will facilitate the efforts by our life innovation the burden on people and the impact on the environment, and business to improve the overall efficiency of the pharmaceutical improving efficiency across the board in every industry. While and food industries’ value chains. And for making the transition leveraging such new technologies, Yokogawa is committed to to a circular economy, we can report a rising number of success working with its customers to overcome challenges and adapt to stories in which we have introduced AI and other digital the new normal during and after the COVID-19 pandemic. technology solutions that are helping companies run their businesses more efficiently, and we are currently picking up the pace of these efforts. President and CEO 2020 Yokogawa Sustainability Report 05 Sustainability Human Resources Environmental Responsibility in Data/ Introduction Sustainability Stories Management Management Management Value Chain Company Profile For Future Generations Yokogawa at a Glance News and External Ratings in FY2019 Message from the President Sustainability Initiatives Sustainability Initiatives Yokogawa incorporates the resolution of global issues into the focal point of its business activities. Following the adoption of the Sustainable Development Goals our vision to make the world a better place for future Flow of Value Creation (SDGs) and the Paris Agreement in 2015, there has been a generations (targeting around 2050). growing sense of crisis worldwide over the future of humanity. The “Three goals” consist of three components, namely, Society/ Yokogawa, which has long been working to contribute to Net-zero emissions, Well-being and Circular Economy, Yokogawa Customers Environment society through its businesses, clearly set out that it would symbolizing the society we are pursuing for future incorporate the resolution of global issues into the focal generations. point of its business activities and announced the “Statement Furthermore, we indicated that the direction of the on Yokogawa’s Aspiration for Sustainability in 2017.” The transformation of Yokogawa itself aimed at contributing Identify and Solve Customer A Brighter sustainability statement presents our “Three goals,” depicting toward the “Three goals” in the drastically changing, Customer Problems Economic Value Future unpredictable society would involve: becoming more Input Activity Output Outcome Impact Environmental Social Economic adaptable and resilient, evolving our businesses to engage in regenerative value creation, and promoting co-innovation The Transformation 2020 mid-term business plan (“TF2020”), with our stakeholders. In accordance with such a direction Make launched in 2017, is focused on three transformations, namely, the Achieve Ensure transition to of transformation, Yokogawa will uncover and resolve transformation of existing businesses, creation of new businesses customers’ issues and increase customers’ economic value. and transformation of business model, and improvement of net-zero well-being circular The outcome of such efforts will translate into contribution emissions economy productivity through Group-wide optimization. We are expanding to society and the environment, such as a reduction in our existing businesses such as energy-saving, resource greenhouse gas emissions and the development of products Three goals conservation, improvement of efficiency and enhancement of that enrich people’s lives. safety at customers’ plants while expanding our areas of contribution to resolving social issues by developing new Outline of Initiatives to Achieve “Three goals” Direction of Transformation businesses also in the life innovation business that supports Yokogawa’s Strengths people’s health and enrichment of lives, as well as renewable We aim for net-zero emissions—i.e., a state in which energy-related businesses such as biomass, geothermal, solar and Net-zero greenhouse gas (GHG) concentrations in the atmosphere do not rise due to the balance maintained between GHG wind power generation. emissions emission and absorption—by introducing renewable Quality Trust Integrity energy and contributing to efficient use of energy. Creation of new businesses and Working with customers transformation of business model to radically improve productivity We support people’s health and prosperous lives at safe Direction of Transformation Expand OPEX business Further strengthen target and comfortable workplaces and in a wide range of fields industries Well-being such as life sciences and drug discovery. We promote Resilience Sustainably creating human resources development and employment creation Transformation of Digital value through in local communities, as well as diversity and inclusion. Becoming more adaptable and resilient existing businesses Transformation innovation Regenerative value creation Establish life innovation business We aim to realize a social framework and ecosystem in Transform business model Evolving our businesses to engage in regenerative value creation Circular which various resources are circulated without waste Improvement of productivity through and assets are utilized effectively. We also help efficiently economy use water resources circulating the Earth and secure safe Co-innovation Group-wide optimization Dramatically improving business eﬃciency drinking water. Digital Transformation Promoting co-innovation with our stakeholders Create digital businesses Enhance cost competitiveness Transform business processes Optimize organizational structure Strengthen our information technology infrastructure Develop highly skilled personnel 2020 Yokogawa Sustainability Report 06 Sustainability Human Resources Environmental Responsibility in Data/ Introduction Sustainability Stories Management Management Management Value Chain Company Profile For Future Generations Yokogawa at a Glance News and External Ratings in FY2019 Message from the President Sustainability Initiatives To steadily make headway toward the “Three goals,” it is Regarding structures for promoting sustainability, Yokogawa Value Creation Themes necessary to make the outcome of our initiatives described has established a department dedicated to sustainability and a above visible and manage the progress. We have set forth ten department specializing in Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) in Theme Description value creation themes based on activities under TF2020 and its Corporate Administration Headquarters. In addition, Contribute to the widespread adoption and expansion of specified the key performance indicators (KPI) with respect to Yokogawa has set up the Risk Management Committee and the renewable energy by providing solutions for monitoring/ Renewable each theme from the viewpoint of sustainability. From an even Crisis Management Committee, both of which are chaired by the energy control, data measurement and maintenance of facilities aimed at the stable and effective operation of wind power longer-term perspective, we have also set ambitious targets President. The Board of Directors exercises governance by and biomass power generation, etc. for 2030 with respect to each of the three components of the receiving a report on sustainability in general once a year. “Three goals.” Going forward, Yokogawa will incorporate sustainability Based on our wealth of experience and extensive track record in the field of instrumentation for natural gas and Liquefied Furthermore, we have set targets relating to diversity and initiatives more deeply into management and pursue the Low-carbon Natural Gas (LNG), we will realize a safe and efficient LNG inclusion as well as employee engagement, given the high sophistication of sustainability management. In the course of energy supply chain in cooperation with customers and partner importance of human resources at Yokogawa as a solution aiming to improve productivity through group-wide companies and meet the increase in demand for LNG, which is a low-carbon energy source. services company. We have established targets in the optimization, we will transform our value creation platform, environmental field, including those for in-house energy usage including human resources, organization, mechanisms and Improved Make the most of our measurement, control and information and reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in consideration of facilities, and expand our businesses that contribute to society productivity in manufacturing/ technologies as well as our wealth of experience in diverse the significance of the issue of climate change. and the environment. processing of industry sectors, we will realize higher productivity in the pharmaceuticals/ value chain as a whole from basic research to logistics and foods services. Focus Areas for Achieving the “Three goals” and the SDGs Support the efficient development and production of Support pharmaceutical products with a high level of safety through development of confocal microscopes, cell image analysis technology, Circular economy drugs and bioreactors and other technologies that support drug ● Long-term stable operation of plant biopharmaceuticals discovery. Well-being Resource eﬃciency improvement Help improve safety at customers’ plants by providing systems Safety and health Advanced 1trillion yen Target solutions ● Improvement of that integrate process control and safety instrumentation, as value creation Improved productivity in manufacturing/ processing of pharmaceuticals/foods ● safety well as simulators for operation training, security solutions 1trillion yen against cyberattacks, etc. Target in FY2030 Customer Economic Value ● Improvement of water environment in FY2030 ● Improvement of safety On-site Assist in safe and efficient plant management involving light ● Consulting to improve maintenance workload through consulting solutions for equipment ● Low-carbon energy productivity solutions management. Help effectively utilize water resources by expanding the safe ● Support development of drugs Improvement of and efficient supply of clean water through technologies and and biopharmaceuticals water solutions to improve the water environment, such as water ● Renewable energy Net-zero emissions environment supply and sewerage surveillance/control/leakage monitoring. Avoided CO2 emissions ● On-site Realize higher product yield and efficient use of energy by 1billion tons maintenance Target Advanced solutions operating complex production processes through the solutions optimization of temperature, flow rate, pressure, etc. Co-creation environment ● from FY2018 to 2030 Relevance to the SDGs Consulting to Realize higher operational efficiency and improved safety of improve plants by providing consulting services and solutions to Contribution to Society productivity assist in optimized operations. Long-term Improve the efficiency of the use of resources by providing stable operation products and services that support stable operation of plant throughout the lifecycle of customers’ plants. 2020 Yokogawa Sustainability Report 07 Sustainability Human Resources Environmental Responsibility in Data/ Introduction Sustainability Stories Management Management Management Value Chain Company Profile Renewable Energy and Energy Management Improvement of Productivity Leveraging Digital Technologies Improvement of Safety Through Remote Monitoring Technology Making Safe Drinking Water Available Innovation in Cell Research Response to COVID-19 Pandemic Sustainability Stories Through co-innovation with customers,Yokogawa will achieve a sustainable Renewable society by resolving social issues with innovative technologies. Response to Energy and Energy COVID-19 Management Pandemic Improvement of Productivity Innovation in Cell Leveraging Digital Research Technologies Improvement of Making Safe Safety Through Drinking Water Remote Monitoring Available Technology 2020 Yokogawa Sustainability Report 08 Sustainability Human Resources Environmental Responsibility in Data/ Introduction Sustainability Stories Management Management Management Value Chain Company Profile Renewable Energy and Energy Management Improvement of Productivity Leveraging Digital Technologies Improvement of Safety Through Remote Monitoring Technology Making Safe Drinking Water Available Innovation in Cell Research Response to COVID-19 Pandemic Renewable Energy and Energy Management In 2019, global carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions reached a record-high*1, while the world’s average market share*3. Yokogawa will take advantage of its strengths in monitoring/control, data temperature became the second-highest on record*2. As calls for measures to tackle climate measurement, maintenance of power generation facilities, etc. with the aim of realizing change are becoming louder worldwide, the shift toward a carbon-neutral society has begun. net-zero emissions by providing more solutions in the field of energy management, Demand for clean energy with zero CO2 emissions in the form of solar power, wind power including electricity demand/supply adjustment and electricity storage that enable stable and other renewable energy sources has been increasing. Amid the fall in energy demand electricity suppl in addition to power generation facilities. due to lockdowns enforced in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, renewable energy is the only energy source that has been increasing in demand and growing in terms of *1 Global CO2 emissions in 2019; IEA *2 WMO Statement on the State of the Global Climate in 2019; WMO *3 Global Energy Review 2020; IEA Sustainability Goal Sustainability KPI 85.13 million tons / CO2 emissions avoided (cumulative from FY2018) 60million tons Net-zero emissions (FY2019 result) (FY2020 target) Yokogawa’s Solutions Japan’s Largest Wind Farm Adopts Yokogawa’s Control System Coat Weight Measurement System Contributing to Manufacturing of Wind Farm Tsugaru is Japan’s largest wind farm consisting of 38 windmills with a total powerHigh-quality Lithium-ion Batteries generating capacity of 121,600kW. Constructed in Tsugaru city, Aomori prefecture by Green Demand for rechargeable batteries that can be repeatedly recharged and discharged has been Power Investment Corporation, Wind Farm Tsugaru commenced operation in 2020. Yokogawa increasing rapidly on the back of the widespread adoption of power generation by wind, solar provided a total solution covering engineering, introduction and all other processes up until and other renewable energy sources, as well as the popularization of electric vehicles. trial operation by delivering wide-area distributed Yokogawa’s “WEBFREX3ES” is a system for online measurement and control of the thickness of monitoring FAST/TOOLS Supervisory Control and Data agents coated on electrode sheets on the production line of Acquisition (SCADA) software for executing monitoring lithium-ion batteries, which are the mainstay of rechargeable control by integrating the monitoring of all windmills with batteries. The system adopts a proprietary linear servo drive electrical substations and switching stations for mechanism, enabling not only the high-speed/high-precision interconnected systems in remote locations, real-time OS measurement of coat weight—which affects battery controller “e-RT3,” and network infrastructure equipment. performance—but also the prevention of fine metal powder By making the most of this experience, Yokogawa will from falling onto the sheets —which causes fire—. Yokogawa is contribute to projects for introducing renewable energy all contributing to the realization of a carbon-neutral society by over the world. Wind Farm Tsugaru helping to improve the performance and safety of lithium-ion batteries, whose demand is on the increase. 3D Profile View function 2020 Yokogawa Sustainability Report 09 Sustainability Human Resources Environmental Responsibility in Data/ Introduction Sustainability Stories Management Management Management Value Chain Company Profile Renewable Energy and Energy Management Improvement of Productivity Leveraging Digital Technologies Improvement of Safety Through Remote Monitoring Technology Making Safe Drinking Water Available Innovation in Cell Research Response to COVID-19 Pandemic Yokogawa’s Solutions Virtual Power Plant (VPP): Integrated Control of Dispersed Energy Enterprise Energy Management Solution Towards Energy Savings Resources Manufacturers are facing a compelling need to reduce energy use and improve process For the widespread adoption and effective utilization of renewable energy, Virtual Power performance. Companies are still not able to visualize full energy portfolio in realtime of their Plant (VPP)* is drawing attention. Customers’ plants are equipped with many facilities, operation including facilities energy consumption (i.e. data centre, office building or a control including electricity-guzzling equipment and in-house power generation/storage battery room etc.). Yokogawa has established Enterprise Energy Management Solution (EEMS) facilities. Peak electricity usage can be suppressed by staggering the usage hours and varying entering a global partnership with a Singapore startup GreenKoncepts, which technology the power generation output of such facilities. This will realize higher efficiency in terms of connects IoT devices. This solution enables A.I. data analysis and real-time dashboarding making electricity supply meet demand, as well as lower CO2 emissions. In the lead up to the monitoring via a multi-cloud environment from PCs and mobile devices. Customer can get a establishment of a new electricity market to be created by electricity system reform including complete picture of your energy portfolio on a single centralized dashboard, which connects retail electricity liberalization, the Japanese government is currently conducting a VPP various devices (i.e. power monitors, temperature and humidity sensors etc.) from different demonstration project in which Yokogawa is serving as a resources aggregator who manages manufacturers through universal enabled protocols. Yokogawa Engineering Asia has the operation of energy resources. Yokogawa will build a new energy system with customers successfully completed a Proof-of-Concept where we are able to identify more than 10% by making the most of our expertise in energy management that we have gained to date, as energy saving, which is expected to reduce CO2 emissions in office building and factories. well as our network with customers. * A system for decentralized, small-scale power generation and storage facilities at factories and houses to make them function as one power plant by integrating, managing and remotely controlling them with IoT devices. Real Time PUE DC Temperatune SLA Calculation & Trending Min-Max Readings Supply Demand Demand Supply Tight supply → Avoided Energy-saving suppression → Avoided Contribute to building a sustainable society Suppression of demand YOKOGAWA Aggregator Increase in demand Capacity & IT Power Pump operation control Storage battery system control In-house power generation facilities Utilization Dashboard of a Data Center Energy resources aggregation service 2020 Yokogawa Sustainability Report 10 Sustainability Human Resources Environmental Responsibility in Data/ Introduction Sustainability Stories Management Management Management Value Chain Company Profile Renewable Energy and Energy Management Improvement of Productivity Leveraging Digital Technologies Improvement of Safety Through Remote Monitoring Technology Making Safe Drinking Water Available Innovation in Cell Research Response to COVID-19 Pandemic Improvement of Productivity Leveraging Digital Technologies A wide range of information exists inside and outside a plant, such as information on facilities, state of the plant but also optimize planning, designing, operation and maintenance of production processes, raw materials, product quality and people. Yet-to-be-measured facilities by simulating various situations. Technologies that have been put to practical information also exists in large volumes. Digital technologies can dramatically improve application include technologies for remote monitoring and maintenance that replace on-site production efficiency and realize plants that are more humanand eco-friendly by measuring, inspection tasks previously performed by persons with constant monitoring based on associating and analyzing such data that had not been utilized in the past. Use of digital twin sensors, and even technologies for detecting signs of abnormalities at plants by utilizing big technology—which replicate the manufacturing process in a factory in real-time in a virtual data and AI. The long-term stable operation of plants by using cutting-edge technologies is a environment—makes it possible to not only prevent abnormalities by forecasting the future significant contribution toward the realization of a sustainable society. Sustainability Goals Sustainability KPIs 1.6times / 1.1times / Amount of improvement effect proposed to customers (compared to FY2017) Maintenance service sales amount (compared to FY2017) 2times 1.3 times net-zero emissions circular economy (FY2019 result) (FY2020 target) (FY2019 result) (FY2020 target) Yokogawa’s Solutions Main Track Records Industry sector Target Outline AI-leveraged Analysis and Prediction for Facilities and Product Quality Chemical pH sensor Predict deterioration of sensor installed in drainage pipeline Prediction of Predict operational status of heating furnace based on process Many issues that could not be resolved by conventional analysis methods in the operation of abnormalities Petroleum Heating furnace data plants could be resolved by utilizing AI. Based on cases in which Yokogawa had resolved in facilities Predict occurrence of air bubbles in pipes based on pressureElectric power Pump issues of customers in many industry sectors, Yokogawa consolidated the values that it could related data provide to plant management by utilizing AI into the following three: (1) Predictive analysis of Petroleum Compressor Identify causes of reduction in efficiency of cooling compressor at plant based on process data abnormalities in facilities, which improves the operating rate by forecasting the occurrence Identification Identify causes of changes in hot water distribution volume based of abnormalities and performing maintenance, etc.; (2) analysis for cause identification, of causes Hot spring Hot spring control on operation data which translates the identification of causes of past problems into product quality, etc.; and Identify the relationship between refiner’s power (electricity) and Paper/pulp Refiner* (3) predictive analysis of product quality, which involves getting a grasp of quality without quality conducting any destructive examination or test by predicting changes in quality based on Electronic parts Electronic parts Predict breakage of parts in assembly processes based on sensor manufacturing equipment data past data. Through these solutions, Yokogawa provides new value in plant management by leveraging AI. Continuous Predict indicators among actual measurement indicators for Prediction of Chemical manufacturing equipment quality based on 18 types of data product for industrial raw materials quality Petroleum Product quality value Predict quality value based on manufacturing data Foods/ Pharmaceuticals Predict quality of finished products based on data at the time of pharmaceuticals manufacturing equipment manufacturing (10 types) * Equipment for crushing pulp fiber into tiny pieces in the papermaking process 2020 Yokogawa Sustainability Report 11 Sustainability Human Resources Environmental Responsibility in Data/ Introduction Sustainability Stories Management Management Management Value Chain Company Profile Renewable Energy and Energy Management Improvement of Productivity Leveraging Digital Technologies Improvement of Safety Through Remote Monitoring Technology Making Safe Drinking Water Available Innovation in Cell Research Response to COVID-19 Pandemic Yokogawa’s Solutions Plant/Factory Surveillance Solutions by Monitoring Equipment AI-leveraged Productivity Improvement in Semiconductor Production on the Cloud There are growing expectations for AI-based analysis and utilization of data, the volume of In the manufacturing industry, the aging of production equipment is giving rise to issues in which has continued to increase on the back of the IIoT trend. At Yokogawa’s Komagane the form of occurrence of accidents and deterioration in product quality. From the Okayama Factory, an AI-based analysis tool developed by ourselves is being used to conduct quality Plant of Kuraray Co., Ltd., Yokogawa received a request to visualize the actual status of the analysis with respect to semiconductor production process data. Having collected and equipment deterioration trends and their cause-and-effect relationship with respect to analyzed data from numerous sensors mounted on each process and found causes that product quality, etc. In response, Yokogawa proposed a plant/factory surveillance solution affect data and new correlations between production line data and quality, we have involving constant intensive monitoring by installing “Sushi Sensor,” consisting of small prevented faults and other problems from occurring and reduced time during which the wireless sensors for Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT). Yokogawa enabled the monitoring of operation is stopped due to malfunction or maintenance to almost zero. We have also the plant’s equipment status from outside the factory as well as notification of signs of launched initiatives, including introducing AI for images in product inspections and factory abnormalities by managing vibration, surface temperature, pressure and other equipment inspections, in addition to saving energy consumed in operations by forecasting changes in data in a cloud environment, and thus realized equipment maintenance optimization weather and factory operation. Yokogawa will realize improved quality and optimized utilizing plant-wide data. operation by combining data at production sites with AI. ●Realize pre-emptive control by newly installing a solarimeter and Internet End-point security barometer as well. a’s cloud (platfo (Anti-virus) ogaw ●Import data on sunrise, sunset and rapid changes in frontal passage rm Yok ) and detect atmospheric changes before they occur. Sushi Sensor Application (virtual server) Humidity Outdoor Mail server humidity function Control humidity to keep it constant Atmospheric Alarm notification pressure ID/PW (email) HTTPS communication authentication CR humidity (SSL authentication) LTE communication Work Customers’ Protection by intranet Humidiﬁcation shared key Time PoE hub for AI-based analysis tool: EdgeQC Energy-saving air conditioning control based on AI reinforcement learning for forecasting feeding power and responding to changes in weather WAN to gateway LoRa Access to Yokogawa’s Sushi Sensor (with magnet) 100V AC cloud from web browser Installation of gateway, power supply System Configuration 2020 Yokogawa Sustainability Report 12 Sustainability Human Resources Environmental Responsibility in Data/ Introduction Sustainability Stories Management Management Management Value Chain Company Profile Renewable Energy and Energy Management Improvement of Productivity Leveraging Digital Technologies Improvement of Safety Through Remote Monitoring Technology Making Safe Drinking Water Available Innovation in Cell Research Response to COVID-19 Pandemic Improvement of Safety Through Remote Monitoring Technology Preventing accidents and ensuring safety is a matter of utmost importance for the operaplants and workers by utilizing remote monitoring and digital technologies, including tion of plants. Yokogawa provides a wide range of solutions that maintain and improve constantly monitoring the work environment through sensors and making robots perform the safety of customers’ plants throughout their life cycle and contribute to their stable dangerous tasks. operation over a long period of time. Furthermore, we provide new solutions that protect Sustainability Goals Sustainability KPIs 443solutions / 2,734systems / Number of provided on-site maintenance solutions Number of shipped safety instrumented system controller units 850solutions 3,200systems well-being (FY2019 result) (FY2020 target) (FY2019 result) (FY2020 target) Yokogawa’s Solutions The Wireless Noise Surveillance System Contributing to Prevent Hearing Deploying Robots for Facilities Inspection in Hazardous Environments Loss of Workers In the process industry you often find harsh environments. In these usually hazardous areas still At offshore plants, where space is limited, noise generated by equipment such as operators must do their inspections and it is your primary objective to have them execute their jobs compressors at the site can seriously affect the hearing of workers. In collaboration with safely. Yokogawa has signed a licensing agreement with ExRobotics B.V. based in the Netherlands, Equinor, a Norwegian energy company, Yokogawa has developed a wireless noise which develops robots that can be used in the explosion hazardous environments. Combining the surveillance system, WiNoS, that enables automatic ExRobotics robot platform with the Yokogawa integration measurement of noise distribution and real-time and sensing capabilities we have the solutions for an extra mapping through a year and a half of offshore field trials. pair of eyes for on the spot inspections, mobile detections By digitizing noise maps that had previously been of hazardous gasses, pattern recognition of what is right manually measured and created, noise distribution can and what isn’ t. That together with the wireless be more accurately grasped, contributing to a reduction networking capabilities and stringent explosion-proof in the risk of hearing impairment among workers. It is certification we, together with ExRobotics will create a also expected to be applied to other industrial fields, safer working environment for operators whilst helping such as mining, as well as to reduce noise in the our customers manage operating costs. neighborhood. Noise map surveillance screen ExRobotics’ robot for inspection tasks: ExR-1 2020 Yokogawa Sustainability Report 13 Sustainability Human Resources Environmental Responsibility in Data/ Introduction Sustainability Stories Management Management Management Value Chain Company Profile Renewable Energy and Energy Management Improvement of Productivity Leveraging Digital Technologies Improvement of Safety Through Remote Monitoring Technology Making Safe Drinking Water Available Innovation in Cell Research Response to COVID-19 Pandemic Making Safe Drinking Water Available Reportedly, 30% of the world’s population has no access to safe drinking water*1, making plant operation support, engineer training, and even desalination plant control all over the widespread introduction of water supply and sewerage systems a pressing issue for the world. By working for the stable supply of drinking water and the effective use of many parts of the world. Surface water existing in rivers, creeks, lakes and wetlands that water resources, we contribute to people’s access to water and ensure hygiene. are easily accessible for humans account for merely 0.01% of all water that exists on Earth, excluding seawater, glaciers, etc.*2 Such limited water resources need to be supplied and used cyclically in an efficient manner. Yokogawa provides technologies and expertise, including for water supply and sewerage surveillance/control, water leakage monitoring, *1 The Sustainable Development Goals Report 2020; UN *2 Water in Japan; Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism Sustainability Goals Sustainability KPI 223solutions / Number of water environment improvement solutions provided 190solutions well-being circular economy (FY2019 result) (FY2020 target) Yokogawa’s Solutions Yokogawa Provides Training Program for Leakage Control Specialists Plant Simulation System Supporting Stable Operation of Water Water leakage from pipes of waterworks systems is an issue in developing countries. For a Treatment Plant period of three years, Yokogawa has been providing a “program for improving water In Singapore, where securing stable water supply is a challenge, the Public Utilities Board operation/non-revenue water (NRW) management abilities utilizing supervisory control and (PUB) invests in research and development for sustainable water supply, as part of which data acquisition (SCADA)” to waterworks department staff in the island of Labuan in Yokogawa has been awarded a contract for a plant simulation project for the Lower Seletar Malaysia, with the aim of training specialists in measures to reduce NRW. This project was Waterworks. The system to be delivered by Yokogawa executed jointly by Yokogawa with Tokyo Water Co., Ltd. consists of OmegaLand, which enables operation training based on a project proposal by the Bureau of to deal with abnormalities such as equipment and power Waterworks, Tokyo Metropolitan Government, as part of failures at a plant by utilizing digital technologies for the Japanese government’s Official Development replicating the plant’s internal conditions, as well as a Assistance (ODA) project. Measures to reduce NRW are Mirror Plant, which is for performing such tasks as fields in which Yokogawa can take advantage of its predicting changes in water quality and determining the SCADA system, water leakage management systems and optimal chemical dose. Yokogawa will realize stable water sensors. By making the most of the knowledge gained supply by operating plants efficiently and improving the from this activity, Yokogawa will contribute to the skills of operators. effective utilization of water resources around the world. A scene from the program Mirror Plant 2020 Yokogawa Sustainability Report 14 Sustainability Human Resources Environmental Responsibility in Data/ Introduction Sustainability Stories Management Management Management Value Chain Company Profile Renewable Energy and Energy Management Improvement of Productivity Leveraging Digital Technologies Improvement of Safety Through Remote Monitoring Technology Making Safe Drinking Water Available Innovation in Cell Research Response to COVID-19 Pandemic Innovation in Cell Research Research at the single-cell level is drawing attention in cutting-edge medical treatment images, you will be able to associate the cell morphology information and position and drug discovery research. information with genetic analysis results. For example, basic research on cancer primarily involves genetic analysis. If you conduct Yokogawa will provide new solutions for single-cell analysis that contributes to drug genetic analysis by extracting the internal constituents of a particular cell or a single cell discovery and life science by combining imaging with new technologies. while observing living cells through a confocal scanner that can obtain high-resolution Sustainability Goal Sustainability KPIs 1.6times / 2times / Amount of productivity improvement of pharmaceutical and food customers (compared to FY2017) Number of provided drug discovery systems (compared to 2017) (FY2019 result) (FY2020 target) 2times (FY2019 result) (FY2020 target) 20times Yokogawa’s Solutions Nanopipette Technology Playing an Active Role Confocal Scanner Unit Applied to Life Science Experiments on in the Field of Life Science International Space Station “Single-cell” research is drawing increasing attention for its Chiyoda Corporation’s confocal microscope system “COSMIC,” equipped with Yokogawa’s contribution to identifying the causes and establishing the confocal scanner unit “CSU-W1,” has arrived at the Japanese Experiment Module “Kibo” of medical treatment of diseases such as cancer. Nanopipette the International Space Station (ISS). CSU-W1 is a unit that, when combined with a technology—which enables the injection of genes, drugs, microscope, enables real-time observation of the movement of proteins and physiological genome-editing tools, etc. directly into specific locations on a responses within living cells. The arrival cell-by-cell basis—is effective for single-cell research. of COSMIC has enabled experiments in a Yokogawa’s nanopipette technology has an extremely small microgravity environment at an altitude impact on cells as it uses ultra-thin glass tubes whose tip is of approx. 400km above ground. Its several tens of nanometers in diameter, and is thus best suited contribution to basic life science and cell to research using living cells. It can also shorten the time therapy looks promising, as space involved in cell detection, injection, etc. by automating these experiments in the field of life science processes. Yokogawa’s solutions for single-cell analysis aimed at creating 3D organs, etc. are due contributes to improved efficiency of research in drug to be conducted from autumn 2020 COSMIC confocal KIBO, the ISS's Japanese Experiment Module microscope system © JAXA/NASA discovery and life science fields. Single Cellome Unit SU10 onwards. © JAXA 2020 Yokogawa Sustainability Report 15 Sustainability Human Resources Environmental Responsibility in Data/ Introduction Sustainability Stories Management Management Management Value Chain Company Profile Renewable Energy and Energy Management Improvement of Productivity Leveraging Digital Technologies Improvement of Safety Through Remote Monitoring Technology Making Safe Drinking Water Available Innovation in Cell Research Response to COVID-19 Pandemic Response to COVID-19 Pandemic Factories and plants of our customers are no exception in that they have been heavily customers’ production facilities and plants over multiple decades. For this purpose, we impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. Chemical plants that produce raw materials used in have made preparations based on projections of various risks, including pandemics. various industrial products and crucial social infrastructures such as power plants cannot Yokogawa has been providing services consistently even amid the COVID-19 pandemic, suspend operations despite the impact of COVID-19. They continue to operate 24 hours a including deliveries of systems to customers’ plants and maintenance services in the day, 365 days a year while taking various measures to prevent infections from occurring at event of any abnormality at plants. We aim to achieve a sustainable society by sites. suppressing the COVID-19 pandemic through the acceleration of remote operations and One of Yokogawa’s strengths is that it has a mechanism to continue providing services to contribution to medical institutions. Yokogawa’s Solutions Remote Service Available 24 Hours a Supporting the Development of Drugs Day, 365 Days a Year for Treating COVID-19 Since before the COVID-19 outbreak, a cloud-based Research institutes around the world are struggling work environment has been in place for Yokogawa’s to promptly develop a drug to treat COVID-19. global team unhindered by national borders to Yokogawa’s Confocal Quantitative Image Cytometer execute projects, enabling the checking of systems “CQ1,” which uses its confocal scanner technology, in a remote work environment. We also provide is being used in drug repositioning (i.e., diverting an remote online support to customers regarding their existing drug for the treatment of diseases other issues at production plants in the same manner as than those for which the drug was originally online diagnosis performed by medical doctors. intended) as well as the research on novel Furthermore, we have a global network capable of coronavirus-infected cells at the University of Morphological profiling of cells infected with the providing remote support promptly 24 hours a day, Michigan (U.S.), the University of Bristol (U.K.), the novel coronavirus using CQ1 (Image source: Michigan Institute for Clinical & Health 365 days a year, in the event of any abnormality at a Global Response Center Charité University Medicine Berlin (Germany), the Research) plant. By utilizing such digital technologies, University of Helsinki (Finland), etc. It looks Yokogawa contributes to the continued operation promising for shortening the development period of plants that serve as crucial social infrastructures. by utilizing existing drugs—whose safety, side effects, etc. have already been verified in clinical trials—in the treatment of COVID-19, and for discovering substances that can be applied to the development of new drugs by analyzing the infection process in detail. 2020 Yokogawa Sustainability Report 16 Sustainability Human Resources Environmental Responsibility in Data/ Introduction Sustainability Stories Management Management Management Value Chain Company Profile Roadmap to Achieving the Sustainability Goals Progress Towards the Sustainability Goals in FY2019 Sustainability Governance Risk Management Code of Conduct and Compliance Climate Risks and Opportunities (Response to TCFD) Community Engagement Sustainability Management To achieve sustainable growth and increase corporate value, Yokogawa operates its businesses by setting medium/long-term sustainability targets, having incorporated sustainability into the focus of management. This chapter will introduce our progress in achieving the sustainability goals, governance structure, code of conduct, risk management, etc. Community Engagement Climate Risks and Opportunities 30 Policy for Corporate (Response to Citizenship Activities TCFD) Guidelines for Corporate CONTENTS Citizenship Activities Code of Conduct Corporate Citizenship and Compliance Activities 28 Environment Surrounding Yokogawa Risk Formulation of Climate Change Progress Management Strategy and Disclosure of Roadmap to Sustainability Information According to TCFD’s Towards the Governance Recommendations Achieving the Sustainability 24 Yokogawa Group Code of Conduct Climate-related Financial Sustainability Yokogawa Group Compliance Guidelines Information Goals in Goals Supporting international Guidelines FY2019 22 Risk Management Structure Internal Control System 25 Compliance Promotion Structure 21 Sustainability Governance 23 Escalation of Information 26 Anti-corruption Initiatives 19 Progress Towards the Sustainability Management 18 Roadmap to Achieving the Sustainability Goals in FY2019 Business Continuity Measures to Prevent AntiSustainability Goals Management (BCM) competitive Practice (Business Initiatives) Protecting Employees Preventing Insider Trading 20 Progress Towards the Working Outside Japan from Tax Compliance Initiatives Sustainability Goals in FY2019 Crisis (Initiatives for the Group's 27 Measures to Counter Anti-social Forces resources) Awareness Activities Compliance Awareness Survey Whitsleblowing Hotline 2020 Yokogawa Sustainability Report 17 Sustainability Human Resources Environmental Responsibility in Data/ Introduction Sustainability Stories Management Management Management Value Chain Company Profile Roadmap to Achieving the Sustainability Goals Progress Towards the Sustainability Goals in FY2019 Sustainability Governance Risk Management Code of Conduct and Compliance Climate Risks and Opportunities (Response to TCFD) Community Engagement Roadmap to Achieving the Sustainability Goals To meet Three goals and achieve a sustainable society by 2050, Yokogawa has set mid-term sustainability targets that are aligned with the long-term business framework and the mid-term business plan. In 2016, we identified areas where we can contribute to the SDGs, and in 2017 announced a statement on our aspirations for sustainability and our goals for achieving a low-carbon and circular society as the “Three goals”. The TF2020 mid-term business plan, which commenced in 2018, identified sustainability focus areas to be achieved by 2030 and set ambitious targets. Based on this, we selected concrete value creation themes, set targets, and have been working to achieve them. We will bring sustainability management to the next level by, for example, setting targets for social and environmental impact. 2015 2021 2030 2050 Long-term business framework Sustainability goals “Three goals” Mid-term business plan Environmental Social Economic Make Achieve Ensure transition to From FY2021 net-zero circular Phase 1: FY2015-2017 Phase 2: FY2018-2020 well-being Growth to become an even more emissions economy Establishing a foundation for growth by Creating opportunity and proﬁtable company transforming our business structure consolidating the foundation for growth Initiatives for sustainability Consideration and identification Initiatives for achieving Enhancement of of contributing areas medium-term sustainability targets sustainability management Identifying the link between Setting of the Sustainability KPIs Setting targets of social, Yokogawa businesses and the SDGs aligned with the TF2020 environmental impact Selection of focus areas contributing Enhancing resilience by analyzing Development of sustainability goals to Three goals ESG* risks and opportunities Three goals for 2050 Contributions through our * ESG: Environment, Social and Governance Statement on Yokogawa’s aspiration businesses and the Group's Enhancement of initiatives to for sustainability resources include supply chains 2020 Yokogawa Sustainability Report 18 Sustainability Human Resources Environmental Responsibility in Data/ Introduction Sustainability Stories Management Management Management Value Chain Company Profile Roadmap to Achieving the Sustainability Goals Progress Towards the Sustainability Goals in FY2019 Sustainability Governance Risk Management Code of Conduct and Compliance Climate Risks and Opportunities (Response to TCFD) Community Engagement Progress Towards the Sustainability Goals in FY2019 (Business Initiatives) We have set focus areas targeting 2030 with respect to each of our “Three goals” (i.e., net-zero emissions, well-being and circular economy) as well as mid-term sustainability targets in consistent with the TF2020 business plan. Setting the number of projects, net sales, etc. as key performance indicators (KPIs), we are making Group-wide efforts to achieve these goals while implementing the Plan-Do-Check-Action (PDCA) cycle. In FY2019, for net-zero emissions, We have increased the greenhouse gas avoided amounts largely by contributing to the construction of infrastructures such as for LNG, geothermal and biomass power generation. For well-being, our life innovation business, which involves improving the efficiency of pharmaceutical and food industries’ value chains as a whole, experienced growth. For the circular economy, we made a contribution with our overseas water environment improvement business, businessess which improve corporate management efficiency including optimized operation and long-term stable operation of plants by utilizing digital technologies. Vision toward 2050 (Three goals) Stopping climate change Quality life for all Circulation of resources and efficiency Environmental Social Economic net-zero emissions well-being circular economy Make Achieve Ensure transition to net-zero well-being circular emissions economy 1billion tons 1trillion yen 1trillion yen CO2 emissions avoided: Safety and health value creation: Resource efficiency improvement: Targets for FY2030 (Cumulative from FY2018 to 2030) (FY2030) (FY2030) 2030 Mid-term targets for Business focus areas Renewable and low-carbon energy Life Innovation and Safety Energy saving and resources Offering of renewable energy and LNG solutions to Support people’s health and well-being through the provision Contribute to sustainability and economic growth through and overview of value creation stories reduce CO2 emissions of life innovation solutions and the assurance of safe and stable and efficient operation and resource regeneration comfortable workplaces Renewable energy Improved Support Improvement On-site Improvement of Advanced solutions Long-term stable productivity in development of of safety maintenance water environment Consulting to improve operation of plant Low-carbon energy manufacturing/ drugs and solutions productivity processing of biopharmaceuticals pharmaceuticals/ Value creation themes foods Mid-term targets comply with the TF2020 2020 business plan Customer Drug discovery Safety On-site Maintenance productivity systems Water environment instrumented maintenance Customer improvement effect service sales KPI CO2 emissions avoided (cumulative from FY2018) improvement provided improvement systems solutions (compared to FY2017) (compared to (compared to (compared to solutions provided provided to date provided to date FY2017) FY2017) FY2017) Targets for FY2020 60 Mt-CO2 Doubled 20 times 3,200 850 190 Doubled +30% systems solutions solutions 2019 FY2019 results 85.13 Mt-CO2 +60% Doubled 2,734 systems 443 solutions 223 solutions +60% +10% Review 2020 Yokogawa Sustainability Report 19 Sustainability Human Resources Environmental Responsibility in Data/ Introduction Sustainability Stories Management Management Management Value Chain Company Profile Roadmap to Achieving the Sustainability Goals Progress Towards the Sustainability Goals in FY2019 Sustainability Governance Risk Management Code of Conduct and Compliance Climate Risks and Opportunities (Response to TCFD) Community Engagement Progress Towards the Sustainability Goals in FY2019 (Initiatives for the Group's resources) To promote transformation to achieve three goals, Yokogawa also set mid-term targets for the Group foundation, such as infrastructure and tools leveraging IIoT, human resource management which is a key to Yokogawa's growth and environmental management which is a requirement for a company to operate continuously. In FY2019, we promoted the utilization of our common foundation in new projects, which resulted in an increase in the number of users. For human resources management, the female ratio out of total number of managers within the Group as a whole steadily increased; in addition, we have conducted the Global Employee Engagement Survey (GEES) and identified the challenges and took measures to improve engagement with employees. For environmental management, we achieved our targets for energy usage and greenhouse gas emissions one year ahead of schedule and we are making efforts for further reduction. Targets for the Common foundation Human resources management Environmental management Group’s resources Yokogawa will improve Yokogawa will seek to create new value by bringing about transformation not the infrastructure to only at the organization level but also at the individual level through: diversity For environmental management at offices and factories of Group Focus areas and encourage the coand inclusion, which involves proactively recruiting human resources with companies, Yokogawa has set sustainability indicators for efficient use innovation of values diverse experience, knowledge, culture, values, etc.; and talent attraction and of water resources, reduction of energy use, and reduction of outline of value with customers and will engagement, which is aimed at developing human resources based on global greenhouse gas emissions. Yokogawa has set a long-term greenhouse creation story transform the business talent management and creating a rewarding work environment. As for gas emissions reduction target for the year 2030 which is aligned with model to adapt to a occupational health and safety, which is the bedrock of management, we will the 2 degrees Celsius target defined in the Paris Agreement. circular society. focus our efforts on eliminating occupational accidents. Transformation of Elimination of Promotion of Reduction of business model Talent attraction and Reduction of energy Diversity and inclusion occupational efficient use of water greenhouse gas through infrastructures engagement consumption value creation accidents resources emissions and tools utilizing IIoT themes Female Occurrence of Energy Greenhouse gas ratio out of Disability co-creation Engagement survey accidents consumption emissions KPI total employment Water consumption environment users score accompanied by (compared to (compared to number of ratio (Japan) lost work time FY2013) FY2013) managers Implementation Strengthening of of measures to measures to FY2020 target 1,500 users 12.0% 2.3% Reduction 13% reduction 20% reduction improve employee efficiently utilize engagement water resources 0.34 case per 2.27% FY2019 results 1,111 users 10.2% 78% million work 513,000m3 15.5% reduction 23.8% reduction (June 1, 2020) hours 2020 Yokogawa Sustainability Report 20 Sustainability Human Resources Environmental Responsibility in Data/ Introduction Sustainability Stories Management Management Management Value Chain Company Profile Roadmap to Achieving the Sustainability Goals Progress Towards the Sustainability Goals in FY2019 Sustainability Governance Risk Management Code of Conduct and Compliance Climate Risks and Opportunities (Response to TCFD) Community Engagement Sustainability Governance Yokogawa regards sustainability as one of its key management issues and is continuously working on the improvement of governance. Moreover, with the aim of realizing the transformations defined in the TF2020 mid-term business plan and gaining the trust of all stakeholders, we also monitor sustainability KPIs and highpriority risks, in addition to management indicators. Board of Directors Internal Control System Sustainability Management The Board of Directors, of which a meeting is held once a Yokogawa has put an internal control system in place to month in principle, aims to achieve sustainable growth and an ensure the appropriate operation of business by allocating Sustainability management is conducted as a part of the companyincrease in corporate value of the Group over the medium to business resources such as human resources, assets and wide management cycle that includes the mid-term business plan, long term as a decision-making body related to management. budgets appropriately and moving such resources in a risk management and the internal control system. To achieve these goals, the Board of Directors strives to functional manner for the purpose of increasing corporate Separate management cycles have been defined for each of the improve profit-earning capability and capital efficiency, and value. We aim to increase the corporate value of the entire two significant activities relating to sustainability, namely, activities sets forth the general direction of the Group, including Group by controlling two aspects, namely, improvement of to increase corporate and social value using sustainability KPIs as corporate strategies. In addition to monitoring and management efficiency and prevention of scandals. indicators, and activities to promote necessary improvements supervising the execution of business by management, using ESG (Environmental, Social, Governance) assessment results, including Directors and officers, the Board of Directors Risk Management etc. as indicators, both of which are subject to monitoring and develops provisions related to the execution of duties by The Risk Management Committee selects significant risks that supervision by the Board of Directors. Non-financial items are Directors, and has established a framework to take should be managed preferentially, decides their monitoring reported to the Board of Directors as part of reports on important responsibility for supervising the execution of business. methods, and reports them to the Board of Directors. matters and the implementation of each management cycle, and Respective organizational units of the Yokogawa Group the status of sustainability activities is also regularly reported. The Audit & Supervisory Board perform the identification and assessment of risks, followed by Board of Directors monitors and supervises sustainability initiatives In order to ensure the Group’s sustainable growth and the preparation and implementation of the countermeasures based on such factors as changes in social conditions, progress in corporate soundness, the Audit & Supervisory Board, of which against risks. The department in charge of internal audits sustainability KPIs, feedback from stakeholders including ESG a meeting is held once a month in principle, makes evaluates the effectiveness of Yokogawa Group’s risk evaluation organizations, and ESG risk assessment results, while appropriate decisions and expresses its opinions from an management process and reports important findings to the incorporating independent views from outside the company. independent and objective standpoint. Audit & Supervisory Board of Directors and the Audit & Supervisory Board Members. Board Members attend meetings of the Board of Directors and • Confirmation of progress towards sustainability targets the Management Board and other important meetings, hold Sustainability Governance Structure Main Agendas • Disclosure of sustainability information based on TCFD regular meetings with the respective departments in charge of of the Board • ESG assessment results and improvement measures Stakeholders General Shareholders Meeting internal audits and legal affairs, as well as the department in of Directors • Revision of the Yokogawa Group Code of Conduct • Efforts to tackle human rights issues charge of business ethics, which promotes the compliance Engagement Information disclosure framework, and exchange and share information and Compensation Directors Audit & Supervisory Sustainability Management Cycle proactively make suggestions about the activities of each Advisory Committee Board Members department. Nomination Board of Directors Audit & Supervisory Board April to September October to March Advisory Committee Communication with stakeholders Management Board Stakeholders Crisis Management President ESG assessment responses ESG assessment feedback The Board of Directors delegates decision-making related to the Committee Monitoring and ESG Sustainability ESG risk assessment execution of business to the Management Board to promote Management Board supervision Risk Management risk activity report Department in charge (Board of Directors) swift decision-making. The Management Board, of which a Committee report Internal control assessment of internal audits Corporate Function/ Management of mid-term business plan meeting is held once a month in principle, is required to report Business Headquarters and Business execution its resolutions and other matters to the Board of Directors. Group Companies (Management Annual review of sustainability KPIs Mid-year review of sustainability KPIs Board) Implementation of internal control system Election/Removal Appointment/Resignation Instructions/Orders/Supervision Audit/Supervision Cooperation/Report/Advice 2020 Yokogawa Sustainability Report 21 Sustainability Human Resources Environmental Responsibility in Data/ Introduction Sustainability Stories Management Management Management Value Chain Company Profile Roadmap to Achieving the Sustainability Goals Progress Towards the Sustainability Goals in FY2019 Sustainability Governance Risk Management Code of Conduct and Compliance Climate Risks and Opportunities (Response to TCFD) Community Engagement Risk Management The Yokogawa Group has in place within its respective organizational units a risk management structure to control uncertainty affecting its corporate value, an internal control system to ensure appropriateness of the businesses and a crisis management system with which to respond promptly to any event that could have serious impact on its operations. Risk Management Structure organization has a risk manager and a network for the Group’s Internal Control System risk management. We define uncertainty that might affect the Group’s corporate We assess the severity of risks from the perspectives of At Yokogawa, internal control is a management process for value as risk and categorize and manage this in terms of impact and likelihood of occurrence. Business opportunity optimizing business activities, whereby business resources, business opportunities, compliance, and crisis events. risks include our external environment and strategies, and such as human resources, assets, and budgets, are allocated In order to realize effective risk management in the Group, compliance and crisis event risks include product quality, appropriately and used effectively to increase corporate value. we have established a Risk Management Committee chaired environmental impact, health and safety, information In order to improve management efficiency and ensure by the president and CEO, who is responsible for supervising security, risk management, and corporate ethics compliant operations, the Group Management Standards all matters in relation to the risk management. The Risk (embezzlement, accounting fraud, data falsification, bribery, (GMS), the Yokogawa Group’s most important regulation, was Management Committee selects critical risks for the Group harassment, etc.). When we assess impacts of the risks, we established to clarify the roles and responsibilities of the requiring priority management and regularly checks the take into account social and environmental impacts such as Group’s operational processes and develop an internal control progress of activities. human rights risks as well as financial and human aspects. system. Group-wide rules have been established while As part of independent risk management activities, each In addition, we take a comprehensive approach to our departments have been designated to oversee each of the Group organization identifies and assesses risks, and plans assessment by considering both bottom-up and top-down following systems: business ethics, decision-making, and implements countermeasures against them. Each perspectives. operations management, crisis management, and corporate auditing infrastructure. The individuals responsible for Risk Management Structure internal control systems work in their system auditing capacity to ensure (i.e., maintain and improve) the effectiveness and Corporate value efficiency of all Group company systems and the soundness of financial reports. Board of Directors Important matters are reported to the Board of Directors Uncertainty and the Audit & Supervisory Board Members. When Supervises implementing the internal control system, the relevant result Business opportunities Compliance and crisis events indicators and action indicators are clearly defined and a Management Board • External environment risk • Operational risk PDCA cycle is implemented based on the extent to which Decides policy indicators have been achieved. In accordance with the • Strategic risk (Internal control system risk) Yokogawa Group Management Internal Audit Code, the • Financial and tax risk • Hazard risk Risk Management Committee effectiveness of the internal control system is audited by the department in charge of internal audits. Selects priority risks These activities are undertaken to ensure the Business headquarters and Department responsible for appropriateness of its operations and increase the corporate Group companies internal control system value of the entire Group. 2020 Yokogawa Sustainability Report 22 Sustainability Human Resources Environmental Responsibility in Data/ Introduction Sustainability Stories Management Management Management Value Chain Company Profile Roadmap to Achieving the Sustainability Goals Progress Towards the Sustainability Goals in FY2019 Sustainability Governance Risk Management Code of Conduct and Compliance Climate Risks and Opportunities (Response to TCFD) Community Engagement Escalation of Information continuously improve the BCP. We have also introduced a Yokogawa invites outside expert instructors to hold seminars system to promptly check employee safety and provide on self-protection, including specific steps to take to minimize In the event of a disaster, accident, or incident that could regular training to enhance proficiency in using the system in harm in the event of a terrorist attack, violence, or general seriously impact the Yokogawa Group companies’ case of emergency. These activities were utilized to provide a crime. management or endanger the lives of their employees, each prompt initial response to the series of earthquakes in 2016, In FY2019, we held a seminar entitled “Safety and Dealing Group employee must minimize the damage by taking prompt namely, the 2016 Kumamoto Earthquake and the 2016 Central with Terrorism or Trouble Overseas” that comprised a lecture initial action and reporting back to senior management. Tottori Earthquake. Yokogawa will continue to review its BCP and practical training. Outside security experts (including To address this issue, we have established the Yokogawa to respond to disaster risks. former members of the US Special Forces and the Japanese Group Crisis Reporting Guidelines and ensure that all Group Self-Defense Force) provided instruction and demonstrations employees are made aware of them. These guidelines both in English and Japanese, and conducted practical training stipulate details such as the information to be reported, as Protecting Employees Working Outside Japan involving the participation of the attendees. well as reporting routes and processes. Every year we revise from Crisis these guidelines and take steps to improve the escalation of information. To protect its employees working all over the world from crises (such as terrorism, riots, kidnappings, and crimes in general), Yokogawa gathers information on risks in all regions Business Continuity Management (BCM) of the world and sends alerts directly to employees working in applicable areas. Recognizing the importance of ensuring that Our control business, Yokogawa’s core segment, is closely tied all employees understand the situations in areas where they to social infrastructure such as electricity, gas, water, and conduct business on a daily basis, Yokogawa periodically sewerage. To continue with our business activities in the event delivers international security news to all its employees. In of a disaster and take action as quickly as possible to help addition, we provide counterterrorism training outside Japan maintain and restore social infrastructure, we developed the to help employees keep themselves safe, and hold seminars Yokogawa Group Business Continuity Plan (BCP). to provide them with relevant knowledge. Yokogawa will We developed response plans and action guidelines continuously consider various new measures and improve on assuming risks that could seriously impact the Group’s existing measures to ensure the safety of its employees. management, such as a huge earthquake or an epidemic of contagious disease, both of which are considered potential Training for Protection from Terrorism and General Crime eventualities. We have been collaborating with the Group Recently we have seen general crime, terrorism, and violence companies worldwide to improve these plans and guidelines. occurring all over the world, as well as international travelers Further, in order to enhance the effectiveness of our BCP, falling victim to crimes. In such circumstances, employees regular training is provided by members of the risk traveling abroad on business need to do more to prepare and management organization, including senior management, to take appropriate safety measures. identify problems, and BCM activities are undertaken to A scene from the training 2020 Yokogawa Sustainability Report 23 Sustainability Human Resources Environmental Responsibility in Data/ Introduction Sustainability Stories Management Management Management Value Chain Company Profile Roadmap to Achieving the Sustainability Goals Progress Towards the Sustainability Goals in FY2019 Sustainability Governance Risk Management Code of Conduct and Compliance Climate Risks and Opportunities (Response to TCFD) Community Engagement Code of Conduct and Compliance Yokogawa places the utmost priority on compliance and conducts its business activities in compliance with relevant laws, regulations, and ordinances. We respect social norms and international guidelines, and act with high ethical standards. The Yokogawa Group Code of Conduct sets out the guidelines for action our employees should observe in order to realize Yokogawa’s corporate philosophy, while the Yokogawa Group Compliance Guidelines prescribe the specific actions each and every employee should take. In 2019, we conducted a complete review and revision of the content of the two documents in response to the changing expectations and demands of the global community toward corporations. Yokogawa Group Code of Conduct all group employees of the content of the Guidelines, Yokogawa ensures that its corporate principles are embraced and upheld President’s Commitment The Yokogawa Group Code of Conduct sets forth the by each and every employee. The Yokogawa Group Code of Conduct sets out the Group’s six guidelines for action that all employees of the Yokogawa Group should observe. Chapter 1 describes the Yokogawa basic policies: the realization of the Yokogawa Philosophy, Group’s basic policies, including the realization of its Supporting international Guidelines compliance with laws and regulations and cooperation with corporate philosophy, compliance with laws and regulations, society, respect for human rights, fair business practices, respect for human rights, and contribution to a sustainable The United Nations Global Compact Yokogawa signed the United Nations Global Compact in 2009 contribution to society and the environment, and the society. Chapter 2 specifies the Yokogawa Group’s ethical and expressed its support for the 10 principles concerning relationship of mutual trust with stakeholders. Yokogawa is standards concerning the Group’s relationship with stakeholders, workers’ rights, and the responsibility of the human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption committed to fulfilling its fundamental corporate management team, among other things. adopted by the Compact. We are working with our responsibilities, including contributing to society through its stakeholders to uphold the ten principles through such efforts business activities and maintaining compliance. In 2009, The full text of the Yokogawa Group Code of Conduct is introduced on as participation in Global Compact Network Japan, a local our website. network of Japan. The Global Compact was first proposed by Yokogawa approved and signed the Global Compact, an Kofi Annan, former Secretary-General of the UN, at the World international initiative proposed by the United Nations and Yokogawa Group Compliance Guidelines Economic Forum in 1999 and was officially launched in 2000. has been endorsing and putting into practice its ten universal Participating companies are expected to uphold and practice principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the The Yokogawa Group Compliance Guidelines are practical international standards relating to human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. The Company is sharing guidelines that provide an easy-to-follow explanation of the environment, and anti-corruption. Yokogawa Group Code of Conduct and describe the specific these principles with its group companies and business actions employees should take. The Guidelines have been ISO26000 partners worldwide. We will continue to strive to fulfill our prepared to educate and inform employees and set forth the ISO 26000, issued by the International Standardization responsibilities as a global company that develops business specific rules and standards all Yokogawa Group employees Organization in November 2010, is an international standard worldwide. should observe when they encounter various ethical and legal relating to the social responsibilities of organizations, issues in the course of presenting seven core subjects including organizational performing their day-togovernance, human rights, labor practices, environmental day business activities. The responsibility, and fair operating practices. We at Yokogawa, Guidelines have been as a company active in the global marketplace, adhere to ISO translated into 14 26000 and regard corporate governance as a key foundation of languages and distributed corporate management. As such, we are committed to the in booklet format to the implementation of socially responsible activities to meet our Hitoshi Nara President and CEO members of the shareholders’ expectations, including community contribution manufacturing through business operations, environmental conservation, departments. By informing Yokogawa Group Compliance Guidelines and respect for human rights. 2020 Yokogawa Sustainability Report 24 Sustainability Human Resources Environmental Responsibility in Data/ Introduction Sustainability Stories Management Management Management Value Chain Company Profile Roadmap to Achieving the Sustainability Goals Progress Towards the Sustainability Goals in FY2019 Sustainability Governance Risk Management Code of Conduct and Compliance Climate Risks and Opportunities (Response to TCFD) Community Engagement Compliance Promotion Structure the structure. We have established workplace-based PDCA Cycle for Promoting Compliance compliance promotion structure in our global offices. In In order to prevent wrongdoings and scandals, Yokogawa Japan, Yokogawa’s compliance coordinators, who Formulation of an promotes sound and transparent business activities with a concurrently serve as workplace counselors, are pursuing Analysis of awareness survey annual action plan “corporate culture that prevents misconduct” and “systems compliance initiatives with the goal of raising and establishing Action review and based on the review that prevent unethical conduct” as the pillars of our compliance awareness among employees. Further, problem analysis Act Plan and survey results of the previous year compliance activities. At the Yokogawa Group, we are representatives of the compliance secretariat and compliance aggressively promoting management practices founded on coordinators of respective organizations attend regular compliance by establishing a corporate ethics department meetings of the Compliance Committee to share information Execution of action Check Do plan that is responsible for developing compliance promotion and monitor progress in compliance activities. Implementation of ・Training activities awareness survey structure and identifying and addressing issues pertaining to ・Awareness activities ・Establishment of Review of helpline operation rules and manuals Appropriate operation of the helpline Approach to Compliance Compliance Promotion Structure Audit & Supervisory Board Members Yokogawa Electric Corporation Business Ethics HQ Exchange of Audit & Compliance HQ information Awareness transformation Establishing eﬀective rules Message from top leaders Promotion leaders and hotline services Legal Dept./Human Resources Education and training Penalties for violation Compliance Committee and General Aﬀairs HQ Encouraging communication System reform and other recurrence Cultivating a workplace that prevention measures encourages openness Establishment of rules and manuals Outside law ﬁrms Promoting/establishing Corporate culture that Systems that prevent legal and regulatory compliance in business operations Yokogawa Electric Group companies in Japan Group companies prevents misconduct unethical conduct Corporation Departments outside Japan Companies Compliance Manager In Japan Compliance Manager Compliance Manager outside Japan Internal reporting Internal reporting and Compliance Secretariat Compliance Secretariat Compliance Secretariat and consultation system consultation system Two pillars of activity Compliance Coordinators Compliance Coordinators Workplace counselor 2020 Yokogawa Sustainability Report 25 Sustainability Human Resources Environmental Responsibility in Data/ Introduction Sustainability Stories Management Management Management Value Chain Company Profile Roadmap to Achieving the Sustainability Goals Progress Towards the Sustainability Goals in FY2019 Sustainability Governance Risk Management Code of Conduct and Compliance Climate Risks and Opportunities (Response to TCFD) Community Engagement Anti-corruption Initiatives Measures to Prevent Anti-competitive Practice Tax Compliance Initiatives Yokogawa is working to prevent all forms of corruption, including Yokogawa considers that observance of the competition law is In light of the globalization of its business operations, abuse of power for personal gain and coercion and bribery, by essential for ensuring proper management of the Group and has Yokogawa believes it can fulfill its corporate social prescribing in the Yokogawa Group Code of Conduct the appropriate set out its basic policy of fair, transparent, and free competition responsibilities and help realize a sustainable economy by relationships with business partners, politicians, and government with competitors in the Yokogawa Group Code of Conduct. To properly meeting its tax obligations in the countries and officials and prohibiting conflicts of interest. Specifically, we develop further ensure compliance with the competition law, we prescribe regions where Yokogawa conducts business activities. and implement rules such as the Yokogawa Group Compliance specific rules in the Yokogawa Group Compliance Guidelines and Yokogawa takes the following actions in its tax accounting Guidelines and the Anti-bribery Guidelines and conduct awareness the Competition Compliance Code and provide in-house practices to ensure appropriate tax risk management: programs and compliance awareness surveys as part our education on the competition law to enhance employee compliance initiatives to spread and entrench compliance awareness. No legal measures were taken against Yokogawa due 1. Making tax payments properly in accordance with the relevant awareness. to its anti-competitive act, anti-trust law violation or monopolistic tax laws and regulations of respective countries practices in FY2019. 2. Implementing appropriate tax-related accounting processes and Anti-bribery Initiatives other related measures 3. Establishing a tax governance structure and striving to raise tax Yokogawa observes the bribery prevention laws and regulations of all countries where its group companies Preventing Insider Trading compliance awareness 4. Responsibly performing tax duties in compliance with conduct business activities in order to prevent bribery international tax standards such as OECD Transfer Pricing With the goal of preventing insider trading, we have Guidelines and BEPS (Base Erosion and Profit Shifting) Action involving public servants and private citizens both at home established the Code of Conduct for the Prevention of Insider Plan and abroad. The Group assesses and controls risks of Trading in the Group Management Standards (GMS) and have 5. Conducting transactions with non-Japanese affiliates on an bribery, and the group companies respectively manage arm’s length basis by properly allocating profit for their included a section on the prohibition of insider trading in the such risks. In addition, the Anti-bribery Guidelines are contributions in accordance with the roles and risk analysis of Yokogawa Group Compliance Guidelines. Further, we have respective affiliates established and disseminated to all employees to prevent established a group-wide compliance structure and provide 6. Not engaging in tax planning or using tax heaven for the purpose bribery and ensure fair and appropriate business practices. education to thoroughly prevent insider trading. The officers of tax avoidance Further, we have established the Yokogawa Group 7. Optimizing tax costs by such means as avoiding double taxation or employees of the group companies who intend to buy and Sustainable Procurement Guidelines to call for bribery and utilizing appropriate tax incentives sell the stocks of Yokogawa Electric must follow the prior 8. Reducing tax risk by obtaining advice from external professionals prevention and are working to implement the guidelines in approval procedure through the person in charge of insider in case of uncertainty over the application or interpretation of cooperation with our business partners. No cases of trading prevention of respective companies. tax laws and regulations bribery-related violation or penalty were reported in 9. Building, maintaining, and developing sincere, sound, and In addition, the following individuals are subject to a FY2019. cooperative relationships with the tax authorities of respective blanket prohibition of the buying and selling of the Company’s countries stocks from the last day of each quarter to the date of announcement of the financial results for the relevant quarter. 1. Officers and managers of Yokogawa Electric Corporation, Yokogawa Solution Service, Yokogawa Manufacturing, and Yokogawa Test & Measurement 2. Those who are directly involved in the preparation and announcement of quarterly results in Yokogawa Electric Corporation and the group companies in Japan 2020 Yokogawa Sustainability Report 26 Sustainability Human Resources Environmental Responsibility in Data/ Introduction Sustainability Stories Management Management Management Value Chain Company Profile Roadmap to Achieving the Sustainability Goals Progress Towards the Sustainability Goals in FY2019 Sustainability Governance Risk Management Code of Conduct and Compliance Climate Risks and Opportunities (Response to TCFD) Community Engagement Measures to Counter Anti-social Forces group companies outside Japan to help their employees learn to the benchmark used for global high-tech manufacturers, comprehensively about important themes regarding compliance revealing the high level of compliance within the Yokogawa The entire Yokogawa Group is taking steps to eliminate antiand acquire the knowledge required of group employees. Group. social forces and describes in the Yokogawa Group Compliance Guidelines its responses to anti-social forces that Compliance News threaten social order and safety. In compliance with the Tokyo Compliance News is issued every two months to improve Whitsleblowing Hotline Metropolitan Ordinance for Eliminating the Organized Crime employees’ compliance awareness. The newsletter features Groups, we include in our business contracts clauses timely topics related to workplace culture and recent In FY2019, about 60% of the issues reported and consulted at concerning the elimination of anti-social forces and sign a corporate scandals. our Japanese sites pertained to human resources memorandum on the elimination of anti-social forces with management and harassment. Outside Japan, about 50% business partners, contractors, and customers. Examples of Unethical Conduct pertained to unethical conduct in accounting, sales, and other A collection of examples of unethical conduct is distributed to business areas. Posters were distributed to the group employees for the purpose of preventing compliance companies in Japan to inform the employees of the Awareness Activities violations. The collection is updated each year with the whistleblowing hotline and further enhance visibility and trust addition of new instructive examples compiled from inside in the service. Yokogawa offers a broad range of awareness programs such as and outside the Group and is made available to all employees. compliance education and training, with the aim of fostering Issues Reported/Consulted employees’ awareness and understanding of compliance and a Compliance Week corporate culture that promotes fair, transparent, and open The “Compliance Week” campaign is conducted to ensure that Other 14.6% business practices with high ethical standards. a compliance mindset is embraced and upheld by all Quality 2.4% Human resources management 34.1% 195 Group training sessions employees of the group companies in Japan. Initiatives Marketing/sales 2.4% include providing education through e-learning and inviting Approx. Finance employees to submit compliance slogans. (accounting/assets) 4.9% Approx. 8,600 e-learning participants In Japan Complaints, etc. 4.9% Compliance Awareness Survey Intellectual property/information 4.9% Approx. 310 slogan applications Each year, a compliance awareness survey is conducted Workplace environment 9.8% Harassment 22.0% among all employees of the Yokogawa Group. Based on the result, changes in compliance awareness are visualized for Other 12.5% each workplace and position and are reflected in the activities Human resources management 25.0% Compliance Training and Education for the next fiscal year by respective group companies. Intellectual property/ information 6.3% Compliance training was held again in FY2019 to spread and In FY2019, we conducted an engagement survey among all establish compliance awareness in all group companies. In employees of the Yokogawa Group for the purpose of understanding the current situation and increasing employee Outside Japan Japan, employees have various opportunities to receive roleHarassment 12.5% specific training, including when they join the company, are engagement. The survey was also used to ascertain promoted a managerial position, and are transferred to an compliance awareness among employees. The scores for the international post. Further, e-learning is offered primarily to category “compliance awareness” were overall high according Marketing/sales 18.8% Finance (accounting/assets) 25.0% 2020 Yokogawa Sustainability Report 27 Sustainability Human Resources Environmental Responsibility in Data/ Introduction Sustainability Stories Management Management Management Value Chain Company Profile Roadmap to Achieving the Sustainability Goals Progress Towards the Sustainability Goals in FY2019 Sustainability Governance Risk Management Code of Conduct and Compliance Climate Risks and Opportunities (Response to TCFD) Community Engagement Climate Risks and Opportunities (Response to TCFD) Environment Surrounding Yokogawa established by the Financial Stability Board (FSB) to promote formulating business strategies and plans. The management the disclosure of climate-related financial information works on sustainability targets linked to the mid-term business Given that energy, chemical and other manufacturing (February 2019). plan, including targets related to climate change, and reports industries that have a significant impact on global greenhouse Based on the TCFD’s recommendations, Yokogawa analyzes the progress periodically to the Board of Directors. gas (GHG) emissions form the clientele of Yokogawa’s risks related to climate change and assesses their financial For Group-wide risks including climate change risks, the businesses, climate change has a heavy impact on its business impact as shown in the following table, reflects the findings in management has established the Risk Management activities in terms of both risks and opportunities. In recent its management strategies and disclose relevant information. Committee, which selects high-priority risks that should be years, our customers have also been dramatically shifting managed preferentially at the Group level, monitors the their business strategies in consideration of the issue of FY2019 Sort climate-related information according to the TCFD’ s management status of such risks, and reports them to the recommendations Board of Directors. As the chair of the Risk Management climate change. While the construction of new coal-fired power plants will FY2020 Incorporate medium/long-term risks and opportunities of climate Committee, the President and CEO is responsible for overseeing change into strategies all matters in relation to risk management. be curtailed in the medium-term, LNG (which is regarded as a fossil fuel with a relatively small footprint in terms of GHG FY2021 Start executing management strategies and incorporating them Sustainability Governance Risk Management emissions) is expected to increase in demand, despite the into financial impact assessment economic slowdown due to the COVID-19 pandemic, as a temporary alternative until renewable energy becomes Strategy widespread. Also there is a growing need to reduce GHG by Climate-related Financial Information Impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on saving energy. Both of these will have positive impact on businesses, strategy and financial planning Yokogawa's businesses. Recommended disclosures: Markets that will undergo substantial growth in the future Governance a) Mediumand long-term risks —including those of various types of renewable energy, Governance around climate-related risks and opportunities b) Impact on businesses, strategy and financial planning electricity storage, electric power transmission and Recommended disclosures: c) Resilience of strategy regarding climate scenarios management of energy supply/demand adjustment—are a) Board of Directors’ monitoring structure fields in which Yokogawa will be able to leverage its expertise b) Management’s role Outline of Strategy in measurement and control that it has gained to date. Energy, chemical and other manufacturing industries, which As these changes present huge business opportunities for Board of Directors’ Role greatly influence global GHG emissions, form the clientele of Yokogawa, we will proactively propose new solutions and The Board of Directors formulates basic policies for dealing with Yokogawa’ s businesses. Yokogawa helps customers reduce work on business expansion in collaboration with our partner climate change as well as those regarding improvement of a their GHG emissions through its solutions that realize stable companies. system for managing risks and opportunities, and monitors and operation, higher overall business efficiency and energy supervises the effective operation of the system, in addition to conservation. Yokogawa regards the growth of renewable Formulation of Climate Change Strategy and the setting of sustainability targets and their implementation energy-related markets and business strategy shifts of our Disclosure of Information According to TCFD’s status. The Board takes into consideration climate-related customers in responding to climate change as huge business Recommendations impacts during discussions of business strategies and plans. opportunities and we are expanding our businesses under the TF2020. Based on its determination to proactively address the issue of Management’s Role climate change and prepare itself for the future, Yokogawa The management, whose top decision-making body is the Long-term Business Framework and Mid-term Business Plan expressed its support for recommendations of the Task Force Management Board, takes into account the impact of climate We evaluated changes in the positioning of energy resources on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), which was change in terms of both risks and opportunities when 2020 Yokogawa Sustainability Report 28 Sustainability Human Resources Environmental Responsibility in Data/ Introduction Sustainability Stories Management Management Management Value Chain Company Profile Roadmap to Achieving the Sustainability Goals Progress Towards the Sustainability Goals in FY2019 Sustainability Governance Risk Management Code of Conduct and Compliance Climate Risks and Opportunities (Response to TCFD) Community Engagement and the growing need to resolve social issues in the context of Risk Management Process changes in our external environment relating to climate At least once a year, each organizational unit of the Group Metrics and Targets change when formulating our long-term business framework, identifies/assesses/prioritizes risks, establishes Metrics and targets for assessing and managing climate which sets out what kind of company Yokogawa will strive to countermeasures and targets, and implements the -related risks and opportunities Recommended disclosures: become by looking 10 years and even further into the future, countermeasures. The department responsible for internal a) Metrics for assessment as well as the TF2020 mid-term business plan targeting control system identifies the risks to the Group and establishes b) GHG emissions and related risks FY2020. In light of these changes, we defined the sustainable, and executes countermeasures and targets as a comprehensive c) Targets and performance low-carbon, and circular society that we will pursue for future manager of risks relating to compliance and crisis events. The generations as the “Three goals.” Sustainability targets which secretariat of the Risk Management Committee collects the we have set for the medium term are: contributing to the assessment results of each organizational unit of the Group and In terms of items that have a significant environmental impact, suppression of GHG emissions through the expansion of categorizes the risks deemed significant from the viewpoint of we have set GHG emissions, energy usage and water usage as renewable and low-carbon energy; improvement of business opportunities, compliance and crisis events, etc. The sustainability KPIs. customers’ resource efficiency; and reduction of GHG Risk Management Committee selects high-priority risks, decides As for our GHG emissions performance, we have calculated emissions associated with Yokogawa’s business activities. their monitoring methods and reports them to the Board of scope 1 emissions, scope 2 emissions and scope 3 emissions Directors. The selection of high-priority risks involves evaluating according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol methodology and Roadmap to Achieving the Sustainability Goals the severity of each risk in terms of magnitude of impact and disclosed them in this Report. Progress Towards the Sustainability Goals in FY2019 likelihood of occurrence. In evaluating the magnitude of Our business target has been set at 1 billion tons (from impact, social and environmental impacts including responses FY2018 to FY2030) in avoided CO2 emissions to be pursued with Risk Management to climate change are taken into account, in addition to customers with the aim of alleviating climate change. We have financial and human aspects. The Risk Management Committee calculated avoided CO2 emissions by comparing CO2 emissions Identification, assessment and management processes of climate-related risks monitors the risk management status in each organizational released from average fossil fuel use with LNG production Recommended disclosures: unit and reports the findings to the Board of Directors. output and renewable energy power generation output by a) Risk identification and assessment processes The department in charge of internal audits evaluates the plants where the Yokogawa Group took part in its construction. b) Risk management process effectiveness of the Group’s risk management processes, and Our target for business facilities has been set at 34% reduction c) Process for integrating climate-related risks into reports important matters to the Board of Directors and Audit in GHG emissions (FY2030/FY2013). This target is consistent overall risk management & Supervisory Board Members twice a year. with the reduction in GHG emissions according to the 2 degrees Celsius scenario of the International Energy Agency (IEA) based High-priority Risks on the Paris Agreement. Outline of Management of Climate Change Risks In FY2019, the risk of rapid changes in market requirements due Our performance in FY2019 was 85.13 million tons in avoided We define uncertainty that might affect the Group’s corporate to the SDGs including responses to climate change was selected CO2 emissions (cumulative total since FY2018) and 23.8% value as risk and categorize and manage this in terms of and managed as one of the Group’s high-priority risks. This risk reduction in GHG emissions. business opportunities, compliance and crisis events. We have was selected again as a high-priority risk in FY2020. established the Risk Management Committee, which selects Progress Towards the Sustainability Goals in FY2019 high-priority risks that should be managed preferentially at the Risk Management Environmental Initiatives at Business Facilities Group level and monitors the management status of such risks. Macroeconomic trends and large-scale disasters such as Risk Establishment of Implementation of Prioritization Countermeasures/ flooding that are attributable to climate change are assessed as identification Targets Countermeasures common risks in the entire organization, the findings of which Identify Determine order Formulate Implement are factored into the selection of high-priority risks in uncertainties of priority of countermeasures countermeasures associated with combination with the assessment of individual risks. Each climate change risks by taking and targets accounting to into account according to plan and check/ organizational unit assesses risks associated with climate on a single-year financial and order of priority improve their basis and in the change on a single year basis as well as in the medium/long medium/long human aspects and factor them effectiveness run, and takes measures such as risk reduction. run in terms of as well as into business both risks and impact of plan opportunities climate change 2020 Yokogawa Sustainability Report 29 Sustainability Human Resources Environmental Responsibility in Data/ Introduction Sustainability Stories Management Management Management Value Chain Company Profile Roadmap to Achieving the Sustainability Goals Progress Towards the Sustainability Goals in FY2019 Sustainability Governance Risk Management Code of Conduct and Compliance Climate Risks and Opportunities (Response to TCFD) Community Engagement Community Engagement Yokogawa strives for harmonious co-existence with local communities as a “good citizen,” recognizing the fact that companies Major Corporate Citizenship Activities and Contribution to are also members of society. We not only contribute to society through our businesses, but also promote a wide range of local SDGs in FY2019 contribution activities and cooperate in achieving common regional and social goals in all countries and regions in which we do business and thereby contribute to their progress. Goal 3. Good health and well-being We also assist our employees in participating in local contribution activities as “good citizens” and offer volunteer programs Supporting activities of sports organizations and events (Japan, Vietnam and USA) in which employees can make the most of their diverse skills and capabilities, including local human resources development Supporting activities to enhance maternal and child health (Japan, Myanmar and and environmental conservation activities in local communities. Cambodia) Blood donation activities (Japan, USA, Bahrain, Saudi Arabia, UAE and Indonesia) Visiting and supporting elderly communities (Japan) Donations to medical institutions (Japan, USA, Spain, Netherlands, Australia, Singapore, Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand, Taiwan and India) Policy for Corporate Citizenship Activities Corporate Citizenship Activities Donations to local cultural events (Japan, UK, Germany, South Korea, Singapore, China, USA, Australia and Vietnam) Goal 4. Quality education Based on the Yokogawa Philosophy and the Yokogawa Group Yokogawa’s corporate citizenship activities for FY2019 took Code of Conduct, we engage in corporate citizenship activities the form of financial assistance (184.4 million yen), donations Outdoor education events (Japan and China) Supporting community education programs and education activities by prioritizing fields related to our core business. of goods and the opening of its facilities to the public (Japan, USA, Norway, France, UAE, Croatia, Australia, Brazil, South Korea, (equivalent to 46 million yen), and support activities by its Austria, Israel, Czech Republic, Nigeria, Poland, New Zealand, UK, Myanmar, employees (equivalent to 19 million yen). Vietnam, Netherlands, Germany, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Indonesia, Thailand, Focus areas India and China) According to SDG classification, our activities related to Goal 11. Sustainable cities and communities Regions in which we conduct business Goal 3 (good health and well-being) turned out to be the Our business fields highest in number among all corporate citizenship activities in Supporting disaster-afflicted areas (Japan) Local volunteer activities (Japan and Turkmenistan) Large-scale disasters which we are engaged. Out of the 17 goals comprising the Supporting international exchange activities (Japan) Contribution to social progress SDGs, our activities contribute to 13 goals in total. Goal 1. No poverty Supporting local community centers (South Korea) Field trip event targeting Providing aid in the form of clothes, livelihood support and assistance disadvantaged children in South for school supplies (Japan, India, Afghanistan, UK, USA, the Philippines, Indonesia, Korea (Goal 3 of SDGs) China and South Korea) Guidelines on Corporate Citizenship Activities Goal 2. Zero hunger Providing meals and livelihood support (India, Australia and South Korea) Yokogawa Group has established its Guidelines on Corporate Goal 13. Climate action Citizenship Activities and promotes its corporate citizenship Afforestation activities (Australia, New Zealand and Singapore) activities accordingly. We ensure the transparency of Goal 14. Life below water corporate citizenship activities that involve donations and Goal 15. Life on land expenditures by clarifying their resolution/approval Supporting biodiversity activities (Japan, the Philippines and Thailand) procedures and standards. Goal 5. Gender equality Supporting the empowerment of women (Japan and Australia) Support for initiatives during science experiment week at 20 schools in India (Goal 4 of SDGs) 2020 Yokogawa Sustainability Report 30 Sustainability Human Resources Environmental Responsibility in Data/ Introduction Sustainability Stories Management Management Management Value Chain Company Profile Improvement of Employee Engagement Diversity and Inclusion Human Resources Development A Safe and Comfortable Work Environment Human Resources Management Companies are supported by people and society. Yokogawa seeks to provide all members of our diverse workforce with opportunities to thrive at work, fulfill their potential, and grow with society. This chapter will introduce our initiatives relating to human resources and occupational health and safety. A Safe and Comfortable Work Environment Human Resources CONTENTS Development 36 Promotion of Work-Life Management Workplace Reform Diversity and 37 Management of Health and Productivity Improvement of Inclusion Harassment Prevention Employee Assistance Program (EAP) Employee 35 Fostering a Corporate Culture That Inspires Employees to Grow with the 38 Occupational Health and Safety Initiatives Engagement Company Occupational Health and Safety Policy Global Talent Management System Operation of the Occupational Health and Safety Management System (OHSMS) 34 Diversification of Human Resources Empowering Women 39 Occupational Health and Safety 32 Global Employee Engagement Survey Promoting Active Participation of Education and Training Setting Sustainability KPIs People with Disabilities Yokogawa Safety Handbook Elimination and Reduction of 33 Measures for the Group Occupational Accidents Activity Schedule 2020 Yokogawa Sustainability Report 31 Sustainability Human Resources Environmental Responsibility in Data/ Introduction Sustainability Stories Management Management Management Value Chain Company Profile Improvement of Employee Engagement Diversity and Inclusion Human Resources Development A Safe and Comfortable Work Environment Improvement of Employee Engagement For the sustainable growth of Yokogawa, it is indispensable for all employees to band together and maximize their strengths as a team in pursuit of a common goal, and each and every employee to grow in this process. Improvement of employee engagement will be an important key. When employees empathize with Yokogawa’s vision and mission and have pride as a member of Yokogawa, they will deepen their engagement with the company, which will translate into contributing toward achieving goals vigorously and actively. Factors such as mental and physical health, rewarding work and good interpersonal relationships also have an impact on employee engagement. Yokogawa regards improving employee engagement as one of its key management issues and is continuously working on this within the Group. Global Employee Engagement Survey Key Findings Area Strengths Opportunities for Improvement To capture the level of employee engagement, we regularly conduct a Global Employee Engagement Survey (GEES) Our leadership models Yokogawa Core Values, targeting all employees of the Yokogawa Group. GEES is an develops future leaders, gives them confidence in their There is a lack of clear future vision and sharing by leaders, and a lack of employees understanding of how awareness survey covering 15 categories, including career (1) Strategy / direction (senior leadership) decisions and they understand how TF2020 strategy relates to their own work development, leadership and sustainable engagement. their work contributes to the realization of a sustainable achievements. According to the results of GEES conducted in FY2019, positive society. responses accounted for at least 60% in all categories, and the There are still improvement opportunities for their scores were higher in many categories than in the results of They have personal job development opportunity and immediate managers to give them regular feedback, the previous GEES conducted in FY 2015. (2) Individual development growth in Yokogawa, with their immediate managers leverage more on non-monetary recognition and Results are analyzed from 4 areas (1) strategy/ direction (2) giving them job recognition at work. rewards, and improve management of poor individual development (3) culture (4) system, to identify the performers. strength to be enhanced and improvements. Teamwork is encouraged in Yokogawa with a customerThere are still opportunities to improve collaboration oriented culture. In addition, the company has an outside their teams, understanding internal/external (3) Culture Setting Sustainability KPIs Innovation Culture whereby employees are able to challenge traditional ways of doing things. customer expectations and seek their service experience feedback. Yokogawa has set the score of employees’ sustainable Level of empowerment/delegation is still low, and engagement as a sustainability KPI. Using Willis Towers The company has an Innovation Culture whereby efficiency score had declined. This may be due to the (4) System employees are able to challenge traditional ways of Watson’s model, the score indicates the connection between fact that we are in a transitional phase towards building doing things. employees and Yokogawa (think, feel and act), awareness of our innovative and highly efficiency process. participating in management, sense of fulfillment of work and degree of satisfaction with the environment/mechanism that supports them. The result in FY2019 was 78%, up one percentage point from the previous survey conducted in FY2015. 2020 Yokogawa Sustainability Report 32 Sustainability Human Resources Environmental Responsibility in Data/ Introduction Sustainability Stories Management Management Management Value Chain Company Profile Improvement of Employee Engagement Diversity and Inclusion Human Resources Development A Safe and Comfortable Work Environment Measures for the Group 1 Understanding of vision and 2 Enhance Co-innovation 3 Self-fulfillment through Work Based on GEES results, we launched the following three strategy We will enhance collaboration by We will encourage each and every initiatives in FY2020 as efforts to enhance our strengths and employee to broaden his/her views, For better understanding of Yokogawa’s bringing down walls among individuals make improvements. We will add necessary measures to improve his/her skills and demonstrate vision and strategy, we introduced a new and organizational units. Specifically, we enhance employee engagement. his/her presence. Based on the principle goal management system, which is have built a mechanism whereby designed to cascade the group goal to individuals can get feedback from of “Plan your own career,” we utilize an open application system to proactively each employee. By enabling each employees other than their boss so that give opportunities to employees who employee to see all upper class goals, cross-organizational projects and other take on challenges. We will also provide he/she can understand how his/her work activities outside the organizational unit various education opportunities by contributes to the Group. to which they belong. increasing the content of Yokogawa University. Activity Schedule FY2019 FY2020 3Q 4Q 1Q 2Q 3Q 4Q Milestone Implementation Sharing of results Analysis / action plan Execution of action Report to Analyze overall results Top management GEES Implement overall measures Activity Business units & regional HQs / subsidiaries & affiliates Analyze results and examine measures in each Execute measures in each organizational unit All employees organizational unit 2020 Yokogawa Sustainability Report 33 Sustainability Human Resources Environmental Responsibility in Data/ Introduction Sustainability Stories Management Management Management Value Chain Company Profile Improvement of Employee Engagement Diversity and Inclusion Human Resources Development A Safe and Comfortable Work Environment Diversity and Inclusion Yokogawa values the culture where employees accept differences of others and respect individuality. To promote this, Yokogawa actively recruits, develops, and promotes people from a variety of backgrounds who differ in terms of experience, knowledge, thinking styles, perspective, cultural background, and socioeconomic status, and in so doing will not discriminate based on ethnicity, nationality, gender, religion, age, social position, or disability. By utilizing digital technology and cultivating an inclusive working environment, we will make it possible for every employee to demonstrate his or her full potential and to work comfortably with a flexible workstyle. Engaging communication and constructive collaboration based on mutual respect facilitates innovation and the co-creation of new value. The Diversification of Human Resources Promoting Active Participation by Women flextime system without core time, a telecommuting system and a time-unit leave system, keeping pace with work-style The diversity of our people is our strength as well as a Yokogawa is promoting women’s empowerment as a part of its reform activities. In March 2016, we formulated a General requirement for Yokogawa to expand its businesses globally. diversity promotion activities based on the human asset Employer Action Plan based on the Act on the Promotion of Not only overseas but also in Japan, we encourage active strategy of the midterm business plan. In April 2015 Yokogawa Female Participation and Career Advancement in the Workplace participation of human resources of diverse ethnic established a work section that is dedicated to the promotion and disclosed it on the website of the Ministry of Health, Labour backgrounds and nationalities. To enable this, we have of diversity globally and pursuing its goal of achieving a ration and Welfare. In July 2016, Yokogawa Electric Corporation was expanded the scope of the global job opportunity system to of Women managers of 7% (non-consolidated) and 12% recognized by the Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare as a allow employees to apply for open job opportunities (global) by fiscal year 2020. In Japan, to actively help women to company whose measures for promoting active female anywhere around the world. The recruitment of international achieve success in their jobs, Yokogawa also provides assistance participation is excellent (stage (three stars) that satisfies all five students at Japanese universities and overseas universities is with formulating career development plans and career items to be evaluated) globally, regions recognize International also increasing. In 2019, we collaborated with Indian development training. To improve their work environment, Women’s Day and promote Women in STEM networks. universities and recruited science students with advanced IT seminars are held to raise awareness among managers skills for internships. Also, in Japan, we have prepared the concerning the need to empower women. At the “Career and intra-company infrastructures providing company regulations, Leadership” panel discussion held in July 2020, Yokogawa Promoting Active Participation by People with business notices, cafeteria menus, and internal broadcasts in president (Nara Hitoshi) and women leaders from Yokogawa Disabilities both Japanese and English, and appropriately offering answered questions from women who attended Yokogawa’s Since it launched a normalization project in 1992, Yokogawa information to support their livelihood in Japan on the career development training program. In recruitment activities, Electric Corporation has consistently continued its activities to intranet. We have been our target rate for female employees is 30% or more, with the recruit employees with disabilities and encourage them to engage implementing the training long-term aim of optimizing Yokogawa's workforce gender in various fields, such as engineering, sales, and office work. program Japanese Culture & composition. In April 2020, women made up 41.3% of the new Yokogawa promotes employment of people with intellectual Communication to understand graduates joining the company in Japan. To create an disabilities, holding up independence, autonomy, ambition, cultures and customs from both environment where various types of employees can and rising to challenges as its keywords. Yokogawa Foundry Japanese and overseas comfortably work, Corporation, a Group viewpoints. We expect that have challenging company, has been certified advancing the diversification and work, and grow, as a special subsidiary improving the ability to respond Yokogawa is conforming to The Act for Promotion of Employment will fuse diverse sense of values tackling of Persons with Disabilities. to create new values. improvement of its We will continue to promote corporate system the active participation of Flower arrangement in Japanese and culture, by Celebrating International Women in Engineering Day by employees with disabilities Culture & Communication introducing a sharing their personal experiences in cooperation with labor An employee in charge of the development of new bio equipment for our life innovation organizations. business 2020 Yokogawa Sustainability Report 34 Sustainability Human Resources Environmental Responsibility in Data/ Introduction Sustainability Stories Management Management Management Value Chain Company Profile Improvement of Employee Engagement Diversity and Inclusion Human Resources Development A Safe and Comfortable Work Environment Human Resources Development A diverse workforce is an indispensable management resource and a key driver for Yokogawa’s growth and creation of value. To achieve the targets of the TF2020 mid-term business plan, Yokogawa is pursuing a human resources strategy that is focused on transformation through the strengthening of human resources, promotion of diversity and inclusion, and management of health and productivity for creation of new value through co-innovation with our customers. Moreover, to be a good partner, a good corporate citizen, a going concern, a good brand, and a good employer, we will promote group-wide efforts to cultivate a rewarding corporate culture by instilling Yokogawa’s mission and purpose in the hearts of each employee and establishing a framework that enables employees to challenge their career goals. Fostering a Corporate Culture That Inspires and other resources needed to create new businesses and Employees to Grow with the Company transform business models. External e-learning resources have also been incorporated to expand the programs. A Initiatives of Yokogawa University to Realize a “Learning cross-departmental steering committee plays a central role in Company” preparing each program while keeping in mind how an With the goal of ensuring Yokogawa can continue to create employee will be able to apply the expertise and skills learned greater value for our customers and society in a fast-changing in the program to actual business operations. world, in October 2018 we established Yokogawa University, While the University started with some 120 programs when an in-house institution, to provide our employees with an it opened in October 2018, the number of programs was environment to acquire and increase their level of expertise increased to about 680 by the end of March 2019, and to about and skills in a broad range of areas. E-learning is used as the 1,950 by the end of March 2020. We will continue to further primary method of training so that our employees around the expand the programs to include content that is useful for E-Learning course provided by globe have an equal opportunity to learn without time or business operations. Employees will apply what they learned an in-house expert location constraints. At the same time, we are developing from the programs to work and generate more value, so as to instructors globally to ensure the availability of instructors at realize growth for the Company. all our locations. Further, our officers serve as instructors to educate our employees. Our in-house instructor teaches By offering employees opportunities to take on new Yokogawa University’ s at a training workshop challenges and helping motivated employees grow faster curriculum while cultivating a corporate culture where employees can Business Literacy learn from one another (“Learning Company” ), Yokogawa Global Talent Management System aims to transform itself into an enterprise that is able to Acquire a set of basic skills expected of achieve sustained growth through employee growth and a professional To sustain growth and enhance its corporate value over the development. medium to long term, Yokogawa is prioritizing the development of leaders who are capable of achieving success Expanding the Program Content to be Useful for Business Industry Knowledge IT Literacy & in the global business arena. To systematically recruit and Operations & Specialized Course New Tech Frontier develop global human resources and prepare them for Education programs are divided into three major themes: managerial roles, in FY2018 Yokogawa established an Business literacy, which is a set of basic skills in leadership, Develop skills required for Learn the requisite IT knowledge organization to pursue a group-wide, strategic approach to finance, and other areas expected of a professional; themes Yokogawa’s business domain and the latest technical trends human resources allocation and development. Moving based on functional areas of business such as sales and forward, we will further expand our efforts to develop more services needed to transform existing businesses and to leaders in the near future. impart knowledge; and themes based on new technologies 2020 Yokogawa Sustainability Report 35 Sustainability Human Resources Environmental Responsibility in Data/ Introduction Sustainability Stories Management Management Management Value Chain Company Profile Improvement of Employee Engagement Diversity and Inclusion Human Resources Development A Safe and Comfortable Work Environment A Safe and Comfortable Work Environment Promotion of Work-Life Management an effort to create a corporate culture that encourages Workplace Reform employees to use these systems, our in-house newsletter The environment surrounding employees and their values are features the work styles of employees who are using the Since FY2018, we have worked on the introduction and constantly changing as they go through different stages of life. programs effectively and a message from the president. We improvement of free work spaces. These spaces are intended We support employees to manage their work and family life have also opened an information site called HataLabo (work for many different purposes. For example, Collaboration Space by establishing new flexible work systems, including a flexstyle laboratory) on the intranet to introduce various examples is designed to facilitate internal collaboration; Relaxation time system without core time, a telecommuting system, and of work styles and programs. In this way, we have employed Space helps staff members come up with ingenious new ideas; a time-unit leave system, so that they can focus on work with many different media channels to encourage the use of the and Concentration Space is for individuals to concentrate on peace of mind as they adapt to various life changes. Yokogawa programs. As a response to the COVID-19 pandemic that their respective tasks. By allowing employees to freely choose Electric offers programs that help its employees balance work began in February 2020, we have transitioned to remote work where they work in accordance with the given situation, these and family, including an hourly childcare leave, which is for the most part and maintained our business operations spaces are made more efficient and comfortable to work in. available until the child enters elementary school, and a even after the state of emergency was declared, which has childcare leave for sick/injured children. In addition, the been functioning well from the perspective of business Company’s next-generation childcare assistance program continuity plans (BCP). In FY2019, the time-unit leave system supplies ¥100,000 per child once a year. Many employees, was used by 1,204 employees, more than half of the total both men and women, take advantage of these programs, and employees, for a total of 11,409 hours. Going forward, we will almost all of those who take childcare leave return to their continue to provide a work environment where each and former positions, thanks to the many programs supporting every one of our diverse workforce can take on new challenges workers returning from leave and a workplace culture based and grow while balancing work and life. At the same time, we on mutual understanding and support. To make it easier for will use the opportunity afforded by the pandemic to promote employees to take childcare leave, the Company informs new work styles centered around telecommuting. those with a new child and their superiors of the availability of its childcare programs. We have also developed related programs, including full pay for the first week of childcare leave. As a consequence, the percentage of male workers who take childcare leave increased from the 1% range to 7.9% (FY2019). Further, the Company was successful in attracting Poppins Nursery School Musashino, a nursery certified by the Tokyo metropolitan government, to the premises of our head office to help not just employees but local residents balance childcare and work. As a result of these efforts, the Company was recognized in 2007 by the director-general of the Tokyo Labor Bureau as a company supporting childcare. Kurumin mark The telecommuting system and time-unit leave system introduced by Yokogawa Electric in FY2016 are used by many employees, including those who need childcare and nursing support, as a work style unconstrained by time or location. In HataLabo Director mark A free work space in the head office of Yokogawa Electric 2020 Yokogawa Sustainability Report 36 Sustainability Human Resources Environmental Responsibility in Data/ Introduction Sustainability Stories Management Management Management Value Chain Company Profile Improvement of Employee Engagement Diversity and Inclusion Human Resources Development A Safe and Comfortable Work Environment Management of Health and Productivity each employee tips to improve Employee Assistance Program (EAP) lifestyle. In particular, moderate We have been engaging in initiatives to maintain and improve exercise helps to prevent EAP for a Healthy, Fulfilling Company Life our employees’ health, including developing workstyles lifestyle-related illness and We offer an Employee Assistance Program, which is designed to without any constraints in terms of location or time and a mental diseases, serves as a help employees maintain high performance and avoid a comfortable office environment, managing working hours, and stress relief, and improves job situation in which they are unable to demonstrate their full providing health development programs. In September 2016, performance. Yokogawa’s senior potential due to health problems and life changes. Under EAP, we established the Health Declaration as our Group-wide basic executives are also taking part in Senior executives participating in the health development program (body we establish a comfortable working environment while policy on health management with the aim of further the program in a company-wide composition measurement) improving the program to adapt to the current situation and accelerating various initiatives related to employee health from effort to promote good health. support employees to manage both their mental health (e.g. the viewpoint of health and productivity management. From stress care) and careers (e.g. reinstatement support). It is our FY2020 onwards, our health and safety framework has been goal to ensure that all our employees stay in good health and integrated with business processes to turn it into a system that Harassment Prevention enjoy a fulfilling company life. allows activities to be conducted more effectively, including maintaining and improving health and ensuring safety. In order to promote diversity and develop an environment Key Activities Under EAP Yokogawa Electric has been selected as a “White 500” company where all employees can thrive, we revised the “Corporate with excellent health and productivity management practices Policy for Harassment” and established the “Harassment Utilize e-mail and web pages to provide relevant information for four consecutive years. Prevention Guidelines” in FY2016. We encourage the Education/PR that will help employees gain a better understanding of mental health. employees of Yokogawa Electric and its group companies Mental health Implement training for new employees and managers in an in Japan to be respectful of one another and inform them training effort to prevent or early detect mental health problems. Health Declaration that we do not tolerate any acts of harassment, including Based on the results of the stress check, identify causes of Yokogawa aims to be a company that supports its employees in sexual harassment, abuse of authority, harassment that stress in the workplace. Implement programs and activities their efforts to improve their physical and mental health, interferes with the use of childcare and nursing care leave, Stress check involving the entire workplace to prevent, contain, and encourages the development of lively and stimulating workplaces, eliminate these causes so as to ensure a more comfortable stalking, and discriminatory acts against LGBTs, and are workplace. and contributes to society. making efforts to ensure compliance and implementation. To care for employees who suffer from mental health Further, Yokogawa Electric has established the problems or take a leave of absence, and to ensure the Assistance for “Yokogawa Group General Hotline,” where the employees returning to smooth reinstatement of those who return to work after recovery so as to prevent recurrence, we have a system to of Yokogawa Electric Corporation and its group companies work provide proper support for each individual and workplace in in Japan can receive consultations on various issues all stages of mental health response. including harassment. When consulted, we conduct To promote employees’ physical and mental health, we offer Health Development Program necessary interviews and investigations on workplace Health health development programs centered around improving development lifestyle habits, particularly exercise habits. Physical exercise In FY2015, Yokogawa started a health development program conditions based on the intentions of employees seeking (health is effective in the prevention of mental disorders as well as where employees independently check their condition and advice while taking their privacy into consideration. If improvement physical illness. As such, we support our employees to improve are encouraged to provide self-care and improve their health. harassment is found to have occurred, we take strict measures) their health by checking their health condition and providing self-care. The program includes counting the number of steps in a disciplinary actions against the person who committed the We have a system to help our employees seek consultation one-week period, an interview with a physician on the day of harassment and give appropriate guidance such as within or outside the Company regarding not only mental the program (about exercise, diet, drinking, smoking, sleep, requesting measures to prevent reoccurrence. We ensure Consultation health but also various areas of human relationships, and cognitive habits, etc.), and the measurement of body that employees seeking consultation and employees who career issues, sexual harassment, abuse of authority, and discrimination against individuals including LGBTs. composition and physical fitness. In addition, occupational contribute to fact-finding investigations will not be treated physicians refer to findings from previous checkups and give disadvantageously. 2020 Yokogawa Sustainability Report 37 Sustainability Human Resources Environmental Responsibility in Data/ Introduction Sustainability Stories Management Management Management Value Chain Company Profile Improvement of Employee Engagement Diversity and Inclusion Human Resources Development A Safe and Comfortable Work Environment Occupational Health and Safety Initiatives Yokogawa Group occupational health and safety management Yokogawa Group Occupational Health and Safety Objectives system. Elimination or reduction of occupational accidents. The Yokogawa Group has introduced an Occupational Health Provide the education and training to all of the Yokogawa Group Secure safety and promote health for personnel involved. and Safety Management System (OHSMS) and seeks to personnel. Establishment, maintenance and improvement of occupational continuously enhance the levels of activities related to Invest management resources appropriately, perform audits on health and safety management system. occupational health and safety and promote risk reduction. a regular basis and make continual improvements in the (OHSMS) is; With the goal of improving the levels of occupational health Yokogawa Group occupational health and safety management (1) To make continual improvements in OHS activities, through and safety in phases, the Group is undertaking initiatives to system. implementation of PDCA cycle and sharing OHS activity eliminate and reduce potential risks identified through risk information. assessment and is regularly conducting internal audits of the Operation of the Occupational Health and (2) To conduct risk assessments in all Yokogawa Group Companies, Group companies to evaluate and review the initiatives. for eliminating or reducing risks. Yokogawa is also enhancing the effectiveness of the system by Safety Management System (OHSMS) (3) To maintain OHS at its current level or improve it by carrying combining these initiatives with its existing activities, out OHSMS audits. including analysis of and countermeasures against nearmisses and health and safety patrol. With the goal of improving the levels of occupational health and Observation of laws and regulations safety in phases, the Group is undertaking initiatives to eliminate Observe all OHS-related laws and regulations. and reduce potential risks identified through periodic risk Conduct of OHS activities is; Occupational Health and Safety Policy assessment and is conducting internal audits of the Group (1) To maintain and/or improve OHS control level. companies to evaluate and review the initiatives. Yokogawa is (2) To build awareness of traffic safety. In recognition that occupational health and safety are a basis for also enhancing the effectiveness of the system by combining (3) To provide OHS training. the management of the Yokogawa Group, Yokogawa shall pursue these initiatives with its existing activities, including analysis of (4) To conduct fire and evacuation drills. the following initiatives to promote, create and maintain health and countermeasures against near-misses and health and safety Disclosure of OHS information and safety for all of its personnel involved. patrol. Communicate openly with Group personnel and the local community about OHS activities and results. Establish and promote an occupational health and safety management system. OHSMS Structure Observe the laws and regulations relating to occupational President & CEO of Yokogawa Electric health and safety. Seek to eliminate or lessen risks to occupational health and Health and Safety Officer of Yokogawa Group safety by first assessing their danger level. Promote open communications with Yokogawa Group personnel, customers, shareholders, members of the local Head of department responsible for OHS at the Yokogawa Group community, and contractors to maintain occupational health and safety system. Provide the education and training to all of the Yokogawa Group personnel. Health and Safety Yokogawa Group Health and Safety Yokogawa Group Health and Safety Yokogawa Manager companies in Manager companies Manager Invest management resources appropriately, perform audits on Electric Secretariat Japan Secretariat outside Japan Secretariat a regular basis and make continual improvements in the 2020 Yokogawa Sustainability Report 38 Sustainability Human Resources Environmental Responsibility in Data/ Introduction Sustainability Stories Management Management Management Value Chain Company Profile Improvement of Employee Engagement Diversity and Inclusion Human Resources Development A Safe and Comfortable Work Environment Occupational Health and Safety Education and Yokogawa Safety Handbook Elimination and Reduction of Occupational Training Accidents As part of our measures to achieve our mid-term sustainability target (elimination of occupational accidents), we published To maintain and improve the standards of activities To eliminate and reduce occupational accidents and improve the Yokogawa Safety Handbook in FY2019. Shared by the throughout the entire Yokogawa Group and eliminate the quality of health and safety activities, the Yokogawa Group entire Yokogawa Group, the handbook is intended as a guide occupational accidents, we are committed to providing aggregates and analyzes data and information on to help employees ensure safety and behave in a safe manner. awareness activities for all group employees. We offer an occupational accidents on a quarterly basis. The information It comprises nine safety principles and three tips on educational program to reiterate the importance of preventing is provided throughout the Group on the intranet to prevent occupational health and safety. The nine safety principles “slips, trips, and falls,” as well as “Yokogawa QHSE Month,” an recurrence of the same or similar accidents. focus on reducing the risk of occupational accidents. The awareness program related to quality, occupational health three tips introduce topics helpful in building and maintaining and safety and the environment. We also provide education a safe workplace environment. The handbook was translated Frequency rate of lost time accidents targeting newly-appointed personnel in charge of into multiple languages and distributed to all staff members occupational health and safety activities, etc., hold workshops of the Yokogawa Group. Consolidated Temporary and contract employees in the Health and Safety Committee, conduct training sessions 0.6 Frequency rate of lost time accidents = Number of lost time accidents ÷ Aggregate number of work-hours × 1,000,000 for ensuring safety while performing tasks at our customers’ 0.5 plants, factories, etc. and give lectures on traffic safety, among others. 0.4 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Frequency rate of occupational accidents Frequency rate of occupational accidents = (Number of lost time accidents + Number of no lost time accidents) ÷ 1.2 Aggregate number of work-hours × 1,000,000 1.0 0.8 Yokogawa Safety Handbook 0.6 0.4 First-aid training (Yokogawa Electric) 0.2 0 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 2020 Yokogawa Sustainability Report 39 Sustainability Human Resources Environmental Responsibility in Data/ Introduction Sustainability Stories Management Management Management Value Chain Company Profile Environmental Management Environmental Practices Environmental Initiatives at Business Facilities Environmental Management Climate change and resource problems may impact the continued existence of not only business activities but also humankind. Yokogawa has taken initiatives to protect the global environment. This chapter explains our environmental conservation activities. Environmental Initiatives at CONTENTS Business Facilities Environmental Practices 44 Global Warming Prevention Environmental Target for the Reduction of GHG Emissions and Performance Management GHG Emissions in Our Supply Chain 45 Reduction of Waste Chemical Substance Reduction 43 Data of Environmental Practices PRTR Substances Environmental Accounting Water Resource Conservation 41 Environmental Policy Promotion Structure 46 Response to Water Risks Environmental Management System Conserving Biodiversity 42 Environmentally-friendly Design LCA Label 2020 Yokogawa Sustainability Report 40 Sustainability Human Resources Environmental Responsibility in Data/ Introduction Sustainability Stories Management Management Management Value Chain Company Profile Environmental Management Environmental Practices Environmental Initiatives at Business Facilities Environmental Management Environmental Policy (3) Provide society with value-added solutions and services Environmental Management System that contribute to environmental conservation through In keeping with its corporate philosophy of “contributing to measurement, control, and information technologies. The Yokogawa Group is implementing an environmental society through broad-ranging activities in the areas of (4) Strive to co-exist with society as a good corporate citizen management system in the Group companies to ensure full measurement, control, and information,” Yokogawa will by participating in environmental conservation activities compliance with the laws, regulations, and agreements for the undertake environmental conservation activities to achieve and encouraging employees to take part in voluntary prevention of environmental pollution. Moreover, we are the Three goals for 2050 and realize a sustainable society. activities. working to reduce the impact on the environment by means Provide all Yokogawa Group personnel with the education such as saving energy and transitioning to alternative Establish an environmental management system and clarify and training necessary to pursue conservation activities. technologies with smaller environmental footprint. its roles, authorities, and responsibilities. Disclose relevant information and promote open Yokogawa has acquired ISO 14001 certification at its major Prevent pollution by observing laws and regulations and, if communications with Yokogawa Group personnel, offices and manufacturing sites as part of its effort to improve necessary, setting voluntary standards. customers, shareholders, members of the local community, the environmental management system. Promote environmental conservation by tackling and business partners to deepen and co-create environmental issues such as climate change, biodiversity, environmental conservation actions and initiatives. Internal Audits and use of resources and by setting environmental targets. Make continual improvements on the Yokogawa Group Internal audits for ISO 14001 are conducted at least once a year. (1) Pursue resource recycling management by endeavoring environmental management system by evaluating to reduce, reuse, and recycle resources, conserve energy, environmental performance and conducting audits on a Annual Audit and prevent global warming, while reducing the risks of regular basis. Regular audits (renewal audit or surveillance) are conducted environmental pollution by minimizing substances Yokogawa Electric Corporation and Yokogawa Manufacturing Environmental Policy once a year at each ISO 14001-certified Group company by a having an environmental impact in all operations. certifying organization in order to maintain ISO 14001 (2) Develop and produce environmentally friendly products Promotion Structure certification. by evaluating the environmental footprint throughout the products’ lifecycle, from material procurement, The Yokogawa Group’s promotion structure for environmental ISO 14001 Certification at Yokogawa Group manufacturing, and distribution, to product use and activities is managed by the environmental officer of The Yokogawa Group has achieved ISO 14001 certification disposal. Yokogawa Electric. The structure promotes the Group’s primarily at its major offices and manufacturing sites in and environmental conservation activities and preventive outside Japan. measures against global warming. Environmentally See our website for our certification status. sustainable society Environmental Management Promotion Structure Provision of environmental President & CEO of Promotion of Promotion of Yokogawa Electric Corporation environmental solutions and environmental Environmental oﬃcer of management management by the Yokogawa Group environmentally by customers Yokogawa Electric Corporation Environmental management Resource and energy friendly products Resource and energy department conservation, pollution conservation, pollution prevention, waste reduction, prevention, waste reduction, promotion of reuse and promotion of reuse and Head of each headquarters/ President business headquarters recycling, etc. recycling, etc. Environmental oﬃcer Building Environmental promotion leader recycling-based Yokogawa Electric Corporation Environmental manager society Yokogawa Group companies 2020 Yokogawa Sustainability Report 41 Sustainability Human Resources Environmental Responsibility in Data/ Introduction Sustainability Stories Management Management Management Value Chain Company Profile Environmental Management Environmental Practices Environmental Initiatives at Business Facilities Environmentally Friendly Design Banned Substance 2: Any RoHS command regulated LCA Label substance Yokogawa actively develops environmentally friendly products Controlled Substance 1: Any SVHC (substance of very high Yokogawa began to conduct the life cycle assessment (LCA) in through the implementation of its own strict standards of concern) under the REACH regulation 1999 in the design phase of all new products as part of efforts design and assessment for long-term usability, energy-saving Controlled Substance 2: Any substance that is banned at to minimize our products' environmental impact. Some of the performance and other aspects. New products are evaluated certain concentrations, bound by the limited purposes of results of the LCA are disclosed on our website. When LCA data for energy consumption as well as the emission of carbon use or restricted in any way is disclosed for a product, the applicable product is LCA dioxide (CO2), nitrogen oxide (NOx) and sulfur oxide (SOx) Controlled Substance 3: Any substance for which the labeled in the product webpage and/or sales brochure. based on our Lifecycle Assessment (LCA) standards . amount contained in a product must be identified (1) Environmental Assessment Standards for Product Design (5) Recycled Product Design Standards Concept/Implementation of the LCA We have established assessment standards in eight areas: These standards encourage the three Rs: the reduction of Yokogawa has set its unique LCA standards based on JIS Q ease of recycling and treatment, resource conservation, waste, the reuse, and recycling of used products. 14040 Environmental management -Life cycle assessment energy conservation, long-term usability, ease of collection (6) Energy-saving Design Guidelines -Principles and framework. We compare a new product with and transport, safety and environmental protectiveness, These guidelines state that the matters to be ensured its previous product for assessment purposes. The results of information disclosure, and packaging. These standards energy-saving design in product use and manufacturing the LCA of the previous product are multiplied by the are used in conducting assessments during each processes. functional factor to compare the environmental impacts inspection (initial design, intermediate design, and final based on the equivalent functionality of the new product. design). Environmentally Friendly Design and Assessment Standards When the results of the LCA on the previous products clearly (2) Lifecycle Assessment (LCA) Standards suggest how these products would impact the environment, The LCA standards are used for preliminary assessments of Environmentally friendly product design we may only conduct LCA on the elements significantly Design Management of chemical substances in products energy use, CO2 emissions, NOx emissions, SOx emissions, standards Recycled product design affecting the environmental impact. and the like throughout the lifecycle of a product. These Energy-saving design standards are used in conducting assessments during each Requirements for LCA Labeling inspection (initial design, intermediary design, and final Environmental Directive on Waste Electrical and Electronic A product will be LCA-labeled if it meets all the requirements design). regulations Equipment（WEEE Directive） described below: outside Japan 1. Life cycle assessment has been conducted according to (3) Environmentally Friendly Product Design Guidelines Amendment China RoHS These guidelines state for long-life design, energy-saving Yokogawa's engineering specifications. design, resource-saving design, recycling-disposal design 2. The results of life cycle assessment are disclosed on the and processing as well as the design considered processing Product design Technical Manufacturing Initial Yokogawa website according to the company's internal Inspection prototype prototype production and assembly and the guideline for selecting materials and rules. parts. (4) Criteria for hazardous substances contained in products Intermediary The LCA-labeled products are disclosed on the Yokogawa website. The following criteria are provided to ensure that Initial design design Final design inspection inspection environmentally friendly parts and materials are selected inspection during the design phase. Controlled substances are classified into five different levels: Banned Substance 1: Any substance that is banned from Environmental Environmental assessment standards for product design inclusion in a product assessment guideline Lifecycle assessment standards 2020 Yokogawa Sustainability Report 42 Sustainability Human Resources Environmental Responsibility in Data/ Introduction Sustainability Stories Management Management Management Value Chain Company Profile Environmental Management Environmental Practices Environmental Initiatives at Business Facilities Environmental Practices Data of Environmental Practices Environmental Accounting Overview of Environmental Impact In accordance with the Ministry of the Environment’s Yokogawa calculates the eco-balance of its overall business Eco-Balance (Annual Input and Output) Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005, Yokogawa activities, or the annual volume of the energy and material Type of Environmental Footprint FY2019 calculates the costs of its environmental activities and their inputs for its business activities (including manufacturing, sales, Total Energy 1,463TJ economic impact. and service) as well as their annual output of waste and other Purchased power 124,688MWh Power substances into the air and water. Analysis of the eco-balance Renewable energy 120MWh Environmental Conservation Costs (FY2019) (Unit: millions of yen) helps us effectively use resources, raise energy efficiency, and Light oil 506kL Category Item Main Initiatives Capital Related Costs improve the waste recycling rate. Energy Petroleum Gasoline 2,859kL Investment Kerosene 12kL Pollution Monitoring and measurement 13.2 68.7 prevention costs Costs for reducing INPUT City gas 2,058kNm3 Compliance Gas LPG 329t environmental Environmental Energy savings 266.7 680.3 impact of factories conservation costs In FY2019 Yokogawa continued its efforts to ensure full Heat 108GJ (areas of operation) Resource compliance with environmental laws, regulations, agreements, Utility water 338km3 recycling costs Waste reduction, water conservation 0.0 100.4 Water and other requirements. As a result, Yokogawa committed no Ground water 175km3 Costs for reducing environmental major violations and faced no fines or other penalties resulting Paper 222t impact of procurement and logistics Green procurement 0.0 26.7 (upstream and downstream costs) from such violations. Hydrogen fluoride and its water-soluble salts 2t Substances Ferric chloride 11t EMS maintenance costs EMS updates, education 0.0 159.9 Xylene 1t Conserving Water and Soil Hydrazine 3t Environmental conservation costs in community activities Environmental events 0.0 42.7 Yokogawa has been conducting soil and water surveys at Costs for correcting damage to the environment Soil recovery 0.0 0.3 former plant sites in accordance with its proprietary control Type of Environmental Footprint FY2019 Total 279.9 1,079.0 standards since before the Japan’s Soil Contamination Greenhouse Gas (GHG) 78,770t-CO2e Countermeasures Act came into effect. Atmosphere NOx 3.8t * Data covers ISO 14001-certified manufacturing sites Effects of Environmental Conservation Measures SOx 0.2t Awareness Programs To raise employee awareness about the environment, OUTPUT Category Description of Effect FY2018 FY2019 Discharges Industrial wastewater 73km3 into water Total amount of energy consumed (TJ) 1,064 1,021 awareness programs are offered to all employees of the bodies General wastewater 401km 3 Inputs Total amount of water withdrawal (km3) 446 402 Yokogawa Group, including e-learning courses on quality, the Non-hazardous (Landfilling) 613t Global warming prevention CO2 emissions (t) 54,598 51,493 environment, and safety, films with environmental themes, and Outputs Total amount of waste generated (t) 3,764 3,812 lectures. Non-hazardous (Incineration) 393t Waste * Data covers ISO 14001-certified manufacturing sites Non-hazardous (Recycling) 3,333t Hazardous 574t Economic Effects of Environmental Conservation Measures (FY2019) (Unit: millions of yen) Segment Amount * Data covers sites in and outside Japan Revenue from recycling (sale of valuable resources, etc.) 59.5 Reduction in expenditures due to resource and energy savings (power, water, paper, etc.) 131.3 Total 190.8 * Data covers ISO 14001-certified manufacturing sites 2020 Yokogawa Sustainability Report 43 Sustainability Human Resources Environmental Responsibility in Data/ Introduction Sustainability Stories Management Management Management Value Chain Company Profile Environmental Management Environmental Practices Environmental Initiatives at Business Facilities Environmental Initiatives at Business Facilities Global Warming Prevention GHG Emission Reduction Targets for FY2020 and FY2030 and Performance Scope 1 Performance Scope 2 Performance Target The Yokogawa Group has set a mid-term GHG emissions (Unit: t-CO2e) reduction target for FY2030 based on the 2°C target defined in 103,411 the Paris Agreement. With the aim of achieving the FY2030 20% reduction target, we are improving the operation of production lines and 83,886 34% 78,770 reduction introducing high-efficiency air conditioning equipment, inverters, and LED lights. In offices and factories, we are saving energy by visualizing the use of energy to detect and reduce 82,745 wasteful practices. To optimize global logistics, our packaging has been 68,871 64,770 redesigned and made lighter and smaller. We also review 82,432 68,230 procedures and routes for shipping products in an effort to improve transportation efficiency. 20,666 15,015 14,000 Target for the Reduction of GHG Emissions and FY2013 Performance FY2018 Performance FY2019 Performance FY2020 Target FY2030 Target Performance (Base Year) Aiming to achieve the Yokogawa Group’s target for 2030 and GHG Emissions in Our Supply Chain (Scope 3) reduce GHG emissions across the Group, we are pursuing energy-saving measures and transitioning to renewable (Unit: t-CO2e) End-of-life treatment of sold products energy. Purchased goods 1,131 & services 204,683 GHG Emissions in Our Supply Chain Capital goods 29,874 We monitor and calculate indirect greenhouse gas emissions from our supply chain (Scope 3) as well as direct emissions Total emissions Fueland energy-related activities not included in from our fuel use (Scope 1) and indirect emissions from Use of sold products in FY2019 Scope 1 or 2 purchased energy (Scope 2). 617,473 903,747 7,178 Transportation & logistics 17,325 Waste generated in operations Employee commuting 947 7,385 Business travel 17,750 2020 Yokogawa Sustainability Report 44 Sustainability Human Resources Environmental Responsibility in Data/ Introduction Sustainability Stories Management Management Management Value Chain Company Profile Environmental Management Environmental Practices Environmental Initiatives at Business Facilities Reduction of Waste Chemical Substance Reduction PRTR Substances The Yokogawa Group is working to reduce waste by reducing, The Yokogawa Group places strict controls on chemicals that The amount of substances reported under PRTR* reusing, and recycling resources in our factories, offices, for are harmful to humans and the global environment. In requirements (1,000 kg/year or more handled) is shown in the example product packaging. addition, Yokogawa is developing and introducing alternative table below. processes in an effort to reduce chemical use and waste. *PRTR System: The PRTR, or Pollutant Release and Transfer Register, was established to Total Waste Generation Further, to comply with RoHS Directive restricting the use of enable society as a whole to manage chemical substances through the disclosure of toxic certain chemicals in electrical and electronic equipment in chemical emissions data and other information. (Unit: t) Europe, as well as with the REACH Regulation (Registration, 5,190 4,913 PRTR Data (FY2019) 4,507 4,805 Evaluation, Authorization and restriction of Chemical 4,204 substances), we are implementing initiatives for the reduction Amount Amount Amount emitted (kg) and proper management of such chemical substances. Factory Substance used transported (kg) (kg) Public Sewage External Air Soil Landfill water area system site Hydrogen fluoride Reduction of organic solvents by the introduction Yokogawa and its water1,597 3.4 110 0 0 0 0.1 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 of vacuum drying/washing machine Manufacturing soluble salt Komagane Hydrazine 2,620 0 0 0 0 0 0 Japan Factory Xylene 1,100 680 0 0 0 0 420 Ferric chloride 6,288 0 0 0 0 0 0 Yokogawa Manufacturing’s Komagane Factory manufactures sensors, which are key components of Yokogawa Manufacturing Ferric chloride 4,900 0 0 0 0 0 0 transmitters for measuring the flow rate and pressure of Kofu Factory liquid, gas and steam. In the sensor assembly process, water needs to be removed after the components are washed in pure water. The water removal task used to be done by dissolving water with isopropyl alcohol (IPA), an Water Resource Conservation Waste sorting at the recycling center organic solvent. In 2019, we introduced a vacuum drying/washing machine, which makes a robot perform Yokogawa is working to reduce the amount of water usage by all conveyance tasks inside the machine and can improving our production processes and introducing watervaporize moisture by heating the components at low temperature saving systems to our office water supplies. in a vacuum. Given that IPA is Water Withdrawals flammable and toxic, health hazard and fire risks can be (Unit: K m3) eliminated by abolishing its use. 617 600 615 561 We will strive to improve the 513 environment as well as occupational health and safety Automatic vacuum drying/ while ensuring product quality. washing machine FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 2020 Yokogawa Sustainability Report 45 Sustainability Human Resources Environmental Responsibility in Data/ Introduction Sustainability Stories Management Management Management Value Chain Company Profile Environmental Management Environmental Practices Environmental Initiatives at Business Facilities Response to Water Risks Conserving Biodiversity Tree planting activity for promoting In regions where securing water resource is a serious In its environmental policy, Yokogawa pledges its commitment biodiversity in the Philippines challenge, Yokogawa is promoting efforts related to water to biodiversity issues. Based on the Aichi Goal,* we also resource through measures such as monitoring water usage promote activities to conserve biodiversity. In 2019, Yokogawa Philippines Inc. on its 24th and securing alternative water resources. *An individual goal established by COP10 (10th Conference of Parties to the Convention on anniversary gave back not only to the people but also to the environment by planting more than 400 Malapapaya Biological Diversity) in 2010 to be achieved by the global community in the field of Yokogawa Electric Asia (Singapore) biodiversity by 2020 (Polyscias Nodosa) Trees in La Mesa Watershed. Yokogawa Electric Asia takes the following steps to support the La Mesa Watershed is a 2,700-hectare piece of land measures introduced by the Singaporean government to Biodiversity Policy controlled by Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage maintain drinking water resources and utilize alternative water Biodiversity is a foundation of sustainability in society. Together System (MWSS). 2,000 hectares of this property are resources: with our stakeholders, Yokogawa engages in action to conserve dedicated to woodland and wild life that serves as Comply with the guidelines set by PUB (Public Utilities biodiversity while taking regional characteristics into account. habitation to different species of floras and faunas. It is Board) to avoid excess use of water. We will spare no effort to reduce any negative impacts resulting also covered with indigenous and foreign vegetation that Participate in the NEWater (recycled water produced from from our various business activities to improve biodiversity and releases tremendous amount of oxygen, which act as a treated used water) project, a national initiative promoted to contribute to creating a better environment in local carbon dioxide sink, and eliminator of harmful gasses by the Singapore’s government, and use NEWater for air communities. such as sulfur dioxide and carbon monoxide providing conditioning systems instead of normal tap water. clean air to breathe in. Likewise, La Mesa Watershed is Install water-saving devices to washbasins and plumbing Biodiversity Action Guidelines the only watershed that provides potable water to Metro systems. Cooperation with the local community to enhance local Manila. Regularly check water consumption to find water leakage value early. Take action in cooperation with government agencies and NPOs to acknowledge and enhance local value. Yokogawa Middle East & Africa (Bahrain) Providing employees with educational opportunities and In Middle Eastern countries, water shortage is a serious raising awareness problem. Yokogawa Middle East & Africa contributes to the Raise awareness of biodiversity among employees by government’s water protection measures through initiatives offering them relevant seminars and events. such as the following: Considering biodiversity conservation within business Set annual targets for reduction in water consumption per facilities employee and manage the progress. Operate business facilities while giving consideration to the Use normal tap water for non-drinking purposes. ecosystem by, for example, managing their green areas. Comply with local regulations on water protection including conservation and contamination prevention. Raise awareness on water protection among employees. Tree planting activity in La Mesa Watershed Inspect any water leakages during the HSE (Health, Safety, and Environment) inspection tour at all facilities and take immediate corrective and preventive measures on any detected abnormality in the water supply system. 2020 Yokogawa Sustainability Report 46 Sustainability Human Resources Environmental Responsibility in Data/ Introduction Sustainability Stories Management Management Management Value Chain Company Profile Respect for Human Rights Supply Chain Management Information Security Quality Assurance Responsibility in Value Chain Yokogawa contributes to building a sustainable society not only though its businesses but also through value chains as a whole. This chapter will introduce our initiatives including those for human rights, management related to supply chains and information security. Quality Assurance CONTENTS Information 55 Basic Quality Policy Security Achieving Uniform Quality Worldwide Quality Assurance Activities Supply Chain Management Respect for 53 Information Security Management Promotion Structure Human Rights People: Information Security Training Equipment: Easy-to-understand and Secure (Security of Office Premises) IT: Protection Behind the Scenes 50 Management Structure as Part of Internal Control Protection of Customer Privacy Sustainable Procurement Activities 48 Yokogawa Group Human Rights Policy 52 Promotion of Green Procurement 54 Security Management for Products and Services 49 System for Respecting Human Rights Key Initiatives Strengthening of Partnerships with Business Partners Human Rights Due Diligence Reinforcement of Compliant Procurement Key Initiatives Related to Human Rights in FY2019 Compliance with the Subcontract Act Procurement BCP Initiatives on Conflict Minerals 2020 Yokogawa Sustainability Report 47 Sustainability Human Resources Environmental Responsibility in Data/ Introduction Sustainability Stories Management Management Management Value Chain Company Profile Respect for Human Rights Supply Chain Management Information Security Quality Assurance Respect for Human Rights gap between laws and international norms, we respect In addition, we prohibit young workers from engaging in international norms to the extent possible. hazardous work. Respect for the rights of foreign/migrant workers 2 Implementation of Human Rights Due Diligence We give due consideration to the human rights of foreign workers Yokogawa Group's corporate philosophy is As a company, our Addressing Human Rights Risks and migrant workers. goal is to contribute to society through broad-ranging activities The Yokogawa Group identifies human rights risks associated Freedom of association and respect for collective bargaining rights in the area of measurement, control, and information. and with our business activities, collaborates with relevant We respect the freedom of association and the right to collective Individually, we aim to combine good citizenship with the stakeholders, and establishes and continuously operates bargaining, which are the fundamental rights of workers. We courage to innovate. Based on this philosophy, the Group has mechanisms to prevent or mitigate risks. engage in ongoing dialogue with employees in order to ensure a supported industry and society by providing a variety of Correction better work environment for our employees. solutions that help our customers improve productivity and If the Yokogawa Group is found to have caused or been involved Prevention of low wages and long working hours transform their businesses. Together with our customers and in any negative impact on human rights, we will work with In order to promote the lives and health of workers, we pay wages partners, we continue to create new value for the future under relevant stakeholders to remedy the situation. We also establish that exceed the minimum wages and living wages and manage our corporate brand slogan, Co-innovating tomorrow . and maintain a grievance procedure for this purpose. working hours appropriately. All of our business activities for value co-creation are based Education Respect for Rights of Vulnerable People on respect for human rights. By deepening our understanding To ensure that this policy is understood and practiced by all We respect the human rights of local and indigenous peoples, of the various human rights issues in the countries and regions people working for the Yokogawa Group, we regularly provide children, people with disabilities, minorities, women who are where we conduct our business, and by being actively involved education and awareness-raising programs on respect for human subject to gender discrimination or constraints, and people in resolving them, we must strive to ensure that people's dignity rights. We also take the necessary steps to promote understanding with disabilities who are socially vulnerable, including the is protected and respected. We have established the following and implementation of the Group's human rights policy to elderly. We also engage in responsible procurement to avoid Yokogawa Group Human Rights Policy as a commitment to suppliers and business partners associated with our business. complicity in conflicts and human rights abuses related to fulfill this responsibility. mineral sourcing. 3 Yokogawa's Priority Human Rights Issues Protection of Privacy and Personal Information The Yokogawa Group's business is supported by a variety of We conduct our business activities with due consideration to Yokogawa Group Human Rights Policy stakeholders, including customers, business partners, suppliers, the privacy of people involved with the Yokogawa Group and employees, and civil society. In order to respect the human rights of all the protection of their personal information. 1 Compliance with Human Rights-related Laws and Regulations people who are involved with the Yokogawa Group, we actively engage and Respect for the International Code of Conduct in the following priority issues. 4 Communication and Engagement Scope and Corporate Structure Prohibition of Discrimination and Harassment This policy was formulated in consideration of expert advice from This policy applies to Yokogawa Electric Corporation and its We prohibit discrimination of any kind based on race, skin color, outside the Group to demonstrate the Group's attitude and group companies (hereinafter referred to as Yokogawa Group ). age, sex, gender identity and expression, sexual orientation, commitment to human rights. In order to resolve human rights issues We also expect and encourage our suppliers, business partners religion, belief, political opinion, nationality, ethnicity, place of identified through human rights due diligence, the Group will actively and other stakeholders to respect human rights in accordance origin, disability, family relations or any other circumstances and continuously engage in dialogue and collaboration with with this policy. To achieve this goal, we have established a against any person associated with the Group. Furthermore, we stakeholders and evolve its efforts to respect human rights. The corporate structure in which the President and Chief Executive do not tolerate harassment of any kind that harms their dignity. progress of these activities and initiatives to resolve human rights Officer serves as the Group's chief executive officer for human Respect for Workers' Rights and Approach to the Supply Chain issues will be regularly disclosed to the public. rights, and we continue to implement initiatives to this end. In order to protect the human rights of all workers in the The Group has set sustainability goals for 2050 to realize the wellRelated Laws and International Codes of Conduct Yokogawa Group, we take the following actions and strive to being of future generations, and we are working to achieve net-zero Based on the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human build a more sustainable and resilient supply chain that ensures emissions (stopping climate change), ensure well-being (quality life for Rights, the Yokogawa Group respects human rights as defined the same actions are taken in the supply chain in order to all), and make the transition to a circular economy (circulation of in international norms such as the Universal Declaration of protect the human rights of other workers involved in the resources and efficiency). We firmly believe that respect for human Human Rights, the International Covenants on Human Rights Yokogawa Group's business activities. rights is the basis for achieving these goals, particularly well-being. The (International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the Ensuring occupational health and safety Yokogawa Group will respond swiftly to dynamic social conditions, such International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural We are committed to ensuring the safety and health of our workers as climate change and infectious diseases, confront ever-changing Rights), and the International Labour Organization's Declaration and to providing them with a fulfilling and comfortable work human rights issues, and sincerely implement this initiative together on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. environment. with our employees, business partners and suppliers around the world. We comply with laws and regulations in the countries or No child labor/forced labor regions in which we conduct our business, and where there is a Child labor, forced labor, slave labor, and trafficking are prohibited. 2020 Yokogawa Sustainability Report 48 Sustainability Human Resources Environmental Responsibility in Data/ Introduction Sustainability Stories Management Management Management Value Chain Company Profile Respect for Human Rights Supply Chain Management Information Security Quality Assurance Human Rights Management supply chain and to achieve accountability for our activities. priority by confirming company policies, business activities and We have built internal control systems for the entire group the operating status of the internal control systems, and Yokogawa Group Human Rights Policy was established with for occupational safety and health, labor management, and interviewing relevant parties in the Group as well. The priority is the approval of the Board of Directors. We have established an purchasing and sales management, and are working to reduce determined by two perspectives: salience of the risk of giving internal system in which the President and CEO has the risks with taking corrective actions when we identify adversely impact through our business activities and business highest responsibility for human rights in the Group, and we problems. relationships, and Yokogawa’s ability to manage the risks. are implementing ongoing efforts. The Human Rights Working In addition, we have set up whistleblowing hotlines for As a results of risk assessment, the following six items were Group, whose members are selected from the departments everyone working at Yokogawa as a means to prevent human identified as human rights risks with highest priority; social and related to human rights, is working on concrete human rights rights violations. environmental impacts, forced, bonded or compulsory labor initiatives. (employee), health and safety (employee), fair business Human Rights Risk Assessment practices, product quality and security, and working conditions In fiscal 2019, we assessed potential human rights risks through (employee). Human Rights Due Diligence our business activities and value chain, partnering with BSR Regarding high priority human rights risks, we will work (Business for Social Responsibility), which is an NGO that is further to reduce the risks, taking into account the Yokogawa is committed to implementing human rights due globally active working in the areas of business and characteristics of each country and region. If we find some diligence to identify, prevent, and mitigate potential negative sustainability. problem, we will take appropriate measures. impacts on human rights throughout our business and the This assessment identified human rights issues of high Human Rights Risk of the Yokogawa Group Major Human Rights Initiatives in FY 2019 Revision of the Yokogawa Group Code of Conduct and the Compliance Guidelines We have added a broader concept of respect for human Tier1 High Social and environmental impacts rights and respect for international standards and (Scale, Scope, Remediability, Likelihood) guidelines. Revision of the Yokogawa Group Sustainable Procurement Salience of Risk Forced, Bonded,Compulsory Labor Health and Safety (Employee) Guidelines for business partners Peace & Conﬂict (Employee) We have expanded our human rights initiatives by referring Health & Safety Tier2 & Forced, Bonded, Compulsory Labor Fair Business Product Quality and to the RBA Code of Conduct V6.0 with our support for the & Child Labor & Working Conditions Practices Security Global Compact. (Supply Chain) Working Condition Human rights risk assessment and identification in the Child Labor (Employee) Yokogawa Group Tier3 Low (Employee) We assessed our business activities and potential human Access to remedy rights risks in the value chain. Low High Yokogawa’s Ability to Manage Risks (Attribution, Leverage, Current Management) 2020 Yokogawa Sustainability Report 49 Sustainability Human Resources Environmental Responsibility in Data/ Introduction Sustainability Stories Management Management Management Value Chain Company Profile Respect for Human Rights Supply Chain Management Information Security Quality Assurance Supply Chain Management Management Structure as Part of Internal Control Sustainable Procurement Activities Written survey and data Interviews analysis As part of the Yokogawa Group’s internal control, Yokogawa We are working with our business partners to identify risks has developed a management structure that governs all that impede sustainable procurement, focusing on business processes, including its relationships with customers understanding the current state of the following four issues and business partners. For the procurement processes in the defined in the Yokogawa Group Sustainable Procurement supply chain, Yokogawa strives to ensure fair and equitable Guidelines for business partners: human rights and labor, Evaluation of Evaluation of transactions in accordance with the Group Procurement health and safety, the environment, and ethics. In case a risk severity of risks relevance to business Prioritization Management Code based on the Yokogawa Philosophy and materializes, we work with our business partners to make the Yokogawa Group Code of Conduct. Yokogawa observes improvements. We also provide educational programs on the local laws and regulations of the countries and regions in sustainable procurement both inside and outside the Results revealed that promoting cooperation with business which it does business, is taking account of environmental Company. We set key performance indicators (KPIs) to manage partners in the area of sustainable procurement is one of the conservation and human rights throughout its supply chain, and monitor the progress of these activities. high-priority activities the Group should pursue to fulfill its and is working on the issue of conflict minerals. In order to role in the supply chain. In particular, given the characteristics efficiently and effectively implement supply chain-related 2019 Activity Results of the Group’s business, we learned the importance of measures, we are participating in committees of industry In 2019, a preparatory year for sustainable procurement understanding risks to workers’ human rights and safety in the groups such as the Materials Committee of JEITA (Japan activities, the following evaluations and surveys were supply chain. Electronics and Information Technology Industries conducted to define KPIs for the activities. Association) and working with other companies. 1 Evaluations of human rights risks for the entire Group In addition to announcing the Principles of Procurement 2 Surveys on the attitudes of the Group’s major business Activities for internal use, Yokogawa created the Yokogawa partners toward sustainable procurement Group Sustainable Procurement Guidelines with reference to the RBA Code of Conduct version 6.0, which are disclosed to Human Rights Risk Assessment and Attitude Survey our business partners in and outside Japan. We also conduct 1 Human rights risk assessment briefings on the Guidelines for our key business partners and We conducted written survey and data analysis targeting the ask them to comply. entire Group and engaged in interviews primarily in our head office departments. By also consulting expert opinion. we The Yokogawa Group Sustainable Procurement Guidelines are published on the Yokogawa website. evaluated human rights risks in terms of both severity and relevance to our businesses, and prioritized our activities based on the results of the evaluation. 2020 Yokogawa Sustainability Report 50 Sustainability Human Resources Environmental Responsibility in Data/ Introduction Sustainability Stories Management Management Management Value Chain Company Profile Respect for Human Rights Supply Chain Management Information Security Quality Assurance 2 Business partner attitude survey Sustainable Procurement Education 1 SAQ execution We conducted a survey to ascertain the attitudes of the Group’s We offer e-learning programs related to sustainable We have chosen approximately 600 companies as SAQ targets major business partners (183 companies) in each region. procurement. In FY2019, 85.7% of the Group’s employees who based on expert industry assessment. These companies were The survey was conducted among 183 companies from are in charge of procurement in Japan took this course. We selected from the 1,070 companies with the highest transaction which the Group purchases materials necessary to develop also provide opportunities for direct explanation to and volume among the approximately 10,000 companies from which the products and solutions offered to our customers. These communication with the employees. the Group has made purchases in the past. Our goal is to conduct companies were selected from the 260 companies with the SAQs with the business facilities of approximately 200 business highest transaction volume among the approximately 10,000 partners every year, selected among the some 600 target companies we have done business with in the past. companies, and provide feedback to them. Gather transaction Prioritize business Prioritize business partners KPI Cumulative number of Target year information partners by region based on purchase details participating companies Approx. 10,000 260 companies 183 companies 200 FY2020 companies selected extracted Number of business facilities of business 400 FY2021 partners completing SAQ 600 FY2022 183 companies 150 companies 82% Number of Number of responses Response rate questionnaires sent to the attitude survey to the attitude survey 2 Agreement to sustainable procurement policy Activity Action Plans To improve our activities with business partners, we will ask To conduct the survey, The Yokogawa Group has prepared a procurement activity them to agree to our sustainable procurement activities in the Human rights & labor questionnaires were sent to the plan with reference to ISO 20400 (“Sustainable Procurement Group’s supply chain. companies to ascertain their Helpline Health & safety —Guidance”). Starting in FY2020, we will work with outside Cumulative number of KPI Target year policies concerning the issues listed experts to evaluate risks to our business partners’ business participating companies 0 5 10 70 FY2020 in the Yokogawa Group Sustainable facilities based on their SAQ responses and initiate a cycle of Number of business Conflict Environment Procurement Guidelines and their minerals identifying high-risk business facilities and providing written partners agreeing to 140 FY2021 sustainable procurement implementation status: human Ethics feedback and on-site monitoring. 210 FY2022 rights and labor, health and safety, Global enterprise companies Companies primarily supplying Select business Execute 3-year the environment, ethics, conflict 3 Business partner seminars manufacturing parts Evaluate by Companies primarily supplying partners with highest sustainable industry minerals, and helpline. solution materials transaction volume procurement plan Every two years we provide seminars on topics such as our By scoring and comparing the business partner responses on Approx. 10,000 Approx. 600 business plans and policies, as well as procurement strategies, 1,070 companies companies selected the existence or non-existence of policies, implementation status, to about 70 major business partners. We plan to include in relevance, and so forth, we found that the responses varied by these seminars information on our sustainable procurement industry and region. Based on the results, we developed an action initiatives in the supply chain. plan for sustainable procurement activities. Starting in FY2020, we will ask our business partners to complete a self-assessment questionnaire (SAQ). 2020 Yokogawa Sustainability Report 51 Sustainability Human Resources Environmental Responsibility in Data/ Introduction Sustainability Stories Management Management Management Value Chain Company Profile Respect for Human Rights Supply Chain Management Information Security Quality Assurance Promotion of Green Procurement Reinforcement of Compliant Procurement Initiatives on Conflict Minerals In keeping with its environmental management approach of Yokogawa strives to reinforce compliant procurement across Certain minerals (tin, tantalum, tungsten, and gold) produced helping to build a sustainable society in every aspect of its the Group by establishing standards for compliance in in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and nearby nations business activities, Yokogawa has been promoting its green procurement to serve as group-wide management rules and and distributed via supply chains might be used to fund procurement activities by creating the Green Procurement maintaining close communication with those responsible at armed groups engaged in illicit activities involving humanGuidelines. We have a system to promote management of the the Group companies. We also specify provisions concerning rights violations, acts of violence, and other abuses. chemical substances contained in our products, and we also compliance in the business contracts. A helpline is available Consequently, such materials are referred to as conflict investigate and manage the chemical substances contained in for business partners to report actual or suspected minerals. the materials and components we use. compliance violations. Recognizing that cutting off the sources of funds for these We work to raise awareness of this issue by holding armed groups is a challenge that the whole supply chain briefings for new business partners. should tackle, Yokogawa aims to become conflict-free by using Compliance with the Subcontract Act no conflict minerals for our products. However, we do not The Green Procurement Guidelines are published on the Yokogawa website. prohibit the procurement of all minerals produced in these To ensure compliance with the Act against Delay in Payment countries. We will continue procuring traded minerals refined of Subcontract Proceeds, Etc., to Subcontractors (the at refineries recognized by an independent organization as Strengthening of Partnerships with Business Partners “Subcontract Act”), Yokogawa strives to raise awareness by unrelated to such armed groups; we will also procure having employees attend outside workshops. In addition, we legitimate products derived from such minerals. Yokogawa Electric Corporation is reinforcing its partnerships offer regular opportunities for purchasers to study the Group’s To meet the aforementioned challenge, Yokogawa engaged by regularly interacting with the management teams at key original teaching materials via e-learning, as well as short tests to in the following efforts: business partners. confirm their level of understanding. We also appoint compliance Since 2011 we have had the appropriate internal structure in For example, we host regular Partner Policy Presentation officers in each department to share information regarding the place and have continuously taken action. Meetings, at which we explain our sustainable procurement Subcontract Act and build a compliance framework. As a member of the Responsible Minerals Trade Working practices and other policies to the business partners. Group run by the industry group JEITA (Japan Electronics Additionally, the purchasing department organizes component exhibitions and technical seminars by individual Procurement BCP and Information Technology Industries Association), we coordinate our efforts with those of other corporations and business partners in order to introduce business partners’ Recognizing that ensuring a stable supply of the products our obtain the latest information. products—along with market trends, component trends, and customers need is an important social responsibility, we are We have been cooperating with our suppliers to investigate other relevant information—to the product development taking action in line with our procurement business continuity the use of conflict minerals in certain products based on departments of the Yokogawa Group. plan (BCP). With the cooperation of our business partners, we customers’ requests. research and manage information on the areas producing the If an investigation reveals that a mineral procured by components used in our products to ensure that we can act Yokogawa is a source of funds for armed groups, we promptly in case of emergency. For key components used in immediately take measures to avoid use of the mineral in major products, we are making efforts to reduce procurement question. risk by confirming that our business partners have BCPs and Yokogawa will continue making the utmost effort to ensure securing safety stock. responsible procurement of minerals. Partner Policy Presentation Meeting 2020 Yokogawa Sustainability Report 52 Sustainability Human Resources Environmental Responsibility in Data/ Introduction Sustainability Stories Management Management Management Value Chain Company Profile Respect for Human Rights Supply Chain Management Information Security Quality Assurance Information Security Yokogawa works together with customers to provide solutions. To protect important information entrusted to us by our stakeholders, we implement information security measures from three perspectives: people, equipment, and information technology (IT). Information Security Management Promotion Structure Yokogawa operates and works to share information within the IT: Protection Behind the Scenes Group and grasp the latest trends. Yokogawa conducts information security activities based on We use IT to prevent human error such as accidental leaks and the concept of ISO 27001; relevant policies and measures are People: Information Security Training inappropriate use of information due to lack of knowledge, notified to each business unit, headquarters, and affiliated and also adopt a multi-tiered approach to preparing against company by the information security managers. A secretariat Every single employee should be aware of information security cyberattacks from the outside. conducts on-site inspections to monitor whether operations in order to protect information. Yokogawa provides training are performed in line with rules and takes necessary using e-learning to all its employees every year so that Yokogawa’s Security Management improvement measures. employees can think for themselves about how to handle To ensure information security, Yokogawa has developed information they receive and take appropriate action. We share Security attack an information security structure at each of its business units, up-to-date knowledge regarding information security, and IT: entry measures Internet headquarters, and affiliated companies. In addition, it issue an internal news release whenever necessary to keep our Fire wall, prevention of access, etc. IN OUT Web IT: exit measures implements a PDCA cycle, which serves as the key to smooth employees informed of responses to security incidents and information security promotion activities. recurrence prevention measures based on actual cases. E-mail Junk mail ﬁlter, URL ﬁlters, etc. In conjunction with the above, Yokogawa also has an Further, we offer more practical information in the form of virus check, etc. Equipment: reinforcing information security committee to improve responses to lectures on information security with experts invited as security of premises IT: internal measures lecturers, as well as education and training on responses to Access control system cyberattacks and ensure customers can continue their business Security patches, anti-virus software, with 24-hour locking activities safely and securely. This committee comprises targeted attacks, and education for line managers. Information e-mail mis-transmission prevention tool, Yokogawa Clariﬁcation of guest/ encryption tool, etc. oﬃce areas cybersecurity experts on products and other fields where security audits check whether the results of this training are Visitor identiﬁcation cards reflected in day-to-day information security activities. People: training Equipment: print system requiring Information Security Committee Business PCs Group-wide training, practice, lectures, personal authentication Equipment: Easy-to-understand and Secure manager education, etc. Print only necessary documents IT: log management when needed Audit Compliance (Security of Office Premises) Protection of Customer Privacy One of the internal controls systems Information Security Division in charge of Management System The oﬃcer in charge of the security business Information security must be easy to understand. We have information systems business unit Secretariat: General manager of the ・Security Business Yokogawa has developed the Privacy Guidelines and rules that information systems business unit ISMS Information Security Committee Market Trends clarified the areas that employees and visitors respectively ・Measures against internal ・Decision-making oｆ response Division in charge of can enter. When a visitor enters areas other than the guest its Group companies should follow to properly manage and area, the visitor must wear a visitor identification card. We use personal information entrusted from customers. In for information assets and policy to security incident Marketing department human security measures ・Maintenance and management of company-wide security system ・Latest Trends in IT Security Research protect property and information assets on head office addition, Yokogawa is making efforts to reduce risks in premises using an access control system that keeps the office response to global demand for personal information Security Incident Management for Information Infrastructure Security Incident Management for Products area locked 24 hours a day. protection that varies from one country to another. CSIRT Department in charge of product security (Yokogawa PSIRT) Moreover, we have introduced a managed print service (MPS) In FY2019, no complaint was filed about breaches of ・Grasp the situation of ・Product security management that requires personal authentication to print only the necessary customers’ privacy or loss of customer data via Yokogawa’s cyberattack ・Formulation and maintenance of product documents at the required time, preventing documents from system that aggregates reports from the Group companies. ・Global security activities management rules being left behind on the printer or mixed with others. 2020 Yokogawa Sustainability Report 53 Sustainability Human Resources Environmental Responsibility in Data/ Introduction Sustainability Stories Management Management Management Value Chain Company Profile Respect for Human Rights Supply Chain Management Information Security Quality Assurance Security Management for Products and Services The product development department in charge of our control systems has obtained ISASecure SDLA (Security Yokogawa recognizes that providing ongoing measures to Development Lifecycle Assurance) certification. This address cyber threats is an important issue for its customers certification is given when the development process of and society and is committed to addressing security together control system products is found to meet the requirements with customers through the provision of its products and for the secure development of products based on services. Since the Stuxnet malware attack, cyberattacks evaluations conducted by an independent organization. The targeting important infrastructure have become a common review process determines whether a development process occurrence. In modern society, which is built upon this key complies with IEC 62443-4-1, an international standard infrastructure, these types of cyberattacks may have a governing product development security. Yokogawa is the Security Competence laboratory (SCL) profound effect on our daily lives and socio-economic first supplier of control system products in Japan to obtain activities. Attacks could even cause social unrest or imperil the this certification. System Operation environment and human life. Additionally, as the example of We have developed a security lifecycle approach in the Triton malware showed, there are no signs that the accordance with industry security standards such as IEC technological advances in attacks have stalled. In response to 62443 and provided security solutions to mitigate the these circumstances, Yokogawa has pursued various activities cyberspace risks to customers with services such as controls to reduce these risks to important infrastructure that originate system security status monitoring services, SOC services in cyberspace. specific to control systems, and back-up services. Security Lifecycle Key Initiatives Assessment and Analysis Network Investigation and Analysis Design and Implementation At Yokogawa, we see the process from product development to system installation and operation as the system lifecycle. By Plant Security supporting customers’ security activities throughout that Lifecycle lifecycle, we work to reduce risks to important infrastructure ISASecure SDLA Certificate Services that originate in cyberspace. Operation and Monitoring Support Maintenance Support Product Development System Installation We have established a basic policy and standards for security Yokogawa established the Security Competence Laboratory PSIRT (Product Security Incident Response Team) measures. These are incorporated into our development (SCL) at the regional HQ in Singapore for the research and We extensively gather information about vulnerabilities process to eliminate vulnerabilities from products and study of security technology. SCL demonstrates the related to our products and disseminate the information enhance security. effectiveness of Yokogawa’s security measures and supports obtained throughout the Yokogawa Group, to investigate To ensure security quality, our main products CENTUM VP introduction of security measures for our customers. whether there is any influence on the products. Concerning and ProSafe-RS have obtained ISASecure EDSA certification Yokogawa has also provided security education at offices in the vulnerabilities that are confirmed to influence the issued by ISCI, an international organization promoting each country. Through these initiatives, we will realize products, we disclose information on the influence and security certification. uniform implementation of security and safer system countermeasures to the customers and thereby support integration. customers in their security activities. 2020 Yokogawa Sustainability Report 54 Sustainability Human Resources Environmental Responsibility in Data/ Introduction Sustainability Stories Management Management Management Value Chain Company Profile Respect for Human Rights Supply Chain Management Information Security Quality Assurance Quality Assurance Quality Assurance (QA) The Basic Quality Policy Three Elements of Quality Management assurance system. Yokogawa was the first company in Japan Continually seeking to provide better products to QA QI to obtain Japan Calibration Service System (JCSS) certification 1 Quality management is carried out in order to implement customers based on the Quality Assurance Quality Improvement for flow meter calibrators. philosophy of giving quality customer focus based on Quality First, which is the spirit the highest priority of foundation, and Healthy and Profitable Management Quality mind Yokogawa Quality Months Quality Improvement (QI) through improvements in management quality. In Japan, November was set as Quality Month 2 Products that meet statutory and regulatory requirements Establishing a system to provide products and services Qm in 1960 by the Union of Japanese Scientists as well as customer requirements are supplied. that are of uniform quality worldwide and Engineers, the Japanese Standards 3 Appropriate quality management systems conforming to Quality mind (Qm) Association, the Japan Productivity Center, the International Standard ISO 9001 requirements are Each and every employee having the quality-first mind that is one of and the Japan Management Association. the Yokogawa Group’s founding principles established and implemented. In addition, the Yokogawa has continuously engaged in effectiveness of those systems is continually improved. related activities during November and has 4 Customer requirements are fulfilled and customer We believe that we can satisfy our customers’ expectations now added June to designate both June and Quality Month Poster (FY2019) satisfaction is increased through the results of quality and build long-lasting bonds of trust only when all of these November each year as Yokogawa Quality activities in all organizations and personnel. For this elements are engaged. Yokogawa sees the quality-first Months to implement quality-improving activities across the purpose, each employee must feel that the quality of his or mindset as particularly important in maintaining high levels of Group. To help the quality-first mindset take root, Yokogawa her work has a direct bearing on product quality, and that quality. All Yokogawa Group employees are aware of the displays posters illustrating the mindset and communicates the company believes in Quality First . importance of having a quality-first mindset, and quality is the importance of quality in the form of mottos. The quality5 The head of each organization is responsible for the quality built into each operation based on Group-wide rules and first mindset is confirmed by having employees recite the of the relevant businesses. The responsibilities include approaches. mottos each day at production sites. ensuring that adequate resources are made available. Yokogawa QA Booklet Quality Assurance Activities In order to maintain and improve quality, Yokogawa has Achieving Uniform Quality Worldwide prepared a QA Booklet that explains the attitude required Since its founding, Yokogawa has built quality management during daily work in easy-to-understand terms. The booklet The Yokogawa Group has satisfied customers’ expectations by systems into each process from development, planning, has been translated into five languages to facilitate providing products and solutions of uniformly high quality design, and manufacturing to sales and service, in order to implementation across the Group, and workers carry it at all throughout the world. The driving force behind this is our deliver products and solutions that satisfy its customers. times to ensure they are maintaining a quality-first mindset. founding principle of quality-first, which we have followed Yokogawa first obtained ISO 9001 certification in 1992, and its faithfully for over 100 years. Our quality management consists major Group companies in and outside Japan have also of three basic elements: Quality Assurance (QA), Quality obtained the certification. Specialists stand by 24 hours a day, Improvement (QI), and Quality mind (Qm). 365 days a year to swiftly deal with the various issues and trouble with products encountered by customers. Yokogawa has a service system to continually watch over the safety of customer equipment on a global scale through the Global Response Center. Yokogawa also ensures the traceability of measurement instruments used as part of its quality QA Booklet 2020 Yokogawa Sustainability Report 55 Sustainability Human Resources Environmental Responsibility in Data/ Introduction Sustainability Stories Management Management Management Value Chain Company Profile Sustainability Data Third-party Verification Company Profile Data/Company Profile This chapter contains social and environmental data, third-party verification, editorial policy and other information. CONTENTS Company Profile Third-party Verification Sustainability 59 Company Profile Data Editorial Policy 58 Third-party Verification 57 Social Data Environmental Data 2020 Yokogawa Sustainability Report 56 Sustainability Human Resources Environmental Responsibility in Data/ Introduction Sustainability Stories Management Management Management Value Chain Company Profile Sustainability Data Third-party Verification Company Profile Sustainability Data Social Data Item 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Item 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Consolidated 18,646 18,329 18,290 17,848 18,107 Frequency rate of occupational accidents Consolidated 0.38 0.46 0.33 0.28 0.34 Number of employees (persons) Non-consolidated 2,502 2,537 2,590 2,574 2,496 (Number of accidents resulting in lost workdays / aggregate number of workhours × 1 million) Temporary and contract employees 0.35 0.17 0.34 0.46 0.28 Consolidated ― ― 9.9 9.4 10.2 Ratio of female managers (%) Fatal accidents (cases) Consolidated 0 0 0 0 0 Non-consolidated 3.2 3.5 4.3 5.4 6.3 Consolidated ― ― 21.2 21.9 21.7 Temporary and contract employees 0 0 0 0 0 Ratio of female employees (%) Donations and community investCash contributions 97.4 127.8 127.1 194.3 184.4 Non-consolidated 13.9 14.3 14.7 15.5 16.5 In Japan ments (million yen) Employee participation and dispatch 3.4 5.6 1.4 1.7 1.0 Employment rate of 2.03 2.10 2.31 2.27 2.27 disabled persons (%) （2016/6） （2017/6） （2018/6） （2019/6） （2020/6） In-kind giving and use of company facilities 5.7 12.2 14.3 7.4 45.9 Management overheads 18.0 18.0 18.0 18.0 18.0 Collective agreement coverage (%) Non-consolidated 74.2 74.7 74.8 73.7 73.1 In Japan 86.6 110.7 106.4 178.9 175.6 Outside Japan 38.0 52.9 54.4 42.5 73.7 Total 124.5 163.6 160.8 221.4 249.3 Environmental Data Item 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Item 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 In Japan 734,828 684,692 676,375 684,085 632,217 Water withdrawals (km3) In Japan 342 314 319 316 247 Outside Japan 818,109 810,126 829,572 854,898 831,180 Outside Japan 275 285 296 245 266 Energy consumption (GJ) Total 1,552,937 1,494,818 1,505,947 1,538,983 1,463,397 Total 617 600 615 561 513 Intensity (GJ/100 million yen) 375 382 370 381 362 Intensity (km3/100 million yen) 0.15 0.15 0.15 0.14 0.13 Renewable energy (kWh) Solar power generation 68,817 55,726 83,288 130,915 111,948 Water discharges (km3) In Japan 256 235 236 267 246 In Japan 38,695 36,119 35,185 34,447 30,745 Outside Japan 268 277 282 232 228 Outside Japan 50,784 48,251 49,697 49,439 48,025 Total 525 512 518 499 474 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Total 89,479 84,370 84,882 83,886 78,770 Waste generated (t) In Japan 1,926 2,321 2,350 2,566 2,414 (t-CO2e) Intensity (t-CO2e/100 million yen) 21.63 21.56 20.88 20.78 19.48 Outside Japan 2,278 2,186 2,455 2,624 2,499 Scope 1 12,153 12,580 15,412 15,015 14,000 Total 4,204 4,507 4,805 5,190 4,913 Scope 2 77,326 71,790 69,470 68,871 64,770 Intensity (t/100 million yen) 1.02 1.15 1.18 1.29 1.22 Non-hazardous waste (t) Waste recycled 2,603 2,937 3,224 3,528 3,333 Item Classification Category 2018 2019 Waste incinerated 113 129 138 126 393 Supply chain GHG emissions Upstream 1 Purchased goods & services 192,606 204,683 Waste landfilled 920 888 720 784 613 Scope 3 (t-CO2e) Upstream 2 Capital goods 23,749 29,874 Total 3,636 3,954 4,082 4,438 4,339 A dash (—) indicates “not applicable.” Upstream 3 Fueland energy-related activities not included in Scope 1 or 2 7,631 7,178 Hazardous waste (t) 568 553 723 752 574 Upstream 4 Transportation & logistics 18,594 17,325 Upstream 5 Waste generated in operations 1,000 947 Upstream 6 Business travel 19,301 17,750 Upstream 7 Employee commuting 7,950 7,385 Upstream 8 Leased assets ― ― Downstream 9 Transportation & deliveries ― ― Downstream 10 Processing of sold products ― ― Downstream 11 Use of sold products 533,414 617,473 Downstream 12 End-of-life treatment of sold products 1,007 1,131 Downstream 13 Leased assets ― ― Downstream 14 Franchises ― ― Downstream 15 Investments ― ― Total 805,252 903,747 2020 Yokogawa Sustainability Report 57 Sustainability Human Resources Environmental Responsibility in Data/ Introduction Sustainability Stories Management Management Management Value Chain Company Profile Sustainability Data Third-party Verification Company Profile Third-party Verification To assure the reliability of sustainability information, Yokogawa has received an assurance for social and environmental data by a third-party organization (Lloyd's Register Quality Assurance Limited ) 2020 Yokogawa Sustainability Report 58 Sustainability Human Resources Environmental Responsibility in Data/ Introduction Sustainability Stories Management Management Management Value Chain Company Profile Sustainability Data Third-party Verification Company Profile Company Profile Corporate Data Editorial Policy ● Corporate Name: Yokogawa Electric Corporation The Yokogawa Sustainability Report discloses Yokogawa Group’s sustainability information. The Report, the ● President and CEO Hitoshi Nara content of which is in accordance with the core options of the GRI Standards, a set of international guidelines for the disclosure of sustainability information, discloses Yokogawa’s material issues by taking into account its ● Headquarters: 2-9-32 Nakacho, Musashino-shi, Tokyo stakeholders’ opinions. Third-party verification has been obtained to enhance the reliability of the information. 180-8750, Japan The 2020 Report provides an explanation of Yokogawa’s approach to its sustainability goals more extensively than in previous Reports, and shows how Yokogawa is tackling global issues through its ● Founded: September 1, 1915 businesses, including its response to the COVID-19 pandemic, by incorporating specific examples. In particular, it highlights new initiatives based on digital technologies. Disclosures were also enhanced with respect to ● Incorporated: December 1, 1920 initiatives for human rights, supply chain management, etc. in the chapter of “Responsibility in Value Chain.” For a brief overview of our sustainability initiatives, please refer to the Yokogawa Sustainability Book. For ● Paid-in Capital: 43,401 million yen ESG information that is highly relevant to financial information and management strategy, please refer to our annual report, i.e., Yokogawa Report. The GRI Standards index is posted on our website. ● Number of 18,107 (consolidated) ● Period Covered by Report Employees: 2,496 (non-consolidated) FY2019 (April 1, 2019 to March 31, 2020) This Report also includes some information on major activities in prior years and some of the latest information in FY2020. ● Subsidiaries and 104 outside Japan, 10 in Japan ● Scope of Report Affiliates: Yokogawa Electric Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries in Japan and overseas (as of March 31, 2020) Where the scope is different, a note is added to the relevant data. ● Timing of Publication November 2020 (published annually) ● Intended Readership This Report is intended for a wide range of stakeholders, including customers, shareholders, investors, business partners, employees, local communities, NPOs, NGOs, and governments. ● Company Names In this Report, “Yokogawa,” “Yokogawa Group” and “consolidated” refer to Yokogawa Electric Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries in Japan and overseas. “Yokogawa Electric,” “non-consolidated” and “Yokogawa Electric Corporation” refer to Yokogawa Electric Corporation. ● Reference Guidelines ・GRI Standards (Global Reporting Initiative) ・Environmental Reporting Guidelines 2018 (Ministry of the Environment, Japan) 2020 Yokogawa Sustainability Report 59 Yokogawa Electric Corporation Sustainability Promotion Department, Corporate Administration Headquarters 2-9-32 Nakacho, Musashino-shi, Tokyo 180-8750, Japan Phone: +81-422-52-7797 Facsimile: +81-422-55-1202 https://www.yokogawa.com/about/yokogawa/sustainability/
