UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2020 / 2021 UN Global Compact COP 2020-2021.doc Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) January 27, 2020 I am pleased to confirm that CTE Wind Civil Engineering, based in France, reaffirms its support for the United Nations Global Compact and renews its ongoing commitment to the Ten Principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. CTE Wind Civil Engineering is an experienced engineering consulting firm dedicated to the analysis and design of onshore wind turbine foundations. Our company has been active in the wind energy sector since 2003 as part of CTE Group. With offices in France, Brazil, Vietnam, Poland, Portugal, Spain and Ireland, CTE Wind Civil Engineering has designed the foundations for 15 000 wind turbines in more than 1 500 wind farms all over the world. In this annual Communication on Progress, we will consider our assessments, our actions and our commitments towards the application of the principles. We are conscious of the challenges and we do our best within our company to ensure that our business strategy, our corporate culture as well as the daily work of our staff members remain in compliance with the principles of the UN Global Compact. Sincerely yours, Alexander MARTIN CEO 2/6 UN Global Compact COP 2020-2021.doc HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment CTE Wind Civil Engineering ensures a fair, objective and equitable approach to all workers. Our employment conditions and our business respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Human Rights. Our company refrains from making business with an individual or a company that is known to commit Human Rights abuses. Implementation Our international presence, with offices in different countries and on different continents, encourages the mutual respect of all employees and prevents the expression of any kind of discrimination based on race, religion, gender, age, marital status or sexual preference. To date, our company has never received a staff complaint relating to a violation of Human Rights or a potential risk of their violation. Measurement of outcomes We regularly organize meetings between the employees of our various subsidiaries to encourage mutual respect and cultural exchange, so that, physical distances notwithstanding, they actually get to know each other. This fosters a good working atmosphere and makes our work and business successful. 3/6 UN Global Compact COP 2020-2021.doc LABOUR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Assessment We ensure freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining in our company. Any form of forced or compulsory labour is strictly forbidden. This also applies to child labour: we support its full eradication, in whatever guise, and refrain from engaging business with a company suspected of child labour. Implementation We are strongly committed to ensuring the labour rights of all employees and that all employees are treated and evaluated according to their skills, qualifications and abilities. We remain committed to fostering a harmonious working experience within our corporate culture. Timely and accurate payment of wages and medical benefits are part and parcel of this effort. All employees receive equal training opportunities according to their job. No illegal employment is tolerated. All of our employees are either nationals or hold a valid work permit. Work performed in excess of normal hours is duly compensated. Measurement of outcomes No complaint has ever been brought by any employee against the company for discrimination in terms of employment and occupation. Should this occur, it would be treated with the utmost thoroughness. 4/6 UN Global Compact COP 2020-2021.doc ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment Nowadays, sustainable development, energy saving and environment protection are part of our everyday life. As a company dedicated to renewable energy services, we are particularly aware of environmental issues and try to minimize our impact on the environment. Implementation We encourage all employees to have a responsible attitude towards the environment. They are required to switch off lights and air conditioners when leaving the office. Our entire equipment (computers, printers…) is low energy. Besides, we separate waste so that it can be recycled. For example, used coffee pads and printer cartridges are returned to a special collection site. We also recycle paper, try to reduce as much as possible the printing of documents and systematically practice double-sided printing whenever possible. Measurement of outcomes Our staff members are more aware of the waste they produce and try to reduce its quantity. If it appears that our environmental policy is not followed by everyone within the company, a general email is sent to all staff members to inform them of the incident and remind them of the different measures enforced by the company to preserve the environment. 5/6 UN Global Compact COP 2020-2021.doc ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment We do not tolerate any form of corruption or risk of corruption in any of our offices. Executives and managers, in particular, are required to demonstrate exemplary behavior in this respect. Implementation All employees are required to behave in a correct and ethical way, not only towards their colleagues but also towards clients and visitors. Additionally, we require prospective partners and clients to provide an anticorruption statement before doing business with them. Measurement of outcomes CTE Wind Civil Engineering has never had to face any charges of corruption within the company. Should this occur, the issue would be dealt with immediately with the utmost thoroughness? 6/6
