Progress REPORT 2019 CO M M I T M E N T 2020 I N C O R P O R AT E S O C I A L RESPONSIBILITY CEO’s Statement I am pleased to present our Progress At Natra we continue our progress Report for 2019, in which we report on towards creating an excellent, Natra's main performance indicators healthy, safe place to work, where in ethics, environmental, labour our employees can develop and social aspects and renew our professionally and give their Contents commitment to the ten principles of best. With this aim in mind, we the UN Global Compact, all consistent approved our teleworking policy and with the Sustainable Development consolidated Guudjob, a tool that Goals (SDGs) established in the 2030 has recognised during 2019 the 16 Agenda. employees who have best embodied improving the living conditions of our values: entrepreneurship, farmers, eradicating child labour and This report is issued in the middle innovation, teamwork, excellence promoting social inclusion. of the serious global health and and integrity. economic crisis caused by COVID-19. We remain firmly committed to It is a time of considerable uncertainty Investment in R&D and innovation, purchasing quality raw materials and difficulty for everyone. Our priority one of our strategic pillars, that are grown and sold ethically CEO’s statement 3 at all times has been to protect has continued to focus on the and sustainably. We are very proud our people and our business by launching of differentiating, high to be one of the first companies Natra in figures 4 implementing strict safety protocols quality products aimed mainly to achieve certification under ISO Sustainability in Natra 6 and measures at our plants and offices. at consumers seeking healthy 20400 for sustainable procurement, products, meeting specific a lever that will help us to guarantee Healthy nutrition & innovation in chocolates 8 I would like to thank our employees for nutritional needs or reducing our sustainable management Natra and its factories 12 their responsible behaviour to contain impact on the environment. We throughout our value chain. Concern for the community 16 and reduce the spread of Covid-19 continue participating in innovation at work and at home. I appreciate collaboration projects with a view In the area of ethics management Responsible sourcing 18 their commitment, enthusiasm and to developing healthier products: and compliance, we have continued Our people 20 efforts to keep our business going and containing less sugar, more making progress in our commitment guarantee service to our customers proteins, etc. to human rights and the prevention Ethics management 28 of corruption, bribery and money despite all the difficulties. Annexes 30 In the environmental area, we laundering. I highlight the training We will have to keep an eye on how aspire to becoming CO2 emissionreceived by over 100 of our this pandemic unfolds, because neutral in the medium term, so professionals in our third-party risks, unfortunately no adequate medical we are striving to reduce the most anti-trust and anti-bribery policy. solution has yet been found. We must significant impacts deriving from continue collaborating with the health our production activity, related with Finally, I must highlight that all these authorities in all the countries in which consumption, CO2 emissions and achievements were made possible we operate, protect our employees' waste. One notable achievement through the contribution of our entire and collaborators' health and mitigate in this regard was the start-up of team, whom I thank for their hard as far as possible the adverse effects our sustainable packaging strategy, work and commitment to making that this crisis is going to have on our which includes eco-design and our business project successful. economies and companies. ambitious targets for reducing packaging, among other goals. Dominique Luna Tudela Going back to 2019, the year was CEO marked by the entry of our new sole At Natra we maintain our contribution shareholder, World Confectionery to the development, growth and Group S.à.r.l. The new shareholder well-being of the communities in consolidates our commitment which we operate, by generating local to sustainable management, employment, promoting social causes transparency and best corporate and healthy activities and increasing governance practices. the quality of life in the countries in which we source our raw materials, 2 Progress Report 2019 3 Natra in figures Natra is a Spanish multinational with 75 years of history and one of the leading European producers of chocolate confectionery and cocoa products, especially for private label and other food companies. Our products Natra guarantees maximum protection of consumers Our food safety management systems are We also have specific product certifications for certified under prestigious international standards our products: Kosher and Halal, which certify that such as the BRC (British Retail Consortium), IFS the products are suitable for consumption by the (International Food Standard) and FSSC 22000. Jewish and Muslim communities, respectively. 388 million € 75% Compliance 40 millillion € Turnover CSR commitment 2020 EBITDA Cocoa products: 6 75% Cocoa powder 92Sales Turnovers Oversea Butter and mass Chocolate couverture Fillings Countries Plants Co n Spain, Belgium, I n d u s tr i a l d iv i s i o n France & Canada s u Permanent commercial mer presence: Europe, USA, Canada & Asia d iv i s i o n Responsible sourcing 1,106 Certification under the standard Employees European leader in Signatory United Compliance UTZ cocoa with total Nations Global system traceability Compact (“Identity Preserved”) Chocolate snacks Chocolates and truffles Tablets Spreads 4 Progress Report 2019 5 Sustainability Focal points of the 2020 Commitment in Natra Responsible Environmental protection Healthy nutrition sourcing Our team Concern for the community The 2020 Commitment establishes the priorities and areas of action of our TA R G E T S CSR Committee sustainability strategy: sourcing, environmental protection, our people, society and healthy nutrition. Inform on the labour indicators of health, safety Responsible for Maintain employee and training. 4 retention rates and TA monitoring the Plan improve them if R 76% TS Buy 100% of the palm oil we use Design, standartise necessary. 7 G E E from plantations compatible with Increase collaboration with TS G and promote groupR survival of the tropical forest. 4 organisations that work directly TA wide human resources to enhance the well-being of targets Foster rational use of natural resources, placing policies. 4 communities in the cocoa growing countries where we source our raw met special emphasis on reducing water and energy consumption. 7 materials. w Measure our carbon footprint and buy green Establish continuous collaboration with local energy whenever possible. 4 food banks. 4 Use cardboard from environmentally appropiate and socially beneficial management. 4 Continue promoting sponsorship of sports and Promote the recovery and use of all healthy lifestyles. 4 waste and residues generated. 4 Natra Promote the use of certified cocoa among our team Environmental clients. 4 Concern for the Eliminate trans TA R Promote the certification fats. 4 protection TS community among the cocoa producing GE cooperatives that we have a relationship with. w Progressive replacement of GE TA R artificial aromas with others TS Participate in not-for-profit that are 100% natural. 4 organisations that promote protecting farmers and their families, and efficiently organising Develop low-sugar the cooperative they belong to . w alternatives. 4 Publish annually information on the source of the cocoa, indicating Sourcing Compromiso Healthy Avoid the use of artificial colouring. 4 nutrition 2020 what proportion of the total has been certified and by whom. 4 Achieved: 4 Yes w Partially 7 No 6 Progress Report 2019 7 We strive to give our customers high-quality differentiating products Healthy nutrition & Innovation is one of Natra's strategic pillars. Our investment in R&D and innovation focuses on developing differentiating, high quality products aimed mainly at Our innovation aims to respond to the latest consumer Innovation consumers seeking healthy products, meeting specific trends to offer our customers healthier products with nutritional needs and reducing our impact on the reduced sugar content, organic and a high cocoa and environment. nut content. Areas of Innovation in chocolates and new launchings Healthier Sustainable Health Sustainability products raw materials Slabs with high cocoa content As consumers become increasingly concerned about their health and well-being, we must constantly adapt to their Low-sugar Countlines coated in dark chocolate Organic chocolate slabs with high cocoa content New recipes of organic spreads tastes and preferences, investing spreads strongly in innovation and New Delighting Convenience Satisfaction & development. lifestyles the senses Indulgence Cocktail truffles, with combinations of chocolate with Heat-resistant truffles piña colada, vodka & designed for hot regions orange or daiquiri and strawberry Wafer-filled slab, crunchy and lighter On-the-go spreads including crunchy biscuit fingers Healthy products that meet specific nutritional needs and have a smaller impact on the environment 8 Progress Report 2019 9 Sustainable packaging Innovation and collaboration with customers, partners and suppliers are considered driving forces for This is a multi-category 3-year project achieving the goals set. focusing on three areas of action, strategy 2019-2021 having sustainability and innovation as cross-cutting values. Principal innovations >E  limination of cling film on trays of Spreads for the American market. > Development of recyclable, resealable doypack in three sizes (125 g, 250 g and Standardisation 500 g). >D  evelopment of new formats of the (efficiency) Gifting for Clubs category in the Asian and Disruption American markets. (differentiation) > Reduction of structural complexity in Natra’s flexible materials: from multimaterial to single-material. Premiumisation > Improve recyclability in paper/aluminium (growth) combinations for 300 g slabs. > Improve recyclability in card/polyester combinations for 100 g slabs. > Incorporation of post-consumption Sustainability recycled PET in trays for chocolates and pralines. > Comparative study of the environmental Innovation impacts of glass and PET jugs based on an analysis of their life cycle. > Development of Gifting format pfor online sales of chocolate slabs. > Maximise the value of the product portfolio by reducing costs of production, in turn by optimising packaging systems and standardising processes in all plants; and redesigning packaging. > Generate value through the creation of new Joint innovation projects packaging and formats conceived through ecodesign. We understand the importance of alliances and collaboration > Comply with the targets for sustainability and reducing the generation of packaging established with different national and international in the EU Circular Economy Action Plan. universities, research centres and platforms 100% Elimination of PVC > University of Ghent and PS packaging > Azti-Tecnalia 2021 > Flanders Food > Ainia > Institute Kirchholff > Basque Culinary Center > Cacaolab > Guelph Food Technology Center > Maxxam Analytics, ….. Project Description Partner SUGARMIN Sugar reduction project Azti technological centre 100% PRONATUR Development of snacks with high natural protein content Azti technological centre Packaging compostable VEGEFRUIT Development of a new range of healthier University of Ghent 100% or recyclable snacks for children 2025 paper/cardboard GLYCOPROFIT Creation of a technological platform to convert University of Ghent sucrose into healthier alternatives packaging to have sustainable forestry 10 Progress Report 2019 certification 2025 11 At Natra we are committed to complying with current legislation Natra and our on the prevention of occupational hazards, guaranteeing all our workers healthy and safe work conditions, factories promoting a policy of continuous improvement and ensuring the active participation of all our workforce. Zero Lower Committed to a lost-time frequency and accidents severity rates healthy and safe by 20% environment Our goals Quarterly Safety Event at each plant Actions 2019 4 safety events, coaching sessions, monthly report of safety indicators, safety audit every month and a half, Health and Safety Committee. FREQUENCY RATE SEVERITY RATE 39,61 0,97 -13% -48% 0,85 20,75 2018 2019 2018 2019 12 Progress Report 2019 13 Committed to creating We undertake to identify our most significant environmental impacts (consumption, CO2 greenhouse gas emissions, waste and a higher quality and healthier effluent) and implement reduction and protection strategies in the areas in which we operate. environment Combatting Natra aspires to becoming emission-neutral in the medium term Environmental We have a corporate If we are to fight against climate change, it is important to know Management System. environmental Natra Cacao plant, manager and our carbon footprint. Natra is engaged in a project to calculate our Valencia environmental officer carbon footprint that extends the current scope. The inventory of at each plant new indicators (consumption of refrigerant gases, employee travel climate change and logistics at plants) will enable us to quantify the total emissions of the Group and thus set targets for reducing them. Energy Water We implement several measures to We strive to reduce water Our Valencia plant has started measuring the carbon footprint save and make more efficient use of consumption at our plants. associated with overland and sea transport of cocoa beans from energy. source to our facilities, with a view to finding alternative routes with lower CO2 greenhouse gas emissions. efficiency footprint EMISSIONS (T CO2 EQ) IN 2020, 100% OF THE 2019 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS WILL BE OFFSET THROUGH A REFORESTATION PROJECT IN CANADA 11,847 10,053 Commitment 2017-2020 6 recharging points ₋ -25% CO2 46 t CO2 in Bredene ₋ 8,937 9,181 Natra Cacao, Solar panels Sustainable > Replacement of diesel fork-lift trucks with > R eal-time automated monitoring. Valencia in Malle mobility electric ones. > C losed water heating and cooling circuits. 2018 2019 > Replacement of obsolete refrigeration > D etection, control and repair of leaks by Scope 1 Scope 2 equipment with newer, more efficient equipment. internal audits. > Replacement of refrigerants with others having a > I nstallation of water meters. smaller impact on the environment. > R eduction of wet cleaning. > Replacement of hot air compressor with hot air Waste blower in the alkalinising process. Our waste is handled by authorised waste manager, favouring reuse, recycling, composting > Use of residual cold water from cogeneration in W AT E R C O N S U M P T I O N and incineration. We take measures to reduce waste generation and improve waste the air cooler of the powder mills. management: > Replacement of oil from the air compressors with more efficient oil. 90,459 (m ) 3 > Daily monitoring of food waste. > Annual review of waste flows. WASTE Tap water management > Replacement of TL lamps with more efficient LED lamps. > Policy of “doing it right the first time”. 3,814,290 kg > Awareness workshops on correct waste > Automatic light switch-off systems. > Energy audit every two years. 71,305 (m ) 3 separation. Non-Hazardous > Heat recovery for other processes at the plant. Well water > Contracting of specialists in waste management. 37,805 kg Hazardous ENERGY CONSUMPTION We avoid food waste and apply the circular economy 56,972 MWh principles Electricity 4.7% MWh All our cocoa waste (mainly husks) is given a second useful life as 3,950 kg Renewable energy consumption animal feed or composted for use as organic fertilizer. By-products 44,696 MWh (cocoa shells, fines and other Malle Plant Natra studies other ways of reusing this waste (for example as cocoa derivatives) Natural Gas biomass to generate energy) to reduce the environmental footprint used to make of this second useful life. animal feed 164 MWh Diesel (for heating) Most of our waste (paper and cardboard, plastic, wood, metal containers, electronic equipment…) is recycled. The sludge from the wastewater plant is composted for transformation into organic fertilizer. 14 Progress Report 2019 15 Concern for the community Natra generates positive impacts in the countries where we source our principal raw materials, collaborating in projects designed to improve the living conditions of farmers, eradicate child labour and promote social inclusion Natra contributes towards the development, growth and wellbeing of the communities in Promotion of healthy lifestyles which it operates by generating We encourage sport and local employment, engaging in healthy lifestyles > KVO-Oostende football club (West social actions or contributing Flanders, Belgium) towards improving the quality > Saint-Chamond basketball team (Loire, France) of life in the countries in which > A  loña Mendi football and handball teams we source our principal raw (Oñati, Spain) > Euskal Kirol, local school sports project materials. (Oñati, Spain) Our commitment to the > Chiva mountain race (Valencia, Spain) > P  addle Surf charity race for the disabled, community is materialized organised by the Goazen Up Association (Oñati, Spain) > Healthy menus for employees (Valencia, in three types of actions: Spain) > “ Fruit always available” Plan: Fruit in meeting rooms, rest rooms, canteen Collaboration with (Valencia, Spain) organisations that sponsorship > B  icycle leasing service for employees . work to improve and promotion of (Belgium) people’s well-being healthy lifestyles Donations to local food Participation in forums and associations banks Natra participates in associations mainly related with the food industry and sustainable procurement, and attends major trade fairs to present our new products, see and discuss the latest trends, good practices, etc. Associations > Flanders Food. BELGIUM Principal trade fairs > Belgian Federation for the food industry (Fevia). BELGIUM Europe > Royal Belgian Association of the biscuit, pralines and Positive impacts on the Initiatives with > ISM, Colonia (International Sweets Messe) confectionary (Choprabisco). BELGIUM supply chain. the local community > PLMA Amsterdam (Private Label Manufactu¬rers Association) > Association for Research in the Food and Farming Industry Countries where we source our principal raw materials: > WorldFood Moscow (Russia’s leading food & drink exhibition) > Donation of 46,438 Kg of product (AINIA). SPAIN > ANUGA, Cologne (The world’s largest food & beverages fair) > Federation of Cocoa Commerce (FCC). UK > Ivory Coast (where the Group sources 32% of its cocoa) to food banks > FIE Paris (Food & Ingredients Europe) > International Cocoa Organization (ICCO). Amigo Foundation. Provides social and educational America IVORY COAST support for children who live in the streets, orphans, > Expowest, California (Natural Products Exhibition) > Produlce. SPAIN minors in conflict with the law, abused or victims of > ECRM Store Brands, Las Vegas > AECOC, Asociación de fabricantes y distribuidores. SPAIN exploitation > IFT, New Orleans (Institute of Food Technologies) > Excellence in Manufacturing Consortium (EMC). CANADA > Colombia (Tumaco). Sustainable cocoa programme that > PLMA Chicago (Private Label Manufacturers Association) €26,810 > Syndicat du chocolat. FRANCE aims to improve the quality of life of the local community Pacific Asia > European Cocoa Association (ECA). EUROPE (BRUSSELS) and develop commercial networks that will ensure its > Wabel China, Shanghai sustainable growth. > UTZ Certified Associations, Fairtrade Dialogue with stakeholders International, International Cocoa Initiative. to associations, foundations We offer our internal and external stakeholders different channels for dialogue, through which we build Focus on improving the living conditions of farmers, their families and communities, and and NGOs relationships of mutual trust and identify and respond to their principal needs and expectations. on preservation of the environment. 16 Progress Report 2019 17 Responsible sourcing Natra is committed to purchasing quality raw materials that are grown and sold ethically and sustainably. We focus mainly on the procurement of cocoa, oils and hazelnuts, which are sourced in countries with less regulation and low levels of social protection. We implement sustainable 138 thousand metric tons procurement in our value chain Raw materials Interna­tional Cocoa Initiative (ICI) 100% European leader in UTZ segregated cocoa 27 thousand metric tons World Cocoa Foundation (WCF) 80% Africa RSPO-certified Packaging Belgian Alliance for 20% Latin America palm oil (glass, paper, plastic, Sustainable Palm Oil (BASP) cocoa and cocoa derivatives, aluminium and wood) sugar, Spanish Sustainable Palm nuts, dairy and oils Responsible 10 Oil Foundation Bioforum Against Procurement Supplier Alliances 70% deforestation procurement Audits of hazelnuts Turkey 100% Corporate procurement policy of palm oil Certified procurement Other Supplier code of conduct Asian continent Procurement Sustainable procurement criteria management system tools (mainly Malaysia) ILO cocoa certification 30% ….. sustainable cocoa bean Transport Consumer Products Industrial Products Countlines Spreads Chocolates Tablets Cocoa Cocoa Substitute Cocoa Industrial Chocolate mass powder butter chocolate powder Factories 90,459 (m3) 71,305 (m3) Sustainable Principal Impacts 1,016 Tap water Well water packaging Employees Water consumption People 6 Natra cacao Valencia Production plants 19,234 t CO2 tons of UTZ, RSPO Fairtrade, greenhouse gas emissions Economic organic 388 €M Turnover Environmental Social Distribution and sales We are one of the first enterprises worldwide to achieve certification under ISO 20400:2017, the first international standard for sustainable procurement. 18 Progress Report 2019 19 An excellent place to work Our values Our corporate culture is based on demonstrating every day and in every activity the validity of the values that will guarantee the achievement of the goals set. Integrity Excellence Teamwork We are honest and transparent, We set challenging We work together to achieve our with solid principles. We commit goals above standards, objectives, sharing information, Our people with our work and communicate maintaining and improving supporting and recognizing the with each other constantly. high levels of performance. contribution of each member of the organisation to the common goals Innovation Entrepreneurship We truly believe our We create and promote new talented people ways of doing things and can create solutions new opportunities for the to transform the business to grow organisation, our market and the society Natra aspires to become an excellent place to work, healthy and safe, aligned with the policies and practices that society is demanding and where Guudjob Example of employees can develop and give their best. Internal applying the recognition company's values programme in everyday work 20 Progress Report 2019 21 An international profile 95% Europe HEADCOUNT BY AGE GROUP > 50 285 5% 30-50 594 < 30 137 Y UNTR CO N T BY 47 94 Canada North America U DC France O HEA 287 588 Belgium Spain HEADCOUNT BY EMPLOYEE CATEGORY Factory 770 Commercial 41 546 90% Technical 78 Administrative 120 Executives 7 Men Permanent contracts 1,016 Employees 470 88% Women Full-time 22 Progress Report 2019 23 If you had to pick the value that best defiable to enjoy their favourite products so that they could get through these times in the best possible way. nes Natra, what would it be? Corporate Interview It has been a test for the entire Natra team, both our José Ignacio Gómez Zavala, All 5 values are very important and are inter-related, but if I had to single out one of them, it would be Teamwork. employees who have gone to work at the factories in a responsible manner and those others who have had to Chief People Officer In my opinion, this is the cornerstone of our culture, bework from home while taking care of their families. cause it is what connects people at a local, regional and international level to work towards a common goal, and Overcoming this tough test has given us confidence and marks our commercial relations with customers, above security for new challenges that are likely to arise in the all, suppliers, the communities in which we operate and business, owing to the economic and social climate we shareholders. The rest are intrinsic values of each and are going to have now. What we are now called on to do every Natra professional, as demonstrated every day. But is anticipate new challenges, discern new opportunities, teamwork is the most visible value, the one that moves innovate new products and commercial solutions and us towards our goals, to collaborate with one another promote our responsibility and sustainability initiatives in even beyond our day-to-day responsibilities, generously, all orders: social, supply chain, reduction of environmental What we are now called on to do is suffering together any misfortune and celebrating success, pooling efforts and allowing each person to develop their impact, etc. anticipate new challenges, discern new best, while valuing the contributions and perspectives each member brings to enrich the whole. Without a How important are the work-life balance opportunities, innovate new products doubt: TEAMWORK. and teleworking policies in the company? and commercial solutions and promote And if we look ahead in 2020, what are The work-life balance policies are always a priority in Natra, not only to comply with the different laws, Natra's principal challenges and priorities our responsibility and sustainability in the management of its people? regulations and collective agreements in place in all the countries in which we operate, but also to make each initiatives in all orders: social, supply In the first part of 2020, the main challenge and priority of our workplaces the best possible place to work, with an optimum balance between people's professional chain, reduction of environmental has unquestionably been the safety of every employee and personal lives. We want to be recognised by our and collaborator within the prevention and eradication employees and future employees as a place where high impact, etc. of the Covid-19 pandemic, both themselves and their standards and excellence are combined in the best families, and the social and work environment in which way, meeting our personal and family needs, duties and they move. Thanks to the commitment and responsibility concerns. Apart from the family, this includes practising we have all displayed, we have contributed to the general sport on a professional or semi-professional level, efforts being made in all the countries in which we volunteering in welfare actions and cultural activities that operate. We have helped to keep the food chain working enable each employee to achieve full realisation and so that our customers have been able to keep their personal growth. businesses open throughout the periods of confinement and limited mobility, while our fellow citizens have been Fortunately, when these months of confinement began we already had certain experience in teleworking and had the necessary technological means to be able to expand it with full guarantees. Thanks to this, we have come through this test unscathed and have managed to correct and improve a few things along the way. We obviously enjoy and are enriched by working together, with daily contact, and at certain times it is greatly beneficial for our business plans. But if we combine it occasionally with an undertaking to work autonomously, trusting the responsibility of each professional to avoid distractions at important times or in major projects, organise their time more efficiently by not having to travel, then remote working is bound to enrich us as people and professionals and Natra will gain from it. 24 Progress Report 2019 25 Training and career development Equality and nonRelations between Natra’s employees, executives and directors are governed by mutual respect for personal We promote internal promotion discrimination dignity and fair, polite treatment of others. We have tools to guarantee equality and non-discrimination: Code of ethics Recruitment policy that does not discriminate on grounds of gender, race, religion, etc. Internal job posting policy that does not allow At Natra we work so that our professionals develop and We consider internal promotion part of the career discrimination or favouritism. grow within the organization. In that sense, we provide development we offer our employees. Our Internal Anti-harassment internal policies and protocols. the appropriate training in both knowledge and skills to Job Posting Policy is intended to promote internal Equality Plans at our production plants in Oñati and all employees wherever they carry out their professional mobility and professional development, provide clear, Valencia, in diagnostic stage, and agreement in the work. visible career options, ensuring that employees have an implementation with the employees' representatives. opportunity to apply for jobs for which they are qualified Moreover, most of our plants have their own training and developing internal talent and skills, for the benefit Work-life balance procedures regulating basic information for new hires, of both the company and our employees. specific job-related training and additional training needs, among other aspects. In 2019 we approved our teleworking policy (non-structural) to enable our employees to secure a better work-life balance and improve the well-being TRAINING BY AREAS of our people. We also have other measures such as flexitime, Others 181 condensed working hours at certain times of year and leave for personal affairs. Quality, Food Safety and Environment 2,311 Languages 5,113 Technical specialisation and personal skills 7,983 Health and Safety 4,758 Disability The plants in Spain comply with the Spanish Disability Act through direct hiring and, where this is not possible, alternative Employees assessed arrangements. Social We have dialogue 17 The Performance Appraisal policy defines the procedure for the performance appraisal. Every year each employee has a meeting with their immediate boss to review the achievements during the previous year and set their objectives for the following year, employees with different which must be aligned with the goals and objectives of the organisation, as well as establishing the professional improvement areas. abilities All our professionals in Spain, Belgium and France are covered by collective agreements. In Canada, the entire workforce is covered by the applicable labour laws. We guarantee union representation, in accordance with the customs and practice in each country. The most important unions in each region or country are represented. . 26 Progress Report 2019 27 Ethics management We are committed to respecting human rights and preventing corruption, bribery and money laundering and compliance Code of Ethics, defines how relations should be We are committed to transparency and the best Corruption, conducted with third persons, prohibiting corruption, bribery and bribery and money laundering. corporate governance practices money laundering Procedures, internal policies and training to prevent corruption and bribery: Procurement procedures and the acceptance The Code of Ethics and giving of gifts, the ethics channel and the distributed among and ratified by internal code of conduct the entire workforce, indicates what conduct is not acceptable in our Third Party Risk Policy Group. Online training: third party risk policy (36 employees) and anti-trust & anti-bribery (102 employees) Components of Natra’s Compliance The Compliance Policy System provides the necessary mechanisms to ensure observance of the law, Human self-regulation systems and any The Risk and Compliance other commitment acquired to our Committee reports directly to the stakeholders. rights Audit Committee, which is responsible for supervising the efficiency of the Compliance Management System and analysing any grievances reported through the Group’s > We operate our business responsibly, managing and Ethics Channel. mitigating all risks of violating human rights in both direct and indirect operations, and we extend this commitment to our entire value chain. Principal actions Zero Complaints > We have been a signatory of United Nations Global Compact since 2013. > We require cocoa suppliers to certify in writing that the in 2019 cocoa is produced under decent working conditions Updating of the protocol of the ethics channel, according to conventions such as the International Audit Committee Regulations and the Delegation Labour Organization (ILO), paying special attention of Authority Policy, which lays down the corporate to the eradication of child and forced labour, nonZero discrimination in employment and respect for the guidelines for the operating decision-making process freedom of association. in the Group. Reports canal.etico@natra.com Training and awareness courses in the areas of of human third-party risks, anti-trust and anti-bribery. for reporting any alleged non-compliance rights abuse or unethical conduct by an employee of the Group 28 Progress Report 2019 29 Annexes Natra’s contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals Sustainable Development Some of Natra’s initiatives Goals NO POVERTY Cocoa procurement: Fairtrade, UTZ, Rainforest Alliance and organic in Africa Obtaining food safety and quality certifications (IFS, BRC, FSSC 22000) ZERO HUNGER Participation in sustainability certification standard audits: UTZ and RSPO Sustainable procurement of cocoa, oil and hazelnuts Membership of organisations that promote sustainable procurement (UTZ Certified for cocoa and hazelnut, Fairtrade International, Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil…) Index of Global Compact contents GOOD HEALTH Principles Chapter of Report AND WELL-BEING Innovation and development of healthier chocolate products Collaboration with sports and healthy food initiatives Human Rights Action plan to improve working conditions and minimise risks of work-related injuries 1 Businesses should support and respect the Ethics management and compliance QUALITY protection of internationally proclaimed human Sourcing EDUCATION rights, within their sphere of influence Collaboration with the Amigo Foundation 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not Ethics management and compliance (Ivory Coast) complicit in human rights abuses Sourcing DECENT WORK ECONOMIC GROWTH Tumaco Project (Colombia) Commitment to local employment and employee's skills in our cocoa / chocolate plants Labour Investment in employee training 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and Ethics management and compliance the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Our team INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND INFRAESTRUCTURE Innovation strategy (sustainable packaging, healthy chocolates…) 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all Ethics management and compliance Collaborative innovation projects (circular economy for waste…) forms of forced and compulsory labour Our team Sourcing REDUCED INEQUALITIES Collaboration projects in Colombia and Ivory Coast 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour Ethics management and compliance Sustainable sourcing of cocoa and oil Our team Sustainable sourcing of cocoa and palm oil Sourcing 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination Ethics management and compliance RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION Support customers in proposing healthier, sustainable chocolates (with certification of in respect of employment and occupation ur team AND PRODUCTION ingredients, new sustainable packaging…) Membership of different organisations that promote sustainable production: RSPO, Spanish Environment Sustainable Palm Oil Foundation, Belgian Alliance on Sustainable Palm Oil... 7 Businesses should support a precautionary Environmental protection approach to environmental challenges Natra’s contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to Environmental protection promote greater environmental responsibility Sourcing List of material topics 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion Environmental protection Aspect Material topic of environmentally friendly technologies Labour Health and Safety: Occupational hazard prevention for factory employees Talent: Training and development of career opportunities for employees Anti-corruption Human rights and labour standards: foster conduct in keeping with NATRA’s Code of Ethics 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all Ethics management and compliance Consumer health Food and product safety: handling of claims, prevent health risks in products its forms, including extortion and bribery and safety Promotion of well-being and healthy habits: encourage healthy eating Food safety, Quality and Innovation: foster the use by customers of more “sustainable” packaging Supply Supervision of the supply chain. Responsible procurement: promote integrated chain management of sustainability requirements in procurements; increase the traceability of strategic ingredients Compliance Compliance system – Business ethics – apply NATRA’s code of ethics to employees and suppliers Communities Rural development and reduction of poverty in countries where we source raw materials (especially cocoa) Environment Climate change: limits the GHG emissions of Natra and its suppliers; reduce energy consumption; include renewable energy in plant consumption Efficient use of resources, waste (food) and circular economy: foster the use by customers of more “sustainable” packaging Preservation of natural capital and biodiversity: favour forestry protection of our suppliers for ingredients identified as entailing a deforestation risk Waste management: reduce quantities of waste at our plants 30 Progress Report 2019 31 EDIFICIO MASTER´S I AV DA . G E N E R A L P E R Ó N , 38, 5º 28020 MADRID, SPAIN TEL. +34 914 178 868 natra.com
