SUSTAINABILITY 2019 REPORT 1 CONTENT 1. LETTER FROM OUR CEO 03 2. COMPANY PROFILE 04 CARTA DE PRESIDENCIA ABOUT US 02 05 PERFIL DE LA&EMPRESA PRODUCTS TRADEMARKS 03 08 TECNOGLASS IN NUMERS 10 ESTRUCTURA CERTIFICATIONS SOSTENIBILIDAD DEAND ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 14 11 PROMOVIENDO UN CRECIMIENTO CONTINUO, ÉTICO Y RESPONSABLE 3. SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY 17 15 4. PROMOTING CONTINUOS, ETHICAL AND RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 19 LOGROS E INICIATIVAS 4.1 ETHICS AND COMPLIANCERELACIONADOS PROGRAM CON EL PACTO GLOBAL 16 21 4.2 SECURITY IN THE CUMPLIMIENTO DE SUPPLY CHAIN LOS COMPROMISOS DEL PILAR 23 21 4.3 HIGH QUALITY INNOVATIVE PRODUCTS 28 CERTIFICACIONES 4.4 COMMUNICATION Y STRATEGIES RECONOCIMIENTOS 28 30 5. LEADING ECO EFFICIENCY AND INNOVATION 31 LIDERANDO ECO-EFICIENCIA E INNOVACIÓN 29 5.1 IMPACTS, RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES IN THE ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 33 LOGROS E INICIATIVAS 5.2 EFFICIENT CONSUMPTIONRELACIONADOS CON EL PACTO GLOBAL AND WATER SAVINGS 29 34 5.3 PHOTOVOLTAIC POWER GENERATION 37 CUMPLIMIENTO DE COMPROMISO 5.4 AUTOMATION AND INNOVATION 47 38 CERTIFICACIONES Y RECONOCIMIENTOS 5.5 WASTE MANAGEMENT AND USE 49 39 5.6 ATMOSPHERIC EMISSIONS 44 POTENCIANDO NUESTRO ENTORNO 5.7 TECHNOLOGIES IN OUR PROCESSES 51 45 LOGROS 6. ENHANCING E INICIATIVAS OUR ENVIRONMENTRELACIONADOS CON EL PACTO GLOBAL 51 47 6.1 HUMAN TALENT MANAGEMENT 49 CUMPLIMIENTO 6.2 OCCUPATIONALDESAFETY COMPROMISOS AND HEALTH 76 54 CERTIFICACIONES 6.3 HUMAN RIGHTS Y RECONOCIMIENTOS 61 82 6.4 LABOR STANDARDS 62 6.5 TECNOGLASS ESWINDOWS FOUNDATION 64 7. GLOBAL COMPACT PROGRESS COMMUNICATION 70 8. GRI STANDARDS TABLE 74 2 02 LETTER FROM OUR CEO Tecnoglass as a leader in our industry has focused its efforts In each of the chapters of this report, we have laid out some of the on working with The Power of Quality, always making sure that actions taken in pursuit of our cooperation with the attainment our vision of sustainability is immersed into every aspect of of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), stating, once again, our business, including social, environmental, economic and our commitment to the ten principles of UN Global Compact. governance variables, that help us make decisions and create value for our stakeholders. The overall balance has been outstanding, laying grounds for us to keep consolidating ourselves as a resilient and robust company, I am thus pleased to share our 2019 Sustainability Report, that year after year strengthens its value proposals, innovating in presented under GRI standards, which allows us to measure its processes, overcoming new challenges, whilst preserving the and evaluate the activities we carry out based on our global highest ethical and corporate governance standards. sustainability strategy, which is supported on three fundamental pillars: Promoting an ethical and responsible continuous growth, Leading eco-efficiency and innovation, and Empowering our José Manuel Daes environment. CEO TECNOGLASS 3 2 COMPANY PROFILE 4 Company Profile ABOUT US Tecnoglass Inc. is the parent company of C.I. Energía Solar S.A.S ES Windows, Tecnoglass S.A.S, ES Windows LLC, Tecno RE LLC, Tecno LLC, GM&P Inc. Componenti LLC, ESMetals S.A.S, ESWindows Peru S.A.C., ESWINDOWS California LLC, companies that make up the Tecnoglass business group (the “Company” or Tecnoglass ). Tecnoglass Inc's shares have been listed on NASDAQ since 2013, with Energy Holding Corporation being the majority shareholder. We are leaders in the industry of the manufacture of glass and aluminum windows and facades for the residential and commercial construction market with more than 250 architectural systems. Strategically located in Barranquilla, Colombia, we operate from a modern industrial complex of more than 260,000 square meters from which we serve the most important jobs in Colombia, Florida, New York, Pennsylvania, Washington, Boston, Panama, Peru, Bolivia and more than 20 different destinations. Our clients are architects, building owners, general contractors and vendors in the construction market and our products are found in some of the most outstanding properties around the world, including El Dorado Airport (Bogotá, Colombia), La Ventana al Mundo (Barranquilla, Colombia) , Via 57 West (New York, NY) Salesforce Tower (San Francisco, California), Panorama Tower (Miami, Florida), Hub50 House, (Boston, Massachussetts), Legacy West Tower, LVL 29 (Plano) One Thousand Museum (Miami, Florida), Brickell Flatiron (Miami, Florida) , AE´O Tower (Honolulu, Hawaii). Nº 1 In the transformation of architectural glass in Colombia and Latin America. Nº 2 In the Glass manufacturing and transformation serving the US market. ES METALS 5 Company Profile ABOUT US Vision Main Objectives Our Vision is to be a worldwide leader with high Continued and sustainable growth. quality products and solutions for a sustainable future, supported by highly trained and motivated employees. Maintain Strong Consolidated Financial and Operational Results. Leverage Strength in Core Markets to Diversify into New Geographies with Significant Growth Potential. Continued Production of Innovative, High Quality, and High Value Added Mission Products. Our Mission is to transform glass, extrude aluminum and fabricate Continue to Build on Full Vertical Integration Strategy. window systems with superior manufacturing technology, considering a competitive product life cycle and fulfilling our Capitalize on Secular Market Growth Trends with Architectural Glass, stakeholders interests.Value Proposition: The Power of Quality. Windows, and Curtain Walls. Achieve Operational Excellence and Enhance Assets Effectiveness. Committed With Environmental Protection and the Prevention of Workplace Accidents and Occupational Diseases. Create a Great Work Environment, Improving Comfort and Well-being while Building and Ethical Culture. 6 P a r a m o u n t M i a m i W o r l d c e n t e r , M i a m i H u b 5 0 H o u s e , B o s t o n L e g a c y W e s t T o w e r , P l a n o O n e T h o u s a n d M u s e u m , M i a m i 7 Company Profile PRODUCTS & The Company offers a broad portfolio of products in the construction industry for commercial and residential projects, made to measure and in accordance with the specifications and standards required by the client and TRADEMARKS the applicable regulations, such as: Low-E glass: Low emissivity glass manufactured within a vacuum chamber by Tempered glass: glass subjected to a tempering process at high depositing metal particles on the glass surface. This product offers excellent temperatures, resulting in greater resistance and surface elasticity than thermal insulation designed to improve the energy efficiency of buildings. conventional glass. As a safety feature, when the glass is impacted by a force strong enough to break it, the surface will shatter into tiny pieces. Laminated Glass / Thermo-laminated glass: It is produced by joining two sheets of glass with an intermediate. As a safety feature, if the glass breaks, the Silkscreen Glass: A special paint is applied to this glass using automatic resulting fragments remain suspended within the plastic interlayer, reducing machinery and numerical control, which guarantees the homogeneity of the risk of injury. the paint and an excellent finish. Insulating Laminated Glass: Manufactured with two or more sheets of glass Curved Glass: It is produced by bending a flat sheet of glass over a mold separated by a micro-perforated aluminum or steel profile. This product has using an automated heat process that maintains the physical properties a double sealing system that guarantees the tightness of the unit, dampens of the glass. noise and improves thermal control. This product serves as an excellent noise barrier, it is especially used in areas near airports, traffic or where there are Digital Print Glass: Digital printing allows any type of appearance required unpleasant sounds. by the client, offering versatility to projects. 8 Company Profile PRODUCTS & TRADEMARKS Aluminum Products: Aluminum bars, plates, profiles, rods and tubes are Floor-ceiling facades: Los elementos de la fachada de vidrio y aluminio se fijan manufactured mainly used in architectural glass configurations such as a la estructura del edificio. Hay disponible muchas combinaciones de colores, windows, doors, space dividers and similar products. espesor, tipos y acabados de vidrio, tipos de ventilación y complementos de diseño. Curtain walls / floating facades: It is a non-structural window screen suspended outside a building and is available in various technical specifications for the Interior dividers and commercial display cases: For commercial and interior high performance required in high-rise buildings. This product is resistant to display cases there is a wide range of profiles, colors and glass finishes, as well strong winds. High quality standards are guaranteed. as bathroom partitions, office cubicle dividers and cabinets. These products combine functionality, aesthetics and elegance and are available in a wide Windows and Doors: Product line for windows and doors with different types range of designs and materials. of glass finish, such as normal, impact resistant, hurricane proof, security, sound control and thermal proof. In addition, they are available in numerous Hurricane-Proof Windows: A combination of high-strength aluminum frames structures, including fixed body, sliding windows, casement windows, hanging with laminated or insulated glass that provide protection against windblown windows, sliding doors and swing doors. debris due to its structural integrity, preventing objects from penetrating it upon impact. Others: Awnings, structures, automatic doors and other components of architectural systems. Our main brands are Tecnoglass, ESWindows and Alutions. We have the following trademarks: “Alutions by Tecnoglass”, “ECOMAX by ESWINDOWS”, “Tecnoair”, “Tecnobend”, “ESWINDOWS Interiors”, “ESW Windows and Walls”, “Solartec by Tecnoglass”, “Prestige by ESWINDOWS”, “Eli by ESWINDOWS”, “Alessia by ESWINDOWS” and “Componenti Architectural Specialties”. 9 Company Profile TECNOGLASS IN NUMBERS 2019 5.528 4 Countries USD$430.912.000 REVENUES USD$92.374.000 EBITDA USD$24.269.000 NET INCOME 31,5% GROSS MARGIN EMPLOYEES COLOMBIA USA BOLIVIA PERÚ In 2019 the Company, at a consolidated level, obtained revenues of approximately US $431 million, with an EBITDA of US $ 92.4 million. Both growth levels above 15% compared to 2018. 10 Company Profile CERTIFICATIONS AND ACKNOWLEDGMENTS Promoting continuous, ethical and Leading eco-efficiency and innovation: Empowering our local environment: responsible growth Tecnoglass has been SOX compliant since The companies CI Energía Solar S.A.E.S. Windows Tecnoglass S.A.S. certify your Occupational 2017. SOX stands for the Sarbanes-Oxley and Tecnoglass S.A.S. They maintained the Health and Safety Management System with Act that seeks to protect shareholders certification of their Management System based the international standard ISO 45001. and the general public against accounting on the ISO 14001 standard. errors and fraudulent practices in companies, and to improve the accuracy The Aqueduct, Sewage and Sanitation Company of Our brigade members have been recognized of corporate disclosures. Barranquilla – Triple A, in 2016 and 2017 granted a by the Occupational Risk Manager Seguros recognition to C.I. Energía Solar S.A.S., ESWindows Bolívar at the 8th Brigade Meeting. CI Energía Solar S.A. E.S. Windows has due to its good practices in the management been recognized by Semana Magazine as of hazardous residue. In December 2016 we one of the 25 companies that contribute obtained the Triple A Award in the category of most to Colombia. large generators. HP Inc. Colombia recognized CI Energía Solar S.A.S. ES. Windows your participation in HP Planet Partners, HP Lasert Jet Original Toner Return and Recycling Program that supports the Omacha Foundation, a non-profit, non-governmental organization created to study, research and conserve aquatic fauna and ecosystems and terrestrial in Colombia. 11 Company Profile ALLIANCES AND STRATEGIC GROWTH In January 2019 we entered into a joint venture with Saint-Gobain, a French world leader company in the manufacture of raw glass. We will participate in approximately 25% of its business in Colombia, mainly focused today at its plant in Soacha, and in a new plant that we will jointly build near our factory in Barranquilla with an investment of approximately US $ 160 million. This second plant will allow us to consolidate important synergies and penetrate new markets hand in hand with a world leader. Another important event that occurred during 2019 was the opening of a new business line through the acquisition of a 70% stake in the company ES Metals S.A.S., dedicated to the design and engineering of aluminum cladding and building enclosures. Additionally, and given the recent growth of the Peruvian economy, the Company decided to start commercial operations in that country, through the company Eswindows Perú S.A.C. wholly owned by Tecnoglass Inc. The Peruvian company is currently executing contracts for USD 3,000,000 and expects to obtain revenues of approximately USD 20,000,000 between 2020 and 2022. 12 Company Profile ASSOCIATIONS Some of the Tecnoglass companies are members of the following associations: Colombian Council for Sustainable Construction (“CCCS”), an organization Colombian Institute of Technical Standards and Certification that seeks to support innovation and development of new products, (“ICONTEC”), entity that is responsible for promoting standardization, materials and solutions that raise the level of sustainability of all uses of certification, metrology and quality management in Colombia. new and existing buildings and of cities in general. Colombian Association of Glazed Systems, (ACOLVISE) entity that Colombian Federation of Logistics Agents in International Trade (“FITAC”), Proposes, promotes and supports programs and services that a permanent and non-profit association, which brings together the most favorably influence the state of the Colombian market for glazed important sectors in the foreign trade chain. systems, in the protection of the user and the environment. National Association of Foreign international Trade (“ANALDEX”), an American Architectural Manufacturers Association (AAMA). association that encourages and strengthens the national export activity and supports the design and execution of short, medium and long-term export policies. 13 Company Profile CORPORATE VALUES TOGETHER WE BUILD TECNOGLASS! The Company has implemented a Code of Conduct that is a key element in our business. It establishes the expected behavior of employees, directors, administrators, business associates, legal representatives, suppliers, contractors, customers and any another person associated with us. This document was approved by the Board of Directors in 2017. Resp onsa bilit This Code of Conduct is based on the Company’s corporate values, which are y integrity, responsibility, respect and quality, intending to build a favorable work Respect and business environment that leads to obtaining results that add value to the Company. This Code is disclosed to all stakeholders through training, and they have permanent access to it on the organization’s web page. Quality Integrity 14 Company Profile GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE General Shareholder The Company’s highest organ. Meeting All shareholders are members. The highest decision-making body of the company chosen by the general shareholders’ meeting. BOD Has 7 members: 5 independent y 2 executive. Tecnoglass has an Authority Delegation It has 3 permanent committees made up of Board members. Manual, approved by the Board of Directors, which aims to establish the Its function is to approve and monitor: levels of authority, delegation and The integrity of the Financial Statements Audit Committee approval of the transactions that are The independence ratings of the auditors. The performance of independent audits. carried out in our companies for the Compliance by the Company with legal requirements. development of the corporate purpose This committee is also responsible for approving relevant transactions with related parties. set forth for each one. Nominating Complies with the responsibilities of the Board related to the determination of the number of members, the The Manual establishes the levels of Committee operation and the needs of the Board, including, among others, the recruitment and retention of Board members, authority based on the general hierarchy and the composition and structure of the committee. of the companies within the group and the delegation is determined taking into Fulfills the responsibilities of the Board related to the compensation of the Company’s executive director and account the functionality, as well as the Compensation other senior executives. Manages compensation and incentive plans nature of the processes, such as supply of Committee Issues the Report of the Compensation Committee included in the Company’s annual report, the applicable goods and services, financial operations, rules and regulations require it. human resources, product quality and the timing of the delegations. They are elected by a majority of the votes of the independent members of the Board of Directors for the period of time deemed necessary. Directors The directors are: CEO – Chief Executive Officer. COO – Chief Operating Officer. CFO – Chief Financial Officer. Supports the directors and members of the Board in promoting the highest standards of corporate governance Corporate Secretary and facilitates the effective functioning of the Board and its committees. 15 Company Profile STAKEHOLDERS The company has established three central axes is its sustainability strategy that seek to identify and attend the value offers proposed to the different stakeholders, responding to their needs and expectations. Stakeholders actively participate in the different phases of the Company. We have established direct communication channels through different areas of the organization, such as the purchasing department, HSEQ, human resources, sales, among others. Communications are made by different means, such as virtual platforms, emails, phone calls and through the Company’s website. Clients: For Colombian clients’ there is a Shareholders: All the Company's infomacustomer service hotline and email and tion is available on the website or can be for international clients a virtual platform communicated through the financial vice accessible through the website. president. Employees: There are different communication channels such as the work committee and the hotline, to which Suppliers: The direct communication they have access by telephone or via the platform 24 channel is through the email or telephone hours a day, seven days a week. They also have the email number of the person in charge of the of the human resources, which is the area responsible for purchasing area. their direct care. NGOs and Others: Direct communication State: With all government entities we have traditional channels by email and telephone lines. communication channels such as email, physical correspondence, telephone line and virtual platforms. Community: Through community leaders and the Tecnoglass Eswindows Foundation. We always respond to any request or requirement. All the company’s communication channels allow continuous and direct dialogue with all the members of the different interest groups. 16 3 SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY 17 SUSTAINABILIT Y STRATEGY vir En nt me on Co mm un ity The Company’s Sustainability Strategy is a clear roadmap that contains ee s the guidelines in order for the Company to develop its business activities oy pl whilst offering value to each of the stakeholders linked to the organization. Em en dt These parameters are aligned with Tecnoglass’ policies, corporate strategies, ts an mission, vision and values. Cli Enhancing ir he our environment fam Our Sustainability Strategy is based on three pillars that involve economic, s ilie social, environmental and corporate governance aspects, which in turn contain particular commitments that aim to ensure that all the processes and activities carried out in the business are carried out in a sustainable manne. Sh ar Promoting continuous, Su eh athical and responsible lie old pp er growth s rs Gov. and relevant authorities Shareholders and Investors Sustainability Strategy 18 4 PROMOTING CONTINUOUS, ETHICAL AND RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 19 PROMOTING CONTINUOUS, ETHICAL AND RESPONSIBLE GROWTH Adapt our offer Conduct our Adopt best Consolidate and Strengthen risk Build relationships of and operation business with corporate governance protect our brand. management as trust and mechanisms to new markets. integrity, ethics practices that facilite strategic factor ofcommunication with and transparency. decision making and for the organization. our stakeholders. accountability. Committed to corporate values of integrity and responsibility, the Company conducts its In corporate governance and HSEQ, guaranteeing transparency in decision-making and own business activities with transparency and ethics with the firm intention of generating accountability. Likewise, the Company has established communication channels with each permanent growth within the market and providing stakeholders with efficient, innovative of its stakeholders that allow frequent contact. and high-quality products that meet their needs. We adopt international leading practices. 20 Promoting continuos, ethical and responsible growth 4.1 Ethics And Compliance Program 10 Principle Conduct our business with integrity, ethics and Area: transparency. Anti-corruption Companies must work against all forms of Adopt best corporate governance practices that corruption including extortion and bribery. facilitate decision-making and accountability The Company, adopted an Ethics and Compliance Program with the purpose of The Company has confidential channels through which employees, managers, establishing annual activities and actions that will be implemented to prevent and officers and collaborators can report any irregular situation that goes against the manage the risks of fraud, corruption, money laundering and terrorist financing, and provisions contained in the Code of Conduct or the Compliance Manual or that involves in turn, to comply with the guidelines and directives established in the Compliance behavior Contrary to corporate values. All cases are treated with confidentiality, Manual and the Code of Conduct. without retaliation, guaranteeing the anonymity of the reporter, and verification of the situation. Through the training provided to the Company’s employees on the Compliance Additionally, the Company has designed and executed a system for auto control Manual and the Code of Conduct, the aim is to apply the rules established therein, and risk management of money laundering and terrorist financing (“SAGRLAFT”) but also to sensitize workers to act more out of conviction rather than by imposition, in accordance with the provisions of Chapter X of the Basic Legal Circular of the establishing a culture of zero tolerance against any act that might vulnerate the Colombian Superintendence of Companies. Company’s policies. 21 Promoting continuos, ethical and responsible growth 2019 Outstanding achievements We increased the training coverage of the Code of We increased employee participation by 43% in contests and awareness campaigns on corporate values and prevention Conduct and the Compliance Manual by 134%. We of fraud, money laundering and terrorist financing (AML/FT) and corruption. trained 4,399 employees, corresponding to 76% of the total workers. Training Coverage 100% 90% 1357 80% 70% 3816 60% 50% 40% 4399 30% 20% 1877 10% 0% YEAR 2018 YEAR 2019 Employees trained Employees yet to be trained We decreased by 9% the complaints filed through the Confidential Reporting Line, compared to 2019, thanks to the Ethics and Compliance Program. We did not receive any complaint about money laundering and terrorist financing (AML/FT). We updated the Compliance Manual and the Corporate Governance Guidelines. CRECIMIENTO 22 Promoting continuos, ethical and responsible growth 2019 Outstanding achievements Initiatives 2018-2020 We trained 100% of new employees on ethics and compliance policies, publicizing the controls for comprehensive risk Encourage employees to adhere and experience the management, AML, Corruption and Fraud. corporate values, developing a corporate culture as a pillar for the prevention of the risks of AML/FT, fraud and corruption. Have a cyclical training process that allows us to reach all our stakeholders, in order to continuously socialize ethics & compliance policies, promoting positive change, transparency, sustainability and inclusion. Ensure that all calls received on the line are inquiries and not complaints. We disclosed to 100% of our employees the guidelines established for the receipt and delivery of gifts and hospitality, in accordance with those established in the Compliance Manual. 23 Promoting continuos, ethical and responsible growth 4.2 Security in the Supply Chain Position comprehensive risk management as a strategic factor for the organization. We consider security management in the supply chain to be an extremely important component of our foreign trade operations. Aligned with this premise, we are voluntarily adhered to the C-TPAT programs in the United States and the Authorized Economic Operator in Colombia, generating trustful relationship with the authorities of control and clients, increasing competitiveness in international markets. In order to continuously improve our management, we carry out permanent process review activities, guaranteeing compliance with international standards, and providing the highest level of cargo security. Likewise, we train staff and monitor our business associates. 24 Promoting continuos, ethical and responsible growth Map cargo flow in ES’ supply chain International Ocean Carrier International Dispatch Dept. Commercial and International Ocean Carrier International Port Supplier Quotes Dept. Customers Port Airport Ocean Carrier International Foreign Trade Purchasing Projects Brokers National National Airport Airport Dept. Dept Management Port Shipping National Brokers National Tecnoglass Billing Dept. Foreign Trade Broker and Freight Agent Airport Supplier Dept. Forwarder National Port Freight Trucking Raw Material Production Dispatch Dept. Tecnologistics Trucking Forwarder Companies Logistics Dept. Companies 25 Promoting continuos, ethical and responsible growth Map cargo flow in Tecnoglass’ supply chain Customers Ocean Carrier Commercial Management Ocean Carrier International Shipping Agent International Airport Port Ocean Carrier International Port Brokers National Port National International Airport National Port Airport International International Purchase Dept. Foreign Supplierl Trade Dept. Trucking Tecnologistics Companies Broker and Freight Forwarder National Airport Freight National National Forwarder Supplier Purchase Dept. Trucking Companies Trucking Warehouse Production Dispatch Companies Dept. 26 Promoting continuos, ethical and responsible growth 2019 Outstanding achievements Safety Management Supply Chain We maintained the authorization as Authorized Economic Operator We trained more than 3,000 people in order to strengthen the security in the for exporters in the security and facilitation category for the companies supply chain, highlighting the following: Tecnoglass SAS and CI Energía Solar SAS ES Windows. Additionally, these companies have applied to the AEO program for importers. Training in filling and sealing of containers for the personnel involved in the areas of dispatch of export merchandise. We maintained the certification of the C-TPAT Importer Program for ES Windows LLC, we also received a visit from the United States of America 100% induction of new employees on policies, guidelines, and risk management Customs and Border Protection office in Colombia plants that validated for security in the supply chain. compliance with security standards in the supply chain. We increased by 40% the participation of the staff in the process of periodical IWe implemented a technological tool to manage the information of training of policies and risk control for security in the supply chain. the processes of international trade, physical security and warehouse, involved in the receipt of import merchandise to promptly identify We continued to strengthen training in private security and technological means security risks in the supply chain. for personnel in the Physical Security area, complying with the guidelines of the control authorities. We updated the physical security study of the plants, verifying the existing security measures and detecting vulnerabilities to prevent the We trained program leaders as internal auditors of Authorized Economic Operators. materialization of risks, thus improving the existing security schemes. We offered training to our allies in the hiring of personnel, in techniques for the development of socioeconomic studies and home visits. We participated in the Customs, Logistics, and Port Symposium organized by the Colombian Federation of Logistics Agents in International Trade. 27 Promoting continuos, ethical and responsible growth 2019 Outstanding achievements Supplier management 1200 1095 1000 Tecnoglass has built a vertical model of integration in which the supply chain is nurtured by all 800 841 the companies from the group, making logistics and the profitability more efficient. Additionally, 42% 600 648 for those products and services that are not produced within the group, we have a policy and a 58% purchase procedure that include within its criteria the fulfillment of environmental requirements 400 and the preference of local suppliers to benefit the economy of the region. 200 0 Colombia Other countries Barran quilla Suppliers The company carries out a process of annual supplier evaluations where the internal user’s give feedback of the supplier, its workers and its fulfilment of requirements. We reviewed our policies and procedures for linking and updating business associates, this process is carried out using a technological tool that allows us to obtain information from our Initiatives 2018 2020 suppliers for subsequent analysis. Obtain authorization as an Authorized Economic Operator Importer in We updated the risk profile for business associates and make visits to their facilities in the security and facilitation category for the companies Tecnoglass SAS order to ensure compliance with security standards and risk management in the supply chain. and CI Energía Solar SAS ES Windows. Likewise, we have policies for the selection and evaluation of suppliers, maintaining transparent relationships to optimize the performance of the supply chain. Implement the new minimum security criteria for the importing C-TPAT program for the company ES Windows LLC. We established and maintained commercial relationships with 2,584 suppliers, of which 498 were linked in 2019. 58% of the suppliers are located in Colombia and 42% in other countries. Implement technological tools for the security management of export containers, the processes for linking, and updating suppliers abroad. 28 Promoting continuos, ethical and responsible growth 4.3 High quality innovative products 2019 Outstanding achievements Consolidate and protect our brand. Product Certifications We maintain to be certified in HSEQ systems under the International Manufacturer of Vitro Certified. Adapt our offer and operation to new markets. international standards ISO 9001: 2015, ISO 14001: 2015 and OHSAS 18001: 2007. Brand license granted by Vitro for preselected projects and to produce certain products coated with MSVD at the We maintain the following national and international Solartec plant. Our objective has always been to offer high certifications: quality products that meet the needs of our Product handling of SentryGlas, Butacite and Trosifol stakeholders, this has made us a leader in NTC 1578: 2011: Product seal for safety glass used in products, given by Kuraray for compliance with all our industry and one of the main exporters construction, approved by ICONTEC. requirements. out of Colombia. Our quality seal, constant innovation in products and manufacturing ANSI Z97.1-2015, CPSC 16 CFR 1201, CAN / CGSB 12.1-2017: NFR(National Fenestration Rating Council) Products with processes, investment in new technologies, Laminated and tempered safety glass, approved by the energy efficiency. geographical location, and human talent have Safety Glazing Certification Council “SGCC”. allowed us to serve and position ourselves in NOA (Notice of Acceptance) Grocery products for all areas the most demanding international markets. FASTM E2190: Insulated glass meeting all the guidelines and of Florida, including hurricane zones. requirements for IGCC® / IGMA® certification approved by the Insulating Glass Certification Council and Insulating FBC (Florida Building Code) Hurricane Protection Products. Glass Manufacturers Alliance “IGCC”. 29 Promoting continuos, ethical and responsible growth 2019 Outstanding achievements Initiatives 2018 2019 Process Improvement Training We continuously improve processes We implemented technological tools to We trained staff focusing on technical Maintain certifications for products and in order to ensure that new products optimize resources in the production skills, we highlight the following management systems. meet quality standards, we highlight the plant, such as: trainings: following activities: Manufacture new products with quality and Software for consumption of scraps, in Basic knowledge in the interpreting of certified standards. We implemented a glossary of terms order to optimize aluminum in the cutting production plans. related to the production line that facilitates process. Implement an electrostatic painting booth for worker learning. Knowledge in silicone application. the production plant of CI Energía Solar S.A.S. ES. Ticket platform for touch-up requests, Windows, with the aim of reducing downtime during We guaranteed the quality of the glass with the aim of better planning, greater Conocimientos en aplicación de silicona the production process and reducing the costs and aluminum used to manufacture the control, and traceability of the recovered associated with aluminum non-conformities. products through indicators, compliance aluminum. Knowledge in the map process of the criteria, and technical standards. production plant. Digitization of the process of registration We carried out the revision of accessories and treatment of non-conformities. Technical and functional knowledge of under technical standards and structured the organization’s products. quality plans. Improvement of quality Nova Software to optimize traceability and control in the Quality Champions League Campaign to We carried out laboratory tests on 5% of units manufactured, taking into account reduce non-conformities in the product. the manufactured products. the requirement of manufacturing products from the northern USA market. We followed up on complaints and claims submitted by clients in order to take corrective actions. 30 Promoting continuos, ethical and responsible growth 4.4 Communication strategies Build relationships of trust and communication mechanisms with our stakeholders. 2019 Outstanding achievements Initiatives 2018 2020 We executed the communications plan focused on preserving our contact with the different Maintain internal communication channels with the organization’s workers, to interest groups, updating ourselves with information of interest, and maintaining constant two-way improve the work environment. communication through effective online and offline channels for our Company: social networks (Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram), mass mailings, events, advertising campaigns, traditional Strengthen our presence on virtual platforms to strengthen relationships and trust media, website, brochures, and catalogs. With this we achieved the following results: with international clients. Continue with virtual platforms, as a communication channel with international Brand presence in traditional media. clients, strengthening relationships and trust. Strengthening the brand nationally and internationally. Greater brand recognition and recognition for product quality. Address 100% of customer requests, complaints, suggestions, claims, and nonConsolidation of internal communication channels with employees. conformities in less time and with greater efficiency, providing a better service to Greater scope of disclosure. this group of interest. New opportunities for negotiations with suppliers and customers. Attract new followers / potential clients. We attended 92% of the concerns, complaints, doubts, and requests for services of our clients in our Help Desk Platform and Service Tickets in less than 48hours. 31 5 LEADING ECO EFFICIENCY AND INNOVATION 32 LEADING ECO EFFICIENCY AND INNOVATION Encourange the Prevent, mitigate Promote the efficient use of Responsibly manage Position an energy efficiency of and compensate materials and technologies, the value chain and the innovation and the operation and the environmental respectful with the product cycle quality approach products impacts of the environment within all of the Company`s processes Commitments associated to the pillar “Leading eco-efficiency and innovation” Our company develops initiatives aimed at the efficient use of materials and the development Our organization has set a parameter to promote energy efficiency in operation and in products of environmentally friendly technologies, responsible management of the value chain and the to contribute to the environment not only from our manufacturing headquarters, but from all the life cycle of products, all this to prevent, mitigate, and offset the environmental impacts of the places where it is marketed, offering products that are environmentally responsible. business. 33 Leading eco efficiency and innovation 5.1 Impacts, risks and opportunities in the Environmental Management System 7 Principle Area: Environment Prevent, mitigate and compensate environmental impacts of the business. Companies must support a prudent Responsibly manage the value chain and product life cycle. approach with respect to environmental . challenges. In the Company’s environmental management system, controls have been identified, The environmental impacts that could be caused as a result of our industrial processes evaluated, and applied for all the risks and management opportunities inherent in the are air pollution, soil pollution, resource depletion, abnormal or emergency conditions. processes. They need to be addressed to ensure that the HSEQ System can achieve the However, due to the operational controls that we have designed and executed, such expected results, increase the desirable effects, prevent and reduce unwanted results, and as preventive maintenance, daily consumption controls, emergency plans, training, obtain improvements. documented procedures, monitoring in water and air, etc., we have been able to mitigate its impact, obtaining as a final result in most cases a non-significant valuation. The main risks from the environmental point of view are focused on the inadequate classification of waste, the increase in the generation of hazardous waste, chemical spill, The organization has always complied with all environmental regulations and legislation, increase in the consumption of a natural resource, loss of certification of the wastewater thanks to the controls exercised through our legal compliance matrices, which allows management system. All these risks are managed through controls and their effectiveness us to timely monitor and process all permits and notify the competent environmental is evaluated with our matrix of risks and opportunities. authorities of all that is required. The opportunities that we have identified are associated with internal and external factors of the Company that can be potentiated with an adequate treatment, some of them are: improvement of productivity, innovation in products and services, opening of new markets, keeping personnel updated and trained, optimization of production processes, and the use of resources for effective planning of the organization’s activities. 34 Leading eco efficiency and innovation 5.2 Efficient Consumption and Water Savings The water used in the production and administrative processes is drinkable, this is supplied by the company Triple A S.A. E.S.P. and it is treated in our facilities through reverse osmosis and ion exchange equipment. Once used, it is treated in a wastewater plant for subsequent dumping into the Triple A sewer. The following diagram describes the process. For the impacts and risks associated with the water resource, actions have been established to control the efficient use of water, such as the management of indicators, preventive maintenance of equipment, training of personnel, process control protocols, and continuous communication Triple A Drinking Underground Reverse Osmosis with the service provider to have prompt reactions to any unforeseen events. Entrance Storage Tank Activated Plant Carbon Filter The company has established strategic goals and objectives in internal procedures related to the water component that are conceived based on the context of the organization, taking into account the needs and expectations of interested parties and internal and external issues, setting as a goal 6.3 m3 of consumed water per ton produced, and in this way the water resource is approached Wastewater from a circular and 360° perspectives. Circular perspective since the process is addressed from its Triple A Sewage treatment Distribution To Splill Plant Requires Low design, raw material and manufacturing to the end of its useful life and 360º since it is transversal Production NO Conductivity to all processes, not only from an environmental perspective. SI With daily measurements, equipment design information and historical data, goals are established and indicators are set to control water consumption in our products, to manufacture products lIQUID SPILL that meet the needs of our customers and in turn optimize use of resources in the production PERMIT ACCORDING WATER QUALITY process. We also comply with all the parameters established in the environmental legislation for TO RESOLUTION ANALYSIS SENT Deionizing wastewater. MAY 0938, 2019 TO THE System ENVIRONMENTAL AUTHORITY 35 Leading eco efficiency and innovation 5.2.1 Management of impacts related to water The disposition of the wastewater resulting from our production processes and administrative use is carried out directly into the Triple A S.A. sewer system. E.S.P. To guarantee that there are no affectations to bodies of surface water or rainwater channels, we pour the water after being treated in our wastewater treatment plants, which is analyzed under the criteria established for our economic activity in accordance with Resolution 0615 from 2015. In the Company we have procedures and instructions on wastewater treatment systems and we carry out internal monitoring to maintain operational control. All documents are available in the organization’s document system. Recovery Percentage 5.2.2 Water consumption 5,7 5,64 The Company’s water consumption is estimated based on that used in glass and aluminum processing M3 de agua consumido/ton vidrio producido 5,6 machines, whose pre-treatment systems require material washing. Therefore, the main indicator is the amount 5,5 of water consumed versus tons of glass manufactured (m3 of water consumed / tons produced). The calculation 5,4 is made considering the consumption in cubic meters contained in the Triple A invoices and the tons of glass 5,3 m3 water consumed / ton glass manufactured in accordance with the inventory. This calculation is made monthly and a target of 6.3 m3 / ton. 5,3 5,27 produced Lineal (m3 water consumed / ton glass 5,2 produced) Comparing the results obtained in 2019 with those of 2017, the consumption trend is decreasing, but with respect to 2018 it is constant, all this as a result of the investments in the modernization of process automation 5,1 equipment and production controls that have allowed to maintain efficient use of water. Due to the increase 5 in the production of our products, it is not possible to reduce the amount of water consumed, the strategies 2017 2018 2019 AÑO are focused on the optimized use of the resource. 36 Leading eco efficiency and innovation 2019 Outstanding achievements Socialization Activities We kept the water consumption in production at 5.3 m3 Water Day Campaign / ton compared to the previous year. We raised awareness about the importance of water, its adequate care and our important role in the conservation of this resource. With the Support of Triple A we carry out this campaign in the plants and administrative offices. We reuse 100% of the rejection water as a result of demineralization in reverse osmosis equipment, which represents 100% of the incoming water we receive from the supplier. We treat 288 tons of waste from xylol-contaminated water at the wastewater treatment plant for final disposal. We designed and implemented different strategies for the efficient use, saving and conservation of water that we develop in awareness campaigns for all staff. We trained on the reverse osmosis procedure and operating conditions to reduce water loss in the water treatment process and optimize the operation. We trained operating personnel on valve management to reduce water consumption and avoid waste. We carried out follow-up, reports and analysis of water leaks, internal and external maintenance of sources, studies and tests of water quality, among others. 37 Leading eco efficiency and innovation Socialization Activities Training Good use of water and energy resources We trained on the reverse osmosis process and the operating We carried out activities focused on the efficient use of water and energy, as well as preventive and corrective conditions to reduce water loss in the water treatment process. maintenance of hydraulic installations, an awareness campaign and monitoring of water consumption. We trained operating personnel on valve management to reduce water consumption and avoid waste. Initiatives 2018 -2020 Maintain the indicator of water consumption in production. Continue with efficient consumption and water saving campaigns in bathrooms and common areas aimed at all staff with the support of suppliers. 38 Leading eco efficiency and innovation 5.3 Photovoltaic power generation 2019 Outstanding achievements Area: 8 Principle Environment Encourage energy efficiency of the operation and the products. Companies must encourage initiatives that promote greater Position an innovation and quality approach in all the company’s Photovoltaic power generation (Mwh) Decrease CO2 (Tn) environmental responsibility. processes. CO2 Decrease (Tn) 18000 16755 6000 5600 16000 5000 The photovoltaic energy project began in 2017 in search of innovative alternatives 14000 12000 11625 4000 3800 that would contribute to reducing costs and optimizing energy resources. 10000 7706 3000 8000 On the roofs of the Colombian plants, 15,237 solar panels have been installed since 6000 2000 1533 4000 March 2017 with the purpose of generating clean and reliable long-term energy for 2000 1000 the entire network of the plants, optimizing the organization’s economic resources 0 2017 2018 2019 0 2017 2018 2019 and assets and reducing the consumption of electrical energy from the network. The implementation of this project has been developed in alliance with Panasonic through its subsidiaries in Latin America. Initiatives to develop 2020 2021 We are executing the first phase of the project that has had environmental and Implement other stages of photovoltaic generation until reaching 12 Mwp of installed capacity. economic benefits, currently we generate 6% of the energy of the group’s plants at zero cost and we have an installed capacity of 4.84Mwp. 39 Leading eco efficiency and innovation 5.4 Automation and innovation Sorting Plant Laminated glass has transformed the industry because it is capable of providing durability, high performance, and multi-functional benefits such as safety, noise control, solar control performance, UV reflection, and resistance to hurricanes and earthquakes, without losing the good glass aesthetics. Our continuous improvement process has allowed us to exceed the quality standards of the industry and has made laminated glass a. This is a unique project in all of Latin America with which we improve productivity because we will process 70 tons of crude glass daily, which represents a significant increase because with the traditional system only 23 tons of glass were produced. Another important aspect is that the machines are powered by the 2.4mwp installed in photovoltaic generation, which allows energy savings and the reduction of CO2 particles emitted into the environment, making this project friendly to the environment. Initiatives to develop 2020 2021 Commissioning of the sorting plant with its optimal capacity. 40 Leading eco efficiency and innovation 5.5 Waste management and use 9 Principle Area: Environment Promote the efficient use of materials and technologies Companies must promote the respectful with the environment. development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Committed to the protection of the environment and complying with all the requirements established in environmental legislation, we prevent contamination through the adequate disposal of waste and the rationalization in the use of natural resources. We establish the following controls that guarantee proper waste management: Hazardous waste is treated through an authorized manager, over these controls are exercised in our life cycle guaranteeing final disposal or use. We always require the final disposition certificate. Used oils, batteries, batteries and waste from electrical and electronic equipment RAEEs are waste on which additional use can be obtained. The waste that is disposed in encapsulated safety cells are bio-sanitary, polysulfide, silicone, oily water, waste contaminated with paints and solvent Nn-hazardous waste is classified and subsequently recycled through third parties. 41 Leading eco efficiency and innovation 2019 Outstanding achievements Waste management % Waste Participation We increased recoverable waste by 25% thanks to the strategies implemented by the Environmental Department to take advantage of the waste. Comparative of wastes 16% DANGEROUS RESIDUES RECOVERABLE WASTE NON-RECOVERABLE WASTE 34% 1.800.000 1.600.000 1.527.968 1.400.000 50% 1.226.691 1.200.000 1.043.680 988.494 1.000.000 800.000 DANGEROUS RESIDUES RECOVERABLE WASTE NON-RECOVERABLE WASTE 600.000 495.778 500.056 400.000 The waste generated in the year corresponds to: 200.000 50% of recoverable waste. 0 2.0182 .019 34% of non-recoverable waste. 16% of hazardous waste. Compared to the previous year, the amount of waste delivered for recycling increased The comparative analysis of waste over the past two years shows an upward due to efficiency in its management, which represents a greater collection of money for the trend in the amount of waste generated, this is directly proportional with the sale of this material, which at its end is destined to the scholarship program sponsored by increase of units produced. It should be noted that recoverable waste is the Tecnoglass Eswindows Foundation. one generated in the highest volume, reflecting a positive environmental impact. 42 Leading eco efficiency and innovation 2019 Outstanding achievements Below is the specific data on waste disposal: We recovered 15,971 tons of scrap glass, this represents an increase of We coordinated the return of waste for postis calculated taking into account the amount of 18% compared to 2018. consumption; such as toWners, cartridges, RAEES (“HP recoverable waste over the total waste generated. It can Planet Partners Program”), and batteries (“Mac Batteries” be seen that we have exceeded the established goals We collected 14.2 tons of used oil and used it entirely as industrial fuel. and (“Battery with Environment Program”). and we have a positive trend compared to the previous two years. We allocated 2,092 Kg of used batteries to the Mac Johnson postWe reused 100% of Canadian pine wood mats to make consumption program, maintaining the percentage of use of this waste boxes that are used in the packaging of the finished product. % Recovery compared to the previous year. 50 48 46,5 45,52 We made the use of used tires to be used as slopes 46 We recycled 1,434 kg of waste from electrical and electronic equipment 44 RAEES, maintaining the percentage of use of this waste compared to in the cells of the sanitary landfill, previously they were 42 40 38,8 the previous year. disposed of as ordinary waste. 38 36 34 32 We delivered for recycling to specialized organizations: 198 tons To measure the effectiveness in the management 30 2017 2018 2019 of plastic, 630.6 tons of scrap metal, 25.4 tons of paper, 288 tons of of the environmental system, an indicator on waste AÑO cardboard, 196.9 tons of PVB and Sentry, increasing the recovery of this management was established in order to reduce the % Recovery Lineal ( % Recovery) waste by 131% compared to the previous year. solid waste generated in the company that is sent to the sanitary landfill. To measure the effectiveness in the We delivered 2,059 tons of aluminum scrap waste for reincorporation management of the environmental system this indicator into the aluminum profile manufacturing process. 43 Leading eco efficiency and innovation 2019 Outstanding achievements Initiatives 2018 2020 Campaigns and Training We implemented an environmental training and education program, in which more than 2,500 people were trained Carry out more campaigns to promote responsible consumption in the following topics: separation at the source of solid waste (hazardous and non-hazardous), comprehensive and citizen culture from the “r” s model (Reduce, Recycle, Reuse waste management and efficient use of water resources and energy. and Accountability) hand in hand with the support of outsiders in order to reach at least 70% of the collaborators. We carried out a campaign in the workstations of the cutting tables on the classification of colorless glass for Maintain the focus of use, separation and classification of its use with the support of the Recoglass company. We work hand in hand with the inventory team to facilitate waste from the source to reduce the volume of waste generated. the rotation of the glass barrels and thus guarantee the availability of tools for classification. Fumigate export containers by means of electrostatic fogging We participated in environmental events held in the country, such as: with the aim of replacing the moderately toxic phosphamin chemical, positively impacting the environment and reducing “II Sustainable Development Forum” organized by Icontec, whose objective was to provide a space for risks of exposure to people. knowledge and analysis of management, market and financing mechanisms, presenting current issues, trends and best business practices in environmental management, efficiency energy, climate change and circular economy. “Carbon Footprint” Calculation of Carbon Footprint as a diagnostic tool. conceptualization of the international methodology of the GHG Protocol and ISO 14064-1 for the elaboration of GHG Inventories, Guidelines on how to define a base year and how to track the organization’s emissions over time, learn to identify emission sources of GHG in the organization and calculate the GHG inventory of your organization. 44 Leading eco efficiency and innovation Socialization Activities Caring for our planet: We reminded our employees that the planet is a gift and that Campaign 6R: Intended to promote the culture of recycling and care for the planet to strengthen order it is up to us to care for and maintain it for ourselves and future generations. We send and cleaning activities in the workplace and thus maximize the use of resources while generating the least messages through corporate mail. impact on the environment. Waste Classification Campaign: We raised awareness among operational and Caring for the environment: Intended to promote caring for the planet through easy tips to apply in our administrative staff through a recreational activity on the importance of proper daily lives and raise awareness about the importance of preserving our resources for future generations. classification at the source according to our color code. Handling of chemical substances: We raised awareness among operating personnel on the correct handling of chemical substances in their jobs. Waste Classification Campaign 45 Leading eco efficiency and innovation 5.6 Atmospheric emissions Our organization has an atmospheric emissions permit granted by Resolution 2483 of November 21, 2019 issued by Barranquilla Verde, effective until September 7, 2022. In compliance with the resolution, we carried out an annual analysis of flue gases; the results of which were sent to the environmental authority, meeting the parameters stipulated in the resolution. Socialization Activities Tree planting day to commemorate Earth Day and highlight the importance of conserving our planet for future generations. The tree planting day was held at the boarding school with the accompaniment of the Company’s volunteers. 46 Leading eco efficiency and innovation 5.7 Technologies in our processes The commitment to the responsible use of natural resources has invited the organization to The Information Technology department leads several projects that aim to eliminate the adapt its computer systems to improve communications, minimizing reprocessing and positively use of paper, integrate the Company’s processes and improve communications, and thus, impacting the reduction of paper consumption. ensure that all information is available in digital media, almost eliminating 100% of the printing of documents in those processes or departments. Promote the efficient use of materials and technologies respectful with the environment. Operational Optimization 2019 Outstanding achievements We implemented the Robotic Process Automation (RPA) system for the invoicing process, reducing invoice preparation times, man-hour costs and reducing human error. Paperless Project We implemented the Robotic Process Automation (RPA) system for the aluminum supply process, reducing waiting times by the engineering area for aluminum purchase orders Network connectivity in all the warehouses of ESW1 and ESW2 allowing the integration of the because the robot works 24x7. This performs inventory transfers, service transfers and production lines and together with a web application allows to know in real time the tons of purchase orders. aluminum that are cut in the production plants. We implemented the new quotation system for the Retail market. This allows our We implemented the ESOFT software that allows the end user to make their quotation and view distributors to quote the Company’s window systems, entering areas and quantities, and their window in 3D. allows the selected system to be viewed in 3D. We carried out the integration between ESOFT and our Production Order system (Fussion) so We implemented with the Laserfiche platform a workflow for the delivery of personal protection that 48% of the orders entered by ESOFT do not require re-typing, but rather the production items and equipment. process begins without human intervention. We implemented in Laserfiche a workflow for taking evidence from import containers. We optimized the Tecnosoft 2.0 information system, with the aim of improving the We designed a mobile application for the relationship of dispatch and loading of export information and production processes of glass and aluminum plants. containers. 47 Leading eco efficiency and innovation Initiatives 2020 2021 Over the next two years we hope to finish the projects to carry out 100% of the manufacturing digitally (Zero Paper). Develop a web and mobile application that reports the progress of production (cutting, die, assembly, assembly, packaging, finished product). Implement Robotic Process Automation in other critical processes in the value chain. Achieve that 90% of orders do not require digitation. Currently the design department is building in the system all the assemblies and manufacturing details of all the systems commercialized in the ESWINDOWS retail market. Digitally integrate the information of the companies Tecno INC, Tecno LLC, Tecno RF, GM&P and ESMetals. Design, develop and implement the application to feed the process map of the Tecnoglass S.A.S. companies. And ci. Solar Energy S.A.S. IS. Windows. 48 6 ENHANCING OUR ENVIRONMENT 49 ENHANCING OUR ENVIRONMENT Generate quality work Promote and adopt Build and develop Achieve an Generate value for opportunities the best labor and a comprehensive accident-free labor the communities in Human Rights teamwork with environment, the areas of influence innovating mentality supported by culture of health and safety Compromises associated with the pillar “Enhancing our environment” Our company seeks to generate value for all the stakeholders with which it is related. fundamental for the integral development and professional growth of human beings, seeking From within the organization, suitable and accident-free spaces are promoted through to encourage personal leadership and the formation of quality interdisciplinary teams. the implementation of occupational health and safety programs that promote good Furthermore, developing activities together with the Tecnoglass Eswindows Foundation work practices and respect and promotion of human rights. In addition, the training to positively influence the community in the area of influence and beyond its limits. of workers and their families is encouraged and promoted, convinced that education is 50 Enhancing our environment 6.1 Human Talent Management 1 Principle Area: Generate quality job opportunities. Human rights We are a big family always committed to providing our employees with Companies must support and respect the protection Promote and adopt the best labor and human rights practices. opportunities for personal growth and comprehensive and professional of Globally recognized human rights, in their area of development. Form and develop an integral work team with an innovative mindset. influence. Outstanding achievements 2019 Communication channels Work Environment Improvement Plan We continued with the massive communication channels through emails, the We implemented the MANAGEMENT COMPETENCES 270 program, a tool for the development of human resources newsletter where activities, articles and information related leadership and people management in order to identify opportunities for self-perceived and to events held in the Company are announced to promote the well-being of perceived improvement by team members and raise awareness of good behaviors in stress operational and administrative workers. management and the environment of work. With the information obtained, an individual diagnosis was achieved, and support was provided to leaders in those areas where stress management is Likewise, physical billboards are maintained where relevant information is greatest. We carried out an audit workshop where emotions management was addressed. communicated to operating personnel. As a result of this process in 2019, it was evident that leaders incorporated knowledge and All employees have clear, timely and direct information. Additionally, it has a behaviors into their competences and created a leadership style based on emotions that generate constant and direct approach by the Human Resources Department. a healthy and safe work environment. 51 Enhancing our environment 2019 Outstanding achievements Recruitment by Category Type and Gender CHARGE LEVEL Males Females Job creation HIGH DIRECTION 3 0 We are committed every day to providing job opportunities to a large part of the population in MANAGEMENT 5 0 order to decrease the unemployment rate and provide an opportunity for growth. The graph INTERMEDIATE DIRECTION 7 6 below shows the number of admissions per year. COMERCIALS 3 0 HEADS OF AREA 52 520 Employees in the last three years New employ ees AREA COORDINATORS 132 56 5800 2000 ADMINISTRATIVES 465 250 5700 1800 1843 OPERATIVES 3855 42 5691 SENA APPRENTICE 50 21 1600 5600 1400 5500 1200 1336 PERSONAL EN OBRA 327 25 5400 5406 1000 1064 5300 800 TOTAL 4899 420 5200 5210 600 TOTAL EMPLOYEES 5319 5319 5100 400 % MALE PARTICIPATION 92% 8% 5000 200 4900 0 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 No. COLLABORATORS WHO EXERCISED THE RIGHT TO PARENTAL LICENSE DURING 2019 contracting by gender 26% Company executives GENDER QUANTITY (from 1st to 3rd level) 92% 8% FEMALE 19 MALE 32 52 Enhancing our environment 2019 Outstanding achievements Work Committee Conflict resolution The company has a Working Committee that allows to have knowledge of the needs and We have a coexistence committee that meets quarterly with the objective of establishing preventive improvements that should be made to promote a better work environment, since it is a free space and corrective measures to prevent and mitigate harassment in the workplace. There have been in which workers express their concerns and needs to improve the environment and thus we can no cases reported in relation to these situations, but the committee’s work continues for the provide them with a healthy workplace so that they can develop efficiently and productively. workers, designing strategies and programs that facilitate a healthy coexistence. During 2019, we monitored compliance with the issues raised by employees and the resolution of their concerns through the Decentand Productive Work Committee. According to the expressed No Discrimination needs, psychological support, training to improve job security conditions, interpersonal In 2019 there were no cases of discrimination in the Company. Because we have had no cases relationships and family dynamics are provided, always guaranteeing confidentiality. for the past two years, we are focused on maintaining that the results remain the same, working under the strategies established and implemented by the coexistence committee. Employee Benefits We do not have a policy, initiative or program for the integration and non-discrimination of The well-being of our collaborators and their family is fundamental for us, hence the benefits disadvantaged populations, but we welcome hiring and counting on our team with people with that we offer are not only aimed at employees, but also at the members of their family, seeking a disabilities, young applicants for first job and any group of people who feel vulnerable and at comprehensive balance in which we are committed to improving every day the quality of life for risk of exclusion due to their sex, race, religion or political status. The company has people with them. Here are some of the benefits granted to all our collaborators: disabilities in positions where they can develop perfectly according to their condition and that allows them to fully develop professionally. We have also had first-job youth who are currently direct employees. Life insurance policy Route service Subsidy for prepaid medicine Paid parental leave Likewise, we give support to the neighboring population of the Las Flores neighborhood by Birth aid Pediatric doctor appointments providing employment to residents of this neighborhood and its surroundings. In our family of Study aid for undergraduate and graduate Sports assistance internal and external collaborators we have immigrant personnel recognizing that anyone has the right to a decent job employees championships without distinction or discrimination. Student scholarships for children of Seniority recognition program employees Direct loans with the company 0% interest Housing aid 53 Enhancing our environment 2019 Outstanding achievements Training and teaching We trained workers on the correct operation of the overhead crane, recognizing that it is one of The Company gives the opportunity to inexperienced people to develop skills and capacities, with our key teams in operation. a dignified life project. We offered two trainings to publicize the criteria for the handling, packaging and security of The Glass School program arises from the need for each of our collaborators to know in advance goods and the criteria for container inspection. the Company’s base product, its origin, composition and generalities. In addition, they are taught to interpret plans and to work with the measurement tools to carry out the operation. All this with the aim of minimizing the risk of nonconformities in our product and avoiding reprocessing. We have worked on this program with the support of the National Learning Service Entity – SENA for COMPLEMENTARY TRAINING-TECHNICAL AND TECHNOLOGICAL its name in Spanish, and the results regarding the increase in knowledge of the collaborators and the decrease in errors and complaints have been satisfactory. PROGRAM 2018 YEAR 2019 YEAR TERM We provided employees in the logistics and dispatch areas of Tecnoglass with technical training in “DOLCA” Distribution of Logistics Operations in the Supply Chain. Likewise, technological GLASS SCHOOLGLASS CUTTING 43 70 4 QUARTERS PER YEAR training in industrial processes for personnel in the production area, all with the support of SENA. The Company provides training spaces in its facilities and at established times for workers DOLCA TECHNICIAN -Development of Logistics Operations in the Supply 0 26 12 MONTHS INCLUDING to study their careers whilst in the company, in order to acquire the necessary knowledge for the Chain PRACTICES development of their functions and thus develop their skills. All this is reflected in improving productivity. INDUSTRIAL PROCESSES TECHNOLOGIST 0 26 18 MONTHS INCLUDING PRACTICES CUSTOMER SERVICE 20 20 1 HOURS We held Customer Service workshops to provide tools to collaborators to identify and develop the behaviors required to implement and enhance an effective customer service strategy, both FORKLIFT OPERATOR TECHNIQUE 30 24 6 MONTHS internal and external, and, consequently, to promote fluency and performance of the organization’s processes. CRANE BRIDGE OPERATOR 77 71 16 HOURS PROPER MANAGEMENT OF GOODS 0 7 2 HOURS We trained our employees on the basic principles for the correct and safe handling of forklifts, encouraging responsibility and awareness through acts and safe conditions for the development of the operation. We developed topics related to safety protocols, forklift operation according to the type of load and manufacturer’s instructions, among others. 54 Enhancing our environment Initiatives 2020 2021 Install and operate a casino from where all our employees benefit. Develop recreation and training programs for employees and their families. Continue to follow up on issues raised by employees on the various committees. Continue offering psychological support to employees according to their needs and provide training on security issues and interpersonal relationships, among others, in order to improve the working conditions of officials. Perform statistical monitoring of complaints and the resolution of these to make a work and training plan that is aligned to the specific needs of employees in order to create strategies to work on reducing complaints and nonconformities. 55 Enhancing our environment 6.2 Occupational safety and health Achieve an accident-free labor environment, supported by a culture of health and safety. The Company continually implements, maintains and improves 2019 Outstanding achievements its Occupational Health and Safety Management System (“SG-SST”) in compliance with the requirements established in international standards and in compliance with the requirements of Colombian Management Programs law. We obtained ISO 45001: 2018 certification for the Occupational Health and Safety Management System at Tecnoglass SAS. The management and leaders of occupational safety and health have established objectives, strategies and actions leading to the We implemented technological platforms in processes or activities in occupational safety and health with the aim reduction of accidents, disease prevention and improvement of of improving performance, we highlight: Laserfiche, Helpdesk, Talentum, SerCAE, Nova and others provided by ARL safety-oriented behavior, committed to optimizing working conditions such as El Profe and the platform for the Administration Risk and Emergencies. in terms of safety and Health. We implemented strategies for the prevention of accidents and occupational diseases and achieve the objectives of In the framework of the SG-SST implementation, management the SG-SST with the support and allocation of resources from providers, ARL, EPS, contractors and temporary service programs have been established and executed aimed at controlling companies. risks inherent in industrial and logistics processes, obtaining excellent results in terms of reducing accidents year after year since 2013. We implemented a predictive safety test with the support of the ARL whose objective is to identify workers with tendencies towards unsafe behaviors. The development of the SG-SST has scope in administrative and We designed a program for the prevention of accidents caused by exposure to mechanical risk, we have the support operational activities that directly and indirectly impacts direct of professionals to improve hand tools, control strategies for danger lines, machine safety, EPP approval and workers, in mission, contractors, clients, shareholders, visitors and improvements in unsafe conditions in machines and tools. the community in general. The objectives, strategies and actions in the field of safety, health and environment have achieved positive results in the organization. 56 Enhancing our environment 2019 Outstanding achievements We acquired certified ladders to minimize the occurrence of fall accidents and include their The following programs are available for non-work related medical and health care services: control in the inspection program. Cardiovascular risk: It is a cardiovascular Epidemiological Surveillance program that consists of We strengthened the fatigue and sleep program with prevention strategies and psychological determining the exposed population by calculating cardiovascular risk (Blood pressure, weight, support to improve the factors that affect accidents at night. height, abdominal circumference, BMI, history), identifying cases, referring to EPS, training by providing to workers tools to maintain healthy lifestyles and thus decrease the conditions that We implemented Project A, which consists of a set of strategies that aim to change the risk can trigger cardiovascular risk and prolong their life expectancy so that they are productive for behavior of workers in order to prevent injuries and / or occupational diseases. Through this their family, society and company. strategy, the training of 42 security leaders was achieved, who develop behavior observation roles in their areas of competence, obtaining significant results in reducing the accident rate. Non-work psychosocial risk: It is a program that evaluates the current state of the Company in relation to the intervention of psychosocial risk factors. Evaluates the intra-labor, extra-labor We reduced the accident rate at Tecnoglass S.A.S. by 17%. and individual factors of the employees, identifying the risk conditions and the protection of the aforementioned factors. Occupational Health The company has strategic allies (suppliers) that provide occupational examination services as Participation and consultation prescribed by law and in accordance with the profession where the charges are described and medical evaluations and diagnostic aids are determined taking into account the identified risks The Company determines mechanisms for the consultation and participation of employees, and dangers. for the development of different positions or occupations. supplying the resources, time and training of workers at all levels of the organization; these activities minimize obstacles and barriers such as language, literacy, and allow timely access to To control these suppliers, the Company designates financial, technical and human resources clear, understandable, and relevant information on established policies. that allow audits of its Quality System and sufficiency reviews in accordance with the organization’s Audit Program. The organization has several communication mechanisms, including email, COPASST, NOVA application, publications through televisions, billboards, socializations in the workplace, among On the other hand, the Company has a network of health professionals (Physiotherapists, other mechanisms that allow workers to be informed or receive information related to Safety and Psychologists, Occupational Doctors, Occupational Therapists, Nutritionists, etc.) to implement Health at Work. and maintain the PVE Epidemiological Surveillance Programs, which among others aims to contribute to the identification and control of hazards and the minimization of risks. 57 Enhancing our environment 2019 Outstanding achievements The organization has several communication mechanisms, including email, COPASST, NOVA Research Committee. Its purpose is to investigate the facts, causes and situations that have application, publications through televisions, billboards, socializations in the workplace, among caused incidents and accidents at work, and implement corrective measures aimed at eliminating other mechanisms that allow workers to be informed or receive information related to Safety or minimizing risky conditions and preventing their recurrence. The area heads, SST representative and Health at Work. and COPASST representative participate in this committee. 100% of the workers are represented in these participation and consultation mechanisms, we highlight the following: Mutual Aid Committee. It is made up of the areas responsible for the emergency preparedness and response plans of the neighboring companies in the Las Flores neighborhood sector, representing the Company with SST leaders. This committee aims to identify resources for risk prevention and emergency control in the Company’s environment, as well as participation in drills. Joint Committee on Safety and Health at Work (COPASST). The committee is made up of workers’ representatives with their respective alternates elected by vote. It is also made up of employer representatives with their alternates. Labor Coexistence Committee. The committee is made up of workers’ representatives with their respective substitutes, as well as an employer representative with their substitutes. Road Safety Committee. Made up of workers who, due to their role within the organization, impact on the fulfillment of the strategic road safety plan. Committee of Security Leaders. Made up of process coordinators in charge of reporting safety conditions and behavioral observations. Change Management Committee. This committee led by the head of OSH and representatives of COPASST in company with the leaders participate in changes that impact OSH such as changes in technology, working methods, new processes or projects, infrastructure, facilities and equipment. 58 Enhancing our environment 2019 Outstanding achievements 59 Enhancing our environment 2019 Outstanding achievements Accident Rate The accident rate refers to the number of qualified accidents. For the OSH SG this indicator is highly relevant because when identifying the causes that originate them, they can adapt and modify the objectives, goals, management programs and training activities. The foregoing in order to mitigate risks in accordance with the provisions of legal regulations and the operational needs of companies. We present the results below. C.I. Solar Energy S.A.S. E.S. Windows Tecnoglass S.A.S. The accident rate in 2019 was 2,92% of total direct and temporary employees. There were no The accident rate in 2019 was 3.3% of the total of direct and temporary workers who died due to an occupational accident. The annual average of male hours of work employees, compared to the previous year a reduction of 17% was evident. was 9,046,080 HHT. There were no collaborators who died due to an occupational accident. The annual average of male hours of work was 7,314,048 HHT. Annual behavior accident rate Annual behavior accident rate LOST TIME INJURY FRECUENCY LOST TIME INJURY FRECUENCY 12,00 20 11,38 19 18 10,00 16 14 8,00 12 6,00 10 5,45 8 8 7 4,00 6 3,01 3,03 5 2,92 44 4 2,00 3,3 2 0 0,00 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 60 Enhancing our environment 2019 Outstanding achievements Training and Coaching The scope of the training `program on occupational safety and health is for all levels of the Safe operation of drills. organization. Platforms such as El Profe provided by ARL Seguros Bolívar, strategic alliances with Safe handling of sharp tools. SENA, training conducted by professionals from ARL Seguros Bolívar, training centers, induction Manual lifting and handling of loads. and reinduction processes, among other means, are used. The following trainings are highlighted: 50 hour course at SG-SST. Prevention of psychoactive substance use. Prevention of industrial noise. Project A: Trained 42 leaders in Occupational Safety and Health to strengthen the Induction and Reinduction in Safety and Health at Work. strategy of safe people by observing behavior during activities. Daily safety talks on PPE Use, Hand Care, Self Report of Conditions in the Active breaks in administrative and operational areas. workplace, Danger line and awareness of the use and care of emergency stops, Publication of chemical compatibility matrix in the different areas of the plant Covering figurative glass, among others. (November). Forklift operator course. Crane bridge operator course. Retraining Advanced safe working at heights. We participate in the following congresses: Training with carpentry personnel on the correct use of pneumatic guns. 3m height equipment inspector training. ORP Madrid Spain International Congresses, 2 participants. Click: Reinforcement of knowledge about basic causes and immediate causes in more Health and Safety Congress Colombian Security Council, 2 participants. frequent AT of hands. Training in the use of rescue teams for Brigadistas and personnel. Retraining to Basic and Advanced Brigade. Day of safety and health at work. 61 Enhancing our environment ACTIVITIES Handwashing Campaign. Participation VIII Brigade Meeting organized by the Professional Risk Manager Seguros Bolívar. Alcohol Consumption Prevention Campaign. Training in the safe use of pneumatic nail guns. 62 Enhancing our environment ACTIVITIES Training of the Emergency Brigade. Activities with COPASST. Emergency drill. Healthy lifestyles program. 63 Enhancing our environment Initiatives 2020 2021 Make the transition from OHSAS 18001: 2007 to NTC ISO 45001: 2018 for the Occupational Evaluate specific safety standards for tasks at height in order to reduce accidents due to Health and Safety Management System at CI Energía Solar S.A.S. ES. Windows. falls at different levels. Follow-up to the Project (A) behavioral safety program for leaders, with the aim of reducing Design the “Back School” strategy to extensively treat the causes of qualified musculoskeletal accidents due to unsafe behavior. diseases by defining anthropometric profiles by positions, analysis of preventive jobs and behavior observation program centralized to biomechanical behaviors. Reduce mechanical risk accidents on machines or tools by implementing a mechanical risk program to improve controls for machine safety and a strategy for managing the hazard line Carry out a legal technical review of all epidemiological surveillance programs and health and inspection program. programs. Implement software to improve the control processes of personal protection elements, Improve the fatigue and sleep program with strategies focused on factors related to area inspections and task observations. night-time. Implement security strategies to reduce accidents due to deviations in glass handling and Continue with the continuous improvement of the risk and disaster management plan. protection of figured glass. 64 Enhancing our environment 6.3 Human Rights 2 Principle Area: Human rights Promote and adopt the best labor and human rights practices. Companies must ensure that they do not act as accomplices to violations. 2019 Outstanding achievements Initiatives 2019 2020 Our Board of Directors approved the Human Rights Policy that includes our Raise awareness among workers to report any situations that violates human rights. commitment to support and respect human rights so as not to violate them. Promote campaigns that encourage respect for human rights and duties and peaceful There were no situations of workplace harassment or conflict registered before the coexistence. Coexistence Committee, the competent body to hear them. We held workshops on managing family dynamics and strengthening the intralabor social support network. We improved jobs to provide appropriate and safe spaces for the development of the functions of workers. 65 Enhancing our environment 6.4 Labor Standards 2019 Outstanding achievements 3 Principle Companies must respect freedom of We had zero “0” unionized people due to the high levels of job satisfaction of our collaborators and communication channels. association and the effective recognition of the right to collective negotiation. We continue with the Decent Work Committee that evaluates the needs of our collaborators in relation to routes, facilities, social and personal relationships. 4 Principle Companies must support the elimination of all form of forced or coerced labor. We did not receive any complaint or complaint about forced or forced labor. We allowed our workers freedom in the execution of their functions, always promoting compliance with corporate values in their development. 5 Principle Companies must support the effective abolishment of child labor. All our collaborators are of legal age and from the beginning of the personnel selection process we guarantee the non-hiring of minors. There were 0 incidents of discrimination reported by collaborators. 6 Principle Companies must support the abolishment of discrimination practices in respect to We have employees with disabilities, we promote the integral development and social inclusion of the people who need it most, such employment and occupation. as the hiring of personnel from Las Flores (neighboring vulnerable area). Likewise, we hire inexperienced employees developing skills and abilities to build a decent life project with them. Non-discrimination is guaranteed in the personnel selection process, always choosing the person who meets the profile of the position Generate quality job opportunities. regardless of sex, religion, political ideology or any other aspect that tends to promote discrimination. Promote and adopt the best labor and human We guarantee growth opportunities within the company. rights practices. 66 Enhancing our environment Initiatives 2019 2020 3 Principle Companies must respect freedom of Design an improvement plan to build, renovate and promote a better work environment, always guaranteeing confidentiality. association and the effective recognition of the right to collective negotiation. Disseminate the Human Rights policy that contemplates our commitment to respect freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4 Principle Companies must support the elimination of all form of forced or coerced labor. Disseminate the Human Rights policy that includes our commitment to eliminate all forms of forced or coerced labor. 5 Principle Companies must support the effective Promulgate and disseminate the Human Rights policy that includes our commitment to effectively abolish child labor. abolishment of child labor. 6 Principle Disseminate the Human Rights policy that includes our commitment to abolish discrimination practices in employment and Companies must support the abolishment occupation. of discrimination practices in respect to employment and occupation. 67 Enhancing our environment 6.5 Tecnoglass ESWindows Foundation The Tecnoglass ESWindows Foundation is a non-profit entity that seeks to promote and improve the quality of life of the Company’s stakeholders through projects and programs for transformation and social progress. The Tecnoglass ESWindows Foundation develops its social purpose through 4 strategic axes: Education for Progress, Hand in Hand with the Communities, Social Intervention and Promoting Culture and Sports, significantly to the development of the region and the country. Hand-in-Hand with the Communities Generate value in the communities of the area of influence. The Company, hand in hand with the Tecnoglass ESWindows Foundation, supports and generates projects of great impact for the communities. It has developed infrastructure projects in various neighborhoods of Barranquilla such as La Playa, Las Flores and Rebolo, improving the safety and quality of life of its inhabitants. 68 Enhancing our environment Outstanding achievements 2019 Transformation of the Rebolo neighborhood This initiative beganin 2018 with the recovery and improvement of 28 houses of inhabitants of Rebolo neighborhood, which were transformed under the inspiration of the icon of La Ventana al Mundo into paths of color and joy. In 2019 we built a 126 m² concrete court with anti-impact mesh enclosure and a 64 m² children’s play area in synthetic grass. This project has benches for caregivers and adults, giving the community a new space for healthy recreation for families and children. With this contribution, we seek to promote sports activities and the good use of free time. Advantages and scope Creation of a leisure space that promotes family time and implies the progressive improvement of its social structure. Strengthening of the cultural identity and sense of belonging of the inhabitants of the neighborhood. Create awareness in the community about the importance of taking care of public spaces. 69 Enhancing our environment Outstanding achievements 2019 La Ventana al Mundo Initiatives 2018 2020 La Ventana al Mundo continues to be one of the most important tourist and cultural attractions of the city and the country, a space desired by all who come to Barranquilla for its imposing height, play of colors and recreational space. Rebolo neighborhood transformation In 2019 this monument celebrated its first anniversary, and we organized an afternoon of games and Restructure by means of this social intervention not only spaces destined for gifts to share and celebrate this symbol of the city. We received more than 3,000 attendees among recreation and sport but also to achieve a transformation of the social imagery of children, youth and adults who enjoyed a delicious cake 4 meters long while they accompanied us on children, youth and adults in the neighborhood. this magical day. Continue to contribute to social development in the neighborhood community. Additionally, La Ventana al Mundo was the scene for the celebration of Children’s Day, the lighting of 468,000 led lights of the tallest Christmas tree in Colombia and the celebration of these holidays with a Christmas montage full of colors and music. La Ventana al Mundo We are proud to see how this monument has become a window for fashion and fun, making it a stage Continue generating cultural and recreational spaces for families. to carry out international events such as Mobaq, which seeks to highlight the artistic and creative talent of many designers in the region. Promote the interaction between culture, development and tourism. Together with the Foundation, we are committed to turning this monument into a space for family Reinforce the commitment to work for the development and progress sharing, where inclusion, cooperation and integration between the different communities prevail. of nearby communities and society in general, by carring our activities to commemorate the days celebrated worldwide such as Children’s Day, Mother’s Day, Environment Day, Christmas. Advantages Represents the identity and history of Barranquilla. It is strengthened as a meeting space to share with the family. An emblematic place that offers the opportunity to honor different special dates and iconic moments in the city. Considered one of the most important tourist attractions in the country. Potentiates the economic development of people with informal work in the area of influence. ​​ 70 Enhancing our environment Social Intervention Recognizing that it is essential to strengthen individual growth and family ties, we carry out social intervention program using means such as sports, dancing and other activities that contribute to the progress of the most vulnerable communities. The focus of this strategy is to transform social challenges into windows of opportunity. Outstanding achievements 2019 Vive Bailando Volunteering We continue developing with the Vive Bailando Foundation the social intervention program in the Las The Company has a group of volunteers that amounts to more than 40 collaborators, who are interested Flores neighborhood, one of our areas of influence. The Live Dance Program uses dance, body and in supporting environmental, social and cultural activities to contribute positively to society movement as a pedagogical instrument for the positive transformation of young people, strengthening their socio-emotional skills and enhancing their personal, family and social development. During the year 2019, one of the activities that they developed in alliance with Siembra Barranquilla was the planting of 30 trees on the grounds of the Monseñor Víctor Tamayo Boarding School, this activity In 2019, the impact was reflected in the skills of 80 children and adolescents participating in the program, who was carried out with the help of 96 children from the Boarding School, who received information of the evidenced the modification of their social imagery, increasing levels of respect, self-care, self-esteem and importance of caring for the environment and preserving green areas. values. Additionally, leadership, healthy coexistence, communication, attitudes and appropriate behaviors were strengthened in the program participants. Colombia: A Field to Dream and Grow Initiatives 2020 2021 Colombia:A Field to Dream and Grow is a program developed in partnership with the Colombia Somos Continue with the Live Dancing project to continue strengthening the participants’ socio-emotional Todos Foundation, by Colombian soccer player James Rodríguez, which is in place since 2016 skills in order to contribute to the progress of our nearby communities. in different places in Barranquilla and Ibagué. This program focuses on 4 strategic axes: social technology (psychology), play and sport, citizen skills and cognitive development that are carried Continue to implement the Colombia: A Field to Dream and Grow Up project in Las Flores through activities and workshops. neighborhood as a social intervention strategy that promotes development in the community. In 2019 we carried out the program in the Las Flores neighborhood with the participation of 100 Strengthen the internal program of Corporate Volunteers in order to sensitize and inspire children and teenagers between the ages of 7 and 17, who, with the support of an interdisciplinary employees to build, in the midst of difficult contexts, actions that can contribute to the least team of professionals in cognitive development, psychology and sport, strengthened their psycho favored. development -affective, discipline and responsibility. Likewise, creating healthy habits in their daily lives. 71 Enhancing our environment Education for Progress For the Company, education is one of the key pieces for the progress of the communities, that is why we focus on offering quality programs for children, youth and adults. We have developed programs that seek to provide access to quality education such as the Scholarship Program, aimed at employees and children of employees, the Merit Scholarship program and Educational Sponsorship for primary and secondary students. 2019 Achievements We sponsored through the University Scholarship program aimed at employees and children of employees 189 people who advanced their technical, technological and university studies in different institutions and universities of the region. In 2019 we sponsored 6 students with the Merit Scholarship program, we currently have 19 beneficiaries. Initiatives 2020 2021 Maintain the educational support program for undergraduate and graduate students in order to improve future education, personal, professional and job growth of company employees and their families. 72 Enhancing our environment A Sport Culture In the cultural and sports field, we develop various spaces that promote identity creation, social inclusion, talent development and the skills of citizens. We consider that encouraging physical activity and healthy habits, in addition to the good use of free time, are some of the benefits that sport provides in childhood and youth. This is why many of our meetings revolve around sport, which is key to strengthening fellowship, teamwork, and leadership. 2019 Achievements Sporting Football Club We supported and accompanied two children from the Sporting Football Club team to participate together with the Key Biscayne Soccer Club in the Disney Memorial Day Soccer Tournament, in which they demonstrated their excellent skills with the ball that even led them to be the championship winners. After their excellent performance in the United States, we continue to support these two children to go even further. The next stop for these young footballers was Marbella, Spain. They traveled with the Key Biscayne Soccer Club, to play team. Initiatives 2020 2021 Continue supporting sports talent in children and youth in the city of Barranquilla. 73 7 GLOBAL COMPACT PROGRESS COMMUNICATION Global compact progress communication GLOBAL COMPACT AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Committed to the principles of the global compact and the sustainable development goals adopted by the United Nations, we present below how they arealigned with our sustainability strategies and initiatives. Global Compact Principle Sustainable Development Goals Pillar of strategy Initiatives Generate quality job opportunities. Principle 1: Companies must support Promote and adopt the best labor and human rights practices. and respect the protection of Globally Enhancing our recognized human rights, in their area environment Form and develop an integral work team with an innovative of influence. mindset. Achieve an accident-free labor environment, supported by a culture of health and safety. Principle 2: Companies must ensure that they do not act as accomplices to Enhancing our Promote and adopt the best labor and human rights practices. human rights violations. environment Principle 3: Companies must respect Generate quality job opportunities. Enhancing our freedom of association and the environment effective recognition of the right to Promote and adopt the best labor and human rights practices. collective negotiation. 75 Global compact progress communication Global Compact Principle Sustainable Development Goals Pillar of strategy Initiatives Principio 4: Companies must support Generate quality job opportunities. the elimination of all form of forced Enhancing our or coerced labo. environment. Promote and adopt the best labor and human rights practices. Principio 5: Companies must support Promote and adopt the best labor and human Enhancing our the effective abolishment n of child rights practices. environment. labor. Principio 6: Companies must support Generate quality job opportunities Enhancing our the abolishment of discrimination environment. practices in respect to employment Promote and adopt the best labor and human and occupation. rights practices. Prevent, mitigate and compensate environmental Principio 7: Companies must support Leading eco-efficiency and impacts of the business. a prudent approach with respect to innovation. environmental challenges. Responsibly manage the value chain and product life cycle. 76 Global compact progress communication Global Compact Principle Sustainable Development Goals Pillar of strategy Initiatives Encourage energy efficiency of the operation and Principio 8: Companies must Leading eco-efficiency and the products. encourage initiatives that promote innovation. greater environmental responsibility. Position an innovation and quality approach in all the company's processes. Principio 9: Companies must Promote the efficient use of materials and Leading eco-efficiency and promote the development and technologies respectful with the environment. innovation. diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Conduct our business with integrity, ethics and Principio 10: Companies must work transparency. against all forms of corruption Promoting continuous, ethical and including extortion and bribery. responsible growth. Adopt best corporate governance practices that facilitate decision-making and accountability. 77 8 GRI STANDARDS TABLE 78 GRI Standards Table Global Reporting Initiative Tecnoglass Inc has decided to report ot progress with Global Compact through this Sustainability Report, using as methodology principles and indicators of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and other performance indicators set forth by management. Below is a guide to the GRI indicators taken as reference in this rep GRI STANDARDS DESCRIPTION GRI STANDARDS DESCRIPTION Introduction LEADING ECO-EFFICIENCY AND INNOVATION 102-15, 307-1, 303-1, 303-2, 306-2 Environment 102-14 Presidency Letter 302-1 Photovoltaic Power Generation 102-1, 102-3, 102-4, 102,5 About us 102-2 Sorting Plant 102-2 y 102-6 Productos 301-2, 306-2 Waste Management and Use 102-7 Tecnoglass in numbers 301-2 Technologies in Processes 102-9 Supplier Managment 102-10 y 102-45 Significant Changes in the Organization 102-13 Associations and guilds ENHANCING OUR ENVIRONMENT 102-16 Corporate Values 102-8, 401-2, 401-3, 404-2 Management of Human Talent 102-18, 102-19 y 102-20, 102-22, 102Governance Structure 23, 102-24, 102-26, 102-27, 102-28 403-1, 403-3, 403-4, 403-5, 403-6, Occupational Safety and Health 102-21 y 102-40 Stakeholders 403-7, 403-9 412-2 Labor Standards 413-1 Hand-in Hand Communities, Social Intervention PROMOTING CONTINUOUS, ETHICAL AND RESPONSIBLE GROWTH and 102-16, 205-2, 205-3 Ethics and Compliance Program 102-13, 102-15, 204-1 Security in the Supply Chain 102-2 High Quality Innovative Products 79 The Power of Quality 80
