SWISSPORT INTERNATIONAL AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 CONTENTS INTRODUCING SWISSPORT 3 EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY CEO’s statement 4 Fostering diversity, equal opportunity Company profile 6 and positive stakeholder relations  43 2019 highlights 8 Human resource management  43 1 Our workforce 44 Training and qualification 48 Compensation and benefits 50 WORKPLACE HEALTH AND SAFETY Health and safety  50 Corporate citizenship 54 4 Staying safe in a complex environment 12 Cargo handling 14 Ramp handling 16 Key safety measures 18 ENVIRONMENT Passenger services 20 2 Mitigating our impact on the environment 59 Environmental management  59 Fuel efficiency and emissions 62 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Environmental protection on the ramp  66 Environmental responsibility in the office 68 5 Committed to a sustainable delivery of high-quality services 25 Stakeholder relations and material topics  25 Corporate governance  28 ANNEX The Swissport Formula 30 Pricing discipline  31 About the report 72 Commercial governance  31 GRI content index 73 Quality management  31 Credits and contact 78 Compliance and risk management  32 Sustainable supply chain 36 Innovation 38 4 INTRODUCING SWISSPORT Sustainability Report 2020 Swissport International AG CEO’S STATEMENT Dear readers, At Swissport we believe that sustainable business To improve the occupational safety of our practices contribute to positive results in the em­ployees, we have been cooperating with Auxivo, long term, which in turn are a prerequisite for a spin-off of the ETH Zurich (Swiss Federal investing in environmental and social issues. Institute of Technology) to develop and test the Therefore, we integrate sustainability goals into “LiftSuit“, a wearable exoskeleton that helps Swissport’s strategic and opera­­tio­nal objectives prevent musculoskeletal injuries. We are very and decision-making. proud to have been awarded the IATA Inno­ vator Award 2019 for this innovation partnerWe apply the utmost care and invest significant ship with Auxivo. time and financial resources in training and equip­ment to keep our employees safe and With regards to environmental sustainability, healthy. Environmental protection, health and we have set a target to increase the share of safety, and the quality of our services are the electric vehicles in our fleet to at least 50 percent result of a long-term commitment, requiring by 2025. The objective: to further reduce our continuous focus and systematic efforts. carbon footprint and to improve the direct working environment of our employees. Here, the In terms of sustainability, 2019 saw a visible management of our environmental impact goes step forward. For the first time, Swissport hand in hand with our service quality and our conducted a materiality analysis in which we results. asked key stakeholders to identify the sust­ ainability topics that were particularly important As a signatory to the United Nations Global to them. The insights gained will help us to Compact since 2011, Swissport is committed to align our sustainability strategy even more environmental care, the protection of human effectively with stakeholder expectations. rights, the upholding of labor standards and INTRODUCING SWISSPORT 5 “We have set a target to increase the share of electric vehicles in our fleet to at least 50 percent by 2025.“ the fight against bribery and corruption. In all these fields of action, we once again intensified our efforts in 2019 and we remain committed to continuously working towards further progress. It has been my honor to lead our company through a challenging and inspiring year. We are proud of our progress and are firm in our resolve to continue earning the trust of society. Thank you for your loyalty and support along this exciting journey. Eric Born President & CEO Swissport International AG 6 INTRODUCING SWISSPORT Sustainability Report 2020 Swissport International AG COMPANY PROFILE 92 A GLOBAL LEADER IN AIRPORT SERVICES Swissport operates at 300 airports in 47 countries. We have a broader global presence than any of our competitors, and our clients benefit from the industry’s widest single-source NORTH AMERICA service portfolio. With operations at 300 airports in 47 countries, we are proud to serve more than 850 corporate clients on six continents. In 2019, with a workforce of some 64,000, the Group generated revenue AIRPORT GROUND SERVICES of 3.13 billion euros (2018: 3.06 billion euros1). Operating EBITDA2 stood at 272.3 million euros Swissport generates roughly 80 percent of its revenue from (2018: 278.9 million euros1). airport ground services, which include passenger services and ramp han­d­ling. Our complete service portfolio affords us a We deliver a full suite of high-quality services significant cost and service advantage. Swissport performed in airport ground services and air cargo hansome 2.05 million aircraft turns in 2019, equaling one aircraft dling. From standard services like check-in and turn every 15 seconds. Our customer service agents served gate and general cargo handling to highly 265 million airline passengers. specialized services like load control and the 34 hand­ling of pharmaceutical products, our PASSENGER SERVICES RAMP HANDLING qualified staff can cover all the needs airlines may be seeking on the ground. Our customers ■ Check-in & Gate ■ Baggage Services can choose from various degrees of vertical outsourcing, ranging from singular passenger, ■ Passenger Mobility ■ De-Icing ramp or cargo handling services to full-hub ■ Lounge Hospitality ■ Fueling SOUTH AMERICA outsourcing solutions. This has proven to be ■ Executive Aviation ■ Moving of Aircraft a key selling proposition for Swissport, as it allows our clients to flexibly adapt their desired ■ Security Services ■ Central Load Control d­e­gree of collaboration with us over time. ■ Lost & Found ■ Aircraft Cleaning 1 On a constant currency basis 2 Operating EBITDA (pre-IFRS 16), as defined in our audited financial statements Swissport International AG Sustainability Report 2020 INTRODUCING SWISSPORT 7 80 EUROPE 20 ASIA AIR CARGO HANDLING Our air cargo business accounts for approximately 20 percent of our revenue. We handle 45 everything from general cargo to specialist shipments such as high-value or temperature sensitive products. Some 4.62 million tons of air cargo passed through Swissport’s warehouses in 2019. Of our 115 warehouses, 14 have been 29 AFRICA certified for pharmaceutical logistics by IATA’s Center of Excellence for Independent Validators in Pharmaceutical Logistics (CEIV Pharma), by the British MHRA (Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency) or other recognized industry associations. PACIFIC SERVICES 300 ■ General & Special Cargo Handling ■  emperature-Controlled Handling T (such as pharmaceuticals) ■ Hub Handling ■ Express Services ■ Forwarder Handling AIRPORTS WORLDWIDE 8 INTRODUCING SWISSPORT Sustainability Report 2020 Swissport International AG 6 2019 HIGHLIGHTS 300 5 47 CONTINENTS COUNTRIES AIRPORTS LOUNGE GUESTS (million) 4.6 TONS OF CARGO (million) 64,000 EMPLOYEES 2.1 AIRCRAFT TURNS (million) >850 CORPORATE CLIENTS 265 AIRLINE PASSENGERS (million) 115 WAREHOUSES Swissport International AG Sustainability Report 2020 INTRODUCING SWISSPORT 9 AWARDS IATA INNOVATOR AWARD 2019 ISAGO Together with the ETH Zurich spin-off company Auxivo, Swissport’s corporate head office has been ISAGO (IATA Safety Swissport has developed and tested the “LiftSuit“, a Audit for Ground Operations) registered since 2010 and by wearable exoskeleton that helps prevent musculoskeletal the end of 2019, 19 locations across its global network were also injuries. We received the “Innovator Award 2019“ from ISAGO-registered. Swissport has been a member of the IATA IATA for this innovation. Strategic Partnerships Program since 2005. In 2017, IATA recognized Swissport for the successful implementation of its WORLD AIR CARGO AWARD BY AIR CARGO WEEK Ground Operations Manual (IGOM). Swissport was named Air Cargo Handling Agent of the CEIV PHARMA BY IATA AND BRITISH MHRA Year by Air Cargo Week at the World Air Cargo Awards 2020. Nominations had to be submitted by mid-December 2019. Our air cargo operations in Amsterdam, Barcelona, Basel, Voting for the nominees began in January via aircargoweek.com Brussels, Dublin, Frankfurt, Helsinki, London Heathrow, Madrid, and ended in April 2020. Manchester, Miami, Montreal, Nairobi and Tel Aviv are certified by IATA’s CEIV Pharma, by the British MHRA or other recognized INTERNATIONAL CARGO HANDLER OF THE YEAR IN AFRICA industry associations. The certifications guarantee air freight customers the highest quality and temperature control stan­ Swissport has been named international cargo handler of the dards for sensitive pharmaceutical products. year in Africa for the fifth time (2019, 2016, 2015, 2013, 2011) at the Air Cargo Africa conference and exhibition in JohannesAPPOINTED MEMBER OF EASA EXPERT GROUP burg, South Africa. In March 2019, we became a member of the Expert Group in the European Union Aviation Safety Agency (EASA). We CERTIFICATIONS AND MEMBERSHIPS continue to contribute our knowledge and experience to the development of future ground-handling regulations, which ISO will impact quality management and safety operations. The Swissport management system has been ISO 9001:2015 certified since 1999. Currently, 64 locations are ISO 9001:2015 certified under a global multi-site agreement. 24 locations have an ISO 14001 certified environmental system. 1 WORKPLACE HEALTH AND SAFETY PEOPLE AT THE CENTER 12 WORKPLACE HEALTH AND SAFETY Sustainability Report 2020 Swissport International AG STAYING SAFE IN A COMPLEX ENVIRONMENT We are working relentlessly towards the goal of zero accidents and zero work-related injuries and illnesses. We believe that the strict adherence to our established standard processes and the continuous focus on the prevention of procedural occurrences are the most important levers for preven­ting incidents and, ultimately, accidents. The reduction in occurrences will help keep our employees, our customers and the people around us safe. HEALTH AND SAFETY IS ALL ABOUT PEOPLE TRUST, CARE AND PERFORMANCE Ensuring health and safety at work starts with hiring the right “It is our most fundamental value to always put safety first,“ says people, explains Cassandra Agenson, Recruitment Coordinator Alexandre Bolay, Swissport’s Head of Global Quality, Health, at Swissport Australia and New Zealand. “In such high-risk areas, Safety & Environment. He explains that safety measures are closely people’s lives may depend on doing exactly the right thing at linked to trust, care, and personal engage­ment and aim to prevent the right time. It is key for employees to see the big picture and harm to people and equipment, and to enhance performance. understand how health and safety impacts daily operations. Work involving heavy physical labor, such as baggage handling, is Swissport is constantly working on its global health and safety in fact just as much about communication, situational awareness measures, which are based on industry standards, and feedback and working collaboratively within a team as in an office job.“ from colleagues working at different airports around the world. “We empower our employees to stop their task if the working Applicants therefore undergo in-depth tests to evaluate their environment becomes unsafe and encourage their involve­ment problem-solving skills, team spirit and attitude towards health to further improve our global management system,“ states and safety. “The human factor is incredibly important in aviation, Alexandre Bolay. regardless of function. It is all about keep­ing the team, the clients and the passengers safe,“ says Cassandra Agenson. Employees are encouraged to report any irregularities or incidents they may witness and are rewarded for maintaining good health and a positive safety performance. Regular surveys confirm that this focus on health and safety is crucial for employee satisfaction. Swissport International AG Sustainability Report 2020 WORKPLACE HEALTH AND SAFETY 13 THE TRAINING PROCESS AND JOURNEY Every operational Swissport employee completes a three-stage training program tailored to each function and location: “It is our most fundamental value ■ A  wareness Learning about the hazards in the working environment ■ Knowledge to always put safety first.“ Understanding and identifying the root causes of specific hazards and finding suitable solutions Alexandre Bolay – Head of Global Quality, Health, Safety & Environment ■  ehavior B Acquiring leadership skills and encouraging colleagues and the wider workforce to adopt the correct behavior to make operations safer Swissport’s training programs and guidelines comply with the ISAGO and IGOM standards. Each employee working in cargo handling, passenger services or on the ramp follows a custo­mized training journey which meets functional and local needs as well 3 as national law. Needs-based These programs teach more complex function-specific skills and include our conflict 1 prevention and de-escalation Generic 2 protocols, for example. These courses include an introduction to Swissport, Role-specific data protection, aviation These are skills-based classes security, dangerous goods, etc. corresponding to various job roles, e.g., basic truck forklift training for cargo workers. In addition, our managers participate in leadership programs. Swissport has defined a set of leadership competencies that are aligned to business needs, role specific responsibilities and the geographic region of employment. 14 WORKPLACE HEALTH AND SAFETY Sustainability Report 2020 Swissport International AG CARGO HANDLING SAFETY FOR PEOPLE AND AIR FREIGHT Swissport handles some five million tons of air cargo every year. This includes general cargo as well as special cargo like temperature controlled shipments, perishables and pharmaceuticals. Swissport's services comprise palletizing, and aircraft loading and unloading. At some airports, Swissport is even responsible for the overall hand­ling of an entire cargo hub, like in Brussels, Helsinki, Liège and Newark. Incidents in this area can result in damaged shipments or, worse still, in injuries, where an incident results in lost time from work. As warehouse workers are exposed to heavy objects, large machinery and potential hazards when handling dangerous goods, maximum process compliance is required at all times. There is also a risk to the shipments themselves: Fresh produce and certain pharmaceuticals may be time-critical or temperature-sensitive. Proper handling is of utmost importance to ensure the safety of such goods. Incidents and damages in this field could easily destroy a complete shipment, resulting in costly losses for both the airline customer and Swissport. Swissport International AG Sustainability Report 2020 WORKPLACE HEALTH AND SAFETY 15 SPOTLIGHT ON GENERIC TRAINING – HANDLING DANGEROUS GOODS IN NAIROBI Joyce Kasura is Swissport’s Cargo Duty Manager at Jomo Kenyatta “Everyone must develop a International Airport in Nairobi, Kenya. She oversees all cargo pro­cedures, audits various operations, provides coaching and ensures natural habit of being in a that pharma­ceutical training complies with GDP (good distribution state of heightened alertness practice) and WHO regulations. 1 during operations.“ Joyce is well aware of the potential dangers involved with cargo handling: “Everyone must develop a natural habit of being in Joyce Kasura – Cargo Duty Manager a state of heightened alertness during operations,“ she says. “We want everyone to go home the same way they reported to work – physically, mentally and emotionally well.“ Training is considered especially important in Nairobi, since cargo workers have to handle dangerous goods including flammable liquids, biological substances, perishables like meat, fish and flowers, as well as pharmaceuticals, all on a daily basis. Apart from the standard training, a dedicated team of 25 people involved in the acceptance of dangerous goods has also received an additional 5-day specialized training in handling this type of sensitive cargo. Given the tremendous importance of training, awareness raising and monitoring for cargo security, a proactive health and safety process was established in Nairobi: Team members are regularly asked to identify three potential hazards, so solutions can be found. Joyce investigates any such risks and implements solutions with the goal of closing these cases within a certain amount of time. 16 WORKPLACE HEALTH AND SAFETY Sustainability Report 2020 Swissport International AG RAMP HANDLING “Communication, teamwork and THE HUMAN FACTOR safety briefings help me protect myself and others from dangerous incidents and accidents.“ Nishida Tsukasa – Ramp Agent Ramp handling comprises everything that occurs on the airport airplane they could safely place their hands, they could accidentally tarmac. Swissport’s ramp services include baggage loading and pinch their fingers or worse yet, lose a limb. The operators of unloading, aircraft de-icing, fueling, moving of aircraft, central aircraft push-back vehicles, high-loaders or passenger boarding load control and aircraft cleaning. bridges must also exercise caution and stay alert at all times, as they are exposed to various kinds of risks such as causing aircraft The complex, time-critical and interdependent processes in the damage while operating their vehicles or colliding with other ramp area require our workers to constantly exercise caution, vehicles on the apron. They must therefore strictly follow the traffic ensure continuous coordination and learn from previous experirules and the rules of operation on the tarmac. ences. For instance, if our workers did not know where on an ments and quantifies risks by measuring displacement frequen­cies SOTERSPINE PROGRAM – WEARABLE and force. If engaging in awkward postures, it gives the wearer TECHNOLOGY FOR RAMP WORKERS a vibration or sound alert. The device is synchronized to the wearer’s smartphone which analyses data regarding their movements, Manual handling is the number one injury risk at industrial work­ and then delivers personalized content to train the wearer on how places. At Swissport, an innovative technology is being tested to reduce their risk. to help reduce that risk – for example in baggage handling. The SoterSpine technology is a small lightweight ergonomic device Swissport ramp and baggage loading staff in Melbourne, Australia, designed to improve manual handling safety and to prevent tried out the device in mid-2019, with the trial now broadened to injuries. Attached to the employee’s collar, it tracks body move­ include several other locations. Swissport International AG Sustainability Report 2020 WORKPLACE HEALTH AND SAFETY 17 SPOTLIGHT ON ROLE-SPECIFIC TRAINING – COMMUNICATION AND TEAMWORK IN OSAKA Nishida Tsukasa is a ramp worker at Kansai Internatio­nal Airport in Osaka, Japan. He usually handles two to three flights per day but sometimes as many as five or six. In order to be adequately prepared for his critical role on the tarmac, Nishida completed a set of training programs which taught him to safely handle his equip2 ment. Like all his colleagues on the ramp, he has completed a comprehensive safety training, in­cluding injury prevention and communications skills, in addition to the role specific trainings. Nishida explains: “Communication, teamwork and safety briefings help me protect myself and others from dangerous incidents and accidents.“ When handling an airline for the first time, ramp em­ploy­ ees must know and understand the airline’s pro­cedures such as wheel chock and cone placement, opening hours of the check-in counter or airline-specific loading and unloading guidelines. Reviewing these procedures in a safety briefing before handling an air­­craft helps prevent incidents on the ramp. Every incident, safety concern and near miss must be reported and shared with colleagues immediately. Nishida explains: “Reporting, sharing and understanding are key to preventing future occurrences. Only by sharing safety best practice examples can we learn and grow professionally.“ 18 WORKPLACE HEALTH AND SAFETY Sustainability Report 2020 Swissport International AG KEY SAFETY MEASURES ON THE AIRPORT RAMP The complex work environment of an airport requires strict ad­herence to standards and continuous attention to the relevant safety occurrences to prevent incidents and ultimately accidents. To keep our employees safe, Swissport has introduced key safety measures and personal protective equipment (PPE) for all types of activities on and around the airport tarmac. MANUAL HANDLING WORKING WITH GSE Musculoskeletal injuries occur in When working with GSE, which are often all physically demanding jobs, large, heavy vehicles such as high-loaders especially when they require the or belt-loaders, employees must always repetitive lifting and carrying perform a safety check prior to use, ensure of heavy items. Besides offering that the area is cleared and that the vehicles a manual handling awareness are secured when parked. training session, Swissport is also testing out technologies such HANDLING DANGEROUS as SoterSpine and the LiftSuit. GOODS The handling of dangerous goods requires proper training and risk assessment to ensure that, with the right PPE and correct handling, workers can protect themselves. Swissport International AG Sustainability Report 2020 WORKPLACE HEALTH AND SAFETY 19 HANDLING PALLETS AND EQUIPMENT TOWING AND PUSHING AIRCRAFT Handling cargo requires clear work To avoid collisions with people, aircraft and instructions. The safe movement airport infrastructure, both towing and pushing of pallets and equipment and the require special operator trainings and clearance securing of loads during transport to be allowed in the area. Effective communi­ are essential for preventing injuries. cation between drivers, apron control, pushback dis­position and pilots is also essential. PPE AND SAFETY BRIEFINGS Working on the ramp requires adequate PPE, such as hearing protection, safety shoes, gloves and a high-visibility safety vest. In addition to the right gear, safety DRIVING GROUND SUPPORT briefings and proper housekeeping are EQUIPMENT (GSE) also essential. It is essential for GSE drivers to obey speed limits and ground markings to prevent accidents. An increasing number of our GSE are equipped with an aircraft avoidance system to prevent them from colliding with aircraft while they are in use. 20 WORKPLACE HEALTH AND SAFETY Sustainability Report 2020 Swissport International AG PASSENGER SERVICES MANAGING CUSTOMER EXPECTATIONS Passenger services is all about personal, direct enga­ gement with the customers of our airline clients. Swissport agents, together with travelers, contribute to a satisfactory service experience. Tasks include for example check-in & gate services, ticketing, pas­senger mobility, lounge hospitality, executive aviation, as well as security and lost & found services. Swissport service agents strive to satisfy and, ideally, exceed passenger expectations. Our staff require a talent for social interactions and the ability to stay calm even in stressful situations. This is why health and safety trainings, and even more importantly, conflict re­ solution trainings, are a key component of our staff quali­­fication curriculum. “The training has created the awareness that they really can make a difference with adequate communication.“ Jean-Jacques Herro – Baggage and Ramp Services Manager Swissport International AG Sustainability Report 2020 WORKPLACE HEALTH AND SAFETY 21 SPOTLIGHT ON NEEDS-BASED How did the training come about? TRAINING – CONFLICT PREVENTION AND DE-ESCALATION IN BASEL With the rise of low-budget airlines and their strict policies regarding carry-on baggage – that in some cases lead to additional charges and the removal of bags Our conflict prevention and de-escalation from the cabin – unruly behavior towards Swissport employees has been on the training was piloted in Basel, Switzerland, rise in recent years. As the need for a conflict resolution training program became in 2019. After proving successful, it was obvious, the Regional Product Manager for passenger services training, together incor­porated into Swissport’s global training with a group of subject matter experts, developed the course. With this new traincurriculum in 2020, with the aim of eventually ing program, we prepare our check-in and gate agents for potentially stressful offering it to employees at other Swissport incidents, including rare situations in which staff members might be confronted locations. We spoke with Jean-Jacques Herro, with verbal abuse, or even physical violence. 3 Baggage and Ramp Services Manager and former Passenger Services Manager in Basel. Which is the focus of the training? The overarching goal is to enable our staff to confidently manage conflicts before they escalate. In addition, we train our agents in applying practical procedures, such as words and expressions to use and to avoid when facing a conflict as well as using the right body language for conflict de-escalation, or when dealing with especially demanding passengers. How has the introduction of the training affected passenger services in Basel? Check-in and gate agents have recognized their ability to influence a challenging situation in a professional way. It has created the awareness that they really can make a difference with adequate communication and fostered their empathy with passengers. Our agents have learned that explaining a situation calmly rather than simply enforcing airline rules can turn a challenging situation around. What are the key benefits for the global organization? Beyond the obvious qualifications staff members receive in these trainings, the conflict resolution training provides a place for employees to express their needs and be heard. It allows Swissport to adapt the training, hands-on tips and procedures as the everyday needs of our frontline agents change and evolve. 2 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS HOW WE MANAGE AND GOVERN OUR BUSINESS 24 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Sustainability Report 2020 Swissport International AG Swissport International AG Sustainability Report 2020 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS 25 COMMITTED TO A SUSTAINABLE DELIVERY OF HIGH-QUALITY SERVICES Responsible management provides a solid, long-term foundation for success. We commit to the sustainable delivery of high-quality services in a cost-efficient manner, thereby creating value for our clients, our investors and the aviation industry at large. STAKEHOLDER RELATIONS AND behalf of our airline clients, mutual trust and MATERIAL TOPICS an open dialog are crucial for positive longterm relationships. Customer and stakeholder It is our goal to be a reliable, professional and relations are therefore key to our success. recognized partner for all our stakeholders – internally and externally. We identify our key We also listen closely to what our customers have stakeholders as those groups that are either to say and carefully analyze their feedback. affected by our operations or potentially impact Our latest customer survey was carried out in these operations. Among these are airlines, early 2020. It covered topics such as service airports and airport authorities (private and quality, client relationships and the perceived governmental), IATA and other international professionalism of our staff. The annual survey associations in the aviation industry, shareholdresults serve as a lever for continuous improveers, management, staff, trade unions and ment, allowing us to focus on aspects that works councils, local communities, suppliers, create added internal and external value. Of passengers, shippers and forwarders. the over 250 participants who answered our questions on sustainability, 53.9 percent believe Based on over 3,700 client contracts, Swissport that Swissport is on the right track, with currently services some 850 corporate clients. 19.9 percent agreeing that we are leading in In 2019, our employees served over 265 million some areas. However, 21.7 percent believe airline passengers in face-to-face interactions that there is still a lot to do. The survey also and often in collaboration with third-party showed that sustainability strongly correlates providers. With so many customer contacts on with Swissport’s overall satisfaction rate. 26 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Sustainability Report 2020 Swissport International AG MATERIALITY ANALYSIS Guidance Alliance (SAGA). The trend analysis the aviation sector and six direct and indirect looked at industry trends and resulted in a customers – including airlines, airports, freight Swissport conducted a materiality analysis longlist of 138 sustainability topics. These were forwarders and a pharmaceutical company. The to identify our main sustainability topics. The subsequently clustered to create a concise, feedback we received regarding our focus, insights gained will serve as a basis for the mutually exclusive yet exhaustive list of 13 performance and optimization potentials helped further alignment of our business with stakepo­tential material sustainability topics – cateus determine the reporting topics and now holder expectations. gorized as either business, environment or serves as guidance for our future sus­tainability employees and society. activities. Based on the discussions with our The materiality analysis was split into three stakeholders, we clustered our sustainability main phases. We conducted a trend analysis in To validate the results of the trend analysis, topics into high, medium and low priority ac­cordance with multiple standards, including we actively engaged with stakeholders. This topics. The most important topics from our the Standards of the Global Reporting Initiative helped us understand what expectations they stakeholders’ perspective were operational (GRI), the Air Freight & Logistics Standards had towards Swissport regarding sustaina­ safety, service quality and customer satisfacof the Sustainability and Accounting Standards bility. In total, we conducted eight telephone tion, GSE fuel efficiency and emissions, and Board (SASB) and the Sustainable Aviation interviews with two industry associations from em­ployee health and safety. THREE MAIN PHASES OF OUR MATERIALITY ANALYSIS Trend analysis Stakeholder dialogues Material issues Identifying global sustainability Specifying material topics and Clustering and prioritization trends and factors that are central identifying stakeholer expectations of material topics within the aviation industry towards Swissport Swissport International AG Sustainability Report 2020 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS 27 “A complex environment like an airport demands cooperation between the airport, the ground handler and the airline.“ Customer ENVIRONMENT Environmental responsibility in the office S ES N SI BU EM E OY E Economic PL BL NA efficiency ES ST Environmental protection AI on the ground AN SU DS Corporate OC Labor practices citizenship IET & human rights Y GSE fuel Sustainable Compliance efficiency & Diversity & equal supply chain emissions opportunities Service quality Employee health & Employee Operational safety safety development Low priority High priority Low priority 28 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Sustainability Report 2020 Swissport International AG CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Swissport International AG is managed by the Group Executive Management (GEM) which is supervised by a non-executive Board of Directors. At its monthly meetings, the GEM reviews Swissport’s business performance in terms of commercial and economic trends, health and safety performance, and environment. It also di­scusses risks and opportunities for the company. The GEM assesses compliance with the principles, guidelines and international standards to which the company adheres. Strategic organi­ zational development and timely succession planning are further key contributors to organizational stability and the delivery of consistent service quality. Additional GEM weekly updates and a regular exchange across the company’s top leadership regarding strategic and operational matters ensure that issues can be quickly iden­ tified and remedied. The members of the GEM, including the President & CEO, visit key countries several times each year to engage in in-depth business reviews with the regional and local management. Internal safety and management audits, external audits, and internal Group audits complement these reviews. Swissport International AG Sustainability Report 2020 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS 29 GROUP EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT1 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Eric Born2 In addition to addressing financial and commerPresident & Chief Executive Officer cial matters of strategic importance, the Board also deals with corporate governance and Andreas Hugener sustainability issues, including challenges arising Chief HR Officer from a wide range of areas – from health and safety to union engagement and employment all Glenn Rutherford the way to environmental matters. In fulfilling Executive Vice President Asia-Pacific their responsibilities as members of the Board, the Directors remain aware of their obligation to Dr. Peter Waller act in good faith and to promote the success of Chief Financial Officer the company for the benefit of all its stakeholders. Luzius Wirth OWNERSHIP Executive Vice President Europe, Middle East & Africa As part of a comprehensive financial restructuring, ownership of Swissport will be transferred to a group of mainly US and UK financial investors in December 2020. Until then the HNA Group will be the single shareholder of the company. 1 As per 31 August 2020 2 Ad interim EVP Americas CRITICAL 6 SERVICES 2 30 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Sustainability Report 2020 Swissport International AG PRICING DISCIPLINE AND COMPETIT COMMERCIAL COST BA GOVERNANCE 5 3 SAFE AN SUSTAINABLE INDUSTR STAKEHOLDER THE SWISSPORT FORMULA LEADIN RELATIONS OPERATIO 4 The Swissport Formula defines the way we work. It is a management philosophy and a set of principles and tools that support our distinctive success factors. It helps Swissport in creating GLOBAL a sustainable competitive advantage and in exeCONSISTENCY cuting its corporate strategy. Our aspirations are the same around the globe. Based on innovation, engagement and reliability, we deliver high-quality, tailor-made solutions to meet the expectations of our clients. That is why the Swissport Formula is the way we work. UNDERPINNED BY Watch our video to learn more about the Swissport Formula STANDARDIZED INNOVATION GLOBA OPERATIONS & LEADERSHIP SYSTE Swissport International AG Sustainability Report 2020 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS 31 PRICING DISCIPLINE COMMERCIAL GOVERNANCE QUALITY MANAGEMENT Our sustainable business principles, as supportFollowing the implementation of Salesforce as Swissport strives to deliver efficient, high-quality ed by our Swissport Formula, apply to all our our commercial management tool two years and globally consistent operations at 300 airports stakeholders – including our customers, of course. ago, we were able to significantly improve the across the globe. It is our ambition to continuously And as a global business, Swissport is constantly management of our commercial activities. enhance the service experience of our clients seeking ways to further enhance its manageSalesforce is structured around an improved and their customers. ment systems and improve its internal efficiency contract and customer management based on and cost base and to build rigor into the way a well-defined sales process and enables the We have developed our own integrated manthat processes are completed. Combined with our enhanced management of sales performance agement system, which conforms to current high-quality services, which we aim to deliver through a clear set of key performance indi­ industry standards including the international consistently, this enables us to confidently enter cators. From a strategic standpoint, it delivers quality management norm ISO 9001:2015 as tenders for new business or renewals. We are complete transparency, enabling our managers well as the sector-specific IATA Ground Operaflexible but disciplined in our pricing. However, we to make decisions on commercial matters and tions Manual (IGOM) and the ISAGO standard. do not compete for new contracts at prices to direct the business in a more effective and The alignment of the Swissport Management that we know we will be unable to maintain in efficient way. In the field it enables our people System with the ISAGO and IGOM standards the longer term. This underlines our committo access the latest information available has been completed so that all locations working ment to sustainable customer relations, based through real-time reporting dashboards. The according to this management approach are on our deep understanding of the business introduction of the Salesforce tool across automatically ISAGO-compliant. The Swissport and a detailed global costing template. We are Swissport’s global operations is progressing headquarters will be subject to another ISAGO convinced that our focus on value creation in according to plan. In 2019, the number of active renewal audit in the fall of 2020. our business decisions increases the stability of users of the tool grew from 200 to 300. our network and is to the benefit of our cusWe have also developed and implemented a tomers as well. “Swissport Auditor“ training program to enhance the skills of our team members working in quality assurance. Moreover, we have digitalized our Swissport Management System as part of the stand­­ard­­ization process and, in addition, con­ solidated and standardized the globally used checklists for turnaround, warehouse and other operational controls. In the future, we aim to enhance the tangibility of the new standards and the ways in which they positively impact Swissport’s operations. This will allow our management to visibly monitor the results in real time. 32 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Sustainability Report 2020 Swissport International AG COMPLIANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT We urge our employees to report all violations of the Swissport Code of Conduct. “SpeakUp“ is an external hotline which was At Swissport, we foster corporate behavior based on honesty, introduced at Swissport in 2019. It enables all employees to report integrity and respect for the law. Overall responsibility for issues suspected violations, including reporting individuals who are regarding fair competition, anti-corruption and human rights believed to have violated, or who are suspected of preparing to lies with the CEO and the General Counsel & Company Secretary; violate, the Code of Conduct. SpeakUp includes both an online the responsibility is further shared with regional managers. and telephone service that enables employees to report compliance concerns confidentially and anonymously. The hotline operates The company’s ethical and behavioral principles apply to our staff 24 hours per day, 7 days per week in more than 20 languages. and to those acting on our behalf. The principles are explained Employees can access the hotline by e-mail, telephone or via a in our Code of Conduct, which is supplemented by more detailed SpeakUp intranet page. In 2019, approximately 340 reports standards, directives and guidelines. The Code of Conduct is were made using the hotline. Every report was processed and part of an induction package that is signed by every new employee. investigated in accordance with our SpeakUp policy. It was last updated in March 2019 and specifically states a zerotolerance policy regarding any legal or ethical violations, including In addition to a group-wide communication campaign to support any forms of discrimination. Swissport is committed to a rigorous the launch of the SpeakUp portal in 2019, we have used posters handling of non-compliance cases. We conduct risk assessments on to draw our staff’s attention to the availability of the service and a regular basis to identify and specify high-risk areas. Depending direct them to a dedicated intranet page. We also invite all our on the activities concerned such as procurement or collaboration staff to a mandatory, web-based Code of Conduct training. with business partners, compliance risks are identified and appro­ priate mitigation measures defined. You can read the full version of our Code of Conduct here Swissport International AG Sustainability Report 2020 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS 33 34 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Sustainability Report 2020 Swissport International AG DATA PROTECTION Data protection is an additional focus of our attention in the area of corporate compliance. Swissport deals with customer data such as air freight documents and passengers’ travel data – all of which makes careful handling of this information essential. Most of this personal data is handled electronically, which makes IT security one of Swissport’s most crucial responsibilities within our data protection management activities. Our data center is certified according to the ISO 27000, and the relevant servers are located in Frankfurt, Germany. Our data protection policy had been previously rolled out globally. The policy is part of a mandatory training course for all employees, which needs to be refreshed every two years. IT SECURITY To ensure a secure and protected business, data and working environment, we continuously review, adapt and refine the information security measures which are in place across the global Swissport IT infrastructure. We work closely with Swissport units worldwide to ensure that the company’s information is accurately classified and appropriately protected from cyber attacks. To counter the constantly changing and evolving cybersecurity landscape, we have further increased our targeted security level. We have also implemented a strong emphasis on our supply chain and on embedding the foundations of good cybersecurity hygiene within the culture of Swissport through customized IT security awareness trainings for our workforce – our first line of defense against cyber attacks. The mandatory IT security awareness training for all IT users strengthens our resilience in the face of cyber attacks and helps us to prevent security incidents. Swissport International AG Sustainability Report 2020 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS 35 “We conduct training programs and emphasize the importance of IT security in multiple formats to ensure that a consistently high level of IT security awareness is maintained across the organization.“ Giuseppe Genovesi – Chief Information Officer The availability of our IT systems within our readily accessible. Real-time monitoring and rollout program to deploy and implement the infrastructure continues to be a key focus, notification are available to management. HIRA (Hazard Identification and Risk Assessespecially with the growing sophistication, Swissport continuously promotes an open ment) program at all the locations across our volume and frequency of cyber attacks against reporting culture. global network. In 2019, we deployed the tools, Swissport. We have increased the frequency necessary training and content covering our with which we review and test our systems to In 2019, and covering 98 percent of our locations, major ope­rational risks. As of now, 491 local ensure that they are operating at optimum we identified a total of 76,906 unsafe condileaders have been trained in HIRA awareness, security and availability levels and continue tions and unsafe acts, which were prevented and while 157 HIRA experts have been trained to to apply improvements aligned with best reported in accordance with our just culture. support operations. practice recommendations. To recognize colleagues who have gone above and beyond in their duties, Swissport promotes The success of our measures is reflected not OPERATIONAL RISK MANAGEMENT immediate recognition of a positive approach least in the reduction of our aircraft damage to health and safety. Last year, employees rate: compared to 2015, aircraft damage per Swissport has established its operational risk received recognition for 24,475 reported events. one thousand aircraft turns dropped by almost management in accordance with the recomThe recognition scheme helps build a sustain­ 20 percent. mendations of the International Civil Aviation able safety culture, reduces the cost of accidents, Organization (ICAO) for the development of an improves customer satisfaction and provides -19.9 %↘ integrated management system. The incidents a safer working environment for our front-line AIRCRAFT DAMAGE recorded in the Swissport Management Tool workers. (SMT) provide a full and transparent incident history. The SMT has made the recording and Risk management is key for delivering safe reporting of accidents, unsafe conditions, operations and providing a safe working enviunsafe acts and near misses easier and more ronment. In 2019, Swissport started a 3-year 2019 vs. 2015 36 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Sustainability Report 2020 Swissport International AG SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN At Swissport, we recognize the importance of sustainability and responsibility in our supply chain. It enables us to better manage the challenges arising from climate-related regulations, availability of resources and the personal safety and integrity of our employees and partners. By working closely with our suppliers, we enhance our risk management system, enabling us to ensure material availability and quality and thereby minimize reputational risks. Furthermore, by collaborating with our suppliers, we solidify our professional relationships while also strengthening stakeholder confidence. Throughout 2019, we worked with some 5,800 direct suppliers and 7,000 indirect suppliers. The procurement of goods and services amounted to 52 percent of our spending. It is our goal to continue to further sustainability beyond our own operations and to create resilient and respon­ sible supply chains. Commitment to sustainability in the supply chain at the executive management and Board levels is crucial for us. Our goals are set through a col­laborative process involving all our stakeholders and include: the use of sustainability indicators in choosing suppliers; the avoidance of suppliers whose practices do not meet high human rights, labor, environmental or general standards, or violate our code of conduct; the adoption of a fair and open communication practice and regular monitoring of supplier performance. Swissport International AG Sustainability Report 2020 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS 37 As a signatory to the UN Global Compact, management system and adherence to environ­ investigation procedures or audits to ensure Swissport is committed to upholding high mental management standards, e.g., ISO 14001, that these potential suppliers comply with human rights standards and combatting all are important assessment criteria when selecting Swissport’s standards. For example, as we forms of human rights violations. Human suppliers. employ a large uniformed workforce, uniform rights are inherent to all human beings, regardsuppliers are at the forefront of our human less of gender, sexual orientation, age, na­ The Swissport Supplier Code of Conduct must rights focus in the supply chain. Other relevant tionality, ethnicity, language, religion, political be recognized by all suppliers and is based on suppliers include ground support equipment ideology, disability or any other status and several key principles, including: manufacturers and cleaning services. include such rights as freedom of opinion and expression without discrimination. Through ■ Avoidance of child and forced labor During the reporting period, no instances of various policy and certification stipulations, we ■ Rejection of any bribery or corrupt behavior non-compliance with our standards by any require our suppliers to respect these human significant suppliers were observed. rights, to fully comply with the UN Declaration ■ Environmental management of Human Rights and the International Labor ■ Freedom of association Organization’s (ILO) Core Conventions as well ■ Freely chosen employment as to commit to non-complicity in any human rights abuses. At Swissport, we also acknowl■ Health and safety edge the legitimate role of trade unions and ■ Human rights employee representatives and have established ■ Non-discrimination appropriate mechanisms to enable the effective representation of employees at our suppliers. Using risk management and regulatory compliEnvironmental sustainability is very important ance solutions, we screen potential suppliers to us. We encourage suppliers to promote an regarding human rights, environmental criteria environmentally friendly production and delivery or legal compliance before engaging with them. of services. The existence of an environmental We also carry out additional research and In case of Acceptance of SCREENING PROCESS Self-assessment Review and possible violations: Supplier Code FOR POTENTIAL SUPPLIERS questionnaire risk analysis further investigation of Conduct and audits 38 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS INNOVATION Innovative thinking is key to our business success. We regularly review our processes, service port­folio and business model to identify oppor­ tunities where technology might help increase our efficiency, benefit our customers and support our employees in their striving for a high-quality service delivery. SWISSPORT’S APPROACH TO INNOVATION Previously managed by a dedicated team, the innovation remit became an integral part of the Swissport Operating Model in 2019. We have anchored the responsibility for process digitalization in our operations and IT organization – because we consider operations to be the primary beneficiary, driver and main enabler of inno­ vation. Working on innovation as a team, operations and IT have all the insights and skills required to develop and deliver tangible results. Innovation projects are typically headed up by regional line management and supported by our Global Operations team. In the regions, innovation projects serve to improve internal processes. In a general sense, our Global Oper­ ations team supports the management of these projects, balancing regional needs and the global strategic roadmap. The team also reviews the long-term benefits of pilot projects and, if beneficial, supports their rollout to further locations. Swissport International AG Sustainability Report 2020 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS 39 FIVE EXAMPLES OF INNOVATION 1 3 5 Swissport has been accelerating the hand­ling In 2018, Swissport introduced “Springshot“, We launched our intrapreneurship program of air cargo in its freight warehouses through software that enables us to digitalize our allo­ FORWARD in 2019 with the aim of turning the introduction of newly developed self-service cation processes at mid-sized airports. Springbusiness ideas by Swissport employees into real kiosks. Truck drivers can directly log in at the shot helps us control the resources in our live products and services. It was initiated as a kiosk and process all relevant information. Then ramp and cleaning operations. As we continue pilot scheme in Finland and Switzerland. The they are sent a text message which assigns to roll out the software to other locations, it winning teams were professionally coached them a truck gate for the unloading of their is being further developed for use across our by experienced founders and management concargo. Shipments can also be pre-announced, port­folio of airport ground services and air ­sultants to further develop their ideas before and slots can be booked via a web portal, cargo handling. pitching their case to a Swissport senior manallowing a smoother process for forwarders. agement team. Particularly promising ideas The system is connected to many airport 4 emerged around baggage check-in and delivery community systems, ensuring data accuracy A “ring scanner“ is used at the gate to optimize as well as passenger engagement. One such and compliance. These digital innovations the boarding process. It was initially impleidea, developed by a team from Swissport Geneva, significantly reduce wait times and increase mented by Swissport at Zurich Airport in 2019. is to offer an offsite baggage check-in facility the quality of air freight data. Together with a mobile device, the scanner is for airline passengers. With the support of senior designed to speed up the boarding of an aircraft management, they have been working on a 2 with the aim of reducing wait times at the proof-of-concept. Together with the ETH Zurich spin-off company gate and preventing tailbacks at the aircraft Auxivo, Swissport has developed and tested door. Swissport gate agents working with support gear for employees in physically demandthe mobile device can scan boarding passes with ing positions. The “LiftSuit“ is a wearable the ring scanner and move flexibly between exoskeleton that helps prevent musculoskeletal different gate entrances, independently of the injuries in baggage handlers. After a thorough airport infrastructure. testing phase and improvements to the LiftSuit, it is scheduled to be introduced at the Basel and Zurich airports in Switzerland in the fall of 2020 with the aim of improving the comfort “Going forward, our focus will be on a data-driven approach to standardize our processes with the of wearing the suit. We were awarded the “Innovator Award 2019“ for this innovation at the IATA Ground Handling Conference in aim of promoting creativity, unconventional thinking Madrid, Spain. and, ultimately, useful innovation.“ Giuseppe Genovesi – Chief Information Officer 3 EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY INCLUSIVE STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 42 EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY Sustainability Report 2020 Swissport International AG Swissport International AG Sustainability Report 2020 EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY 43 FOSTERING DIVERSITY, EQUAL OPPORTUNITY AND POSITIVE STAKEHOLDER RELATIONS Swissport seeks to establish a dynamic working environment – driven by diversity, commitment and a quest for quality and top performance. We offer interesting and competitive career opportunities and are committed to the highest standards for workplace safety. HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT opportunities. Swissport’s vision, our Code of Conduct (see “Sustainable Business“ from page 22), the ten Swissport promotes a working environment that principles of the UN Global Compact and our commitallows our employees to unlock their full potential. ment to a consistent high-quality service mirror our We support this by fostering and respecting corporate culture and values. cultural diversity and equal opportunity, and by encouraging positive employee relations. We value individual skills and personal growth highly. To help our employees progress and leverage their In our experience, diversity is a value driver. At our full potential, we offer them a wide range of training Zurich head office alone, we employ 173 colleagues opportunities along with targeted talent managefrom 37 nations. A diverse employee population ment for high potentials. can also positively contribute to problem-solving abilities, professional experience, skill sets and Occupational health and safety and the continuous overall creativity. At Swissport, we are convinced reduction of workplace-related incidents and accidents that the competition of ideas will lead to better have the highest priority at Swissport. We apply a solutions. mix of measures to sensitize employees to issues of health and safety and to train them to follow apConsequently, there is no room and zero tolerance proved workplace procedures. We aim to apply the for discrimination of any kind in our company. same high standards at our 300 locations across We are committed to fair and equal employment 47 countries. 44 EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY Sustainability Report 2020 Swissport International AG OUR WORKFORCE . . . BY FUNCTION ... BY CONTRACT TYPE As of 31 December 2019, Swissport had 64,189 employees (2018: 65,670). 33.9 percent of our workforce are women and 66.1 percent are men. Operations 90.7 % While other genders are not systematically Business support functions 7.5 % recorded, they are fully respected. 88.6 percent of our employees have permanent contracts. Local and country management 1.8 % 2019 45.1 percent work in the EMEA region, 46.2 percent in the Americas and 8.7 percent in the APAC region. . . . BY GENDER 66.1 % 33.9 % Permanent  88.6 % Male Female Temporary  11.4 % HEADCOUNT SPLIT . . . . . . BY REGION . . . BY GENDER AND FUNCTION ... BY TIME WORKED Operations 66.6 % 33.4 % 2019 Business support functions 58.7 % 41.3 % 2019 Local and country management Americas 46.2 % Europe, Middle East & Africa 45.1 % 71.8 % 28.2 % Asia-Pacific 8.7 % Full-time 65.0 % Male Female Part-time 35.0 % Swissport International AG Sustainability Report 2020 EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY 45 “Through dialog and targeted development, we challenge and encourage our employees to develop their full potential.“ Andreas Hugener – Chief HR Officer Despite all the technology, tools and machinery we use in our relations help ensure that our HR policies are consistent across company, it is ultimately our people who make the difference. the Group and can be relied upon as best-in-class services to our Beyond learning the technical skills to do their job, our employees employees. are trained to go the extra mile in interacting with our airline clients and in serving our clients’ passengers as well as over five Our HR community includes a variety of experts who bring a broad million visitors to our own 48 Aspire airport lounges. range of qualifications to the task, benefiting both our workforce and our customers. Our Group HR colleagues are supported by local One of our particular drivers for success is our standardized specialists to ensure smooth and effective HR operations and operating approach, which also includes best practice processes employee relations. While global projects are coordinated by and procedures in Human Resources (HR). However, with ope­ Group HR they are often headed up by regional, sub-regional or rations in many different countries and on six continents, we must local HR managers. of course regularly adjust our global Swissport standards to meet national laws and local requirements. What is more, the Swissport HR global community stays closely in touch, exchanging information and insights on multiple Centers of excellence for learning and development, for compeninterdisciplinary projects to facilitate global collaboration and sation and benefits, for talent recruitment, as well as for labor a best-practice approach. Sustainability Report 2020 Swissport International AG STRENGTHENING DATA-DRIVEN HR MANAGEMENT Swissport intends to strengthen its data-driven approach through highly interactive business intelligence (BI). In 2018, to ensure the timely and consistent availability of key performance data, HR introduced a uniform approach including Microsoft’s market leading Power BI software for global reporting. Power BI features an HR dashboard that can satisfy global and regional business needs alike. Interactive reports offer ad hoc data exploration while meeting the needs of employees at various levels of the organization. Together with Group IT and the global operations performance team, we have defined worldwide governance standards to maximize the use of the Power BI software, maintain controlled growth, leverage synergies and establish a professional user experience, such as through standardized reporting formats that are made available to a broader employee population in Power BI. Power BI is of strategic importance for our organization. It gives Swissport a competitive advantage, enabling significant efficiency gains and continuous performance monitoring. We are excited to see how the breadth of content in Power BI will continue to grow. Swissport International AG Sustainability Report 2020 EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY 47 RECRUITMENT AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY COLLABORATIVE LABOR RELATIONS PARTICIPATION AND COMMUNICATION As an “employer of choice,“ we aim to recruit By the nature of our business, we are active in We are committed to regularly sharing information with all our committed employees with diverse backgrounds a complex and dynamic operating environment. employees. Since the majority of our employees do not have desk and qualifications. As we see it, their desire for Swissport employs a large, diverse global workjobs, we decided to invest in a next-generation mobile solution continuous learning is as important as the skills force operating in many countries under a wide to reach our staff via their personal mobile devices. We have also or experience they bring to the task. variety of jurisdictions. It is paramount that we set up terminals on which employees can access internal informeet all legal obligations. With this in mind, we mation. This new, enhanced setup will serve the individual needs Impartiality and equal opportunities are corner­ strive to maintain an open and stable working of our employees and foster a culture of continuous and open stones of Swissport’s recruiting strategy. Our relationship with all our employees and their communication and dialog. We expect this to translate into signifiinternal and external recruitment processes build representative bodies, including workers’ councils cantly increased engagement and, ultimately, greater employee on professionalism, quality and efficiency. We and trade unions. commitment and retention. seek to give applicants and new employees an outstanding recruitment and induction expe­ With currently over 100 active formal collective In its “good practice“ database, Swissport has been collecting rience, regardless of their role or geographic labor agreements in over 20 countries, we have employee ideas which enable operational improvements. After a location in the world. established appropriate frameworks to enable an review by Swissport's Good Practice Committee, as well as by effective staff representation, covering almost technical specialists and occupational health and safety experts, In our recruiting and hiring processes, we com60 percent of our global workforce. promising ideas are made available internally. The database ply with all relevant legal requirements in the currently contains 50 ideas that can be applied to the benefit of various jurisdictions. In compliance with the law Local and regional leadership teams are respon­ our customers, our employees and Swissport. and our own corporate Code of Conduct, we sible for maintaining constructive and effective treat applicants equally, regardless of their genengagement with employees and their repreExamples from this database include process improvements der, ethnic origin, race or color, marital status, sentatives, both through formal consultations for cargo, ramp and GSE handling and operation, as well as religion or any other categories protected by with employee representatives and in direct management process improvements around safety, training or HR. law or our ethical principles. Needless to say, exchange with employees themselves. Our “lost-time-injury board“ is one such example. It records and ­Swissport applies the same high standards to displays the number of incident-free days since the last incident. its existing staff. Discriminatory behavior of Teams strive to improve their previous score and achieve the any kind constitutes a breach of our Code of goal of a zero-accident rate by continuously taking care to comply Conduct and results in sanctions. with all process rules and regulations and thereby minimize process deviations, as these could result in incidents and ultimately In 2019, we hired 28,548 new employees. 27,288 accidents. When a team improves its previous score, it is re­ were deployed in operations, 1,083 in support warded. Another example is the pre-departure checklist, a small functions and 177 in management roles. card that employees keep on hand to ensure that every step has been completed and that the aircraft is ready for takeoff. 48 EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY Sustainability Report 2020 Swissport International AG TRAINING AND QUALIFICATION By investing in training and development at all levels of the organ­ ization, we aim to support our employees in improving their qualifications. Our Global Training Unit develops and implements corporate tech­nical training standards, while Global Learning & Development is responsible for processes and standards in perform­ance assessment, talent management and leadership development. TECHNICAL TRAINING For every 100 hours worked, Swissport invests in 2.8 hours of training for our operational employees, including basic training, specialized qualifications and refresher courses. This technical training follows a modular approach and covers generic training topics such as human factors, fire prevention, active supervision, health and safety, hazardous goods, and security. The training also meets all training and qualification requirements for the execution of the operational core services offered by Swissport. Whenever an employee completes a training unit, this is recorded in a global system. LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT Being an effective leader requires managerial, interpersonal and functional skills and qualifications. Swissport’s leadership programs aim to create a common understanding of leadership concerns and principles and to further improve leadership at all levels. Swissport International AG Sustainability Report 2020 EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY 49 We currently have three programs in place: “Active Supervision,“ a training program for frontline supervisors, aims to improve the mastering of leadership challenges in daily operations. The “Active Leadership Program“ (ALP) is a signature ­Swissport leadership development program which helps first-line and middle managers to reflect upon their abilities in the current business context, define their personal development journeys and improve their leadership performance. Senior and executive leaders create a tailored agenda for the “Senior Leadership Program“ (SLP) with the goal of maximizing the business impact of this program. The SLP strengthens transformational expertise, which can then be applied to complex business cases during the program. In 2019, 600 managers (30 percent female, 70 percent male) embarked on their 3to 4-month ALP learning journeys. Since ALP was launched in 2018, a total of 1,100 managers have been nominated to begin their development journey. To date, 500 of these managers have been certified. The ALP program includes a mix of formats, including online sessions, self-study options, classroom lessons and peer coaching. It is conducted by internally certified trainers. PERFORMANCE REVIEWS Performance management, which includes goal setting, feedback and review, takes place at most Swissport entities. While Group HR initiates the process for a global population of 2,500 employees, from a certain management level upward, local performance management processes cover employees at lower management levels. This has been shown to lead to inconsistency in the performance management process. Since the beginning of 2020, Swissport has been working on a refined performance management process to overcome such issues. Moreover, a new HRIS (Human Ressources Information System) is expected to contribute to the implementation of a coordinated process at global level. It will be introduced gradually and applied to 2,000 managers for the first time in the course of 2020/2021. 50 EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY Sustainability Report 2020 Swissport International AG COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS HEALTH AND SAFETY Our compensation strategy reflects our aim to be a competitive It is our goal to be recognized as the health and and fair employer. Swissport offers its employees equal opportusafety leader in airport ground services and air cargo nities in terms of recognition and career advancement. Compen­ handling. The highest standards for occupational sation is based on the nature and responsibilities of the role and health and safety are a prerequisite for the delivery of the required skill set, along with the qualifications and relevant consistent top-quality service and our long-term experience an individual brings to their specific role. business success. Swissport works relentlessly to achieve its targets of zero accidents and zero work-related We pay competitive salaries in line with the respective local market injuries or illnesses. We are fully aware that this conditions as well as with our internal compensation structure. requires constant focus, experience and the highest We use benchmarking surveys to ensure that the total target safety standards. com­pensation and benefit packages are competitive at every level of the organization, while respecting internal pay equity. In line Swissport pursues a “Just Culture“ philosophy and with Swissport’s compensation strategy, we are committed to is committed to the full disclosure of any unsafe acts, establishing full parity between employees working in comparable conditions, incidents or accidents. Reports on such positions. events are collected and analyzed continuously to prevent similar incidents. Swissport rewards outstanding individual contributions to the company’s business performance with success-related salary REDUCING HEALTH AND SAFETY RISKS components, which are reviewed annually. Global guidelines for management compensation are complemented with local in­ Our global standards for Quality, Health, Safety, centive systems for our non-managerial employees. and Environmental Management are aligned with international industry standards (e.g. ICAO, IGOM, Swissport regularly assesses its employment terms and condi­ISAGO and ISO 9001:2015). They set a framework tions as well as local salary packages and incentive systems to for improving quality and providing services in a ensure their compliance with corporate standards and local safe, efficient and sustainable manner, which meet employment laws. and exceed the expectations of our customers and other stakeholders. Swissport International AG Sustainability Report 2020 EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY 51 “The human factor is incredibly important in the aviation environment, regardless of function. It is all about keeping the team, the clients and the passengers safe.“ Cassandra Agenson – Recruitment Coordinator To ensure compliance with those standards throughout the Swissport network, we have implemented an integrated management system at all our locations worldwide. In 2018, our head office and our team in Seattle implemented the new ISAGO standard (IATA Safety Audit of Ground Operations), which assesses the management and oversight systems of ground service providers. Since then, 19 Swissport locations and the head office have been ISAGO-registered. In addition, our ­Swissport Management System achieved ISO 9001:2015 certification in 2019. Real-time information is available to the management via the Safety Reporting Management Tool (SMT). It helps us to identify, analyze and visualize incident trends and major risks and take corrective action to mitigate or reduce these risks if and when it is required. In 2019, we also deployed our “Swissport Auditor“ program, with the goal of familiarizing internal auditors with the Swissport Management System and enabling them to develop their auditing skills at a global, regional and local level. So far, 243 Swissport employees have been trained. 52 EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY Sustainability Report 2020 Swissport International AG SHARED RESPONSIBILITY TARGETS FOR GREATER SAFETY Swissport has a dedicated team of experts who focus on “Quality, Even with the most rigorous regulations and regular safety Health, Safety and Environment“ (QHSE). However, safety and training, not all accidents can be prevented. However, we will all other aspects of QHSE must not be delegated. While the overall ­continue to work relentlessly towards our zero-accident target. accountability ultimately rests with the Board of Directors and By addressing any deviations from our agreed-upon standard the Group Executive Management, the utmost attention and focus procedures, we aim to detect safety risks at their source, which by every manager, every team leader and every frontline worker allows us to implement remedies before incidents or accidents is required in the daily service delivery. Our staff receive extensive occur. By the end of 2020, we aim to reduce our lost-time injury safety training regarding their specific work area. We promote frequency rate (LTIFR) by 50 percent compared to 2015. In 2019, a thorough understanding of their responsibilities and encourage the LTIFR was 29.3 percent lower than the figure for 2015. them to stop unsafe tasks whenever necessary to prevent incidents. Standard training programs offered at all Swissport locations Despite all efforts and the commitment of our employees and include security, health, safety and environmental aspects. In managers to our goals, incidents still occur. In June 2019, we 2019, refresher classes on business and safety-critical issues were suffered a fatal loss at our Tel Aviv, Israel, site. Our colleague, a provided to 74 percent of our line managers and 100 percent of highly experienced Ground Support Equipment (GSE) manager our QHSE personnel. In addition, the global and regional leaders who had been with Swissport for many years, was fatally injured of Swissport attended crisis management training courses. while performing maintenance work on a GSE vehicle. A second GSE Operator was seriously wounded in the same accident. -29.3 %↘ LOST-TIME INJURIES (LTIFR) 2019 vs. 2015 Swissport International AG Sustainability Report 2020 EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY 53 EMPLOYEE HEALTH DURING THE COVID-19 PANDEMIC The Covid-19 pandemic has led to an unprecedented disruption of the aviation industry, with a sharp and protracted decline in global flight volumes. This has depressed Swissport’s passenger service and ramp handling volumes and led to a significant, albeit somewhat less dramatic, drop in air cargo tons handled. Not only has the crisis impacted the business, it has also changed the way we work at airports and in our offices around the world. The health and safety of our employees, our partners and the passengers we serve on behalf of our airline customers have always been our top priority. Swissport's hygiene measures and safety protocols are in accordance with the recommendations of the World Health Organization (WHO) and national authorities and airports. At Swissport, we are prepared for all foreseeable scenarios and have implemented appropriate protection protocols. We encourage and regularly remind our employees to comply with hygiene regulations and wash or disinfect their hands regularly, to practice social distancing, and to work from home if possible. Where physical distance cannot be maintained, protective masks are also recom­mended and available at the workplace. For our staff who work in close contact with airline passengers, special safety measures, such as protective screens, have been introduced by some airport partners. Swissport employees who work on the ramp or in cargo handling have been instructed to clean their vehicles before and after use. The same applies to all other work surfaces, electronic devices and equipment. 54 EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY Sustainability Report 2020 Swissport International AG CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP Beyond their day-to-day business, Swissport employees are encouraged to actively practice social responsibility – primarily through local initiatives for the public good. The local ­Swissport management decides independently, if and how to organize and support charitable activities or longer-term projects that meet a diverse range of needs in their local communities. CHILDREN’S SHELTER IN CYPRUS Swissport Cyprus has been organizing fundraising events for the Children's Smile Foundation since 2012. Through these events, the local Swissport team has helped the Foundation raise money to support a children’s shelter in Larnaca. Swissport staff painted the shelter and planted fresh grass in the playground. In 2019, a bakeoff competition was held to raise funds for new furniture. In addition, Swissport has been inviting the children from the shelter to the annual Christmas party where they received presents from Santa. Thanks to the team’s fundraising efforts in 2017 and 2018, a much-needed bus could be purchased. Swissport International AG Sustainability Report 2020 EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY 55 CARE FOR TRAVELERS WITH SPECIAL NEEDS IN AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND Swissport teams in Australia and New Zealand have a long history of working with local charities, with a focus on ensuring safe and comfortable air travel for all passengers. The projects include initiatives at several airports allowing families affected by autism to “practice“ air travel before they board an actual aircraft. Air travel can be a challenging experience for individuals affected by autism and also for those accompanying them. Swissport has also collaborated with Spinal Life Australia to improve air travel for passengers with spinal injuries. As part of this partnership, we donated special wheelchairs to spinal injury units of local hospitals. The wheelchairs, also referred to as aisle chairs, are used while boarding an aircraft to navigate the narrow aisle and access the assigned seat more easily. Swissport has invited Spinal Life members to meet the Brisbane Airport leadership team with the goal of improving awareness around various spinal injuries and learning more about the needs of people with a physical disability. SUPPORT FOR THE AIRPORT AVIATION SCHOLARSHIP IN CURAÇAO Since 2016, Swissport Caribbean has been sponsoring an annual charity golf tournament, organized by Curaçao Airport Partners. The main objective of the charity tournament is to support and promote local awareness and education in the aviation industry and to provide more opportunities for local students to develop their careers in the field of aviation. Curaçao Airport Partners provides funds from sponsor­ship and donations through the CAPability Foundation. The goal of the CAPability Foundation is to contribute to the further development of the community in a variety of areas, including culture, historical and artistic heritage, sustainable development, science, technology, innovation – and much more. 4 ENVIRONMENT BRINGING ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY TO LIFE 58 ENVIRONMENT Sustainability Report 2020 Swissport International AG Swissport International AG Sustainability Report 2020 ENVIRONMENT 59 MITIGATING OUR IMPACT ON THE ENVIRONMENT We take active steps to reduce any adverse effects our operations may incur on the environment. We are relentless in our efforts to increase resource efficiency, improve planning, establish lean processes and continuously invest in modern and environmentally friendly equipment and infrastructure. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT However, safety and all other aspects of QHSE must not be delegated. While the overall accountability ulti­Environmental care is an integral part of our planning mately rests with the Board of Directors and the Group and decision-making processes. We work to continuExecutive Management, the utmost attention and ously improve our environmental management system focus by every manager, every team leader and every and commit significant resources to environmentally frontline worker is required in the daily service delivery. friendly projects and initiatives. Our focus remains on environmental care – both in the management of As part of our commitment we are currently refining our facilities and in the natural resources we rely our environmental management system to ensure on – and we are committed to continuously reducing compliance with ISO 14001:2015 and expand it to cover the environmental impact of our operations. One all business areas. Completion is scheduled for 2022. of our most prominent initiatives is our commitment The new system will enable us to improve our internal to increase the share of electrically powered Ground and external reporting, and significantly increase Support Equipment (eGSE) in our fleet to at least our contribution to environmentally responsible oper50 percent by 2025. We work on preventing pollution, ations at the airports we serve. encourage proper waste handling and disposal, minimize waste generation, and recycle and reuse Active stakeholder relations are also an important waste materials wherever feasible. means of achieving our environmental goals. We maintain an open dialog with our customers and Environmental management is part of our com­ employees, as well as with airports, in an effort to prehensive Quality, Health, Safety and Environment understand their needs and define compatible goals. (QHSE) management system. Swissport has a Through our work on international committees, we dedicated team of experts who focus on QHSE. promote good environmental practice in our sector. 60 ENVIRONMENT Sustainability Report 2020 Swissport International AG As an active member of the ISAGO Council, we are helping to environmentally responsible manner is a shared responsibility. shape an environmentally compatible and socially responsible Ultimately, we are all responsible for understanding our duties, for future for aviation in general, and for ground handling in particular. being appropriately trained for our roles and for complying with Swissport operational standards. Swissport staff at all levels are Swissport complies with all local environmental laws, regulations expected to directly intervene – where appropriate – to prevent and standards. During the reporting period, Swissport was environmental incidents. With the annual QHSE award in the envineither involved in any rulings nor held liable for non-compliance ­ronment category, Swissport promotes initiatives that address with environmental regulations. environmental issues related to resource use and emission reduction. EMPLOYEE RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT In their leadership role, our managers are expected to ensure that We have identified three main drivers for Swissport’s environtheir teams are aware of the policies and procedures associated mental impact: operational, managerial and behavioral. The with Swissport’s environmental guidelines. Managers are also greatest and most influenceable impacts can be found in our required to monitor policy implementation in their area of reGround Support Equipment (GSE) area, which is why we are sponsibility and to ensure that employees understand the need focusing our environmental protection activities there. for continuous improvement in that field. As is typical in our industry, the operational areas interface directly All the policies and regulations aside, environmental protection is, with local airport infrastructures. Swissport operates within the more than anything, the personal responsibility of every employee. limitations of the locations and assigned infrastructures and, where While we meet all the requirements of the Swissport Management necessary, adapts its processes to those prescribed by the local System along with relevant policies and procedures, we are aware authorities. For example, our waste management services are that accountability for individually assigned areas of responsibility mostly limited to collecting and separating waste from aircraft cannot always be delegated exactly as described in the ­Swissport cabins, while the local airport operator is responsible for the Management System. Acting in a professional, safe and disposal and recycling. Swissport International AG Sustainability Report 2020 ENVIRONMENT 61 62 ENVIRONMENT FUEL EFFICIENCY AND EMISSIONS For years now, we’ve deployed electrically powered and hybrid GSE (eGSE) wherever possible. Not only does eGSE decrease toxic exhaust emissions and reduce our carbon footprint, but it also leads to significant fuel cost savings. By the end of 2019, 15.3 percent of the equipment being used in Swissport’s fleet was made up of electrically and hybrid powered vehicles. Our goal is to increase this share to at least 50 percent by 2025. Nonetheless, as with all next-generation equipment, eGSE also comes with challenges. Electric equipment requires appropriate battery charging facilities. Where these do not exist, Swissport engages with the relevant airport authority to work collaboratively in getting them installed. There are also some technical limitations, as not all eGSE offers the right operational versatility. So, despite our willingness to use eGSE more widely, it is not yet always possible. These challenges are also reflected in regional differences; for example, over 70 percent of our eGSE is used in the EMEA region. Despite these challenges, Swissport aims to procure electric equipment wherever technically feasible and economically viable. Equipment types range from small baggage tractors to heavy aircraft pushback and towing tractors and from small utility vehicles to air­port passenger buses. In our largest GSE category, baggage tractor units, some 51 percent of our 2019 purchasing volume went towards electric vehicles. Sustainability Report 2020 ENVIRONMENT 63 In addition to eGSE, Swissport is exploring dif­Furthermore, our fleet includes GSE and fe­rent ways of improving the environmental vehicles that are powered by other more performance of its equipment. To allow for our environmentally-friendly sources, too, such GSE to be used as efficiently as possible, we as liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) and complan to install telematic systems. This will help pressed natural gas (CNG). Their greenhouse us to rightsize our fleet, maximize utilization gas emissions are far lower than that of and reduce engine idle running times (engines diesel or gasoline and thereby help to decrease running while equipment is not in use). This our carbon footprint. In 2019, 18.9 per­cent is achieved by sending alerts to relevant equipof Swissport’s GSE was eco-powered through ment managers at predefined times, notifying electric, hybrid, LPG or CNG power sources. them that engines are running unnecessarily. SHARE OF ELECTRIC AND HYBRID GSE1 SHARE OF ECO-POWERED VEHICLES 15.3 % 2019 18.9 % 2019 15.0 % 2018 18.3 % 2018 14.1 % 2017 17.3 % 2017 1 In the context of setting a specific goal for eGSE vehicles, we have also improved our equipment database. In contrast to the absolute numbers for eGSE stated in the previous sustainability report, we therefore must correct the values stated there. The correct numbers for eGSE vehicles are as follows: 2017: 1,846 / 2018: 2,155 and 2019: 2,279. 64 ENVIRONMENT Sustainability Report 2020 Swissport International AG ZERO-EMISSION BUSES SHINE AT BRISBANE AIRPORT In September 2019, Swissport’s electric bus operations at EMISSIONS FROM OUR LOCAL AIRPORT Brisbane Airport in Australia took the spotlight at the OPERATIONS International Zero Emission Bus Conference, the premier event for e-bus know-how and industry collaboration. Our plan to introduce an ISO 14001-aligned management system aims at reducing fuel consumption and Along with professionals from a variety of transport auemissions at our many operations around the globe. To thorities, Swissport Australia was invited to speak by the verify a successful implementation, comprehensive Center for Transportation and the Environment (CTE), a basic data must be collected and consolidated. With US-based non-profit organization committed to reducing currently some 300 airport locations worldwide, this environmental pollution and fossil fuel dependency. is a very ambitious undertaking, and we expect some challenges in collecting complete and comparable We were thrilled to see how intrigued global transport experts data group-wide. As a starting point for determining were with Swissport’s e-bus operations. The presentation our carbon footprint at the local level, we estimated focused on the challenges Swissport faced as the first organthe respective carbon emissions for 22 locations in ization to deploy e-buses in Australia and the critical im­ Switzerland, Morocco, the Netherlands, Finland and portance of driver training. Cyprus. The estimate was based on the fuel consumption of our GSE, heating and the use of electricity In the run-up to the event, CTE representatives received by our electric fleet and in our offices. The results are further information on Swissport’s bus operations at based on uniform emission factors (EF) for fuel and Brisbane Airport. “They were impressed by how we implecountry-specific (i.e. location-based) emission factors mented our electric fleet here in Brisbane and asked us for power (see more about the report on page 72). to share our experience on how to successfully deploy 1-for-1 diesel to electric,“ says Luke Morrison, former Swissport At Swissport we are continuously working to improve Operations Manager in Brisbane. our data quality and availability when it comes to our carbon footprint. For the next reporting year, we plan As more cities and countries ramp up their climate change to include additional locations in Mexico, Australia, mitigation goals in accordance with the Paris Agreement, Spain and Tanzania. airport authorities are among many organizations turning to e-mobility as a key lever of success. Swissport International AG Sustainability Report 2020 CORPORATE CARBON FOOTPRINT 2019: Total CO2-equivalents in metric tons1 SCOPE 12 Fleet  13,195 Heating 390 Total  13,585 SCOPE 23 Electricity LB4 2,879 District heating  739 Electricity for vehicles LB 158 Total  3,776 TOTAL EMISSIONS Scope 1 13,585 Scope 2 3,776 Total  17,361 1 22 Swissport operations included (location-based4) 2 All direct emissions occurring from sources that are owned or controlled by Swissport 3 All indirect emissions occuring from the generation of purchased energy (e.g., electricity and heat) consumed by Swissport 4 LB = location-based: average country-/region-specific emission intensity factors of energy source 66 ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION ON THE RAMP Fuel efficiency and emissions reduction are the biggest levers for reducing our environmental impact. However, a number of other aspects of our operations also play an important role. While we can control some of these areas, there are others where regulations differ greatly across the globe or where we must rely on existing airport infrastructures. Because of the heterogeneity of conditions at airports, Swissport has not yet been able to set global standards in every field of environmental protection. However, we are pursuing a variety of local measures, for example to reduce and improve the use of waste streams or activities to minimize our impact on biodiversity. DE-ICING AND ANTI-ICING For the de-icing of aircraft, large quantities of glycol are typically used. Although pure glycol has a very low toxicity and rapidly breaks down within weeks in soil and water, Swissport con­tinues to optimize the use of this substance. As a standard, Swissport uses a glycol mix to keep the required amount of glycol to a minimum. We frequently mix the glycol with biodegradable carbon-based de-icing agents that can be applied through sprinkler systems. The use of this type of glycol mix, however, depends on national laws and local regulations. Sustainability Report 2020 ENVIRONMENT 67 At Munich Airport in Germany, 70 percent of the glycol used comes be reasonably undertaken by air. Swissport managers and staff from recycled glycol. The recycling facility and process belong to usually fly economy class, particularly on continental flights, the airport. The waste water from de-icing operations is treated as this is more spaceand weight-efficient and therefore more according to its degree of contamination: Low-contaminated ecologically favorable. waste water is channeled into retention filter basins, while medium to highly contaminated waste water is cleaned through biodegWe also encourage our staff to use public transportation radation and distributed through sprinkler systems. Very highly for their commute to and from work. To reduce the need for contaminated wastewater, which is only found on the central a car, we subsidize rail passes in several countries including de-icing stands, is pre-treated and returned for recycling. Switzerland. FUELING GLOBAL QHSE AWARD FOR THE ENVIRONMENT Swissport is fully committed to meeting its customers’ into-plane In 2017, Swissport launched its internal QHSE award to further and GSE fueling and fuel storage needs in a manner consistent raise awareness around QHSE-related issues throughout the with a clean environment. It is our duty and our aim to prevent any company. The purpose of this award is to recognize outstanding fuel releases – our key environmental concern in this field of our employee achievements, and to inspire others. One of the four operations. To ensure that we eliminate potential fuel releases at eligible nomination categories is for environmental achievements. the airports we serve, Swissport has implemented various enviLast year, our team from the GSE workshop at Sao Paulo Viracopos ronmental policies and procedures which are an integral part of Airport, Brazil, introduced a new waste management system to our training and daily operations. separate and properly handle waste – such as lubricants, discarded parts and contaminated cloths – and correctly manage equipment All incidents are to be reported and investigated. In the case of washing systems with water-oil separators. The team won our a major release and depending on the type of material, an emerQHSE award and was officially recognized with the “Green Seal.“ gency plan must be activated. This plan is managed locally in line with the emergency plan of the specific airport. TRANSPORTATION AND BUSINESS TRAVEL Web conferences are viable alternatives to work related travel. However, business travel – and air travel in particular – also has clear benefits, especially for a global player like Swissport. Traveling by train is an option in parts of Europe and Asia, but many journeys between our 300 locations worldwide can only 68 ENVIRONMENT Sustainability Report 2020 Swissport International AG ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY GOOD PRACTICE Swissport Japan plans to further IN THE OFFICE EXAMPLES leverage the project by introducing tablets to make all corporate poliSwissport’s administrative units do not have a OSAKA (JAPAN) – cies and manuals available at its notable environmental impact and we currently “GREENER“ TRAINING locations across Japan, thus further do not have a centralized environmental policy reducing paper consumption. for our office workspaces. Even so, Swissport is At Kansai International Airport in intent on keeping the environmental impact of Japan, the training center project SEATTLE (USA) – INCREASING its offices to a minimum by promoting local initiateam developed a solution to miniECO-AWARENESS tives and learning from such initiatives. Local mize the negative environmental Swissport teams, as well as the team at our impact of its training sessions. The city of Seattle is a national company headquarters, are encouraged to reduce The significant volumes of printed frontrunner when it comes to their energy consumption and optimize their materials previously used by the recycling, and we’re doing all we material and waste management as much as training facility were replaced with can to live up to this standard possible. As we see it, success in this area tablets. at the airport, too. To kick off our depends on everyone involved. “Greener Goals“ campaign, the The introduction of the tablets has local Swissport team implemented been a success story on many levels. the policy-to-practice of minimizing Thanks to the new devices, the center natural resource consumption by was able to cut costs, has estabissuing a dozen LCD writing tablets lished a far more modern look and to our administrative team to reduced its ecological footprint. replace the use of paper. Not only This shift has saved some 243,000 has this had an environmental sheets of paper – the equivalent impact, but it has likewise proven of 1.2 tons or 27 trees in 2019. In to be a good way of increasing addition, increased efficiency was eco-awareness among the staff. achieved through the new solution, We’re hoping to see even more along with higher engagement impact in 2020 as we expand the rates among participants. campaign. 5 ANNEX 72 ANNEX Sustainability Report 2020 Swissport International AG ABOUT THE REPORT The present report is Swissport’s sixth annual sustainability report. It focuses on 2019, with more recent events occasionally also covered. The aim of this report is to provide stakeholders with relevant and transparent information about our sustainability performance, including management systems and selected KPIs. The topics for this report were defined through a materiality analysis, which included the engagement of various stakeholders. For more information on our materiality analysis and our key sustainability topics, please refer to page 26. To determine our carbon footprint at the local level (for 22 operations), the following emissions factors (EF) were used for various sources: ■ Fuels: all DBEIS 2019 ■  lectricity, location-based: DBEIS 2019, Morocco (Swissport, from National E Ministry of Energy) and Cyprus (Moro and Lonza, 2018. Retrieved from: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1361920916307933) ■ D  istrict heating: all DBEIS 2019 except Zurich (Swissport, from Flughafen Zürich AG) ■  atural gas: Switzerland, Netherlands and Finland, DBEIS 2019; others, N world average DBEIS 2019 ■ Cooling: Zurich (Swissport, from Flughafen Zürich AG) Swissport’s 2019 Sustainability Report was developed in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (Core option). The GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) are the first and most widely adopted global standards for sustainability reporting. We plan on expanding our coverage of relevant GRI Standards with each subsequent report. The GRI Content Index of this report can be found online at www.swissport.com. Swissport is a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact. This document therefore also serves as our annual progress report to the UNGC. The editorial deadline was 31 August 2020. The next report will be published by mid-2021. Swissport International AG Sustainability Report 2020 ANNEX 73 GRI CONTENT INDEX UN GC GRI STANDARDS Page Comment Principle GRI 101: Foundation 2016 GRI 102: General Disclosures Organizational profile GRI 102-1: Name of the organization 28 GRI 102-2: Activities, brands, products, and service 6–7 GRI 102-3: Location of headquarters 43 GRI 102-4: Location of operations 6–7 GRI 102-5: Ownership and legal form 28 GRI 102-6: Markets served 6–7 GRI 102-7: Scale of the organization 6–7, FS 1–2 GRI 102-8: Information on employees and other workers 44–45 6 GRI 102-9: Supply chain 25, 36–37 GRI 102-10: Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 6 GRI 102-11: Precautionary Principle or approach 12, 32, 35, 59 GRI 102-12: External initiatives 60, 72 GRI 102-13: Membership of associations 9, 60 Strategy GRI 102-14: Statement from senior decision-maker 4–5 1–10 GRI 102-15: Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 25–27 Ethics and integrity GRI 102-16: Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior 25, 31, 32 10 GRI 102-17: Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 32–35 10 Governance GRI 102-18: Governance structure 28–29 GRI 102-19: Delegating authority 52 GRI 102-20: Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics 52 74 ANNEX Sustainability Report 2020 Swissport International AG UN GC GRI STANDARDS Page Comment Principle Stakeholder engagement GRI 102-40: List of stakeholder groups 25 GRI 102-41: Collective bargaining groups 47 3 GRI 102-42: Identifying and selecting stakeholders 25–26 GRI 102-43: Approach to stakeholder engagement 25–27 GRI 102-44: Key topics and concerns raised 25–27 Reporting practice GRI 102-45: Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 28 GRI 102-46: Defining report content and topic Boundaries 72 GRI 102-47: List of material topics 25–27 GRI 102-48: Restatements of information None GRI 102-49: Changes in reporting 25–27 GRI 102-50: Reporting period 72 GRI 102-51: Date of most recent report 72 GRI 102-52: Reporting cycle 72 GRI 102-53: Contact point for questions regarding the report 78 GRI 102-54: Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 72 GRI 102-55: GRI content index 73 GRI 102-56: External assurance None Material topics GRI 201: Economic performance 2016 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 25, 30–31 7 GRI 201-1: Direct economic value generated and distributed 6, 54–55 GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 32 10 GRI 205-2: Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 32 10 Swissport International AG Sustainability Report 2020 ANNEX 75 UN GC GRI STANDARDS Page Comment Principle GRI 302: Energy 2016 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 59–68 7–9 GRI 302-1: Energy consumption within the organization 64–65 For 22 Swissport operations 7–9 GRI 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 60–65, 68 GRI 302-5: Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 62 7–9 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 59–68 7–9 GRI 305-1: Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 64–65, 72 For 22 Swissport operations 7–8 GRI 305-2: Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 64–65, 72 For 22 Swissport operations 7–8 GRI 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 59–67 7–8 GRI 306: Effluents and waste 2016 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 59–68 8 No quantitative information, since water discharge is not GRI 306-1: Water discharge by quality and destination 66–67 subject to Swissport’s control 8 GRI 306-3: Significant spills 67 GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 59–60, 67 8 GRI 307-1: Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 60 8 GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 36–37 GRI 308-2: Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 36–37 No quantitative information 76 ANNEX Sustainability Report 2020 Swissport International AG UN GC GRI STANDARDS Page Comment Principle GRI 401: Employment 2016 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 43, 45–50 6 GRI 401-2: Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees 50 GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations 2016 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 47 3 GRI 402-1: Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 47 3 GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016 Focus theme of this report: GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 12–21, 39, 50–53 workplace health and safety 1, 6 GRI 403-2: Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, LTIF in year-on-year and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 52 comparison only GRI 403-3: Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 10, 50-51 GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 Focus theme of this report: GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 12–22, 48–49 workplace health and safety 6 GRI 404-1: Average hours of training per year per employee 48 Per 100 hours only 6 GRI 404-2: Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 48-49 6 GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 43, 47 1, 6 GRI 405-1: Diversity of governance bodies and employees 29 6 GRI 405-2: Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 50 6 GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 32, 36–37, 43 6 GRI 406-1: Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 43 6 GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 2016 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 36–37, 47 2, 3 GRI 407-1: Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at risk 36–37, 47 2, 3 UN GC GRI STANDARDS Page Comment Principle Swissport International AG Sustainability Report 2020 ANNEX 77 GRI 408: Child Labor 2016 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 36–37 2, 5 GRI 408-1: Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor 36–37 2, 5 GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 36–37 GRI 409-1: Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor 36–37 GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 54–55 1 GRI 413-1: Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs 54–55 1 GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 36–37 2 GRI 414-2: Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 36–37 2 GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016 Focus theme of this report: GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 12–27, 50–51, 53 workplace health and safety Focus theme of this report: GRI 416-1: Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories 14–15, 18–21 workplace health and safety GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 34–35 GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 2016 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 32–35 GRI 419-1: Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area 32 78 ANNEX Sustainability Report 2020 Swissport International AG CREDITS CONTACT Published by Swissport International AG Swissport International AG Christoph Meier Maria Künzi Head of Group Communications Communications Manager P.O. Box 5 Editorial team 8058 Zurich-Airport Maria Künzi, Editor-in-Chief Switzerland Stefan Hartung +41 43 815 00 22 Concept, text and design group.communications@swissport.com akzente kommunikation und beratung GmbH, Munich, Germany DennerleinBrands GmbH, Frankfurt am Main, Germany Photos Wolfgang Armbruster/Blendwerk Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany Philip Böni/Eyedentity GmbH, Zürich, Switzerland Abigail Harman/Abigail Harman Photography, Perth, Australia Stephen Kariuki Kamau/Light in Captivity, Nairobi, Kenya Mitsushige Kida/C4.inc, Osaka, Japan Oliver Rösler/oro photography, Rödermark, Germany Notes The terms Swissport International AG, Swissport, Swissport Group and the Group are used synonymously in this report, unless otherwise explicitly stipulated. The use of any content (text, images or video), even in excerpts, requires the written permission of the publisher and includes the obligation to cite Swissport International AG as the source. We also ask that a specimen copy be sent to us. swissport.com
