Sustainability Report 2019 Our vision Improving our future Our mission To deliver competitive and sustainable solar energy globally, to protect our environment and to improve quality of life through innovative integration of reliable technology Our values Predictable Working together Driving results Changemakers Scatec Solar ASA Sustainability Report 2019 3 Contents Letter from the CEO 4 Sustainability reporting 7 Sustainability priorities 11 2019 targets and key results 12 Sustainability targets 2020 15 Managing environmental and social impact 17 Being a trusted business partner 31 Health, safety, security and environment  32 Anti-corruption36 Responsible procurement 40 Our people 43 Local value creation 47 GRI Index 59 4 Letter from the CEO The growing emphasis our investors and key stakeholders are giving to ESG matters is a clear sign that we are heading in the right direction. Dear Stakeholders, The solar power market is booming. 2019 was a record As a renewable energy company, we are deeply concerned year for our company in terms of construction and capacity about CO2 emissions. Our plants in operation saved close growth. We doubled our installed capacity by grid-connecting to 900,000 tons of CO2 emissions in 2019. This figure is more than 600MW in Egypt, Malaysia, Ukraine and expected to reach about 1.4 million by the end of 2020. To Mozambique. We had 12 projects under construction across put this into perspective, one million tons of CO2 emissions four continents, engaging close to 8,000 workers. No matter equals the annual emissions of more than 200,000 passenger what direction we develop and grow in as a company, vehicles. The positive climate impact of our business is signifsustainability remains at the core of our business. icant, but to take full responsibility, we also need to identify and manage our own carbon footprint. We gain considerable experience from conducting business across emerging and often complex markets. We meet In 2019 we continued our efforts to report on emissions from challenging situations and we are continually accumulating our business activities. We started reporting to the Carbon valuable knowledge. It is highly rewarding to see how our Disclosure Project (CDP), which was a valuable learning organisation works with sustainability as an integrated part experience leading to stronger focus on climate-related risk of its operating model. Enterprise leadership plays a vital and opportunities. In 2020, we will continue this journey by role in the organisation. Our people not only focus on their expanding our reporting to include more elements of our own business unit or goals, but also work together across value chain. We also plan to develop emission reduction functions to deliver sustainable projects. We all work with targets and look for ways to reduce our emissions. sustainability in one way or another. As a member of the UN Global Compact, we continue to Last year we presented our updated sustainability support the governing principles on anti-corruption, human framework based on input from key stakeholders and internal rights, environment and labour conditions. Human rights strategic priorities. This year we report on our progress remained a key priority in 2019. We maintained a strong and performance. The growing emphasis that investors and focus on potential impact areas such as land acquisition, local other stakeholders are giving to ESG (Environmental, Social communities, and labour and working conditions. Protecting & Governance) matters is a clear sign that our industry is and respecting human rights is fundamental to our license to heading in the right direction. We have worked systematically operate. In 2019, we continued our work with human rights over many years to improve our ESG reporting, and in early and developed a new corporate policy with clear and unified 2020 our company was rated an industry leader in ESG risk guidelines across our business and geographies. management. Sustainalytics, a leading global ESG risk-rating agency, ranked us as the company with lowest ESG risk out With more than 2.5 million solar panels installed in 2019, one of 450 companies in the global utilities industry. This is of the of our most important responsibilities is to safeguard our utmost importance to us. Being transparent and open is one people. Our construction teams around the world delivered of our key responsibilities to our stakeholders. about 11.7 million working hours without any serious injuries. Scatec Solar ASA Sustainability Report 2019 5 In Egypt, for example, we completed six projects with eight PV system provides much needed electricity to a local school million working hours and only one lost-time injury. That is a and health clinic in the community next door to our solar solid achievement from a safety perspective. We continually plant. We are truly excited to increase our efforts to light up work to raise awareness of health and safety matters. more local communities around the world. In 2019, we continued to explore new technologies to offer With this report we present our sustainability targets for better solutions to a broader market. We entered into a new 2020. We are continuing our close dialogue with partners, segment of smaller-scale solar plants for industrial players in shareholders, lenders, employees and other stakeholders emerging markets during the year. This new concept, named to ensure alignment with their key concerns and interests Release, offers companies a solution of flexible leasing regarding sustainability. We are thankful for all our partners, agreements for pre-assembled and containerised solar and business relations and networks that collaborate with us to battery equipment. It is particularly attractive for companies ensure high ethical standards in everything we do. in remote locations that rely on diesel generators but would like to access cost-efficient and clean energy. We are confident Our 2019 global workplace survey indicated that 93% of our that Release will become a considerable part of our business employees feel proud to tell others that they work for Scatec in the years to come. Solar. I am also proud. I am proud of the 335 tremendously dedicated people who consistently deliver on our ambitious Small-scale solar photovoltaic (PV) systems also represent growth targets. Our vision of “improving our future” is a a vital solution for responding to serious challenges faced strong commitment that requires tremendous efforts from by many of the local communities located close to our solar each one of us. And knowing that every day our work makes plants. Households often do not have any access to electricity this planet a little bit greener and more sustainable leaves me or rely on polluting energy sources such as diesel generators. confident that we are indeed heading in the right direction. We can make a significant impact here. To date, we have several community PV projects in operation across Rwanda, Honduras and Jordan. In Rwanda, for example, a mini solar Raymond Carlsen (CEO) 6 Key highlights 2019 Clean energy Our people Local value creation Doubled installed capacity Zero serious injuries 8,000 jobs created Grid-connected 609 MW in Delivered 11.7 million working in projects under construction Egypt, Malaysia, Brazil, hours with no serious injuries – of which a large part is local Honduras and Mozambique and unskilled labour Strong diversity 870,637 tons of CO2 Our employees represent 40 56 ongoing local emissions avoided different nationalities globally development programmes from solar plants in operation across clean energy, health, Young and dynamic education and infrastructure Redeployable solar workforce with an average entered a new segment through age of 37 globally Community solar PV introduction of Release a larger component of local community efforts going forward Targeting 4.5 GW in operation and under construction by end of 2021 Scatec Solar ASA Sustainability Report 2019 7 Sustainability reporting Highlights 2019 Industry leader in ESG risk management: Relative performance: Rank (1=Lowest risk) The latest ESG risk rating report by Global universe: 379 out of 12,237 Utilities Industry: 1 out of 450 Sustainalytics ranked Scatec Solar as the Renewable power production: 1 out 48 company with the lowest ESG risk out of 450 companies in the global utilities industry. Strong improvements in climate disclosure: Scatec Solar started to report to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) in 2019 to better identify and manage its environmental impact. CDP 2019 score: B Management Level. About this report This report is prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Core Level. The climate reporting has been externally assured by DNV GL. We regard this report to be our Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). In our opinion, we meet the requirements of the UNGC Active Level. Our ambition is to be a sustainable business with regard to our total impact on the societies where we operate. In line with this ambition, we will continue to listen, learn, adapt, and improve our business operations. We appreciate feedback from our stakeholders on our sustainability reporting and always work for continuous improvement. For comments, questions or suggestions, please contact Julie Hamre, Senior Sustainability Manager: julie.hamre@scatecsolar.com. 8 How we work with sustainability Clean and sustainable energy environment (HSSE), anti-corruption, procurement, environScatec Solar develops, builds, operates, and owns solar power mental and social impact, and stakeholder engagement, usually plants that generate clean and reliable electricity. Electricity on a monthly basis. is vital for the economic growth of nations and for human welfare. We strive to increase access to clean, affordable, Scatec Solar has developed a policy for each material sustainand renewable electricity generation in emerging markets. ability topic, outlining the key principles and management approach that govern the way we operate and address issues. Governance The policy statements and management approach for material Sustainability is an integral part of our organisation and is topics can be found at the beginning of each chapter of this embedded in all business units, including project development, report. Further information on our corporate governance can solutions/execution, asset management and operations. The be found in our Annual Report and on our corporate website. sustainability team in each country consists of both corporate support teams and specialists, as well as fieldworkers who Compliance report to the global headquarters and ultimately to the Scatec Solar is committed to operating in line with the Executive Vice President of Sustainability, who forms part of Equator Principles and the IFC’s Environmental and Social the Executive Management Team reporting directly to the Performance Standards to ensure consistent practices Board of Directors. The sustainability team develops key across all projects. Our work is also guided by the OECD performance indicators reviewed by the Executive Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and we work with Management annually. When relevant, both the Executive trusted partners such as the IFC, Norfund, KLP and several management and the Board of Directors review specific larger development banks that all have high standards for the sustainability topics, including health, safety, security and projects and their associated impact. IFC Performance Standards The Equator Principles The IFC’s Environmental and Social Performance A risk management framework adopted by Standards define IFC clients’ responsibilities for financial institutions for determining, assessing managing their environmental and social risks and managing environmental and social risk in development projects www.ifc.org www.equator-principles.com OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises The OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises (OECD Guidelines) are recommendations from governments to multinational enterprises on responsible business conduct. The OECD Guidelines set standards for responsible business conduct across a range of issues such as human rights, labour rights and the environment. www.oecd.org Scatec Solar ASA Sustainability Report 2019 9 Environmental, Social & Governance (ESG) aspects are integrated in our operating model Project Power Opportunity Financing Delivery Development Production Continuous compliance, risk assessment, integrity, due diligence, monitoring Conduct E&S due diligence CO2 emissions avoided Identify, mitigate and monitor environmental and social impact Stakeholder engagement, grievance mechanism and local development programmes Health & Safety Establish local E&S team Responsible Procurement Calculate Scatec Solar’s emissions DG3: Final investment decision End of life management 10 Sustainable solar projects: 40MW Mocuba project First utility-scale solar power plant in Mozambique Project name: Central Solar de Mocuba (CESOM) Location: Mocuba, Zambézia Province Capacity: 40MW Equity partners: KLP Norfund Investments, Electricidade de Mozambique (EDM) and Scatec Solar Financing partners: IFC and EAIF PPA: 25-year Power Purchase Agreement with EDM Grid connection: July 2019 Compliance The project was developed in Clean energy compliance with Mozambican Environmental & Social 79 GWh annual production law and the IFC’s Performance (E&S) Impact – providing energy for about Standards. Developed Environmental & Social 170,000 households. Impact Assessment (ESIA). Key impact identified: use of farmland for construction of the power plant. Job creation 1,209 direct jobs during construction 1,052 local hires, Compensation and Livelihood including 96 women. Restoration Plan 223 local households or Project Affected People (PAPs) used the Malaria vector control programme project land for small-scale farming. Implemented programme covering about 700 construction workers and Compensation and Livelihood their households. Recruited and trained Restoration Plan implemented in four individuals from local communities accordance with IFC Performance to become spray operators. Standard 5. E&S initiatives Local community engagement Project partners provided USD 80,000 in funding Community Liaison Officer based in Mocuba to ensure for several E&S initiatives, including the Malaria positive working relations with communities. Programme, construction of bridges for PAPs and extension of Livelihood Restoration Plan. Established Technical Working Group with representatives from PAPs and local community leaders. Scatec Solar ASA Sustainability Report 2019 11 Sustainability priorities Delivering competitive and sustainable renewable energy Managing social Being a trusted Contributing to and environmental business local value impact partner creation Our overall company goal is to deliver competitive and Our corporate sustainability framework incorporates all material sustainable renewable energy. Three main sustainability topics of importance to stakeholders and our company. Each pillars contribute to achieving this goal: topic is defined by a policy, an evaluation of results in 2019 and a set of targets to be measured and to guide our work for 2020. • Managing social and environmental impact • Being a trusted business partner A summary of key results and achievements from 2019 is • Contributing to local value creation presented over the following pages. Our sustainability targets for 2020 are presented in each chapter of this report and summarised later in this section. Materiality is the backbone of our sustainability reporting and framework 1 2 3 Stakeholder engagement Material topics Sustainability framework Regular engagement with Material topics defined based Sustainability framework internal and external on stakeholder feedback and developed to incorporate all stakeholders to understand internal strategic priorities. material topics of importance to what types of topics and The backbone of our stakeholders and our company issues concern them. sustainability reporting. with key ambitions and targets. Refer to corporate website for Refer to corporate website Refer to corporate website for our key stakeholder groups. for materiality matrix. description of all material topics. 12 Managing social and environmental impact TARGETS KEY RESULT 2019 E&S compliance Conduct Environmental & Environmental & Social baseline studies developed for all relevant Social baseline assessments for projects in 2019 in close dialogue with project and financing partners. all projects Develop Environmental & Environmental & Social Action Plans developed Social Action Plans (ESAP) for for all relevant projects in 2019. all projects and follow up on all required activities Human Rights Develop a corporate policy on Corporate Human Rights Policy developed in 2019 in human rights in line with the line with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and Universal Declaration of Human the International Labour Organization (ILO). The policy is Rights and the ILO published on our corporate website. Integrate aspects of human rights Human rights training offering reviewed globally and identified into the standardised training for partner to support the development of tailored training material all Managers, Community Liaison for particularly exposed groups. Officers and security personnel globally Climate Action 870,637 Increase annual emissions avoided tons CO2 emissions avoided by end of 2019 from by our solar plants by 500,000 tons all our solar plants in operation. of CO2 by the end of 2019 Annual emissions avoided are expected to double when solar plants under construction in 2019 begin commercial operation. Start reporting to the CDP in 2019 Managing our environmental impact: Reported to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) in 2019 and received CDP score of B (Management Level): “Taking coordinated actions on climate issues”. Completed In process Scatec Solar ASA Sustainability Report 2019 13 Being a trusted business partner TARGETS KEY RESULT 2019 Anti-corruption Mandatory anti-corruption training for all employees. Offered to new 7 Ethics and anticorruption trainings 6 Targeted workshops organised for business employees on a quarterly basis with organised in 2019. units with a high risk a target completion rate of 100% 172 employees of corruption. over a two-year period participated. Provide extended anti-corruption training for particularly exposed business units Health, Safety, Security & Environment (HSSE) Fatalities: 0 2019 statistics LTIF 1.2 TRIF 1.5 Fatalities: 0 Lost Time Total Recordable Serious injuries: 0 Serious injuries: 0 Injury Frequency Injury Frequency TRIF: ≤ 3.9 Sick leave: 0.7% per million hours worked per million hours worked LTIF: ≤ 2.5 Sick leave ≤ 2% All main contractors audited in 2019. Minimum one audit of all main Successful completion of DNV GL ISO audit. contractors working on project sites Develop and implement country HSSE management systems implemented for all projects under construction in 2019. specific HSSE management systems Responsible procurement Environmental and Conduct internal reviews of our Strengthened our due 100% social screening of new suppliers existing due diligence process for diligence process for selecting selecting suppliers and make any suppliers in 2019. necessary improvements Review the risk of conflict minerals Reviewed risk of conflict minerals in our supply chain in our supply chain and ensure that and initiated process to ensure that all high-risk all high-risk suppliers have policies suppliers have policies in place for conflict minerals. and QA systems covering conflict minerals Develop and implement a corporate Corporate conflict minerals policy developed in 2019 policy on conflict minerals to be rolled out during second half 2020. Our people Increase percentage of female Gender diversity: Increased the number of full-time female employees globally by 10% employees by 36% in 2019, but the relative share remained the same as last year at 33%. Performance Management: 100% participation by all Female 100% participation in our Performance Management employees in our annual employees process in 2019. Performance, Development 33% and Appraisal (PDA) process 14 Contributing to local value creation TARGETS KEY RESULT 2019 Community engagement Develop a stakeholder engagement Stakeholder engagement plans in place for all projects under plan for all projects in line with the construction in 2019. Refer to corporate website for example IFC’s Performance Standards of plans. Initiate our community engagement Community engagement efforts initiated at least six months prior to efforts at least six months prior to expected construction start across all relevant projects in 2019. expected construction start Appoint a designated Community Community Liaison Officers appointed 2019 2018 2017 Liaison Officer (CLO) for all for all projects in 2019. In some regions one CLO covers a portfolio of projects. 18 10 8 projects Resolve all project grievances within two months of their 174 grievances registered in 2019, of which 78% were resolved. registration 37 grievances are still in the process of being resolved. Local job creation Hire 70% to 80% local workers in every project during the 8,000 jobs created from projects under construction – on average construction phase 60% local and unskilled workers. Local development Dedicate a specific budget for Dedicated budgets for local development programmes development programmes for in all solar projects starting construction in 2019. each project, aligned with local community needs Minimum one long-term educationrelated programme in all projects 18 education-related programmes ongoing in 2019 across projects. We are currently working to update our local development strategy and programme focus for 2020. Start to implement small-scale solar PV projects to benefit local Small-scale solar PV Small scale solar system installations communities in new projects – at community hall and youth association in Ma’an, Jordan. implement at least one new project Refurbishment of rooftop solar for 13 vulnerable households in 2019 in Agua Fria, Honduras. Scatec Solar ASA Sustainability Report 2019 15 Sustainability targets 2020 OVERALL DELIVERING COMPETITIVE AND SUSTAINABLE RENEWABLE ENERGY COMPANY GOAL SUSTAINABILITY MANAGING SOCIAL AND BEING A TRUSTED CONTRIBUTING TO PILLARS ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT BUSINESS PARTNER LOCAL VALUE CREATION KEY AMBITIONS • Operate all projects in line with the • Maintain a zero tolerance policy of • Employ local labour, enable IFC’s Performance Standards and bribery or corruption knowledge transfer and create the Equator Principles • Continually work for zero harm jobs in local communities • Maintain active dialogue during to personnel, assets and the • Maintain open and transparent the project phases with key environment dialogue with project neighbours stakeholder groups • Define health and safety standards and other relevant stakeholders • Identify risks to and impact on and communicate them to our • Identify needs in the local employees, communities and the employees and subcontractors communities for our community environment. Avoid, minimise and • Work with suppliers to promote development programmes compensate for negative impact sustainable business practices throughout project life and monitor compliance through • Monitor the total climate effect regular audits and interactions of our projects during all project phases TARGETS Environmental and social Anti-corruption Community engagement compliance • Ensure 100% participation in • Develop a stakeholder • Conduct environmental and social training by employees engagement plan for all projects baseline assessments of • Implement new Code of Conduct in line with the IFC’s Performance all projects together with mandatory Standards • Develop Environmental and e-learning course for all employees • Initiate our community Social Action Plans (ESAPs) for • Establish compliance network for engagement efforts at least all projects and follow up on all global and regional compliance six months prior to expected required activities officers construction start • Appoint a designated community Human rights HSSE liaison officer for all projects • Integrate our Corporate Human • Fatalities: 0 • Respond to and take action on Rights Policy at all levels of our all project grievances within organisation • TRIF: ≤ 3.5 30 days of their registration • Integrate aspects of human rights • LTIF: ≤ 2.0 into the standardised training • High-potential incidents: ≤ 1.2 Local job creation for all our managers, community • Sick leave: ≤ 2% • Hire 70% to 80% local workers liaison officers and security in every project during the personnel globally construction phase Responsible procurement Climate action • Ensure all suppliers have policies or statements and measures Local development • CO2 emissions avoided by our in place to confirm that their • Dedicate a specific budget for solar plants to reach about 1.4 products are free development programmes for million tons by end of 2020 from conflict minerals each project, aligned with local • Set emissions reduction targets • Plan and organise a Supplier community needs for our company in line with CDP Sustainability Initiative for key • Establish community PV as a suppliers as part of our supplier larger programme component development programme – three new projects initiated in 2020 Our people • Systematically train and develop more than 50 leaders in our organisation • Increase the percentage of female employees globally by 10% • Performance Management: 100% participation by all employees 16 UN Sustainable Development Goals By 2030, increase By 2030, ensure substantially the share universal access to of renewable energy in affordable, reliable the global energy mix and modern energy services The selection of our three primary SDGs is aligned with our core business, risks and opportunities, and key stakeholder feedback. Refer to our corporate website for more information about our work and reporting related to the UN SDGs. Utility-scale solar Smaller-scale solar Utility-scale solar delivered to state owned Expanding our reach. Continuously utilities and corporate and industrial customers in explore new technologies to offer better solutions emerging markets. to a broader market. Doubled installed capacity and reached 1.9 GW in Release redeployable solar introduced as a new operation and under construction by end of 2019. concept offering a flexible leasing agreement for pre-assembled and containerised solar and battery Targeting 4.5 GW in operation and under equipment. construction by end of 2021. Community PV Several small-scale solar PV projects in local communities close to our solar plants. From 2020 we will increase our efforts in community PV solutions. Scatec Solar ASA Sustainability Report 2019 17 Managing environmental and social impact 18 Managing our environmental and social impact The development of solar projects may have an environmental health and safety, indigenous people, and cultural heritage and social impact. In line with Scatec Solar’s policies, the (see illustration below). requirements of local legislation and our commitment to international standards and best practices, we endeavour to Establishing dialogue with a broad range of stakeholders, minimise our negative impact, maximise local benefits and including local communities, at an early stage in a project, is ensure constructive dialogue with project stakeholders. critical for understanding a project’s impact and for integration of relevant considerations into the project development How we manage our environmental and social impact process. Engagement with local communities is an ongoing Our project activities are conducted in accordance with local process throughout the entire life of a project. laws, the Company’s corporate policies, and requirements as defined by international standards. This include the IFC’s We follow standardised processes for all our projects to Performance Standards and the Equator Principles for identify, mitigate and monitor our potential risk and impact. specific areas, including land acquisition and involuntary This work forms part of our overall Environmental and Social resettlement, human rights, biodiversity conservation, labour Management System (ESMS). Key elements of the process and working conditions, pollution prevention, community are outlined on the next page. Operational compliance in Scatec Solar (SSO) Legal Compliance Suppliers, Contractors, International Local Standards Partners and Norms SSO Governing Documents SSO Procedures & Processes Scatec Solar ASA Sustainability Report 2019 19 Environmental and Social Management System For all our projects we conduct environmental and social due diligence assessments and/or environmental ESIAs and social baseline studies/impact assessments (ESIAs) to identify the potential environmental and social risk and impact of our activities. In 2019, we developed an environmental impact Environmental and Social Impact Assessments assessment for our project in Argentina. Assessments of the potential environmental and social We also performed environmental and social due risk and impact of activities during the development, diligence assessments for projects in Ukraine and construction and operations phases of a project Vietnam. The next step in all of our projects is the establishment of Environmental and Social Action Plans (ESAPs) based ESAPs on the initial environmental and social assessments. The ESAPs are often developed in close dialogue with project and financing partners and usually include the following items: Environmental and Social Action Plans • Corrective actions/measures List of environmental and social actions/measures, with • Purposes of actions responsibilities and deadlines, to reduce the impact • Responsibilities identified during the initial assessments • Status/progress • Timeline All our projects have regular environmental and social monitoring and reporting procedures in place Monitoring & reporting as defined under the respective Environmental and Social Management Plans (ESMPs) under the Environmental and Social Management System (ESMS). Important monitoring measures include: Monitoring & reporting • Regular site inspections and registry of nonconformance Regular monitoring and reporting internally in project • Monthly project reports and monthly teams and externally to project and financing partners Board of Directors meetings • Internal audits and audits by third parties • Regular environmental and social monitoring visits and status reports by lenders 20 Project classification according to the Equator Principles: All projects under Category A: Projects with potentially significant adverse environmental and construction in 2019 social risks and/or impact that is diverse, irreversible or unprecedented are Category B projects Category B: Projects with potentially limited adverse environmental and social risks and/or impacts that are few in number, generally site-specific, with potential limited largely reversible and readily addressed through mitigation measures adverse social or Category C: Projects with minimal or no adverse environmental and social environmental impacts risks and/or impact Our achievements and results in 2019 Main risks and impact We are committed to operating all our projects in line with The degree and types of impact caused by solar projects vary the IFC’s Performance Standards and the Equator Principles. from project to project according to several factors such as An overall focus of 2019 was establishing management site location, environmental baseline conditions of the site systems in new projects. We continued our work from 2018 and distance to settlements. The majority of the environto further strengthen our corporate Environmental and Social mental and social impact occurs during the development and Management System (ESMS) by reviewing our processes and construction phases of a project. Noise related to excavation, management plans in accordance with the IFC’s Performance temporary air emissions, solid waste, wastewater generation Standards and the Equator Principles. We also developed and and increased transportation to and from site area are typical strengthened corporate policies in the areas of human rights, impacts. Each type of impact is monitored and mitigated conflict minerals and stakeholder engagement. through the implementation of specific management plans. Some of the key potential risks and impact areas from our business operations are presented over the following pages. Potential environmental impact areas Potential social impact areas • Temporary air emissions, noise related to • Land acquisition and physical/economic excavation, solid waste and wastewater displacement and impact particularly on indigenous generation during construction people, minorities and vulnerable groups • Ecology and natural resources Habitat loss/ • Cultural heritage fragmentation, impacts on designated areas • Community health and safety including traffic safety and protected or vulnerable species • Labour and working conditions during construction • Water use and operation • Landscape and visual impacts • Conflict minerals in the supply chain Scatec Solar ASA Sustainability Report 2019 21 Photo by Norfund Human rights Scatec Solar respects human rights and recognises our 2019 Corporate responsibility to avoid infringing upon the rights of employees, local communities and other stakeholders wherever the Human Rights Policy Company operates. In line with the IFC’s Performance In line with the Universal Standards, we acknowledge that certain groups might require Declaration of Human Rights particular attention in relation to human rights risks, including and the International Labour indigenous people, minorities and vulnerable groups. Organization (ILO) We work to mitigate any adverse effects by employing specially designed measures. Meaningful consultations with affected communities and other stakeholders on a regular basis and a well-functioning grievance mechanism that local communities currently working to review and further develop our training trust are main tools for the continuous review of risks and for offerings on human rights to ensure that all our security the development of appropriate mitigating actions. teams globally receive such training. We have identified a partner to support in the development of tailored human We engage security personnel at our operational sites to rights training material for various groups of our company. protect employees, assets, and local communities that are near This work will continue and be implemented in 2020. the Company’s projects and plants. All plant-based security personnel are subcontracted from a third party but considered One of our 2019 targets was to develop a corporate human part of our plant teams. We recognise the risk of misconduct rights policy in line with the Universal Declaration of Human and work to raise awareness and comply with international Rights and the International Labour Organization (ILO). The standards. Amongst other measures, we mitigate this risk by policy was published on our corporate website during the training security staff in human rights and Company policies. fourth quarter of 2019 and will be distributed to project partners and other stakeholders in 2020. Approximately 50% of security personnel contracted by Scatec Solar globally have been trained in principles related The next section presents some key potential impact areas to human rights. The training is conducted annually. We are related to human rights. 22 Land acquisition Labour and working conditions in Egypt Land acquisition can impact local communities and Labour management and ensuring good working and place the rights of affected people at risk. The risk living conditions for our own and subcontractors’ is particularly high when physical and/or economic workers is an area that can impact our projects during displacement cannot be avoided. the construction phase. Target: Target: • Ensuring that affected local households are assisted • Ensuring compliance with IFC’s Performance in adapting to the new situation and restoring their Standards and avoiding any practice that can be livelihoods to pre-project standards at a minimum. harmful to workers’ rights across our six projects under construction in the Benban Solar Park in 2019. Mitigating measures: • We follow the strict requirements of the IFC’s Measures implemented: Performance Standards to address and mitigate • Consultations were provided for all subcontractors impact by developing and implementing resettleand workers during the induction of services and ment and livelihood restoration plans. regularly throughout the working period on labour rights and working and living conditions. • We always establish long-term monitoring mechanisms as required by the IFC Performance • Several training sessions were held to raise Standards. awareness of health and safety and the workers’ grievance mechanism. Project examples: • Regular inspections were conducted to identify • In 2018-2019 our Mocuba project in Mozambique gaps and improvements in a wide range of aspects resulted in an economic displacement of 223 of worker wellbeing. households. All households were assisted and compensated in line with IFC Performance Outcome: Standard 5. • Through regular monitoring mechanisms, including quarterly site audits carried out by third-party • In 2019 we had no projects in our backlog that experts, we achieved steady improvement in the resulted in economic or physical displacement. areas of safety and working and living conditions. Photo by Norfund Scatec Solar ASA Sustainability Report 2019 23 Water Water is a scarce resource in many areas and is therefore an important aspect of our environmental management, Initiative to reduce particularly in the operations phase of our projects. Our water usage in main use of water relates to module cleaning. Various water Jordan on average by sources are used for our projects in different locations, including groundwater and potable water from municipal 10% 15% water networks. The amount of water needed depends on vegetation, module soiling, natural cleaning due to precipitation and cleaning methods. Water conservation awareness, maintenance of road One of our 2019 targets was to start reporting on water conditions to minimise water use for dust suppression and withdrawal by source and volume in projects located in monthly monitoring to identify the causes of abnormal water-stressed areas. Our three projects each in South Africa volumes are among the management considerations and Jordan are located in areas of mediumor high-water risk implemented at all our plants. Efficiency is sought by as defined by the World Resources Institute’s Aqueduct Water avoiding unnecessary washing cycles and using effective Risk Atlas. washing methods such as spraying. JORDAN SOUTH AFRICA PROJECT ORYX EJRE GLAE KALKBULT LINDE DREUNBERG CAPACITY 10MW 22MW 11MW 75MW 40MW 75MW Kilolitres 1,475 3,984 2,231 136 112 188 Source Potable (municipal) water Ground water In South Africa, the source of water is groundwater. We implemented efforts in 2019 to reduce water use in both Boreholes are located close to the plants, which are Jordan and South Africa. These efforts will continue in 2020. surrounded only by livestock farming activities, with no nearby settlements. Water-use licences for each facility Biodiversity are issued by the Department of Water and Sanitation, Installing solar parks requires land clearing, which could depending on the aquifer’s size and other uses. Water have an impact on biodiversity by causing a loss of habitat volumes withdrawn for our plants are considerably below and disturbance of species. Biodiversity considerations are the volumes authorised by the licences. therefore part of environmental and social due diligence and baseline studies. If an impact is unavoidable, we implement The source of water in Jordan is potable municipal water measures to minimise impact and restore biodiversity. supplied by a water utility. The large volume of water use is primarily due to high soiling levels and results from For all projects, site clearance is implemented in a sensitive more frequent cleaning cycles compared to other locations. manner to minimise the impact on fauna. Project-specific measures are identified for the removal of vegetation, such as directional clearing, and avoiding certain periods so as to not affect nesting birds. Relevant measures during the 2019 water reduction efforts construction and operations phases include, for example, fencing off storage areas and keeping lighting to a minimum. JORDAN The Ma’an module-washing improvement initiative is Habitat enhancement and the creation of new conservation expected to reduce water usage by 10% to 15% on areas are options that will be considered whenever impact average by improving efficiency through the cannot be fully mitigated. replacement of nozzles with more efficient ones. 24 Case study: Biodiversity in Mocuba, Mozambique Background: Snakes make up a significant proportion of the middle-order predators, as they play an integral role in maintaining balance in the food web. Without snakes, the numbers of pest species such as small rodents that damage crops and carry disease, can increase to unnatural levels, and the predators that eat snakes struggle to find food. Therefore, removal of snakes can have unforeseen effects on an ecosystem. Through our commitment to protect biodiversity, on-site faunal monitoring concluded that snake species richness and density were found to be high on and around site, especially considering venomous snakes. We discovered that 75% of snakes found on site to be venomous which increase the risk of severe snakebite incidents and snakes being killed out of fear. Key initiatives and outcome: • We provided training to working personnel during the construction and operational phase by increasing the understanding of the environmental role snakes play and debunking cultural myths of snakes through snake awareness training. • A selected number of employees also received venomous snake handling to ensure the safety of humans and snakes on and around the plant. • The initiatives implemented resulted in personnel being more aware of and equipped to deal with incidents involving snakes, thereby conserving the predators found on our solar plants. Scatec Solar ASA Sustainability Report 2019 25 Climate risk and opportunities Climate change can have a range of potential impact on our business. We operate and own solar power plants in local communities for 20 to 25 years. It is therefore important to Extreme try to foresee and evaluate potential climate-related risks to weather and opportunities for our people, business and physical assets. is one of the most serious climate-related The most serious climate-related risks involve the physical risks to our business. impact of extreme weather, including drought and flood. The table below summarises key risk areas related to climate change and gives a brief description of their relevance to our business. Current climate change risks force policy-makers to seek is well positioned to capture these opportunities through its low-emission sources of energy when tendering for new experience with public-private partnerships and innovative power generation. Scatec Solar focuses on renewable finance solutions in collaboration with such partners as the energy predominantly from solar power and competes in World Bank, the IFC, regional development banks, export public tenders globally. We see new business opportunities credit agencies and Norfund. opening up in emerging markets, where new energy capacity is desperately needed, and where the focus on renewables, We also take advantage of the emissions reductions resulting time to market and price significantly favour solar and wind. from our solar plants in operation, and our projects continue This leads to new markets opening up due to climate-related to be registered with the United Nations Framework financing, such as subsidies and partnerships with regional Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) for verification development banks to increase access to energy. Scatec Solar and certification of electricity generation. RISK TYPES BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF RELEVANCE TO OUR BUSINESS Current and emerging regulation As part of market entry or new investment decisions in an existing market or an annual review of portfolio diversification, current regulations are thoroughly assessed with both internal and external consultants. For example, we include regulations related to national energy mix, investments in renewables, and energy subsidies in our risk assessments as this could impact our competitive position. Technology At each decision gate, a risk review is performed of the adequacy of the technical solution chosen and of the future risk that new technology entering the market may have on the asset. Market As part of market entry or new investment decisions in an existing market or an annual review of portfolio diversification, the current market as well as 20+ year projections of the market are thoroughly assessed with both internal and external consultants. Reputation Reputational risk can be high in terms of both its likelihood and its negative potential impact. Hence, each business decision is taken after reputational risk has been fully evaluated. Examples of reputational risk included in our risk assessments are the heavy transport of equipment and our projects having a negative impact on local communities. Acute and chronic physical We operate globally and, at any given time, directly or indirectly employ at least 5,000 people across various construction sites. Hence, it is always a possible risk that extreme weather may have a physical impact on both people and assets. The chronic impact of climate change is addressed on a 25-to-30-year basis. Typical risks include increased annual flooding, seasonal drought reducing access to water, and extreme heat resulting in efficiency losses. Upstream Scatec Solar depends on suppliers to provide, for example, solar panels, electric components, materials for construction, and operations and maintenance services among, other things. These suppliers and their sub-suppliers are also affected by climate change. Upstream risk includes the disruption of deliveries due to extreme weather or the lack of access/increased cost of raw materials due to climate-related issues. We closely monitor risk related to critical suppliers. Downstream Climate risk, and its effect on government and customer (public utility) decision-makers, is an integral part of each decision gate. It has typically proven advantageous to the Company’s renewable power offering, but changes in perception are a clear risk. This leads to a strengthened focus on renewables, which increases competition in the market, which in turn affects downstream supply and demand, which can then have an impact on our business. 26 Managing climate-related risk and impact in our risk management process below). All projects report Scatec Solar has extensive policies and procedures in place as risk management status as part of their monthly reporting part of its operating system to actively manage risk connected process, which is regularly reviewed by both the Executive with various parts of our operations. This includes climate Management Team and the Board of Directors. At Group risk. The main climate-related risks relate to the development, level, the Executive Management Team performs an annual construction and operations phase of each solar project. review of the entire risk picture and risk management system and reports this to the Board of Directors. For each project, the risks are identified, reported and actively managed throughout all project phases (as outlined Risk management process DG 0 DG 1 DG 2 DG 3 DG 4 Opportunity Development Structuring Delivery Power Production Continuous risk assessments Decision gates 0 to 2 require Executive Decision gate 3 Risks addressed Management Team involvement requires Executive at decision gate 3 Management Team addressed again prior and Board of Directors to clearing an asset for involvement operation phase DG3: Final investment decision Case study: Flooding risk in Malaysia • Our Red sol solar project in Malaysia is an example of the significant impact of climate change-induced risk, as increased flooding in the area has left the project site vulnerable to biannual flooding. • As a result of this inherent risk, the project did not initially pass through decision gate 2 of our risk management process. • The redesigned project introduced a new substructure, which required less ballast in the ground (given the muddy conditions of the ground), and a complete redesign of the drainage system surrounding the site. • The output of the exercise and knowledge has been deployed in the development of further flood risk sites in South East Asia. Scatec Solar ASA Sustainability Report 2019 27 To better address climate risk, we implemented more comprehensive climate-related disclosures connected to our comprehensive climate risk disclosures in 2019, based on governance and policy, risks and opportunity management, the recommendations of the Task Force for Climate Related reporting and strategy, and scenario analysis. In 2020, we plan Financial Disclosures (TCFD). to continue this journey by, for instance, developing emissions reduction targets and initiatives. Refer to www.cdp.net for In line with our 2019 targets, we started reporting to CDP the complete CDP report for Scatec Solar. (Carbon Disclosure Project) during the year. This involved CDP scoring methodology A Leadership AWe reported to the Carbon Disclosure Project in 2019 B Management BCDP score: B Management Level C Awareness CD Disclosure DReporting to CDP represents an important step for us to better identify and manage the environmental impact of our business activities globally 28 Our carbon footprint GHG emissions 2019 The total CO2 emissions from our activities in 2019 amounted to 10,972 tons, up from 10,412 tons in 2018. This includes scope 1 emissions, market-based scope 2 emissions and scope 3 emissions from air travel. See the Transportation 16.0 % illustration for the percentage split among main categories. Total Stationary Electricity and air travel represent the two categories of 10,972 combustion 1.5 % tonnes CO2e Electricity 47.9 % our business generating the greatest CO2 emissions. Air travel 34.7 % Electricity includes purchased electricity primarily from office buildings and Operation & Maintenance (O&M) buildings on project sites. We have seen an increase in emissions from electricity since last year. This is mainly explained by our project portfolio in Given the international nature of our company’s business and Egypt, which was grid-connected gradually during 2019. operations, we are aware of our significant footprint from We are part of a larger solar installation with a commitment air travel. In 2019, we updated our corporate travel policy to to the Egyptian government to maintain grid voltage. This include a requirement that all flights be booked in economy requires us to deliver reactive power at night, which is class. In 2020, we aim to develop a climate strategy with generated directly from the grid. concrete reduction targets and programmes. We will also work to expand our CO2 emissions reporting. A considerable 2018 and 2019 were characterised by strong global part of our emissions relates to our subcontractors’ activities expansion through project development and construction. during the construction phase of projects. In 2019, our Several new projects were grid-connected and we scope 1 reporting included emissions from construction experienced high activity levels at project sites. This is activities at our project in Argentina. This was a pilot project. reflected in our emissions figures for both years. For 2020, we have targeted increased emissions reporting for projects under construction in scope 3. Total greenhouse gas emissions for 2019: 10,972 tons Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Vehicles and Equipment Diesel generators Purchased Electricity Business Air Travel Transformer stations Purchased Heating/Cooling Scope 1: Scope 2: Scope 3: Greenhouse gas emissions Greenhouse gas emissions Greenhouse gas emissions from from sources that are owned or resulting from the generation sources not owned or directly controlled by the company. of electricity, heat or steam controlled by the company but purchased by the company. related to its business activities. Scatec Solar ASA Sustainability Report 2019 29 VERIFI CATION STAT EMENT Issue date: March 24, 2020 Verification of CO2 emissions for Scatec Solar ASA 2019 The purpose of this document is to clarify matters set out in the process of verifying CO2 emissions for Scatec Solar ASA. We do not accept or assume any responsibility or liability on our part to CDP or any other party who may have access to this letter or related documents. Scatec Solar ASA commissioned DNV GL Business Assurance Norway AS to provide an independent third-party limited assurance verification for 2019 of their worldwide operations for CDP reporting. ISO 14064-3 has been used in this work. The scope of the work included: • Scope 1 CO2 emissions (ref. CDP report point C 6.1) • Scope 2 CO2 emissions (ref. CDP report point C 6.3) • Scope 3 CO2 emissions (ref. CDP report point C 6.5) The verification was conducted in February and March 2020 and included document review, interviews with personnel at the main office, review of calculation methods and routines for activity data used in the calculations. The scope for 2019 included Scatec Solar activities in 11 countries. Aggregated emissions data: Scope 1: Data as reported in C 6.1.: Total CO2 scope 1 emissions: 1 845,6 metric tonnes CO2 Scope 2: Data as reported in C 6.3: Total CO2 scope 2 emissions (location based): 5 059,7 metric tonnes CO2 Scope 3: Data as reported in C 6.5: Total CO2 scope 3 emissions (location based): 4 066,3 metric tonnes CO2 The verification is done with limited assurance. During the verification, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the reported CO2e emissions for Scatec Solar ASA in the 11 countries are not fairly stated. Place and date: Høvik, March 24, 2020 DNV GL BUSINESS ASSURANCE NORWAY AS Thomas Haug Ole A Flagstad Technical reviewer Lead Verifier DNV GL Business Assurance (Norway) AS, Veritasveien 1, 1322 Høvik, Norway. Tel: +47 67 57 99 00. assurance.dnvgl.com 30 CO2 savings from our solar plants By providing clean electricity, our solar plants contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions in every country where CO2 emissions savings we operate. One of our 2019 targets was to increase annual from our operating emissions avoided by our solar plants by 500,000 tons of solar plants in 2019 CO2 by end of the year. 870,637 tons By the end of 2019, the CO2 emissions savings from our solar plants in operation reached nearly 900,000 tons. This figure is expected to nearly double when all the solar plants under construction in 2019 begin commercial operation. Human rights Our goals and ambitions • Integrate Corporate Human Rights Policy into all levels We will continue our efforts to further strengthen and of our organisation standardise our corporate environmental and social • Integrate aspects of human rights into the standardised management system (ESMS) for all projects. In addition, training for all our managers, community liaison officers we have the following key targets for 2020: and security personnel globally Environmental and social compliance Climate action • Conduct environmental and social baseline assessments • CO2 emissions savings from our solar plants to reach about for all projects 1.4 million tons by end of 2020 • Develop environmental and social action plans for all • Set emissions reduction targets for our company in line projects and follow up on all required activities with CDP Scatec Solar ASA Sustainability Report 2019 31 Being a trusted business partner 32 Health and safety Health, safety, security and environment (HSSE) are key priorities for Scatec Solar. We take responsibility, set 1.5 requirements and monitor HSSE performance in the development, construction and operations phases of our projects. We define health and safety standards and TRIF communicate these to our employees and subcontractors. Total Recordable Injury Frequency For more information about our policy, refer to our per million hours worked corporate website. Our achievements and results in 2019 We delivered approximately 11.7 million working hours with no fatalities or serious injuries in 2019. The year was LTIF 1.2 Lost Time Incident Frequency characterised by high levels of construction activity, with per million hours worked 12 projects in Egypt, Malaysia, Ukraine, South Africa, Mozambique and Argentina. In Egypt, our portfolio of six projects, totalling 309MW under construction during the year, delivered about 8 million working hours with one lost time injury (LTI). We engaged almost 8,000 workers during peak construction periods, of which about 60% were local and unskilled labour. 8,000 The rate of recordable work-related injury was 1.5 per million Workers engaged during peak working hours, down from 4.4 in 2018. The decrease reflects, construction periods in 2019 among other things, several initiatives launched during the year to strengthen our HSSE culture across the Company. We are also accumulating extensive experience from the global network of our project portfolio. None of the recordable injuries were classified as serious injuries. Typical work-related injuries involved handling tools and construction equipment, with hand/finger injuries being predominant. No cases of work-related occupational diseases were registered among our employees or our subcontractors’ workers in 2019. Scatec Solar ASA Sustainability Report 2019 33 Key statistics 2019 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATOR TARGETS 2019 ACTUAL 2019 ACTUAL 2018 ACTUAL 2017 Fatalities 0 0 0 0 Serious injuries with disabilities 0 0 0 0 LTIF (lost time injury frequency) ≤ 2.5 1.2 3.0 2.0 TRIF (total recordable injury frequency) ≤ 3.9 1.5 4.4 3.4 Sick leave 1) ≤ 2% 0.7% 0.8% 1.4% Working hours including subcontractors 11,747,041 6,368,975 1,180,650 All figures include hours from subcontractors except for sick leave. Rates are calculated per million hours worked. 1) Sick leave includes hours from full-time employees, short-term employees, and consultants. We reached all of our 2019 targets for key performance indicators (refer to the table above). Key initiatives for the continued strengthening of our HSSE culture across projects included awareness campaigns and open reporting and behavioural schemes. For example, we launched the “Goal Zero Hero” programme for our projects in Ukraine to reward individual commitment to health and safety and the “I Care Award” in Honduras to highlight employee engagement with our HSSE goal of Working Together to Achieve Zero Harm. The 2019 target to develop country-related HSSE management systems was also met. All projects under construction in Egypt, Malaysia, Ukraine, South Africa, Mozambique and Argentina implemented an HSSE management system. The requirements and processes of this system cover elements such as the HSSE programme, Emergency Response Plan and Traffic Management Plan. HSSE audits Another 2019 target was conducting a minimum of one audit of all main subcontractors working on project sites. The HSSE audit plan for 2019 covered sites, suppliers and projects. In addition, we had regular internal audits organised by the projects along with external audits on behalf of financing and project partners. The DNV GL ISO audit of Scatec Solar was successfully completed in 2019, with Audit of all main retention of certifications for ISO 9001 (Quality), ISO 45001 (Health & Safety) and sub contractors ISO 14001 (Environment). The audit focused on the Jasin project in Malaysia, Kuala on project sites in 2019 Lumpur, Oslo and Cape Town. Contractor management We continually work to ensure that all our subcontractors operate in accordance with our principles. Our Supplier Code of Conduct and Labour Policy for site personnel are integrated into all our subcontracts to ensure that these principles are respected, even in parts of the value chain that we do not control directly. This is identified as a critical risk area for our company, and serious efforts were made in 2019 to improve our systems and monitoring activities. We have carried out labour management audits, held toolbox talks with labour requirements as the main topic and updated our checklists to include labour management in daily inspections. “We continually work to encourage openness and better reporting across all our projects globally” EVP Sustainable Business & HSSE, Roar Haugland 34 Case Study: Health and Safety in Ukraine With nine projects either in operation or under construction in Ukraine, health and safety efforts were a primary focus in 2019. Compliance with HSSE requirements in Ukraine Project Three sites totalling 47MW in operation and six information: projects totalling 289 MW under construction in Nikolaev, Cherkassy and Kiev regions Challenge: Maintain consistent and high performance related to HSSE Main issues: • Aligning contractors’ services with international standards and requirements • Integrating change management principles into the project management framework Measures • Supported contractors in establishing HSSE implemented: management systems • Implemented HSSE training programmes and trained all workers of contractors on a regular basis • Launched safety behaviour programme across all projects (LTIs 2019: 0) • Performed internal HSSE audits and HSSE audits of contractors • Implemented driving safety programme for the corporate car fleet • Launched information flows including toolbox talks and digital safety information desks GOAL ZERO HERO Promoting strong HSSE standards and culture Strong engagement of Scatec Solar and subcontractor across all projects in Ukraine workers since its launch, with many individual nominations Programme awards Goal Zero Hero nomination to Channels for engagement include reporting boxes on site individual workers with a special commitment to to let workers easily provide recommendations and ideas health and safety for improvement Scatec Solar ASA Sustainability Report 2019 35 Global security practices countries where we operate is high. In 2019, we registered We seek to systematically strengthen our approach to security one recordable injury and two serious near misses related to management and emergency preparedness. We have wellmotor vehicle accidents. We continually strive to maintain a established partnerships with two globally recognised thirdstrong focus on traffic-related risk. We have a Transportation party security companies. Together with our external risk Safety Management Plan for all locations that also requires all advisors, we also regularly assess risks related to global of our subcontractors to have a transportation safety plan and health issues such as pandemics. We organise quarterly have initiatives in place to promote safe employee travel. emergency preparedness drills with the Executive Management team. Our goals and ambitions We continually strive for zero harm to personnel, assets and One of the most serious risks we face when travelling abroad the environment, and we believe that all incidents can be is traffic. The number of fatal traffic accidents in many of the prevented through awareness, training and preparedness. Our main goal for 2020 is to have zero fatalities and serious injuries and reach our remaining HSSE targets as shown in One recordable the table below. injury related to traffic accidents For the 2020 reporting year we have established a new KPI covering high potential incidents and near misses. We believe registered in 2019 these reports will add value to our organisation by proactively rectifying risks and stopping unsafe trends. KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATOR TARGETS 2020 Fatalities 0 LTIF (lost time injury frequency) ≤ 2.0 TRIF (total recordable injuries frequency) ≤ 3.5 Sick leave 1) ≤ 2% High Potential Incidents ≤ 1.2 All figures include hours from subcontractors except for sick leave. Rates are calculated per million hours worked 1) Sick leave includes hours from full-time employees, short-term employees, and consultants. 36 Anti-corruption Scatec Solar is committed to a policy of zero tolerance Anti-Corruption Programme of corruption. Our activities are covered by the strictest Our policy of zero tolerance of corruption is set out in our anti-corruption laws in the world. These laws not only ethics policy and governed by our Anti-Corruption Programme. prohibit receiving, offering or paying bribes but also require us to actively prevent our suppliers and partners from The Anti-Corruption Programme (see the illustration below) engaging in corruption on our behalf. We strictly oppose all describes how our policies and procedures are designed and forms of corruption and will always comply with applicable implemented to adequately prevent and detect corruption anti-corruption laws. risks. The solar industry is exposed to a high risk of corruption, and The programme implementation is risk-based, with a particular some of the countries where we are present are amongst the emphasis on the markets and activities with the highest most challenging in the world. We put in extensive efforts exposure to corruption. to prevent corruption and unethical practices in our projects and operations. The programme is supported by the Group-wide whistleblowing channel. Proportionate Procedures Evaluation & Improvement Tone at the top Reporting & Roles & Investigations AntiResponsibilities Corruption Programme Financial Proportionate Controls Procedures Managing Third-Party Risk Assessment Relationships & Monitoring “Remediating corruption risks in our markets requires extensive efforts and paying great attention to detail” Snorre Valdimarsson, EVP Legal Counsel Scatec Solar ASA Sustainability Report 2019 37 The Transparency International Corruption Perceptions Index (0–19) (20–39) (40–59) (60–79) (80–100) EXTREME RISK HIGH RISK HIGH-MEDIUM RISK MEDIUM LOW Mozambique (26) South Africa (44) Norway (84) Honduras (26) Argentina (45) Ukraine (30) Jordan (48) Egypt (35) Malaysia (53) Brazil (35) Rwanda (53) Bangladesh (26) Czech Republic (56) Vietnam (37) Corruption risk assessments Projects moving from opportunity, development and structuring Corruption risk assessments are conducted on a country, to the delivery and power-production phases are assessed project and contract basis. These assessments form the basis through decision gates (see illustration below). There are four for selecting the areas that require specific mitigating actions decision gates with clear criteria and requirements related to and resource allocation. Identified risks are registered and screening, compliance and corruption risk. reported to the relevant stakeholders of each project to ensure awareness and implementation. A Group corruption risk assessment is performed on an annual basis for each business unit of Scatec Solar. Due Diligence Process Structuring/ Delivery/ Opportunity Development Power Production • Country risk assessment • Detailed due diligence of project • Kick off meeting and awareness development activities performed training with project team prior to entry • Integrity due diligence of all • Integrity due diligence of local suppliers and service providers development partner, equity partner • Continuous project risk assessments and consultants • Monitoring measures • Project risk assessment • Project Risk Management Plan • Orientation meeting with local partner • Assessment of resource needs – local compliance function appointed 38 Our achievements and results in 2019 Anti-corruption risk assessments All operations, including projects and business partners of Scatec Solar, were assessed for corruption risks in 2019. A new methodology for the Group Corruption Risk Assessment was implemented and a corruption risk assessment was performed for Scatec Solar. Country corruption risk assessments were performed for Argentina, Bangladesh, Brazil, Vietnam and Ukraine. Revised governing documents A new Anti-Corruption Programme has been designed and adopted on the basis of the Group Corruption Risk Assessment. The revision focused on increased tailoring of procedures and standardising of the documentation of our compliance efforts. We designed and implemented a new internal procedure for integrity due diligence. A procedure for performing due diligence of the compliance risks in Scatec Solar’s new business venture Release was also designed. Compliance organisation A global compliance officer was appointed to oversee Scatec Solar`s Anti-Corruption Programme. Training and awareness All employees are required to participate in ethics and anti-corruption training every three years. Seven ethics and anti-corruption training sessions were organised globally in 2019, with the participation of more than 50% of our full-time employees. For business units where a high risk of corruption has been identified, six targeted workshops were organised. An annual compliance employee statement was also introduced, and all employees are obliged to confirm compliance with the anti-corruption requirements. Whistleblower function Number of incidents reported in 2019: 6 A whistleblower function is available to all employees, Related to potential corruption: 1 suppliers, partners and clients of the Company through Related to discrimination: 4 internal channels and our corporate website. The mechanism is operated by a neutral third party. A total of six whistleblowing reports were received All whistleblowers have the option of being anonymous. during 2019. One was related to potential corruption and four to alleged discrimination. The investigation that followed identified an incident that is not in line with Company’s policy on hospitality and entertainment. Zero confirmed However, the investigation did not result in a confirmed incidents of incident of corruption. corruption in 2019 Scatec Solar ASA Sustainability Report 2019 39 Corruption incidents during the last three years 2019 2018 2017 Confirmed incidents of corruption 0 0 1 Confirmed incidents in which employees were dismissed or disciplined for corruption 0 0 1 Confirmed incidents in which contracts with business partners were terminated or not renewed because of violations related to corruption 0 0 1 Public legal cases regarding corruption against the organisation or its employees during the reporting period 0 0 0 Number of companies or individuals on Scatec Solar projects subject to IFC investigation or sanctioning 0 0 0 Our goals and ambitions We will continue to raise awareness of corruption and of the high expectations we have of our employees and business partners. In 2020 we will: • ensure 100% participation in corruption training by all employees • implement a new code of conduct, together with mandatory e-learning course for all employees • establish a compliance network for global and regional compliance officers • demonstrate the compliance of business units with the integrity due diligence procedure and related anti-corruption requirements 40 Responsible procurement Scatec Solar purchased goods and services for approximately We seek to mitigate these risks through our supplier NOK 4 billion in 2019. Responsible procurement is therefore development programme, transparent and fair tender an important part of our sustainability efforts, and we seek processes, robust contracting, pre-production audits, to select and develop suppliers with strong sustainability and monitoring during production. practices. For detailed information about our policy, refer to our corporate website. Sustainability in our procurement process Our procurement process includes several steps of initial Our Supplier Code of Conduct is based on internationally information gathering. Before suppliers are invited to tender, recognised principles and outlines our requirements for they must pass desktop due diligence that includes QHSE ethical conduct and sustainable business practices. (Quality, Health, Safety & Environment) systems and sustainability considerations, and suppliers are shortlisted based on Sustainability risks in our supply chain their scores. Scatec Solar purchases goods and services from a wide variety of suppliers, ranging from large international Our supply chain unit is responsible for ensuring compliance organisations to specialist local suppliers worldwide. We seek with Scatec Solar’s ethics policy, procurement policy, to form mutually beneficial and trusted relationships with our sustainability policy, QHSE policy and operating system suppliers and to treat all suppliers fairly, as well as to provide requirements. Our Supplier Code of Conduct includes more them with regular and honest feedback. than 20 compliance topics, such as compliance with laws, safety and security requirements, the anti-corruption policy, We regularly assess sustainability risks within our supply human rights laws, environmental practices and restrictions on chain. The main risks include corruption, violations of labour the use of drugs and alcohol. The screening process involves a rights, and poor social and environmental performance. three-stage approach as illustrated on the next page. Main procurement items We source services and components mainly during the development and construction phases of our projects. Solar panels Inverter stations Steel structures Steel structures Solar panels (modules): Inverter stations, Steel structures: Construction services: predominantly procured including combiner boxes: predominantly procured predominantly procured in China predominantly procured in in Europe locally in the country where Europe and China the project is located Scatec Solar ASA Sustainability Report 2019 41 Three-stage screening process 1 Request for information from 2 Desktop due diligence 3 Final audit and in-depth vendors for pre-qualification: of the documents due diligence on shortlisted • Code of Conduct/ethics policy listed in step 1 for the vendors prior to pre-qualification recommendation to award • Whistleblowing procedure and during the bid • Anti-corruption policy • Business ethics training of employees • Human rights policy • Terrorist financing and trade sanctions policy • Health and safety policy • Environmental management system • Human resources policy After the screening process, we seek to continuously monitor and control our work with and relationship to our suppliers. Before commencing their work, all suppliers must sign our 2.5 million Supplier Code of Conduct and confirm their conformance with the IFC’s anti-corruption guidelines, which we integrate solar panels installed globally in 2019 into all our contracts, in addition to HSSE requirements, environmental and social requirements, and quality assurance and quality control requirements. We appoint dedicated resources to follow up directly on quality 6,000 and on implementing policies during the construction phase. containers shipped in 2019 Our achievements and results in 2019 Due diligence process Parts of our due diligence process were automated in 2019 through the launch of an electronic vendor registration Supplier audits platform on our corporate website. Suppliers can access In line with our policy, we audited all suppliers in major all documentation related to our due diligence process and categories whom we procured from in 2019. We also submit their information and attachments directly. Each conducted performance reviews on all suppliers in major submission is directed into our operating system through a categories, and through our screening process we removed formal workflow review. All new suppliers were screened three vendor applications from our database on grounds of against social and environmental criteria in 2019. corrupt practices. 42 We strengthened our corporate compliance resource base by appointing a compliance officer in 2019. This also had a significant positive impact on our screening turnaround. Our Conflict minerals: supply chain team, in cooperation with our compliance officer, Conflict minerals in the eastern DRC are generally developed a risk criteria matrix to be implemented during defined (including in US legislation and the OECD 2020 in order to conserve efforts and focus them on priority due diligence guidance for responsible mineral topics and vendors. supply chains) as cassiterite (tin), coltan (tantalum), wolframite (tungsten) and gold, or derivatives of Supplier development programme these minerals. Sometimes these minerals are Our supplier development programme aims to proactively referred to as the ‘three Ts’ tin, tantalum and work with our key suppliers to enhance their social and tungsten (and gold). environmental performance. In 2019, we evaluated the programme and participant base and developed a set of objectives for continued development. The following improvements to the programme will be the focus in 2020: Additionally, our legal department organised a comprehensive workshop on contracts with a specific • Evaluation of participants: Evaluate all existing suppliers focus on anti-corruption. in the programme. Terminate relationship with suppliers not performing in line with performance criteria and Our goals and ambitions add new strategic partners We will continue to work with suppliers to optimise products • Content and focus: Ensure stronger focus on sustainability so as to reduce their carbon footprints and to promote and compliance topics sustainable business practices. In 2020, our main goals are: Conflict minerals • to further develop and adapt the supplier development We initiated a process for reviewing the risk of conflict programme to new technologies and solutions being minerals in our supply chain and ensuring that all high-risk pursued by the Company and to proactively work with suppliers have policies in place that cover conflict minerals. them on sustainability and compliance We also developed a corporate policy on conflict minerals to • to continue to follow up on all suppliers and ensure that be integrated into our procurement policy in 2020. they have policies or statements and measures in place to confirm that their products are free from conflict minerals Training • to plan and organise a Supplier Sustainability Initiative All new team members in our supply chain unit received for key suppliers as part of our supplier development anti-corruption and anti-bribery training in 2019. programme “We have seen major advancements in technology on module efficiency, paving the way to reducing our carbon footprint. From 2019 to 2020 we saw an increase of more than 14% in module watt rating for similar module sizes, which effectively implies shipping ~14% fewer containers to a project” Irma Pienaar, SVP Supply Chain Scatec Solar ASA Sustainability Report 2019 43 Our people Scatec Solar recognises that its highly skilled and motivated our strategy and our continued growth. We strive to create an workforce is its competitive advantage. Our people play an environment that promotes development, fosters excellence, invaluable role in the success of our company, the execution of promotes our values and encourages diversity. Employee statistics 2019 Geographic distribution 36% 2019: 335 2018: 246 Global workforce Nationalities Gender 33% 335 40 67% Our achievements and results in 2019 Diversity and equal opportunity Scatec Solar’s full-time employees totalled 335 in 2019, Our global employee base is made up of 40 different an increase of 36% compared to 2018. In addition to our nationalities, up from 32 last year. Diverse backgrounds full-time workforce, we had 198 short-term employees and and experience enable our organisation to remain flexible 54 consultants supporting deliveries on our projects. and agile and therefore ultimately better equipped to respond to fluctuating and complex markets and environments. The gender diversity and age groups of the Executive Management, the Board of Directors and Scatec Solar as a whole are presented in the table on next page. 44 GOVERNANCE BODY GENDER (% FEMALE) AGE GROUP (%) 2019 2019 2018 2017 2016 Under 30 30-50 Over 50 Management 14% 14% 0% 0% 0% 57% 43% Board of Directors 40% 40% 40% 40% 0% 20% 80% Headquarters (Norway) 46% 47% 44% 40% 7% 82% 11% Total Company 33% 33% 37% 28% 22% 67% 10% One of our 2019 targets was to increase our percentage of female employees globally by 10%. Given our fast-growing global employee base, we focused on hiring female employees. We increased the number of full-time female employees by 36% in 2019, but the relative share of female employees remained the same as in the previous year at 33%. We worked systematically to make sure we interviewed female candidates for all senior positions and will continue these efforts in 2020. We recruited 122 highly skilled full-time employees during the year. We are Young and dynamic characterised by a young and dynamic workforce with an average age of 37. workforce with an The voluntary employee turnover rate was 5%. Historical turnover figures include average age of 37 both voluntary and non-voluntary rates. Scatec Solar will report on voluntary turnover in future reports. Please refer to our corporate website, Sustainability Priorities, for more data on employees and contract staff. Key learning and Key highlights: Employee Engagement Survey 2019 development initiatives New Online Learning Portal: We continued to develop our online learning and development portal across multiple business units and 78% of employees indicated countries, offering both e-learning and classroom courses. Training that management makes topics include anti-corruption training, travel safety and security, their expectations clear our integrated business model and first aid training. Our mandatory demonstrating credibility courses totalled 1,606 training hours in 2019. Performance Management: We strengthened and formalised our annual Performance, Development and Appraisal (PDA) process for 93% of employees noted that all employees. All of our employees globally participated in the PDA they are proud to tell process in 2019, thereby achieving our target set in 2019. others that they work at Scatec Solar 85% of employees says that Scatec Solar is a great place to work Scatec Solar ASA Sustainability Report 2019 45 Global Leadership Development Programme Program kick-off: January 2019 Background and purpose Scope • Continuous expansion in the number of projects, • 22 leaders selected annually from across our partners, locations, cultures and people requires locations and departments through a formal us to manage people and our organisation in nomination process an efficient and engaging way to fulfil business strategy and goals • 45% female representation in 2020 (29% in 2019) • Developing leadership as a competency and • Module topics: Leading Self – Leading Others company culture is an impactful tool for business – Leading Business performance and people empowerment • E-learning and practical business case work during and in between modules, with sponsors from the Systemic impact Executive Management Team • Develop and design one global leadership • Engaging the entire Executive Management Team, development strategy and programme aligned the Chairman of the Board of Directors and external with our leadership values partners in different parts of the programme • Monitor and measure impact of leadership • Design and delivery of programme in collaboration development on business performance and with Korn Ferry people retention “The 45% female representation in our global leadership development programme in 2020 reflects our internal efforts in promoting female talents” Toril Haaland, EVP People & Organisation 46 Our goals and ambitions In 2020, we will focus our efforts on initiatives to promote greater diversity, enterprise leadership and employee development, both in line with best practice and aiming to excel beyond compliance. The following targets have been set for 2020: • Improving enterprise leadership by systematically training and developing more than 50 leaders in our organisation through our annual leadership development programme and regular management strategy sessions • Ensuring 100% participation by all employees in our annual PDA process, with a key focus on regular feedback and coaching • Increasing the number of female employees by 10% globally Scatec Solar ASA Sustainability Report 2019 47 Contributing to local value creation 48 Contributing to local value creation Our goal is to have a positive impact on the communities in are therefore essential. In all of our operating projects, we which we operate, both directly and indirectly. We strive to have local community engagement and impact assessments. employ local labour, identify needs in local communities for If dialogue with affected parties is not carried out in a timely our community development programmes and maintain open and integrated manner, misunderstandings and concerns and transparent dialogue with relevant stakeholders. might arise in the local communities. Solar power plants have an impact on local communities. The Since our founding, we have gained considerable experience changes are usually positive, bringing social, economic, and in working with local communities in different countries. We infrastructure improvements, but the possibility of uninfollow the IFC’s Performance Standards when we develop our tended consequences cannot be overlooked. The potential stakeholder engagement analyses and plans for all projects. impact includes physical and economic displacement, changes in vegetation and infrastructure and increased activity levels Our achievements and results in 2019 in the area. During construction, consequences such as Stakeholder engagement in local communities traffic, noise and dust are considered limited and effectively In 2019, we entered several new communities to construct mitigated where and if there are communities nearby. solar plants across eight countries. Our key efforts focused on stakeholder and community engagement, local recruitment We often operate in countries where the legal frameworks processes, handling grievances and planning and implementand governing structures do not necessarily protect the ing new development programmes. We also worked to ensure communities we might have an impact on to the same extent that our stakeholder engagement plans and procedures are as in more mature economies. Solid interaction with our aligned with international standards across projects. project neighbours and the establishment of good relations International principles for stakeholder engagement • A stakeholder analysis and stakeholder engagement plan is always carried out in accordance with the IFC’s Performance Standards and the Equator Principles. • All projects have a community liaison officer (CLO) assigned who is responsible for community engagement and the maintenance of good relations with local communities. • We implement a grievance mechanism for all our projects, available locally at the project site, at the CLO office and on our corporate website. Photo by Norfund We follow the IFC’s Performance Standards when we develop our stakeholder engagement analyses and plans for all projects Scatec Solar ASA Sustainability Report 2019 49 Engagement in local communities There are various ways in which projects engage with local communities. To inform the communities about the project Early involvement in and its potential impact, to manage expectations and to local communities ensure local support for and understanding of our projects, is critical regular meetings with local leaders and representatives from to ensure project support local communities are held in all communities where we have and good relations a presence. We usually experience a lot of engagement in local communities during the initial project phases of development and construction. Early dialogue and involvement are critical. Through bi-weekly progress reports, the Executive Management Team receives communication on all material matters raised during local stakeholder meetings. South Africa: Stakeholder Engagement Forums (SEFs) • In South Africa, we have set socio-economic development (SED) and enterprise development (ED) commitments under our agreement with the South African government. • To strengthen our engagement with local communities surrounding our Upington solar plants in South Africa, we decided to establish SEFs to identify and develop local leadership capacity to ensure local champions and management of community development. • The SEFs engage various stakeholders who meet on a monthly and quarterly basis, working together to build and develop local leadership and co-plan and co-create socio-economic solutions. • All project selections are informed by SEF caucuses centred on the strategic themes of education, health and well-being, youth development and local economy. 50 Honduras: Continuing our efforts in local communities After having experienced social unrest in conjunction with construction start-up, ensuring a trust-based dialogue with all members of the local communities has been a key priority during the first year of operation. Regular updates and consistent communication to all stakeholders, including relevant ones outside of Honduras, is a key success criterion in this regard, and will continue to be a cornerstone of our stakeholder engagement going forward. “Our operations are not independent of our impact on and role in communities; we work towards these aspects being integrated” Roar Haugland, EVP Sustainable Business & HSSE Scatec Solar ASA Sustainability Report 2019 51 8,000 jobs created in 2019 from projects under construction – largely local and unskilled labour Local job creation and fourteen months. Workers are provided with valuable Without income generation, no community is able to develop technical skills and experience that strengthen their position in a sustainable manner. Scatec Solar is strongly committed for future job opportunities. to contributing to job creation, and we employ local labour and suppliers as far as possible, regardless of whether this is In 2019 our projects under construction generated 7,948 a requirement or not. This practice contributes to reducing jobs, with the percentage of local employees averaging about unemployment rates and provides the transfer of knowledge 60%. Our 2019 target was to reach a local percentage of and technical skills to the communities where we are present. around 70% to 80%. Although reaching this target can be challenging, as it depends on several factors such as project Most of the jobs created through our projects originate in region and worker availability of both skilled and unskilled the construction phase, which usually lasts between six labour, we will continue to strive for higher local components across projects. Local job creation during peak construction periods over the last three years 2017: 2018: 2019: 5,500 6,000 8,000 52 Local recruitment in Mozambique Project: Mocuba with a capacity of 40MW Number of jobs created during the peak construction period: 1,209 Percentage of local employees (from surrounding communities): 87% • At the peak of construction, 1,209 people worked on the site: 1,052 were hired locally, 96 of whom were women. • During the construction phase, the plant made a conscious effort to recruit (unskilled) workers from the surrounding villages. • The job opportunities were announced in the local media, and potential workers went through an application process. • On-site jobs included construction work such as mounting solar panels, connecting cables and installing fencing, in addition to cutting grass and performing various kitchen chores. Permanent positions Permanent local job creation for plants in operation Scatec Solar strives to hire locally for permanent positions PERMANENT EMPLOYEES 2019 2018 2017 in the various stages of our value chain, including engineers, plant managers, HSSE experts, civil and mechanical workers, Senior management level security personnel and community liaison officers, to mention Plant managers 15 11 9 just a few. The table to the right shows examples of permanent Other levels local job creation on a senior management level and other Operation & Maintenance operators 65 48 32 positions across our projects in operation for the last three Community liaison officers 18 10 8 years. Scatec Solar ASA Sustainability Report 2019 53 Adolfo Peña: Part of the O&M team in Honduras Adolfo is an O&M analyst in our Los Prados project in Honduras. Mr Peña is an electric technician from the Nacaome region of Honduras who started his career with Scatec Solar as a temporary worker in vegetation control in 2015. He then moved to work in technician support in our other project in Honduras, Agua Fria, and in 2018, he was promoted to his current position of O&M analyst. What does it mean to you to work at Scatec Solar? “To me it is very important, because I have acquired knowledge in electrical maintenance.” Local supply chain development For various operations and maintenance (O&M) projects Scatec Solar strives to use and strengthen local supply such as module washing and vegetation control, we strive to chains and entrepreneurs to the extent possible in our local engage mostly local service providers. We have implemented operations. This is not always an easy or feasible task. a Construction Industry Development Programme (CIDP) Typically, our engineering, procurement and construction in South Africa in an effort to identify and assess microto (EPC) scope has an inherent local content portion of 30% medium-sized construction companies and connect them or more attributed to construction, staff, accommodation, with the demand requirements in the market and also assist travel and other minor procurement. In regions where we them in developing the necessary capacity. In-depth have established operations and the country has a developed assessments have been conducted of these businesses supply chain, local content has been achieved of 60% to 80%. and tailored training and mentorship will follow in 2020. Grievance mechanism The grievance mechanism is targeted towards individuals, communities and companies who have feedback or concerns regarding our projects. It is a channel to present issues to the administration of the projects and is directly supervised by the sustainability unit. All grievances are taken seriously and processed according to our procedures. We aim for a maximum response time of 15 working days. The mechanism is available at each local project site and on our website in five different languages – English, Arabic, Spanish, Portuguese and French – and represents a valuable platform for engaging with communities. 54 AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 2018 2017 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments and development programmes 100% 100% 100% Number of grievances received 174 92 118 Number of grievances addressed and resolved 137 79 103 The total number of grievances received during 2019 for grievances in Malaysia and Ukraine involved concerns over projects in operation, under construction or under such construction impact as dust and minor damage to local development totalled 174. With the strong geographical roads, water pipes and high traffic volumes. The majority of expansion, as well as rapid growth in the number of new grievances were solved by engaging regularly with the local projects, an increase in grievances is expected. The higher communities and communicating our processes and principles. number can largely be explained by the additional projects under development or construction, as these are usually the At the end of the year, two grievances in Ukraine were still phases with the most feedback and concerns from project being resolved and all grievances in Malaysia had been stakeholders. resolved. The remaining three unresolved grievances from all other locations are still being addressed and resolved. In the Of the total number of grievances, 102 related to the Benban first months of 2020, we closed one grievance in Ukraine, two project in Egypt, 26 to our project in Mozambique and 20 to in Honduras and three in Egypt. Please refer to our website our projects in Malaysia and Ukraine. The remainder related for our grievance mechanism process. to our projects in Argentina, Honduras and South Africa. In Egypt, 87 grievances were connected to the construction period and received by the CLO desk through the facility management company (FMC) of the 1.8 GW Benban Solar Park. With its 390 MW project, Scatec Solar is the single largest contributor to the installation. The grievances relate primarily to delayed payments between contractors and subcontractors. Of the total number received by the FMC, 16 grievances are classified as open because we are awaiting final closing documentation, even though 11 of these have been addressed and resolved. Only 15 grievances were received directly by Scatec Solar in Egypt, of which 14 have 174 grievances been closed. registered in 2019, of which nearly 80% were resolved Grievances received in Mozambique related to delayed payments from contractors and the impact of construction, of which 15 have been addressed and resolved. Most of the Scatec Solar ASA Sustainability Report 2019 55 Local development programmes Contributing to long-term local value creation is a key success criterion for achieving the overall Company goal of delivering competitive and sustainable renewable energy. Scatec Solar plans and implements community development Scatec Solar has prioritised three primary SDGs to which programmes in local communities where we have operations. we contribute most, based on our materiality assessment The projects under these programmes are identified in close informed by stakeholder and company priorities. Our local dialogue with local stakeholders and in consultation with development programmes are guided by the SDGs outlined local community members in order to address the prioritised below. Partnerships for the Goals is the way in which we needs and significant social challenges of the communities. approach the community programmes through solid partnerships. The focus of our socio-economic and environmental programmes and development includes, but is not limited to, In 2019, we strove to strengthen our community development access to energy, capacity building, health and education. procedure in order to standardise our approach to local Key guidance for initiatives includes our Company’s selected community development, including funding and programmes. United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs). Refer to the sustainability section of our corporate website for more information on the SGDs and our local development programmes globally. Community Investment Policy Community investments demonstrate our commitment to social responsibility. These are voluntary initiatives which contribute to the long-term common good of local communities and come in addition to efforts made to mitigate or compensate for project-related impact. Below we include some key principles we follow in all projects: • All community investments and social contributions shall be defined in a Project Community Development Plan. • We will ensure that contributions are in line with our values and with local laws and regulations. We acknowledge the risk of corruption in giving donations and disbursements and will take the necessary steps to manage these risks. • We do not make contributions to political parties, religious groups, trade unions, candidates or campaigns for public office. • We will be fully transparent and publicly disclose all donations and contributions. • We are committed to contributing to the communities in a way that allows them to develop by themselves without becoming dependent on us. 56 Community solar PV projects Local communities located close to our solar plants often communities where we have operations. Community solar do not have access to electricity or rely on polluting sources PV will form a larger part of our programmes in coming years. such as diesel generators. Through our experience and Some of our current community PV projects are presented expertise, we can make a significant difference in many of the over the following pages. Honduras Background: Over the course of 2018, we installed 13 community solar PV systems in the community neighbouring our Agua Fria solar plant. The households did not have access to electricity prior to the installation. The solution consists of a home solar system including a solar panel and light bulbs. Benefits from the project: Residents of Nagarejo say that they are benefitting from the home solar systems in the following ways: • Elimination of electricity bills • Low-maintenance system and all beneficiaries received training upon installation • Reliable energy source in case of interruption in the Nacaome area Current status: We are in regular dialogue with the thirteen families so as to understand any challenges experienced with the solar systems. We have initiated an action plan to improve existing systems and to further promote solar technology in neighbouring communities. Future plans: Additional community solar PV projects are in the process of being planned. “For me the solar system means having energy in my house without paying high fees for consumption. It has been a solution to the lack of energy at my home before. I did not pay for the installation, but I did voluntary work to support the Nagarejo and Agua Fria communities and received training in solar energy and its maintenance, to be able to make it by myself.” – Maria Isabel Euceda, one of the beneficiaries of the home solar system project Scatec Solar ASA Sustainability Report 2019 57 Rwanda Community solar PV system providing electricity for local school and health clinic • Solar PV system providing energy for local school and health clinic next to our ASYV solar plant • Two mini solar projects of 13.5 kW located in the Rwamagana District of Rwanda • Maintained and monitored by our local O&M manager • Long-term project Jordan Rooftop solar PV system at Maan Youth Club • A socio-cultural sports club and the only public club in the Ma’an area • 11 kW PV system installed on the roof, reducing the monthly electricity bill significantly • Training course held for more than 20 young people on how to install a small PV system • Long-term project Small scale solar installations • Providing electricity to public buildings in Ma’an, Jordan • 4kW installed at community hall and 6kW installed at youth association building 58 Examples of local development programmes Honduras: Medical brigade Mozambique: Micro grinding mills • Long-term strategic alliance with America • Construction of mills for maize and cassava Social Group • Elderly women and men (no longer economically • Benefitting more than 8,500 in the communities active) can generate income to support their families over last two years • Two co-operatives established with 11 members • 40 medical specialists with advanced and each modern equipment • Business training provided to all members South Africa: Mobile health clinic South Africa: Hanover sewing • Partnership with the Provincial Department co-operative of Health • Supported with bridging finance to make school • Optometry, dentistry and primary healthcare uniforms (loan has been repaid in full) services to local schools • Local cost-effective alternative available for • On average 693 children received health parents who used to travel to the closest check in each of the schools visited, covering biggest town, 60km away 25% of the ZF Mgcawu District schools. • 201 skirts and 406 tunics manufactured for primary and high schools • Employed and trained two additional staff members Our goals and ambitions Local job creation Our targets for 2020 and beyond are outlined below: • Hire 70% to 80% local workers for every project during the construction period Community engagement • Develop a stakeholder engagement plan for all projects in Local development line with the IFC’s Performance Standards • Dedicate a specific budget for development programmes • Initiate stakeholder engagement efforts at least six months for each project, aligned with local community needs prior to expected construction start • Establish community PV as a main local programme • Appoint a designated community liaison officer for component three new projects to be initiated in 2020 all projects • Respond to and take action on all project grievances within 30 days of their registration Scatec Solar ASA Sustainability Report 2019 59 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 60 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) content index 2019 INDICATOR DESCRIPTION PAGE NUMBER OR LINK GRI 102 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Pages 4–5 Organisational profile GRI 102-1 Name of the organisation Scatec Solar ASA Annual Report 2019 GRI 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services Corporate website: www.scatecsolar.com/about GRI 102-3 Location of the organisation’s headquarters Askekroken 11, 0277 Oslo, Norway Annual Report 2019 GRI 102-4 Location of operations Corporate website: www.scatecsolar.com/portfolio GRI 102-5 Ownership and legal form Corporate website: www.scatecsolar.com/investor/share GRI 102-6 Markets served Annual Report 2019 GRI 102-7 Scale of organization Annual Report 2019 Pages 43–46 GRI 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Corporate website: www.scatecsolar.com/sustainability GRI 102-9 Supply chain Pages 40–42 Significant changes to the organisation GRI 102-10 Pages 6, 40–42 and its supply chain As a signatory to the UN Global Compact we respect Principle 7 and it represents a guiding principle in assessing and managing risk related to GRI 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach the environment, HSSE, the supply chain and other areas as described throughout this report. UN Sustainable Development Goals Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) GRI 102-12 External initiatives UN Global Compact Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Oslo Renewable Energy and Environment Cluster (OREEC) Norwegian Energy Partners (NORWEP) GRI 102-13 Membership of associations South African Photovoltaic Industry Association (SAPVIA) South African Wind Energy Association (SAWEA) GRI 102-41 The Company’s Global HR policy and related procedures are applicable to all employees, emphasising fair salary levels in accordance with local Collective bargaining agreements laws and regulations. 9% percent of the workforce are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Scatec Solar ASA Sustainability Report 2019 61 INDICATOR DESCRIPTION PAGE NUMBER OR LINK Report profile Entities included in the consolidated GRI 102-45 Annual Report 2019 financial statements Unless stated otherwise, the scope of the report includes the GRI 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries company Scatec Solar ASA: all employees, offices, and operations.. Page 11 GRI 102-47 List of material topics Corporate website: www.scatecsolar.com/sustainability GRI 102-48 Restatements of information Not applicable GRI 102-49 Changes in reporting Not applicable GRI 192-50 Reporting period FY 2019 GRI 102-51 Date of previous report FY 2018 GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle Annually Julie Hamre, Senior Sustainability Manager GRI 102-53 Contact point julie.hamre@scatecsolar.com Claims of reporting in accordance This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI 102-54 with the GRI Standards GRI Standards “Core option”. GRI 102-56 External assurance The climate reporting has been externally assured by DNV GL. Stakeholder engagement Page 11 GRI 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Corporate website: www.scatecsolar.com/sustainability Page 11 GRI 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Corporate website: www.scatecsolar.com/sustainability Page 11 GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Corporate website: www.scatecsolar.com/sustainability Page 11 GRI 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Corporate website: www.scatecsolar.com/sustainability GRI 102-18 Governance structure Page 8 GRI 102-16 Values, standards, principles and norms Page 2, 8 and throughout the report 62 Specific standard disclosures INDICATOR DESCRIPTION PAGE NUMBER OR LINK Indirect Economic Impact GRI 203-2 Significant indirect economic impact Pages 48-50, 55-58 Procurement Practices Suppliers are defined as suppliers and service providers of goods and services to Scatec Solar Solutions (project execution) unless GRI 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers otherwise specified. Pages 40-42, 53 Supplier Environmental and Social Assessment New suppliers that were screened GRI 308-1 100%. Pages 40-42 using environmental criteria GRI 414-1 New suppliers that were screened 100%. Pages 40-42 using social criteria Anti-corruption All Scatec Solar’s operations are assessed for risks related Operations assessed for risks GRI 205-1 to corruption. related to corruption Page 36-39 Confirmed incidents of corruption No confirmed incident of corruption registered in 2019 GRI 205-3 and actions taken Page 38-39 Water GRI 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource Page 23 GRI 303-2 Management of water-discharge-related impact Page 23 Emissions GRI 305-1 Direct (scope 1) greenhouse gas emissions Pages 27-30 GRI 305-2 Energy indirect (scope 2) greenhouse gas Pages 27-30 emissions GRI 305-3 Other indirect (scope 3) greenhouse gas Pages 27-30 emissions Scatec Solar ASA Sustainability Report 2019 63 INDICATOR DESCRIPTION PAGE NUMBER OR LINK Environmental and Socio-economic Compliance Non-compliance with environmental No significant fines or non-monetary sanctions for GRI 307-1 laws and regulations non-compliance with environmental laws and/or regulations in 2019 Non-compliance with laws and regulations No significant fines or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance GRI 419-1 in the social and economic area with social and economic laws and/or regulations in 2019 Employment GRI 401-1 Page 43-44 New employee hires and employee turnover Corporate website: www.scatecsolar.com/sustainability Training and education GRI 404-2 Programmes for upgrading employee skills Pages 44-45 and transition assistance programmes Diversity and Equal Opportunity GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Page 44 Non-discrimination GRI 406-1 Incidents of discrimination No reported incidents of discrimination in 2019 and corrective actions taken Page 38-39 Occupational Health and Safety GRI 403-2 Types of injuries and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism, and number Pages 32-35 of work-related fatalities Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining GRI 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right The percentage of full-time and short-term employees who are to freedom of association and collective covered by formal collective bargaining agreements is 9%. bargaining might be at risk 64 INDICATOR DESCRIPTION PAGE NUMBER OR LINK Security Practices Security personnel trained in human rights GRI 410-1 Page 21 policies and procedures Human Rights Assessments Operations that have been subject to human GRI 412-1 Page 18-22 rights reviews or impact assessments Local Communities Operations with local community engagement, 100% GRI 413-1 impact assessments and development Pages 18-22, 48-50, 55-58 programmes Operations with significant actual and potential GRI 413-2 Pages 18-22, 48-50, 55-58 negative impact on local communities Public Policy GRI 415-1 Political contributions No political contributions in 2019 Design and layout: Artbox AS, Print: CopyCat AS, Photos: Scatec Solar www.scatecsolar.com
