Accelerating the sustainability shift ABN AMRO Bank N.V. Integrated Annual Review 2019 Banking for better, for generations to come ABN AMRO is one of the Netherlands’ leading banks. We provide loans, mortgages and other banking services. We lend to companies and individuals. In doing so, we play an important role in society. Through our lending, we support economic growth and job creation. We’re also committed to accelerating the shift to a sustainable economy – by providing more sustainable financing, by working closely with clients and by building a bank fit for the future. We take a responsible, long-term approach to doing business. About this report ValueWelcome to ABN AMRO’s 2019 Integrated Annual Review creating topics ABN AMRO takes a ‘core and more’ approach to reporting. This Review is the bank’s ‘core’ ­report. It is published a­ longside a number of other Impact Report Annual Report ‘more’ reports (see illustration, right). This Review explains how, Overview Integrated Nonover time, our bank creates value for its ­stakeholders. ABN AMRO plays of total Annual financial data & Engagement assets Review an important social role, not just as a provider of banking and financial Human services, but also as a ­responsible employer. The Review describes Pillar 3 Rights Update ABN AMRO’s business, strategy and performance – and its support for the long-term transition to a more sustainable economy. Abbreviations Statement from the Executive Board Collectively, as ABN AMRO’s Executive Board, we take responsibility for the content, accuracy and integrity of this For more information on our approach to reporting, see page 63. To prepare this Review, Review. We have overseen both its preparation and presentation. In our opinion, this Review gives a fair and balanced we used the International <IR> Framework, as published by the International Integrated impression of ABN AMRO’s performance, strategy and management, as well as the bank’s ability to create value for Reporting Council (IIRC). EY, our independent assurance provider, has also assured that stakeholders over the short, medium and long term. The Review also addresses ABN AMRO’s risks and opportunities this Review is in accordance with the <IR> Framework. All abbreviations used are detailed from both a financial and non-financial viewpoint. We also confirm that this Review has been prepared in accordance on page 76. All our reports are available online at our download centre. with the International Integrated Reporting <IR> Framework. Kees van Dijkhuizen Clifford Abrahams Christian Bornfeld Tanja Cuppen Chief Chief Chief Innovation & Chief Executive Officer Financial Officer Technology Officer Risk Officer 2 Interview with our CEO 2019 was an eventful year for ABN AMRO, also one in which the bank made progress on various fronts. Kees van Dijkhuizen talks about the bank’s activities on detecting financial crime, digitalisation, low interest rates and ABN AMRO’s pioneering role in sustainability. Kees, how do you look back on 2019? “We can look back on a solid year financially, despite the difficult low interest environment. We posted a return on equity of 10% Kees van Dijkhuizen, CEO while strengthening our Basel IV capital ratio to above 14%. Our share price development was, however, disappointing, also due to investor concerns about low interest rates and the investigation by the Dutch public prosecutor. We take investor concerns very seriously and have already taken firm action. For instance, we announced that we would charge negative interest for clients in the Netherlands with deposits over “Our purpose, Banking for EUR 2.5 million, and we have a detailed delivery plan in place for building a future-proof organisation dedicated to detecting better, and our strategy enjoy financial crime. We have a strong capital position and are delivering on our cost-savings programme. All in all, ABN AMRO is in widespread support.” good shape to face the current challenges.” 3 What would you say were the most We also want to keep society safe when it comes to cash. Last year, important highlights and low points? ABN AMRO temporarily closed 380 ATMs very quickly to prevent “Our purpose, Banking for better, for generations to come, and casualties caused by violent ATM explosive attacks. That was a hard our strategy enjoy widespread support – no less than 92% of our decision to take, but we stand by it. And in 2019, we announced – as workforce is keen to help create a sustainable bank. A low point the first bank in the Netherlands – that we would not charge negative in 2019 was, of course, that we had to announce that the Dutch interest to clients with savings under EUR 100,000. That, too, is an public prosecutor is investigating whether we’d been strict enough example of banking for better.” in applying anti-money laundering laws.” Banks are expected to fulfil an important role in society. “We posted a return on equity of 10% What are your thoughts on this? “I am regularly approached by people who want to know why a bank while strengthening our Basel IV capital should be responsible for something typically performed by the government. In response, I explain that we want to be a key ratio to above 14%.” gatekeeper in preventing financial crime. Crimes are committed everywhere, and banks are sometimes used for this purpose. What dilemmas did the Executive Committee discuss Clients trust us with their money, so we do everything we can to with the Supervisory Board in 2019? keep financial transactions secure. In 2019, ABN AMRO collaborated “We talked at length with the Supervisory Board about the public more intensively with other banks and with the Dutch police, the prosecutor’s investigation, of course. And we exchanged ideas about public prosecutor, the Fiscal Information and Investigation Office how our bank can remain relevant in a low interest – and some (FIOD) and the Financial Intelligence Unit. We discussed this several say negative interest – world. We also reflected on the collaboration times with various cabinet members, including the Dutch Prime between the Executive Committee and the Supervisory Board. Minister and the Ministers of Finance and Justice & Security. We did this intensively during a combined trip to New York, where One result of these talks is that banks are now allowed to work we explored innovation in the industry among other things. While in together to monitor financial transactions. Banks want to be New York, we visited our office in the city and met with researchers allowed to exchange information about criminals. The privacy from Columbia University, FinTechs, McKinsey and several US banks.” issues associated with this are currently being explored. 4 Accelerating the sustainability shift is the theme of The financial industry is becoming ever this Annual Review. How is ABN AMRO contributing more digitalised. What do clients think to this goal? of this development? “Sustainability is at the heart of our strategy. With total assets “At ABN AMRO, we also want to lead the way in digitalisation – of just over EUR 375 billion, our bank can really make an impact, and our clients appreciate that. Things are moving faster than we so we have a responsibility to help make the world a better expected a few years ago. Two-thirds of our mortgage consultations place. Last year, for instance, we introduced the Sustainable now take place by video banking, sometimes in the evening, Home Mortgage. Our sustainable investment portfolio at sometimes at the weekend. Clients who use this service Private Banking has doubled in the space of just two years. are extremely satisfied with it. Remote working is also helping More than half of new investors now opt for sustainable us to boost efficiency. Honestly, we didn’t expect this service investment. And, in 2019, ABN AMRO signed the UN Principles to catch on at Private Banking, but more than 20% of their for Responsible Banking, together with 129 other international advisory meetings are now held via video banking. Of course, banks. The signatories, representing one-third of the total assets we haven’t lost sight of our more vulnerable clients; they’re of all banks worldwide, agreed that they will align their business assisted by our financial coaches.” strategies with the UN Sustainable Development Goals and with the Paris Climate Agreement. ABN AMRO is also trying to encourage more challenging industries, such as palm oil Is there room for growth? and energy, to move in the right direction. If a company refuses “Eighty percent of our operations are based in the Netherlands, a healthy market. Our share of the Dutch mortgage market grew in 2019. At the same time, clients are paying back their mortgages “Two-thirds of our mortgage consultations now early – because of low interest rates. So we need to pursue growth in other client segments, such as lending to small and take place by video banking. Clients who use medium-sized businesses. Our returns outside the Netherlands must improve before we can pursue further growth abroad.” this service are extremely satisfied with it.” to cooperate, we can ultimately end our relationship with them. And we are one of the pioneers in carbon accounting, a method for measuring carbon emissions associated with loans and investments. The more financial institutions that join us, the better. Banks in the US are now also showing an interest in this initiative.” 5 The world has changed since our Investor Day in 2018. What developments have taken place in terms of dividends, “Clients trust us with their money, targets and costs? “At the end of 2018, everyone expected interest rates to rise – but so we do everything we can to keep they took a downward turn instead. Interest rates in Europe fell sharply, pushing down our net interest income. At the same time, financial transactions secure.” we’re spending more on compliance and on detecting financial crime. So we won’t be able to meet our cost/income ratio target in the short term – meeting that target will take a bit longer. We are, however, still one of the best performing banks in Europe in terms of returns and capital position.” Your term ends on 22 April. How do you look back on your time as the CEO of ABN AMRO? “In the past three years, ABN AMRO has delivered good results. We’ve made great strides in terms of digitalisation. And we’ve launched an inspiring new purpose and strategy, which our clients and employees are enthusiastic about. I look back on all this with great pleasure. My intended successor will press ahead with our anti-money laundering policy and with new business models in the low interest rate environment. I have every confidence that, under his leadership, the bank has a bright future.” 6 Contents 2 7 15 Interview with our CEO Our bank Strategy & value creation 8 Our bank 16 Our strategy 10 Year in review 20 Creating value 12 The world around us 27 Opportunities & risks 28 52 62 Performance Leadership & governance Appendix 29 Overview 53 Interview with our Supervisory Board Chairman 63 Our approach to reporting 30 Financial performance 55 Our system of governance 68 Income statement 32 Clients: performance 60 Executive Committee 69 Statement of financial position 36 Employees: performance 61 Supervisory Board 70 Strategic and other non-financial performance indicators 39 Investors: performance 72 Impact statement 44 Society: performance 74 Assurance report of the independent auditor 49 Outlook – 2020 and beyond 75 Abbreviations 50 Detecting financial crime Our bank As a bank, we support sustainable economic growth 8 Our bank ABN AMRO is one of the Netherlands’ leading banks. Our focus is on Northwest Europe; we are also active in specific markets internationally. Headquartered in Amsterdam, ABN AMRO provides banking and other financial services to retail, private and corporate clients. Worldwide, we employ just under 18,000 people. In the Netherlands, we are the principal bank for around 20% of the population and one in four small and medium-sized businesses. Geography Number of employees (in FTEs) 17,977 Rest of the world Europe Australia: Sydney Belgium UK Brazil: São Paulo Germany Netherlands Asia: Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Singapore France Norway US: Dallas, New York, Chicago Greece By business (in %) 24 33 Retail Banking Commercial Banking Private Banking 14 Corporate & Institutional Banking 14 15 Group Functions By location (in %) 6 12 Please note that ABN AMRO’s offices in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) closed in 2019. During the year, the bank also sold its operations in the Channel Islands. Netherlands Rest of Europe 82 Main European operations Branch offices Rest of the world 9 Our businesses Retail Banking Commercial Banking Private Banking Corporate & Institutional Banking ÅÅ Five million clients across the Netherlands ÅÅ Established partner for Dutch SMEs1 ÅÅ Focused on Northwest Europe ÅÅ Around 3,000 clients worldwide ÅÅ Top-three bank in the Netherlands ÅÅ Over 350,000 SME clients ÅÅ Market leader in the Netherlands ÅÅ Wide range of services in selected global markets ÅÅ Number two bank in new mortgage sales and savings ÅÅ Primary bank for around a quarter of Dutch SMEs ÅÅ Also leading player in Germany and France, ÅÅ Specialist activities in clearing and trade ÅÅ 129 bank branches in the Netherlands ÅÅ Selective presence in UK, Germany, France, Belgium and top-ten player in Belgium & commodity finance ÅÅ Leader in digital banking – 24/7 advice and and the Netherlands ÅÅ EUR 195 billion in client assets ÅÅ Present in 14 countries, including in key financial service centres ÅÅ Serving clients with annual turnover up ÅÅ Fully-integrated financial advice and logistical hubs to EUR 250 million and wealth management 1 SME – Small and medium-sized enterprises. ABN AMRO’s businesses are supported by Return on equity Our business model (in %) Group Functions, including Innovation & Technology; Finance; Risk Management & Compliance; 16 14.5 10-13% Human Resources & Transformation; Group Audit; 12 11.8 11.4 10.0 Strategy & Sustainability; Legal; Corporate Office Most of ABN AMRO’s revenue comes from providing mortgages, and loans to corporate clients 8 and Brand, Marketing & Communications. and consumers. Net interest income (NII) is generated as the difference between interest charged 4 to clients on loans and funding costs. Total client loans (in EUR billions) 2016 2017 2018 2019 Target 16.4 Net profit (in EUR millions) ABN AMRO also provides financial products and services, including payments, credit cards 4,000 and other financial services. In return, clients pay fees and commissions. To corporate clients, 267 90.2 ABN AMRO offers services such as financial advice and access to capital markets. 3,000 2,791 148.2 2,350 2,046 Offering multiple products and services to clients, competitive pricing and operational 2,000 1,806 excellence are all key drivers of revenue growth. 12.2 1,000 2016 2017 2018 2019 Residential mortgages To retail and smaller corporate clients, we distribute products and services mainly through Consumer loans Sustainable investments (client assets) digital channels; most mortgages are sold through intermediaries. (in EUR billions) Corporate loans to clients Loans to professional counterparties 40 and other loans 30 22.5 Competition from outside the banking sector is increasing across the board – from FinTechs 20.6 20 13.8 and insurers to BigTech companies. To remain competitive, we continue to focus on digitalisation, 10.1 10 8.2 on reinventing business models – and on working closely with partners and clients. To remain relevant to clients, we provide expertise, cost efficiency and effective capital management. 2016 2017 2018 2019 Target 2020 10 Year in review ÅÅ ABN AMRO becomes the world’s first mainstream bank to allow clients to pay ÅÅ Sustainable Home Mortgage launched using wearables such as rings, watches to help clients finance energy-saving and bracelets ÅÅ ABN AMRO increases investment measures for their homes ÅÅ New partnership agreed with in Swedish FinTech Tink ÅÅ ABN AMRO says it will expand its Mission Lyanthe to develop digital accounting ÅÅ Sale agreed of 75% stake in mortgage 2030 programme to include standards agreed for small businesses service provider Stater as part of the Paris Climate Agreement Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun ÅÅ Acquisition of Societe Generale’s ÅÅ Sale announced of Channel Islands ÅÅ CEO Kees van Dijkhuizen announces private bank in Belgium doubles private banking operations to Butterfield he will step down when his current ABN AMRO’s assets under management ÅÅ Kendu app offers asset management term expires in April 2020 in the country to EUR 12 billion to investors investing as little as EUR 50 ÅÅ New partnership agreed with ÅÅ Second Human Rights Report released, Yes Corporate Finance, providing based on the UN’s Guiding Principles advice to SMEs on acquisitions Reporting Framework and succession planning 11 ÅÅ ABN AMRO decides not to charge ÅÅ ABN AMRO will cooperate fully with Dutch negative interest rates to clients p ­ ublic prosecutor’s i­ nvestigation relating with deposits below EUR 100,000 ÅÅ Dutch cabinet’s plans mark an important to ­requirements under the law on the Prevention ÅÅ Digital Impact Fund doubled to step towards stronger cooperation of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing1 EUR 100 million, and renamed between government and banks ÅÅ Two-year collective labour agreement signed ABN AMRO Ventures to prevent money laundering with trade unions, along with an updated ÅÅ Dutch Transparency Benchmark awards ÅÅ Euromoney names ABN AMRO pension plan for 2020-2024 ABN AMRO ‘Most Innovative Report’ as Western Europe’s Best Bank ÅÅ ABN AMRO signs up to new UN Principles for the bank’s first Impact Report for Sustainable Finance for Responsible Banking published in March 2019 Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec ÅÅ EUR 114 million set aside to cover ÅÅ Project financing finalised ÅÅ ABN AMRO temporarily shuts additional Retail Banking costs associated for the new Fryslân wind farm down 380 ATMs in the Netherlands, with ABN AMRO’s Detecting Financial in the Netherlands following recent attacks Crime activities ÅÅ Apple Pay made available ÅÅ Access to ABN AMRO’s Grip app to ABN AMRO clients and mobile banking extended to clients of other major banks in the Netherlands 1 Wet ter voorkoming van witwassen en financieren van terrorisme (Wwft). 12 The world around us ABN AMRO’s operating environment is shaped not only by economic conditions and financial markets, but more than ever by society’s expectations. In recent years, these expectations have increased, particularly with regard to the role banks can play in combating financial crime and climate change. In 2019, market conditions remained challenging for banks. 1 Economic growth has slowed During the year, global economic growth slowed because of trade tensions, economy, stemming from political tensions (including Brexit), escalating trade disputes, a slowdown in manufacturing and increased political uncertainty. World economic continued tensions in the Middle East and street protests in a number of countries. growth was an estimated 2.9% in 2019, down from 3.5% the previous year. Global trade, meanwhile, registered zero growth – the result, in part, of the current dispute Interest rates in Europe, meanwhile, remain at historic lows, in part because between the US and China. In the Netherlands – ABN AMRO’s primary market – the of long-term factors, such as ageing populations. In 2019, rates continued to fall – economy has proved resilient. In 2019, domestic demand became the main driver of at the end of the year, the European Central Bank (ECB) deposit rate was cut to growth, as international trade slowed. Private consumption, government spending and -0.5%. For banks, low interest rates present a real challenge – they put pressure investments all contributed to GDP growth. During the year, growth in the Netherlands on profitability. Interest rates on client savings have been further reduced, was lower at 1.7%, but still above the eurozone average of 1.2%. Other markets where but as client rates are low and in some cases negative, it will be increasingly ABN AMRO is active – Belgium, France, Germany and the US – also grew, though at a difficult to offset the decline. lower rate than in 2018. During the year, growing political uncertainty affected the world 13 2 Society’s expectations are increasing In recent years, what society expects of banks has changed. In the Netherlands, laundering – and reinforce the role of banks as gatekeepers for the financial system. banks are under increased public scrutiny. Much of this stems from the 2008 financial Proposed measures included a ban on cash transactions over EUR 3,000 and tighter crisis, when several banks needed financial support from the Dutch State. A decade rules on customer due diligence. There is also more legislation – a push for increased on, trust in banks remains low.1 Regulation has increased. Banks are also expected disclosure on social and environmental impact, for example through TCFD3, and the to invest for positive impact, combat climate change and support the international EU Directive on Non-Financial and Diversity Information. In human rights, banks – development agenda. like other companies – are expected to comply with the Protect, Respect and Remedy Framework, set out in the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights; There is an increased focus on the role of banks in detecting and preventing financial human rights were also the centre of the Dutch Banking Sector Agreement, crime and money laundering. An estimated EUR 16 billion are laundered in the Netherlands introduced in 2016.4 each year.2 In 2019, the Dutch government introduced plans to combat money 1 Source: Edelman Trust Barometer 2019 – financial services (only 48% of people surveyed in the Netherlands said they trusted the financial sector). 2 Source: Dutch Ministry of Finance. 3 Task Force for Climate-Related Financial Disclosures. 4 Dutch Banking Sector Agreement on international responsible business conduct regarding human rights (October 2016). For more information, see imvoconvenanten.nl. 14 3 Banking has gone digital 4 Banks are adjusting to higher capital requirements In recent years, technology has fundamentally changed banking. Clients expect Since the financial crisis, banks have been required to hold more capital as 24/7 banking wherever they are in the world exactly the same access offered by a buffer. To implement Basel IV, it is estimated that European banks will need just other service providers. They also expect constant innovation. Technology is becoming over EUR 90 billion in additional capital.1 Other regulations also affect banks’ capital faster, less expensive and more universal. As a result, banks need to invest more; requirements. These include TRIM2, the ECB’s review of banks’ internal risk models. in many areas, they need to reinvent themselves. Nowadays, most retail banking is TRIM is designed to ensure consistency across the sector, and act as a frontrunner conducted digitally. Finance has become a digital industry. It’s also ripe for disruption. for Basel IV. At the same time, new rules are being introduced for non-performing Start-ups and tech companies are in a position to compete – offering new, innovative exposures (NPE); these are loans and other credits that are not being repaid as products and services. At the same time, bank branches are closing because of the scheduled. New rules require banks to fully provision their NPEs.3 increase in mobile banking. ABN AMRO is well capitalised and in a good position to meet stricter requirements. The role of banks as an intermediary is also under pressure; companies can now deal At the end of 2019, ABN AMRO’s fully-loaded CET1 capital ratio stood at 18.1%, well with customers directly online, thanks to a combination of technology, open banking within the bank’s 17.5-18.5% target range. ABN AMRO’s CET1 ratio includes EUR 10 and new regulation, in particular with the EU’s Payment Services Directive (PSD II). billion in risk‑weighted assets added in anticipation of TRIM and further model reviews. Consumers also find themselves in the driving seat – there is a premium on customer Under Basel IV, our ratio at the end of 2019 stood at over 14%. service. The risk is that banks will eventually become utilities – they will be able to offer payment services and information, but will have to compete in a market where other companies also have direct access to their clients. 1 For Group 1 banks. Source: Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (results of the cumulative quantitative impact study). 2 Targeted Review of Internal Models. 3 The timescale varies: banks have two years in the case of non-collateralised NPEs, and up to seven years for collateralised. Strategy & 15 value creation Our strategy is based on supporting clients’ transition to sustainability, reinventing the customer experience and building a future-proof bank. 16 Our strategy To remain relevant and responsible Strategic pillar 1 Strategic pillar 2 Strategic pillar 3 now and in the future, we have defined a clear purpose to guide us through change: Support our Reinvent the Build a Banking for better, for generations to come. clients’ customer future-proof To continue creating lasting value for all of our stakeholders, transition to experience bank we pursue a strategy aimed at building a bank fit for sustainability the future, able to adapt to a rapidly changing economic and social environment. Central to this strategy are the bank’s clients, and helping them make the shift to sustainability. Our strategy is based on three pillars: support clients’ transition to sustainability, reinvent the customer experience, and build a future-proof bank. 17 Strategic pillar 1 Strategic pillar 2 Support our clients’ Reinvent the transition to sustainability customer experience What’s the rationale? What’s the rationale? ABN AMRO wants to contribute to a more sustainable economy, and we see We need to keep pace with client expectations. Clients expect flawless service sustainability as a business opportunity. Businesses are switching to more sustainable that is right the first time, every time – whether they are taking out a loan, opening and / or circular models. Individuals, too, are moving to more sustainable lifestyles – new accounts, making payments or transferring money. They also want 24/7 access they want to reduce their impact on the environment. We support clients as they online, and via their phones and tablets. To compete, we have to offer clients proactive make this transition to new products and models that enhance people’s welfare. advice, as well as safe and hassle-free banking. We want to lead by example, by taking a responsible approach to investment, maintaining high standards of ethics and integrity, and having a positive impact What are we doing? on society. We are continuing to invest in digitalisation to improve client service; at the same time, we work hard to protect data privacy and security. In many cases, our goal is What are we doing? to take the hassle out of banking. We’re also extending self-service features – in ABN AMRO is making more sustainable financing available to businesses. We are the Netherlands, these are proving very popular. In our processes, we’re removing also investing more in renewable energies and, through our Mission 2030 programme, the ‘paper’ – so there’s no longer the need for pen-and-ink signatures. Engagement helping clients increase energy efficiency at their homes and commercial premises. with clients has decreased because of digitalisation; in response, we’ve introduced At the same time, we are working closely with clients to increase the amount they special ‘real-time triggers’ to ensure we maintain continuous contact and support invest sustainably. For private banking clients in the Netherlands, sustainable our clients. We are introducing new apps, and extending video banking that allows investments are already the default option. us to serve clients outside the usual bank opening hours. We are also putting more money into FinTech through our EUR 100 million ABN AMRO Ventures1. To support this approach, we are establishing partnerships to develop new products and services. In doing so, we will retain the client relationship; our partners will contribute new technologies and solutions. 1 Formerly ABN AMRO’s Digital Impact Fund. 18 Strategic pillar 3 Build a future-proof bank What’s the rationale? To deliver our strategy, we have to be highly efficient. We have to engage our employees, develop new skills and reduce costs. Our aim is to be a purpose-led organisation that encourages high performance levels, and that has a diverse and inclusive workforce. Compliance is effectively our licence to operate; we take our role as a gatekeeper very seriously. At the same time, we are increasing our capacity, so we can keep up with the regulatory agenda. We know that clients expect banking to be safe, which is why we put such emphasis on data privacy and protection. Strategy implementation ABN AMRO announced its refreshed strategy in November 2018. What are we doing? In 2019, the focus was on implementation. To oversee this ABN AMRO is rationalising its product portfolio, streamlining processes, changing its process, we have put in place a dedicated strategy execution service model, and continuing to ‘rejuvenate’ its IT systems. Using new technologies team, overseen by ABN AMRO’s Chief Innovation & Technology should make the bank quicker and more responsive. We are looking to progress to the Officer, and reporting regularly to the bank’s Executive Committee. next level of digitalisation and productivity; we’re doing this through product rationalisation, by changing the service model and balancing investments, while becoming more prudent Targets & progress and efficient in how we deliver our products and services. We are employing Artificial To support our strategy, we have put in place financial and Intelligence to support regulatory compliance. Our IT transformation is on track; non‑financial targets. Our targets relate both to group we have put in place a DevOps programme, combining IT operations and software performance and more specifically to the bank’s three strategic development to help make us more efficient. We are also cutting costs: our aim now pillars. Alongside these, we have other internal targets is to reduce costs by EUR 1.1 billion by the end of 2020. Internally, we are developing 1 to ensure our strategy is integrated into our operations. a workforce that is fit for the future. That means having the right person at the right place at the right time. We are focused on attracting and retaining talent, and investing Meeting all targets will be a priority for 2020 and beyond. in our workplace to increase productivity and improve the employee experience. See our Performance section (pages 28-48) for details. 1 Compared with 2015. 19 Key indicators & targets To support implementation of our strategy, we’ve put in place a series of performance targets. Group targets Metric Targets 2019 results 2018 results Non-ﬁnancial Gender diversity at the top 30% women at the top 28% 28% Gender diversity at the subtop 35% women at the subtop 27% 27% Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) ranking Top 5% of Top 10% of Top 5% of banking sector banking sector banking sector Banking Confidence Monitor Leading among large Dutch banks 3.2 3.3 Financial Return on average equity 10-13% 10.0% 11.4% Cost/income ratio 56-58% 61.2% 58.8% CET1 (fully-loaded) 17.5-18.5% 18.1% 18.4% Dividend payout ratio At least 50% of net sustainable proﬁt 62% 62% Strategic pillars Metric 2022 targets 2020 targets 2019 targets 2019 results1 Support our clients’ transition to sustainability We are committed to Å Renewable energy commitment as a % of energy portfolio 26%2 20% 14% 14% helping our clients become Å Sustainable financing EUR 7.5 billion EUR 3.0 billion EUR 1.5 billion –3 more sustainable Å Sustainable investments (client assets) EUR 30 billion4 EUR 22.5 billion5 EUR 14.5 billion EUR 20.6 billion We provide our clients Clients rated on our CASY6 sustainability rating tool 1 We introduced new targets in 2018 as part of our strategy refresh. with insight into their Å Commercial Banking 100% 100% 100% 42% Therefore, we did not report against all strategic pillar metrics. Figures available for 2018 are as follows: NPS Retail Banking (-9); sustainability performance Å Corporate & Institutional Banking 100% 100% 100% 84% NPS Private Banking (-1), NPS Commercial Banking (-2), NPS Corporate & Institutional Banking (+45) and Employee engagement (80%). We help our clients invest Å Average energy label (residential properties) 70% rated A-C 63% rated A-C 61% rated A-C 60% rated A-C 2 Target for 2022 is indicative only; we are currently enhancing to make their homes and Å Average energy label (commercial properties) 47% average A 31% average A 23% average A 26% average A our methodology for this metric. real estate more sustainable 3 Sustainable financing is a new KPI which is still under development. We expect to report results in 2020. Reinvent the customer experience 4 Please note that our target for 2022 will be reviewed to reflect the EU taxonomy for sustainable activities. Net Promoter Score Å Retail Banking ≥ -4 ≥ -10 7 ≥ -6 -10 5 This target was originally set at EUR 16 billion; it has been readjusted (relational) Å Commercial Banking ≥ +1 ≥ +18 ≥0 +1 to EUR 22.5 billion. Å Private Banking ≥ +9 ≥ +9 9 ≥ +1 +9 6 CASY Client Assessment on Sustainability. Å Corporate & Institutional Banking ≥ +32 ≥ +29 10 ≥ +32 +29 7 This target was originally set at ≥-3; it has been readjusted to ≥-10. 8 This target was originally set at ≥+3; it has been readjusted to ≥+1. Build a future-proof bank 9 This target was originally set at ≥+3; it has been readjusted to ≥+9. 10 This target was originally set at ≥+36; it has been readjusted to ≥+29. Employee engagement ≥ 80% 80% 80% 80% For more details on non-financial indicators please see page 70. 20 Creating value ABN AMRO creates values in various ways by supporting business, providing access to banking services and by enabling clients to buy their own homes. As a bank, we create value not only as a lender, but also Our value creation model ÅÅ Financial (all forms of money and other financial assets) as an employer and a provider of investment services. Our value creation model is shown on pages 24-25. ÅÅ Manufactured (all fixed assets, including property, Like any company, however, our activities may also have This model is based on the Integrated Reporting equipment and selected financial assets) negative effects. For example, by lending to business, Framework, issued by the International Integrated ÅÅ Intellectual (intangible assets, including intellectual we may help drive economic growth and job creation. Reporting Council (IIRC). It sets out inputs, outputs and property, systems and processes) But, in doing so, we may also increase carbon emissions outcomes – in other words, the resources or ‘capitals’ ÅÅ Human (employees’ individual skills, know-how and cause damage to the environment. Our strategy that we use in our business and that may be either and productivity) is straightforward: to increase long-term value for our increased or decreased as a result of the bank’s ÅÅ Social (social ties, norms, networks and relations stakeholders, while minimising the negative effects of activities. For the purposes of the model, we use with stakeholder groups) our business, wherever possible. Over the next several six distinct capital types: ÅÅ Natural (natural resources, including energy, pages, we describe: water and climate). ÅÅ the principles behind value creation (Creating value, pages 20-21) ÅÅ the principal groups we create value for Our purpose Banking for better, for generations to come How we create value (Our stakeholders, page 22) Our strategic Support our clients’ transition Reinvent the Build a pillars to sustainability customer experience future-proof bank Positive impact Input Å Responsible investment & financing Å Customer experience Å Viable business model Output Outcome Impact2 Negative impact Å Circular economy Å Co-creation and innovation Å System stability ÅÅ the areas where we believe we can create most Financial All forms of money and EUR 6.5 billion Net interest income EUR 1.6 billion Total fees & commissions Å Ethics and integrity Å Digitalisation Å Talent attraction EUR 1.28 Proposed full-year dividend per share EUR 634 million Corporation tax paid Financial In 2019, we generated value through dividends and interest payments, salaries, taxes and lending. EUR 21.5 billion Total equity At the same time, we took in financial capital in the form of net interest income, fees and other financial assets EUR 3.4 billion Interest paid to clients and ECB EUR 83 billion Corporate and commercial lending1 value (Our value-creating topics, page 23) commissions. Financial value was also affected by a decline in our share price. es Manufactured vic Sa All fixed assets, including property, EUR 235 billion Total deposits (excluding banks) s er v EUR 148.2 billion Size of residential mortgages portfolio Manufactured ÅÅ our value creation model (How we create value, EUR 99.1 billion Total corporate loans to business clients During the year, we created manufactured value through home ownership and by providing faster equipment and selected financial EUR 998 million Total spending on General IT ci al ings We provide financial services; We fund mortgages EUR 20.6 billion Sustainable investments (clients assets) access to banking services. assets an Fi n these include personal, and lending through commercial and corporate savings and capital lending, mortgages, payments, markets and actively pages 24-25) Intellectual Each year, we invest in technology to improve both internal savings, advice, and asset manage the associated 3.2 Trust (confidence in own bank) Intellectual Intangible assets, including intellectual processes and our service to clients. We also work hard management. risks. 181 Total client complaints relating to privacy breaches in the Netherlands Through advice, we created intellectual value for clients. We also took in intellectual capital from property, systems and processes to combat financial crime. 136 Total client complaints relating to breaches of other regulatory others, including suppliers and business partners. At the same time, there were adverse effects, or voluntary codes in the Netherlands for instance from incidents of cybercrime. ÅÅ and, finally, the impact this process of value creation Human Employees’ individual skills, Total number of employees (FTEs) 17,977 in 16 countries We invest in our people through training and skills development to support implementation of our strategy 80 % 3.4% Employee engagement score Absentee rate Human During the year, employees continued to contribute time, skills and knowledge. In return, we created value through training, development and increased well-being. We also 'consumed' human capital know-how and productivity From our income, In return, we receive and increase their employability. through services provided by business partners. has on our stakeholders (page 26). we meet our operating costs, an interest margin, fees reinvest in our business and commissions. ns and pay out returns iss io Customer loyalty (Net Promoter Score) Social Social EUR 7.6 million Investments made by ABN AMRO’s tato our investors. -10 +9 es dc Retail Banking Private Banking Å Å We created social value, largely through the benefits of home ownership and an increase in the Social ties, norms, networks, brand Social Impact Fund inv om Å +1 Commercial Banking Å +29 Corporate & Institutional Banking 31,900 Hours of community investment through Re nd m n bank's brand value. That said, some clients had financial difficulties, struggling to repay loans and and relations with stakeholder groups a 49 Number of human rights-related risk assessments conducted mortgages. Through lending, we may also have cases in our wider value chain of fraud, low pay or ABN AMRO Foundation p ay es e 99.9 % labour rights violations. t, f ou Percentage availability of digital /mobile banking t r es Inte 146 GwH Total energy use (excluding mobility) Natural of which 62% was renewable energy 32 kilo-tonnes Carbon emissions from own operations, 100% compensated by green Natural Natural resources, including certificates (includes scopes 1, 2 and 3)3 During 2019, we depleted value through carbon emissions, use of natural resources and pollution, EUR 750 million Total investments through energy, water and climate the ABN AMRO green bond 14 % Percentage of renewables in overall energy portfolio both through our own operations and as a result of our lending and investment activities.3 Inputs, outputs and metrics are included for illustrative purposes only. 2 For more details on our impact, see page 26. Impact by stakeholder group (EUR millions equivalent presented in ranges). 1 Excludes professional counterparties and other loans. All inputs and output figures are for 2019, unless otherwise stated. 3 For more details on the bank’s carbon emissions (including disclosures on scope 3) see ABN AMRO’s Non-financial data & Engagement report, available online. Clients Employees Investors Society 21 Our model is built around our value-creating topics (VCTs). investment, and procurement, or through our employment into how we can incorporate impact metrics into These are the areas where we believe the bank can create practices. Of course, our business is complex – our value our decision-making. long-term value for stakeholders, ranging from the benefits creation model provides only an overview. Even so, the of digitalisation and innovation to sustainable financing model allows us to identify potential risks, opportunities Availability of resources & inputs and investments in the circular economy (see page 33). and trade-offs within our broader value chain. We can ABN AMRO’s business relies on certain resources and These VCTs are tied directly to our strategy; we have also also see how ABN AMRO’s value chain is connected inputs. We need financial capital, for example – and the set metrics and targets for most topics. Not all are to other value chains – through our relations with clients skills and commitment of our workforce. Our operating reported externally. or suppliers. environment may affect the availability of these resources. Going into 2020, we see the main risks as follows How to read our value creation model Impact reporting (shown by capital): The model comprises three main parts: Alongside our value creation model, we have also ÅÅ Financial: decrease in revenue as a result of ÅÅ Inputs – the resources we use to operate our business; developed detailed reporting to assess the bank’s impact persistently low interest rates; increased pressure these may be financial resources, such as income on stakeholders (both positive and negative). This reporting from regulators, requiring us to hold more capital from fees and commissions, or the time, skills and breaks down results by both capital and stakeholder (including Basel IV, TRIM, NPE) knowledge of our employees. group (tying the assessment directly to our value ÅÅ Manufactured: increased environmental controls ÅÅ Outputs – the results of our business activities; these creation model). relating to offices and other premises; social risks may be the salaries we pay employees, or the number within the bank’s supply chain of mortgages we approve each year. We realise that, ultimately, our licence to operate ÅÅ Intellectual: implementation risk, associated primarily ÅÅ Outcomes – these relate to the consequences of our depends on creating positive long-term value for our with the bank’s IT transformation activities, or the ‘results of the results’. For example, stakeholders. Our 2019 results show that, overall, we ÅÅ Human: shortage of new skills; rising cost of we may grant a mortgage, as an output. But each had a positive effect on clients and employees. For talent, particularly in areas relating to IT and new mortgage granted has a consequence – through investors, we created value through dividends and digital technologies increased house construction, for example, or the interest payments – though we lost value during the year ÅÅ Social: further loss of trust resulting from the Dutch social benefits of home ownership for our clients. because of the decline in the bank’s share price. For details public prosecutor’s current investigation into the bank of our 2019 results, please refer to page 26. Measuring ÅÅ Natural: increased climate risk through lending and At the centre of this model are our business activities – impact is still a young science – our methodology investment, notably as a result of increased flooding what we do as a bank. In effect, this is the engine room, continues to evolve. Our reporting already provides and drought in the Netherlands. where value is created or depleted through lending, significant insights, however. We are currently looking 22 Our stakeholders ABN AMRO’s stakeholders include clients, employees, investors and society. Value created for each of these groups depends on their relationship with the bank. We engage regularly with our stakeholders1 – through polls, surveys, meetings, conferences and seminars. Who are our stakeholders? What are their expectations? What is our relationship? Clients ÅÅ ÅÅ Retail and SME clients Commercial, Corporate & Institutional Banking clients ÅÅ Effortless customer experience ÅÅ Proactive, relevant financial and sustainability advice Our clients receive services, including loans. For these, they pay fees or interest. In return, they are able to save or make deposits. ABN AMRO ÅÅ Private Banking clients ÅÅ Access to safe, non-discriminatory, creates value for clients – by financing home ownership, for example, ÅÅ Public sector clients and stable banking services or by saving them time through quicker, more efficient banking services. ÅÅ Brokers, intermediaries and other distributors Loans enable corporate clients to build and grow their businesses. Employees ÅÅ Full-time and part-time employees ÅÅ Sub-contractors ÅÅ ÅÅ Training, development and career opportunities Recognition, fair salaries and benefits Employees invest time, skills and know-how. In return, they receive salaries and other benefits. ABN AMRO also trains employees in new skills. In most ÅÅ Open, collaborative working environment cases, employment increases well-being. On average, ABN AMRO has ÅÅ Diversity & inclusion higher job satisfaction than other companies in the Netherlands. ÅÅ Clear vision and direction Investors ÅÅ Shareholders ÅÅ Bondholders ÅÅ ÅÅ Attractive, sustainable returns Stable and controlled risk appetite Investors provide ABN AMRO with financial capital. They receive returns on their investments through interest and dividends. Shareholders may lose ÅÅ Well-managed balance sheet value if our share price declines; similarly, bondholders may lose value if ÅÅ Responsible investment & financing proposition we fail to repay our bonds. Society ÅÅ ÅÅ Suppliers and external consultants Other business partners ÅÅ Investment in sustainable economic growth ÅÅ Integration of environmental, social and Society provides ABN AMRO with its licence to operate. In return, the bank pays taxes and supports economic growth and job creation. ABN AMRO ÅÅ Local communities governance (ESG) factors into business decisions may, however, affect society negatively – if loans or investments contribute ÅÅ Governments and regulators ÅÅ High standards of ethics and integrity indirectly to labour rights violations or increased pollution, for example. ÅÅ NGOs ÅÅ Responsible approach to employment and tax ÅÅ Act as a reliable gatekeeper for the financial system 1 For more details on the bank’s engagement process, see ABN AMRO’s Non-financial data & Engagement report, available online. ABN AMRO defines its stakeholders as: ‘any group or individual the bank affects through its activities or products and services or who, in turn, may affect the bank’s ability to achieve its goals as a business’. Using this definition, we recognise four main stakeholder groups: clients, employees, investors and society. 23 Our value-creating topics ABN AMRO conducts a regular assessment of its operating environment.1 This allows the bank to identify its most important value-creating topics – Strategic differentiators Strategic pillar 1 social, economic, financial or environmental. From these we selected our nine Support clients’ transition ‘strategic differentiators’2 – those areas where ABN AMRO potentially creates ÅÅ Responsible investment to sustainability most value for its stakeholders. These differentiators form the basis of the bank’s & financing 1 strategy and its approach to value creation; each differentiator is tied directly to ÅÅ Circular economy 1 our three strategic pillars; in turn, each of these pillars has specific KPIs and ÅÅ Ethics & integrity 1 Strategic pillar 2 metrics (see page 19). In addition to the differentiators, we also chose a further 3 ÅÅ Customer experience 2 Reinvent the customer experience nine ‘fundamental value creators’, which help protect the bank’s long-term ÅÅ Co-creation & innovation 2 licence to operate. ÅÅ Digitalisation 2 ÅÅ Viable business model 3 ÅÅ System stability Strategic pillar 3 We carry out our assessment every two years. The last took place in 2018; 3 Build a future-proof bank we reviewed the results in 2019 against recent market developments.4 ÅÅ Talent attraction 3 We concluded that no deviation in the results was significant enough to prompt a change in the strategic differentiators we had already identified. Fundamental value creators Our differentiators are selected on the basis of: ÅÅ A comprehensive analysis of media, trend reports, peer disclosures, ÅÅ Adaptability ÅÅ Regulatory compliance and reporting requirements ÅÅ Anti-corruption ÅÅ Secure banking ÅÅ Input from the bank’s senior management and other internal stakeholders. ÅÅ Client data protection ÅÅ Strong balance sheet ÅÅ Corporate governance ÅÅ Vision & leadership Results are presented to members of ABN AMRO’s Executive Committee for ÅÅ Employee empowerment discussion and approval.5 Topics are ranked according to magnitude (their potential impact on value creation) and likelihood (how likely a topic is to bring about this impact). The table on page 27 sets out ABN AMRO’s strategic differentiators, and the opportunities and risks associated with them. 1 For more information on ABN AMRO’s 2018 assessment of its operating environment (and the methodology used), see the bank’s separate Value-Creating Topics Report, available online. For reporting on ABN AMRO’s strategic differentiators and fundamental value creators, see Performance, from page 28. ABN AMRO’s 2018 operating environment assessment covered all the bank’s businesses and consolidated entities worldwide. As part of this assessment, strategic differentiators and fundamental value creators were chosen from a longer list of value-creating topics. 2 In our 2018 Review, our Strategic Differentiators were referred to as value-creating topics. For this Review, they have been renamed strategic differentiators. All nine are linked directly to our strategic pillars. 3 Please note that we do not have strategic KPIs in place for all strategic differentiators. We do have non-strategic KPIs, however (as is the case, for example, with System stability). In addition, we have other internal metrics and targets, some of which are not published externally. 4 Market developments were based on a big data analysis. Results were compared with a similar analysis conducted as part of the original 2018 materiality assessment. 5 Only results of the full assessment are presented to the Executive Board; the Board does not usually review annual updates. 24 Our purpose Banking for better, for generations to come How we create value Our strategic Support our clients’ transition Reinvent the Build a pillars to sustainability customer experience future-proof bank Input Å Responsible investment & financing Å Customer experience Å Viable business model Å Circular economy Å Co-creation and innovation Å System stability Å Ethics and integrity Å Digitalisation Å Talent attraction EUR 6.5 billion Net interest income Financial EUR 1.6 billion Total fees & commissions All forms of money and EUR 21.5 billion Total equity other financial assets EUR 83 billion Corporate and commercial lending1 es Manufactured rvic Sa All fixed assets, including property, EUR 235 billion Total deposits (excluding banks) s e v equipment and selected financial EUR 998 million Total spending on General IT ci al ings assets an We provide financial services; We fund mortgages Fi n these include personal, and lending through commercial and corporate savings and capital lending, mortgages, payments, markets and actively Intellectual Each year, we invest in technology to improve both internal savings, advice, and asset manage the associated processes and our service to clients. We also work hard management. risks. Intangible assets, including intellectual property, systems and processes to combat financial crime. Total number of employees (FTEs) 17,977 in 16 countries Human Employees’ individual skills, We invest in our people through training and skills know-how and productivity development to support implementation of our strategy and increase their employability. From our income, In return, we receive we meet our operating costs, an interest margin, fees reinvest in our business and commissions. ns and pay out returns iss io Social EUR 7.6 million Investments made by ABN AMRO’s tato our investors. es dc Social Impact Fund inv om Social ties, norms, networks, brand 31,900 Hours of community investment through Re nd n m and relations with stakeholder groups a ABN AMRO Foundation p ay es ou f e t t, res Inte 146 GwH Total energy use (excluding mobility) Natural of which 62% was renewable energy Natural resources, including EUR 750 million Total investments through energy, water and climate the ABN AMRO green bond Inputs, outputs and metrics are included for illustrative purposes only. 1 Excludes professional counterparties and other loans. All inputs and output figures are for 2019, unless otherwise stated. 25 Positive impact Output Outcome Impact2 Negative impact EUR 1.28 Proposed full-year dividend per share Financial In 2019, we generated value through dividends and interest payments, salaries, taxes and lending. EUR 634 million Corporation tax paid At the same time, we took in financial capital in the form of net interest income, fees and EUR 3.4 billion Interest paid to clients and ECB commissions. Financial value was also affected by a decline in our share price. EUR 148.2 billion Size of residential mortgages portfolio Manufactured EUR 99.1 billion Total corporate loans to business clients During the year, we created manufactured value through home ownership and by providing faster EUR 20.6 billion Sustainable investments (clients assets) access to banking services. 3.2 Trust (confidence in own bank) Intellectual 181 Total client complaints relating to privacy breaches in the Netherlands Through advice, we created intellectual value for clients. We also took in intellectual capital from 136 Total client complaints relating to breaches of other regulatory others, including suppliers and business partners. At the same time, there were adverse effects, or voluntary codes in the Netherlands for instance from incidents of cybercrime. Human 80 % Employee engagement score During the year, employees continued to contribute time, skills and knowledge. In return, we created 3.4% Absentee rate value through training, development and increased well-being. We also 'consumed' human capital through services provided by business partners. Customer loyalty (Net Promoter Score) Social Å -10 Retail Banking Å +9 Private Banking We created social value, largely through the benefits of home ownership and an increase in the Å +1 Commercial Banking Å +29 Corporate & Institutional Banking bank's brand value. That said, some clients had financial difficulties, struggling to repay loans and 49 Number of human rights-related risk assessments conducted mortgages. Through lending, we may also have cases in our wider value chain of fraud, low pay or 99.9 % Percentage availability of digital /mobile banking labour rights violations. 32 kilo-tonnes Carbon emissions from own operations, 100% compensated by green Natural certificates (includes scopes 1, 2 and 3)3 During 2019, we depleted value through carbon emissions, use of natural resources and pollution, 14 % Percentage of renewables in overall energy portfolio both through our own operations and as a result of our lending and investment activities.3 2 For more details on our impact, see page 26. Impact by stakeholder group (EUR millions equivalent presented in ranges). 3 For more details on the bank’s carbon emissions (including disclosures on scope 3) see ABN AMRO’s Non-financial data & Engagement report, available online. Clients Employees Investors Society 26 Our impact 2019 results by stakeholder group ÅÅ During the year, we created most value for clients through Value created for stakeholders Impact by stakeholder group (EUR millions equivalent – presented in ranges) our mortgages; on the chart (right), this shows as a positive impact under manufactured capital, among others. Clients Positive impact also benefited from financial advice (intellectual) and quicker Clients Employees Investors Society Negative impact transactions, thanks to continued investment in mobile banking (both intellectual and manufactured). In exchange 0 50 Financial for our services, clients paid fees, commissions and interest 50 100 (shown as a negative financial impact); some clients also 100 500 experienced financial difficulties during the year in repaying Manufactured 500 1,000 loans and mortgages (social). ÅÅ Employees contributed time, skills and knowledge (human). Intellectual 1,000 5,000 In return, they received salaries (financial), and gains through training and increased well-being (human). Some staff may also 5,000 10,000 Human have been affected by job losses or health problems related to stress (human). Where there is no range, ÅÅ In 2019, investors continued to provide us with financial capital. Social we have not included an assessment due to a lack In return, they received dividend and interest payments. of data or because the impacts were not considered For shareholders, value was lost through a significant decrease Natural sufficiently material. in our share price. Long-term value was created through further investment in our assets and workforce (manufactured and human); the bank’s brand value also increased (social). ÅÅ For society, we created value through our lending Note on table and investment, helping drive growth and job creation. We paid This table shows an overview of impact by stakeholder group and capital. Impacts are shown in ranges; these taxes, and made payments to suppliers and business partners represent the euro-equivalent impact on each stakeholder group. Negative impact is shown in grey, positive in green. (financial). Adverse effects included carbon emissions, increased Negative impact covers two different categories: voluntary costs (where costs are incurred willingly, as in the case use of natural resources (natural) and possible cases of fraud, of interest payments on loans, for example) and true negative costs (such as pollution or labour rights violations, low pay and labour rights violations within our value chain which cannot be compensated by benefits elsewhere in the value chain). We do our best to minimise these costs (social). From society’s perspective, we are also an overall by reducing social and environmental risks, not only in our own operations, but also in our extended value chain. consumer of human capital, mainly through services provided The table covers all in-scope activities. For more details on our approach to impact reporting, see page 66. by business partners. 27 Opportunities & risks Summary of Strategic differentiators strategic response Opportunities ÅÅ Responsible ÅÅ Develop additional / new business models (e.g. Product as a Service, ÅÅ Competitive advantage as leader in sustainability Accelerate the investment build a fee-based model for sustainability advice) ÅÅ Use ‘frontrunner’ clients as inspiration for other clients sustainability shift & financing ÅÅ Improved insights leading to increased client financing by stepping up green Strategic pillar 1 ÅÅ Circular economy financing, increasing Risks ÅÅ Ethics & integrity investments in Support ÅÅ Increased pressure from changing regulation and market ÅÅ Limited number of financial products facilitating or accelerating renewables and our clients’ perception (also risk of non-compliance with new regulations switch to circular economy improving energy transition to – e.g. EU taxonomy for sustainable activities, MiFID II) ÅÅ Reputational risk if bank fails to deliver on specific sustainability efficiency in bank’s ÅÅ Exposure to climate, social or ethical risks through our lending ambitions sustainability real estate portfolio. and investment Opportunities ÅÅ Customer experience ÅÅ Strengthen client relationships by meeting more of their needs resulting ÅÅ Create new revenue sources, contributing to future growth Improve customer ÅÅ Digitalisation in improved customer loyalty/trust and securing bank’s long-term viability experience by investing ÅÅ Co-creation and ÅÅ Broaden product range based on dialogue with clients and partners ÅÅ Attract new business partners, further strengthening ABN AMRO’s in digital technologies, innovation ÅÅ Faster and more effective customer service through digitalisation reputation and expertise introducing new Strategic pillar 2 Risks products and business Reinvent the models, and working customer ÅÅ Adapting to change too slowly – and losing the client relationship ÅÅ Failure to guarantee 24/7 online banking services because with external partners. ÅÅ Failing to maintain a balance between improving offering to clients of overdependence on third parties experience ÅÅ Nature of our contact with clients changing as a result of branch and need to safeguard system security and stability ÅÅ Remaining too internally focused (i.e. sticking to what we know already) closures and switch to online banking ÅÅ Decline in customer loyalty because of forced actions (such as temporary closure of ATMs for security reasons) ÅÅ Increased risk of cybercrime, ransom ware and DDoS attacks Opportunities ÅÅ Viable business model ÅÅ Become an employer of choice by offering inclusive working environment ÅÅ Creation of highly-skilled workforce to support innovation / Adapt our working ÅÅ System stability and investing in talent development development of new business opportunities environment, ÅÅ Talent attraction ÅÅ Build a ‘bank for the future’, strengthening ABN AMRO’s long-term social ÅÅ Continue to strengthen approach towards financial digital inclusion streamlining our licence to operate ÅÅ Build or confirm trust by meeting ethical standards and fulfilling systems, products Strategic pillar 3 role as gatekeeper to financial system and processes, and Build a futurefulfilling our role as Risks proof bank a gatekeeper to the ÅÅ Losing stakeholders’ trust if we fail to provide stable, reliable banking ÅÅ Inability to attract the right talent and skills to implement financial system. ÅÅ Failing in our role as a gatekeeper to the financial system (i.e. failing to comply our strategy with rules on fraud, corruption, anti-money laundering or business ethics) ÅÅ Longer-term disintermediation in banking, and lack of agility ÅÅ Increased competition from actors with more innovative business models in ABN AMRO’s business model and culture resulting in loss or ability to evolve more quickly (including BigTechs and FinTechs) of client trust ÅÅ Pressure on profitability because of continued low interest rates and higher ÅÅ Rising costs impacting growth in new business and development compliance costs of new products and services. The table above shows our strategic differentiators. Against each, we’ve mapped out opportunities and risks for our business over the short, medium and long term. We take measures to mitigate risks through our strategy and our risk management (for more details, see page 59 and our Annual Report, available online). Key: – short-term (0-2 years), – medium-term (2-5 years), – long-term (more than 5 years) – these are indicative only. Often there is an effect over the short, medium and long term; in the table, we have shown the principal effects only. DDoS: Distributed Denial of Service 28 Performance Over the past year, we have endeavoured to create value for our stakeholders – for clients, employees, investors and society 29 Overview 2019 was not an easy year. Our earnings were affected by continued low interest rates. Employee engagement Unchanged Despite that, we reduced expenses, maintained our strong capital position, and made clear progress with our work on sustainability. We also increased our share of the Dutch mortgage market. 80% During the year, we pushed ahead with our strategy – still within our target range. Our ROE has consistently we continued to invest in mobile banking, launched been 10% or above since the bank’s IPO in 2015 we Operating expenses -2% new products, delivered on cost savings and further don’t, however, expect to meet our minimum 10% target strenghtened our capital position. We also stepped up in 2020. investment in renewable energy, and met targets with regard to our Mission 2030 programme. In Private Employee engagement was unchanged – a positive Just under EUR 5.3 billion Banking, we are firmly focused on Northwest Europe. performance, given recent restructuring within the bank. We have also taken steps to improve profitability at Our Net Promoter Score (NPS) – the main measure Corporate & Institutional Banking; more such steps of customer loyalty – improved in Private Banking, will be needed in 2020. but there is still work to be done in Retail, Commercial and Corporate & Institutional Banking. Low interest rates continued to put pressure on deposit margins. Profits were lower – Retail, Private and Corporate & Institutional Banking all saw declines in 2019. Return on equity (ROE) also fell, though we were 30 Financial performance In 2019, we reported a solid result, despite continued low interest rates and rising costs associated with our Detecting Financial Crime (DFC) activities. Full-year results Our share of new mortgage production in the Netherlands Retail Banking For 2019, we reported a 13% decrease in full-year profit. grew, however – to 18% in 2019 (compared with 17% Our profit from Retail Banking fell by 23% in 2019; This was due mainly to two factors: a decline in income in 2018). Interest income from consumer loans was up; operating income was lower – a reflection of internal from volatile items and additional provisions for our income from corporate loans was slightly lower, reallocation of net interest income and continued low Customer Due Diligence (CDD) remediation programme. however, as margins improved but volumes decreased. interest rates. Net interest income was down 7%. Among volatile items, we saw a significant drop-off in Net fee and commission income, meanwhile, fell nearly Impairments were higher, following model and income from our equity participations in other companies 4%, largely due to the sale of a majority stake in the methodology changes. We also took an additional – and lower hedge accounting related income. mortgage service provider Stater. provision to cover expenses from our CDD remediation programme. The Dutch mortgage market remained highly Return on equity for 2019 came in at 10.0%, down from Personnel expenses were down 8% – the result of competitive; as a result, our interest income from home 11.4% the previous year, but still within our target range. continued progress with our cost-saving programmes, loans saw a modest decline; consumer loans were also The decrease was due primarily to lower operating partly offset by increased expenses from DFC activities. down year on year. income, which fell just over 5% to EUR 8.6 billion. Overall, operating expenses decreased 2% to under EUR 5.3 billion. Commercial Banking Our net interest income for 2019 was down – as Profit from Commercial Banking was up, year on year, expected, given the current pressure on deposit margins Our cost/income ratio rose to 61%. With continued despite a decline in net interest income and continued due to persistently low interest rates. Interest income low interest rates, it will take us longer than planned pressure on deposit margins. Lending to clients grew from residential mortgages declined – a reflection of to reach our target of 56-58%. slightly in 2019. Personnel expenses were down – in part slightly lower volumes. due to transfers to Group Functions during the year. Impairment charges were flat compared with 2018 – Impairments were down 28%, reflecting a strong Dutch a reflection, in part of benign conditions with regard economy. Commercial Banking also took a provision for to domestic lending. Most impairments stemmed CDD, though the amount was slightly lower than in 2018. from Corporate & Institutional Banking, primarily in the offshore energy and logistics sectors. 31 Private Banking Condensed Profit & Loss statement Private Banking profit fell 37% – due to re-allocation of net interest income, pressure on deposit margins, high (in EUR millions) 2019 2018 % change incidental items in 2018, and an increase in impairments. Operating income 8,605 9,093 -5% Net interest income was down 7%. A slight increase in Operating expenses 5,268 5,351 -2% client lending was offset by lower margins. Impairment Operating result 3,337 3,742 -11% charges were higher – largely because of impairment Impairment charges on financial instruments 657 655 +0.3% Operating profit before taxation 2,680 3,086 -13% releases in 2018. Overall, client assets increased – a Income tax expense 634 736 -14% reflection of positive financial markets, though net new Profit for the period 2,046 2,350 -13% assets were negative following a significant outflow For our full Income Statement, see page 68. of custody assets in the fourth quarter. Corporate & Institutional Banking Cost/income ratio (2015-2019) In 2019, profit from Corporate & Institutional Banking (in %) declined significantly, despite an increase in net interest 100 income. Other operating income was sharply lower, 80 however – a reflection of a decline in income from 65.9 61.8 60.1 58.8 61.2 private equity. Operating expenses decreased thanks 60 to lower provisions from SME derivatives-related issues. 40 20 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 For further details on our financial performance, see the chapter Investors: performance on page 39. 32 Clients: performance Over the past year, we have invested to improve and reinvent customer service. Netherlands able to integrate other banks onto its We have provided more financing for companies to make the shift to sustainability, payment platforms, following the new EU Payments Services Directive (PSD II). and we are working to strengthen data privacy and protection. We are also rethinking financial services, introducing new products and partnerships, and investing in digital We have also introduced new products, including technologies. To deliver our promise to clients, we need an efficient, streamlined automated accounting for corporate clients and a new 30-year fixed-rate mortgage fund. Last year, we organisation, fit for the future. discontinued the Wallet app for Android; the app was used by fewer than 5% of our clients. We also finalised Customer experience, digitalisation We are also pushing ahead with next-generation our review of clients who had bought interest rate and co-creation & innovation video banking. Two-thirds of mortgage meetings derivatives in recent years, possibly without sufficient Over the past year, ABN AMRO has developed new now take place by video, often outside working hours, advice. Virtually all those qualifying for compensation products and opened up new ways of banking. so our clients no longer have to come to the bank or have now received an offer from the bank. take time off work. We see technology as a way of To do this, we are making use of new technologies – strengthening customer service – we have seen To support our approach, we are working closely with this allows us to improve the customer experience, that video banking, for example, is more popular with business partners. In Commercial Banking, we agreed speed up service and take more of the hassle out of clients than traditional face-to-face meetings. Our aim partnerships with Yes Corporate Finance, Firm24 and banking. During the year, we rolled out more self-service is to provide an integrated service – where digital and Ask Hugo to support SME clients with business and features, using Artificial Intelligence and chatbots. ‘human’ come together to provide the best possible legal advice. We started work with Lyanthe on digital We also made Apple Pay available to ABN AMRO clients, customer experience. accounting. We are also offering networking through our and extended our existing apps. Tikkie – the bank’s Opportunity Network, and we are currently planning payments app – now has six million registered users Alongside improvements to our current offering, we are a new offer on information security. across the Netherlands. In 2019, we became the first also rethinking financial services – focusing on where we bank in the world to allow clients to pay higher amounts can make a positive difference for clients and where we Delivering better customer experience will mean using wearables such as rings, watches and bracelets. see potential for revenue. We have re-designed our changes internally. We are on track with our IT At the same time, we are using electronic signatures, offering to SME clients through New10 – a fully digital transformation, improving efficiency and shortening and expanding our mobile banking – when opening lender; it now takes just 15 minutes for clients to obtain time to market. Within the bank, we want to encourage an account, for example, ABN AMRO clients can now a decision on business loans ranging from EUR 20,000 more innovation – to develop ‘intrapreneurs’ as part of use our app to upload their ID. to EUR 1 million. In the next few years, we will use a broader approach to talent management. We are also New10 as the operating model for SME loans within shifting to a more agile way of working, extending our Commercial Banking. We are also the only bank in the DevOps programme, and moving more applications to an 33 off-premise cloud. At the same time, we expect to halve according to the Dutch Banking Association’s latest Trust our product offering over the next few years. As part of Monitor, fell to 3.2, down from 3.3 the previous year; this, we embarked in 2019 on a review of the bank’s the banking sector average was unchanged at 3.3. credit products; the goal is to standardise our products and make them simpler for clients. Responsible investment & financing and Circular economy As we do more digitally, we have less reliance on bricksABN AMRO continued to expand sustainable financing and-mortar branches and contact centres – and less in 2019. The goal is to increase this financing to need for middle and back office functions within the EUR 3 billion in outstanding volume by 2020, around 7% bank. In recent years, parts of banking in the Netherlands of ABN AMRO’s total commercial banking loan book. have become commoditised. Examples include mortgage Additionally, we expect EUR 1 billion to be committed to processing and cash handling – possibly, in the future, circular economy projects. Demand is clearly growing as customer due diligence. In these areas, banks, in effect, companies switch to sustainability. Part of this is about become ‘utilities’. Our approach is to build up these investing more in the circular economy – in businesses utilities, especially in non-competitive areas – where they that re-use materials or waste streams, and keep overall give us scale and act as protection from larger banks, waste to a minimum.1 By the end of 2019, ABN AMRO inside and outside the Netherlands. had nearly EUR 590 million committed to finance clients’ circular economy projects. To measure our progress with customer experience, we use the Net Promoter Score (NPS). We have set clear Private Banking clients are also increasing their sustainable goals to improve NPS across our businesses. Last year, investments with us. In 2019, the bank introduced a unfortunately, we adjusted our 2020 targets to reflect new sustainable structured product in France and the changing current market conditions (see page 19). Netherlands. In Belgium and Germany, we launched In 2019, we saw a significant improvement in Private a Sustainable Advisory product and Sustainable Fund Banking, while Commercial Banking also improved. Mandate.2 By the end of 2019, clients’ sustainable Retail Banking was slightly lower, while Corporate & investments with ABN AMRO totalled EUR 20.6 billion – Institutional Banking dropped as expected, following that means we have already surpassed our original recent restructuring. Trust among ABN AMRO clients, EUR 16 billion target for 2020, a year ahead of schedule. 1 In 2018, ABN AMRO launched circular-economy finance guidelines, alongside fellow banks ING and Rabobank. For more information, see our corporate website. 2 This mandate covers all asset classes; the mandate’s aim is to invest in companies that have a positive impact, socially or environmentally (through either their operations or products). 34 This amount is equivalent to 7% of total client assets. Using the tool, we can work directly with clients Sustainable investment We’ve now set a new target – to increase clients’ to address possible improvements. We believe all clients Clients’ sustainable investments sustainable investments to EUR 30 billion by 2022. We eventually should be CASY rated we have set a target with ABN AMRO also adjusted our 2020 target to EUR 22.5 billion. of 100%. We realise there are challenges, but we are 20.6 determined to meet this target and will continue to work Alongside this, we are helping our retail clients reduce towards it in the coming years. ABN AMRO is also active EUR billion their environmental footprint. Last year, we launched our elsewhere: we are developing a business model for Sustainable Home Mortgage. This mortgage will finance sustainable urbanisation, for example – and sharing our home improvements, strengthening energy efficiency expertise in building management and energy efficiency. and reducing utility bills for our clients. We are also For more information on our approach to responsible Registered Tikkie users making progress with Mission 2030. By the end of 2019, financing, see Governance (page 55). End 2019 60.1% of residential properties on our books had an 6 million energy label between A and C, up from 59.6% the year Part of responsible financing is helping clients in before. Nearly 14% had an A rating, up from 13%. Our difficulty: an estimated 1.3 million households in the goal is to increase the proportion rated A-C to at least Netherlands currently have trouble paying their bills. 63% by 2020. For commercial properties, 26% were ABN AMRO has initiatives in place to support clients with rated A at the end of 2019, an improvement from 13% money problems. We provide budget coaches, as well as the year before. For 2020, we want to increase that figure free personal finance assessments. ABN AMRO is also Retail sales made digitally to at least 31%. Last year, the number of properties part of the Geldfit, or ‘money fit’, programme, offering During 2019 migrating to an A rating went up by 45%. Mission 2030 support to those in financial difficulty. In recent years, 70% covers approximately 800,000 homes across the ABN AMRO’s coaches have helped more than 40,000 Netherlands – the programme is contributing to Dutch clients. The success rate is high: of the 40,000, threeclimate targets. Nearly 13% of carbon emissions in quarters have managed to get their finances back the Netherlands comes from the country’s homes on track. and offices. 1 Video banking Client data protection & secure banking Proportion of mortgage meetings ABN AMRO is also doing more to share its knowledge Clients don’t only want quick, effective customer service; taking place by video on sustainability. This is key to achieving our goals, they also want to know that ABN AMRO will protect their 2/3 and to helping clients make the sustainability shift. data and privacy. In 2019, we continued work to strengthen 42% of our Commercial Banking clients and 84% of our data protection. We have implemented GDPR – the EU’s Corporate & Institutional Banking clients are already General Data Protection Regulation. Across the bank, rated on our CASY sustainability tool. we use European standards as the norm. We are now updating our strategy on personal data privacy. 1 Source: Dutch Central Bureau of Statistics (Greenhouse gas emissions from built environment 2018, CO2 equivalent) 35 This strategy will cover areas such as how the bank uses transaction data to make personal offers to clients. We realise there’s a balance to be struck: using data to provide customised advice, but not using it in ways that clients find unacceptable. Unfortunately, we also saw some data loss, including early in the year for clients at Tikkie Pay. Challenge Mission 2030 covers Negative interest rates approximately 800,000 homes What is the challenge? What is our approach? across the Netherlands – Interest rates in Europe are at record lows, and ABN AMRO has decided it will not charge the programme is contributing have been for some time. The eurozone deposit negative rates in the coming years on deposits to Dutch climate targets. rate has been negative since June 2014. This leaves banks like ABN AMRO with a choice. below EUR 100,000 (the same as the threshold for the EU Deposit Guarantee Scheme). As a On the one hand, banks could pass these negative result, 95% of our clients, representing around rates on to their clients. But this would leave 40% of our deposit base, will be safeguarded clients out of pocket. It may also deter long-term from negative rates. We will, however, charge Mission 2030 savings, or even encourage people to withdraw 0.5% on deposits above EUR 2.5 million as from Residential Commercial their money from banks altogether. On the other, 1 April 2020 – this applies to around 5,200 retail 11% 2% 14% 7% banks could choose themselves to absorb the and commercial clients. For shareholders, this 7% 26% 10% cost of negative rates. This, however, would put approach mitigates part of the pressure on net 6% further pressure on banks’ lending margins. interest income from lower deposit margins. 8% 2019 17% 7% 2019 (in %) (in %) The ECB has already acknowledged concerns 10% 9% 13% over weak profitability among eurozone banks.1 29% 24% A B C D E F G Unknown Charts show percentage of ABN AMRO’s real estate portfolio by energy label (A label being the most efficient, G the least). Please note that A label also includes properties labelled A+, A++ and A+++. 1 Source: ECB Financial Stability Review, November 2019 36 Employees: performance To implement its strategy successfully, ABN AMRO needs a skilled, engaged workforce. Over the past year, we have pushed ahead with our Future-Fit Workforce initiative, invested more in digitising the workplace and identified critical skills for the bank’s future. Employee empowerment more responsive – and to pinpoint issues as they arise ABN AMRO has identified critical skill clusters that will A committed, engaged workforce brings definite within specific businesses or employee skill groups. be required by the bank in the years ahead. These benefits. There is a direct correlation, for example, include data & digital, sustainability and service design. between employee engagement and better customer Adaptability The next step will be to quantify – and begin to close – service. ABN AMRO regularly measures employee The world of work is changing profoundly. Companies skills gaps within the workforce. Our Reboot programme engagement, primarily through an annual survey covering need to be adaptable; they need to respond quickly is helping in this respect; through this initiative, we are everything from ‘client focus’ and ‘turnover risk’ to to changes in market trends or the arrival of new working with former refugees with IT backgrounds, with ‘inclusive environment’. The latest survey, carried out in technologies. Under the DevOps programme, a view to bringing them into the bank’s workforce. October 2019, showed an overall engagement score of ABN AMRO is including software developers in IT 80% – unchanged from 2018, and in line with the bank’s operating teams to improve efficiency. In 2019, we Talent attraction target. There were gains in ‘efficiency’ and ‘talent & shifted 125 teams to this new approach. We expect to Where possible, ABN AMRO prefers to develop skills development’, though ABN AMRO still lags behind the increase that to at least 600 over the next three years. internally. The bank has extensive training programmes – financial sector in areas such as ‘senior management’ We are also taking other steps to increase efficiency – it is also putting more emphasis on self-driven learning, and ‘vision & direction’. We are addressing these areas using more cloud computing, for example (including where employees decide for themselves which in recent years, we have introduced a new purpose and from external software providers), and rationalising our development programmes they want to follow. That said, strategy built around sustainability, and we have worked product portfolio to make it simpler and more intuitive. we are also recruiting skills from outside – in 2019, we to further strengthen our corporate culture (see Vision & Over the past year, employees have become more launched a data talent programme, mainly for postLeadership, page 57). The survey results were discussed ‘cost-conscious’. 1 graduates. The programme started in Retail Banking, but by the bank’s Executive Committee; addressing these it will soon be expanded to risk management and IT. areas will be a priority in 2020. Alongside the annual With digitalisation comes a need for new skills. survey, we have started monthly employee experience At the same time, other jobs are disappearing. In 2019, Attracting talent depends on a number of factors, including polls, part of a continuous listening approach. These polls for example, we lost around 235 mid and back-office the right culture, a diverse, inclusive working environment, go to around 2,000 employees each month, providing positions as we standardised and automated more of our as well as good pay and benefits. ABN AMRO has a more frequent feedback. They also enable the bank to be processes. As part of the Future-Fit Workforce initiative, dedicated culture transformation team – we are working 1 Based on results from 2019 Employee Engagement Survey (80% of employees agreed with the statement: my team is cost-conscious, up 2 percentage points from 2018). 37 Engagement score (in %) 85 83 82 81 80 80 80 79 79 77 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 target 38 on establishing a more open, collaborative corporate In 2019, ABN AMRO worked to improve its record on For gender and cultural diversity, we have set clear culture, with more self-organisation. Already, more diversity & inclusion. A diverse and inclusive workforce targets. Our aim is to have at least 30% women in senior ABN AMRO employees are adopting an agile way is of paramount importance to us. It allows employees management and 35% in upper-middle management. of working. To guide employees, we have mapped out to perform at their best and provides new ideas and In terms of cultural diversity, our targets are for 6% and a set of culture principles. These include innovation, initiatives. At the same time, it places us at the heart 7% respectively. At the end of 2019, however, we were adaptability, client focus, taking a long-term perspective, of society. In 2019, we pursued a number of initiatives behind on these targets.2 In 2020, we will intensify our and collaboration. Much of the focus has been on in this area, including mentoring programmes for women efforts to improve in these areas, with a more targeted leadership – as the most effective way of driving cultural and bicultural employees; these included our Career approach to recruitment to help increase diversity among change throughout ABN AMRO. Culture is now Sponsoring and Talent Proof programmes. Our aim with new candidates. Our 2019 Employee Engagement embedded in Together & Better, the bank’s performance these is to build an effective pipeline of new candidates Survey showed 86% of employees believe the bank management system. We are also bringing culture into for senior management positions.To show our support provides an inclusive work environment, up two recruitment, and aligning the KPIs we use for for the LGBTI+ community, we launched campaigns percentage points from the previous year. performance appraisals with the bank’s overall strategy during Pride Week in Amsterdam and Rotterdam. and purpose. Strict compliance with rules and regulations In October, more than 1,000 employees took part in Salaries and benefits are an important part of recruitment will be part of these KPIs. Increasingly, people want to Diversity Week at the bank – four days of workshops and talent retention. In 2019, ABN AMRO signed a work for companies that have a clear social purpose – and lectures on diversity and inclusion. During the year, Collective Labour Agreement (CLA) with trade unions. one year after its launch, we are seeing strong we also increased paid paternity leave to six weeks and The agreement provides for a salary increase of 2.75% commitment among our employees to our strategy. made a commitment to hire at least 80 former refugees in each of the next two years; the increase helps address In our latest survey, 92% of ABN AMRO employees say by 2022. We are also working to bring more disabled 1 public calls in the Netherlands for higher wages. they support building a sustainable bank. In 2019, people into the workforce. So far, we have taken on The agreement also sets out an updated pension plan, the bank set up the Circl Academy to act as a new 93 disabled employees – well above our target. and raises annual holiday entitlement for ABN AMRO sustainability ‘training ground’ for employees. employees to five weeks. 1 This commitment relates to ‘status holders’ – refugees with residence permits in the Netherlands. 2 In 2019, we had 28% women in senior management, and 27% in upper-middle management. Cultural diversity in senior management was 3.4% and in upper-middle management 5.9%. 39 Investors: performance During the year, ABN AMRO continued to focus on diligently executing our strategy, further cost reduction, and ensuring the bank continues to be well-capitalised ahead of new regulations. Viable business model By lowering costs, we are also making room for spending During 2019, we continued to reduce costs, invested in elsewhere. On IT spending, the bank wants to hit the new technologies, rationalised products and processes, ‘sweet spot’: investing enough, but not too much. and reorganised some of our key business activities. Meanwhile, we have also stepped up spending on DFC activities. Since 2015, we have maintained relatively flat costs despite increased regulations, the need for IT investments ABN AMRO has reorganised some activities. In private and wage inflation. Over that period, the bank has made banking, we are firmly rooted in onshore Northwest cost savings of around EUR 900 million. Most savings Europe. In 2019, we agreed to sell our business in the have come from a reduction in employee numbers and Channel Islands – and finalised the acquisition of Societe process optimisation and digitalisation programmes. Generale’s private banking operations in Belgium, doubling By the end of 2020, we want that figure to reach the size of our Belgian operations. At the same time, EUR 1.1 billion. These cost savings will mitigate increasing ABN AMRO has refocused Corporate & Institutional costs for our DFC activities. In 2019, our cost/income Banking (CIB) to make it more profitable. In doing so, ratio – a key measure of the bank’s efficiency – was just we have reduced CIB’s risk-weighted assets (RWAs) over 61%, below the average for European banks. 1 by EUR 5 billion, as planned. Highly cyclical sectors such Low interest rates, however, make it difficult to offset as the offshore sector have been de-risked. Furthermore, the current pressure on deposit margins. As a result, progress has been made in reducing CIB’s cost base and if rates stay low, it will take longer to reach our cost/ in developing a more capital-efficient operating model. income target of 56-58%. Unfortunately, the downturn in the offshore sector is more severe than anticipated, resulting in high impairments in 2019. Going into 2020, we will continue to de-risk cyclical sectors (including offshore), and will conduct a further 1 At the end of the third quarter of 2019, the weighted average for European banks’ cost/income ratio stood at 63.2% – source: European Banking Authority, Risk Dashboard (Q4, 2019). 40 review of CIB’s activities to decide what additional measures might be necessary to improve profitability. ABN AMRO’s ambition is to increase income from fees – by providing advice and additional services. To some extent, this helps protect the bank from the effect of low interest rates, though fees represent less than a quarter of total operating income. In 2019, fees and commissions – excluding divestments – increased to EUR 1.6 billion. Dutch mortgage market Investing for positive social and environmental impact Residential mortgages are a big part of our business; they represent just under 60% We are putting more money into renewable energy, and stepping up our green of our client loan book. Last year, house prices rose by approximately 7%, due partly bond operations. In 2019, via our Energy Transition Fund, we made investments to a shortage of properties for sale. Tougher environmental requirements are further in solar power companies: Ideematec, NorSun and Eternal Sun. Alongside other reducing availability – the number of building permits issued plummeted in 2019. banks, ABN AMRO has also put in place project financing for the new Fryslân Low interest rates are also encouraging some home owners to pay off their wind farm, to be opened in 2021. The wind farm will produce enough power mortgages early. for half a million Dutch households. By 2020, ABN AMRO wants a fifth of its EUR 14.7 billion energy portfolio to be invested in renewables. Over the past The mortgage market in the Netherlands remains highly competitive. In 2019, our year, we have made progress towards this goal. At the end of 2019, we had interest income from mortgages declined; volumes were slightly lower – though, just over EUR 2 billion in renewables, equivalent to 14%. overall, our share of new mortgage production went up to 18%. Banks, as a whole, account for almost two-thirds of home loans. Our underlying loan-to-market value During the year, ABN AMRO issued its fourth green bond. Proceeds from these ratio has been declining. We expect this to continue in the next few years, largely bonds now total EUR 2.5 billion – money that will go to renewables and sustainable as a result of higher house prices, increased mortgage redemptions and stricter real estate. ABN AMRO publishes regular impact reports on these bonds. rules on borrowing.1 The bank also acted last year as sole advisor for the Dutch government’s firstever green bond. At the same time, we’re investing more of our liquidity buffer in green bonds. We’re committing to increase our euro green bond holdings to EUR 1 billion by the end of 2020, and to EUR 2.5 billion two years later. In parallel, we have a social impact fund – this fund invests in social enterprises working in areas from organic farming and fair trade to telecommunications in developing countries. Beyond the fund, we are also supporting coffee farmers, part of our role in trade and commodities. In 2019, we joined a new international initiative to provide financing to smallholder farmers in Kenya, Honduras and Mexico. 1 Relating to restrictions on maximum loan-to-market value ratios for new mortgages. 41 TCFD reporting probability of damage from drought or flooding, therefore technologies and risks to future revenues (most relevant For the first time this year, we are reporting against the impact at portfolio and bank level seems limited. There for this portfolio). Initial work suggests that the impact Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate-related are however a small number of houses with a high on credit risk from current facilities would be limited – Financial Disclosures’ (TCFD) recommended pillars: probability. In these cases, the individual impact would though we will broaden our analysis in 2020 to other risk governance, strategy, risk management and metrics be severe, particularly for more vulnerable households. types such as business and market risk, and widen the & targets. scope of the analysis to mid stream, down stream and Upstream oil & gas other energy sub-sectors. TCFD recommendations on climate change During 2019, we also looked at risks in our upstream For ABN AMRO, climate change will bring both risks and oil & gas portfolio (against a +2ºC scenario from the For more information on our TCFD reporting, see our opportunities. We see clear opportunities, for example, in International Energy Agency). Our assessment covered Annual Report, available online. business’ shift to sustainability. But there are also risks – emission costs, new investments in low-carbon physical risks, for example through more frequent and severe extreme weather events, and transition risks TCFD pillar resulting from the transition to a lower carbon economy. Governance Adoption of the TCFD recommendations has been defined as a key strategic initiative, overseen Over the past year, we have extended our work on by the Executive Committee. Climate risk is managed in line with the bank’s risk governance. climate risk. We have adopted the PCAF1 methodology to measure the climate footprint of our loans and Strategy We see climate change as both a business opportunity and a risk. Regarding business opportunities, investments. We have also carried out our first climate climate is a focus area in our strategy (pillar 1: supporting clients’ transition to sustainability). To assess risks, risk scenario analysis – in line with recommendations we are conducting more analyses relating to our lending and investments. In 2019, these included: from the TCFD. ÅÅ Climate scenario analysis (e.g. physical risk in our Dutch mortgage portfolio) ÅÅ Benchmarking of the bank’s energy portfolio against the objectives of the Paris Climate Agreement. In addition, we’re working with other organisations to build knowledge and capacity (including UNEP-FI Dutch mortgage portfolio 1 The 2015 Paris Climate Agreement set out an objective to limit global warming to ‘well below +2°C’. and 2º Investing Initiative). This table provides a summary only. For full details, see ABN AMRO’s Annual Report, available online. We focused the first climate risk scenario analysis (part of the TCFD strategy pillar) on our Dutch residential Risk management Climate risk is included in ABN AMRO’s risk taxonomy, risk appetite and financial planning. The bank considers mortgage portfolio; this is the bank’s largest lending climate risk a ‘material risk’, and recognises two risk types: physical and transition risk (separate, but portfolio. The analysis is based on the +4ºC scenario interconnected). We manage climate risk in line with both our Sustainability Risk Policy and our broader provided by the Dutch Meteorological Institute.2 Under objective of maintaining a moderate risk profile. Relevant corporate clients are screened and monitored on their climate impact. (see page 58). this scenario, we would expect an increase in extreme weather events, including flooding and drought. Impacts would be both direct (damage to property) and indirect Metrics & targets ABN AMRO is still at an early stage of its reporting. Ultimately, our goal is to develop metrics based on various climate scenarios. We do, however, have climate-related targets and metrics in place; these include greenhouse (via property prices and the broader economy). In the gas emissions from our own operations, renewable energy and energy performance of properties in our real next 30 years, most of our properties have only a low estate portfolios. 1 The Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials. ABN AMRO is a founding member of PCAF. For more information on our PCAF reporting, please see our separate Non-financial data & Engagement report, available online. 2 +4°C is generally the most extreme, but not the most unlikely scenario. +2°C (the scenario used for our upstream oil & gas portfolio) reflects the target agreed in the Paris Climate Agreement (well below +2°C). 42 Strong balance sheet proposed maintaining the dividend payout stable Share price development Our capital position remains strong, with a fully-loaded unchanged from 2018 at 62%, and paying a final dividend Share (in %) price development (in %) Basel III CET1 ratio of 18.1% at year-end 2019 and a of EUR 0.68 per share, bringing our full-year 2019 140% Basel IV CET1 ratio over 14%. We have set a target range dividend proposal to EUR 1.28 per share. 140% 120% for our CET1 ratio – the bank’s main measure of capital – 120% of 17.5-18.5%, consisting of a Basel IV implementation Cost of risk 100% buffer on top of the current SREP capital requirement, For 2019, our cost of risk was 24 basis points, unchanged 100% 80% the Pillar 2 guidance and a management buffer. At the from the previous year. We’re below the through-the 80% end of 2019, ABN AMRO’s CET1 ratio was well within cycle average of 25-30 basis points. For 2020 we expect 60% the target range. We take a prudent approach to capital to end within this range. Impairments for CIB clients, 60% management – one that reflects upcoming changes to in the offshore sector in particular, which is suffering a Jan 2019 Dec 2019 capital rules. We are already pricing long-dated long-datedprolonged downturn, remained high despite ABN AMRO Jan 2019 Dec 2019 ABN AMRO STOXX Europe 600 Banks Index mortgages, for example, for the effects of Basel IV. having reduced its exposure to highly cyclical sectors, ABN AMRO ExchangeSTOXX Amsterdam Index Europe 600 Banks Index Our strong capital management allows ABN AMRO such as offshore energy, in the past 18 months. Amsterdam Exchange Index Source: S&P Global Market Intelligence. to maintain returns to shareholders. We have said we will The derisking will continue in 2020. Source: S&P Global Market Intelligence. pay out at least 50% of the bank’s net sustainable profit1 in dividends. Share price performance In 2019, ABN AMRO shares lost significant ground. Share price/tangible book value While we have a strong capital position and expect This was largely due to concerns over low interest rates (in multiples) ongoing capital generation, we currently face a number and the Dutch public prosecutor’s investigation. Shares 2.0 of uncertainties. These include further significant TRIM finished the year 24% lower. By comparison, the STOXX 1.6 impacts, and we remain subject to an investigation Europe 600 index of European banks was down just 1.3 by the Dutch public prosecutor. In addition, the Dutch under 5%. 1.2 1.2 1.1 1.0 central bank (DNB) wants Dutch banks to increase RWAs 0.8 0.8 for mortgages. For ABN AMRO, this results in increasing RWAs by around EUR 7.5 billion in 2020. Given these 0.4 uncertainties, we deemed it prudent not to increase the dividend payout ratio for 2019. Therefore, we have 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Value of tangible assets as multiple of share price. Tangible assets include all physical assets; intangible assets, such as goodwill, are excluded. 1 Refers to net sustainable profit, excluding exceptional items that significantly distort profitability, attributable to owners of the parent company excluding AT1 capital securities. Additional distributions of above 50%, which can either be special dividends or share buy-backs (subject to regulatory approval), will be considered if capital is within or above the target range and will be subject to other circumstances, including regulatory and commercial considerations. The combined distribution will be at least 50% of net sustainable profit. Any distribution of dividend remains discretionary, and deviations from the above policy may be proposed by ABN AMRO. Please refer to the Capital review chapter in the Annual Report for more information on the dividend policy. 43 Dividend payments and payout ratio (2015-2019) (in %) (in EUR) 75 2.0 62% 62% 60 1.6 50% 45 45% 1.2 40% 30 0.8 15 0.4 Challenge 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Payout ratio (left) Dividend payments (right) Sustainable financing Dividend payments in euros per share. Final dividend payment for 2019 will be submitted to shareholders for approval at ABN AMRO’s next AGM in April, 2020. Payout ratios shown as a percentage of net sustainable profit. What is the challenge? What is our approach? We want to expand sustainable For us, this is not an ‘either/or’ financing. But doing so may mean question – we can do both. We are CET1 ratio, fully loaded (2015-2019) more risk – for two reasons: the first investing in training for employees in (Current target range 17.5-18.5%) is concentration risk, that we corporate banking, so they have the 25 become too dependent on one area knowledge and expertise they need of activity. More importantly perhaps, not only to advise clients, but also 20 18.1% 17.7% 18.4% there is currently a shortage of viable to identify new viable financing 17.0% 15.5% 15 sustainability projects – this is still a opportunities. At the same time, we developing market, and one which, in have a dedicated Sustainable Finance 10 recent years, has attracted significant Desk, which acts as a repository of 5 demand from investors. So, to knowledge for the bank; we have continue expanding, do we take on also built sustainability into our risk 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 higher-risk projects? Or do we accept management approach. that, in striving for a ‘moderate’ ABN AMRO’s target range risk profile, we may not be able to expand sustainable financing as we would like? 44 Society: performance In recent years, society’s expectations of banks has increased. Since the 2008 financial crisis, we have seen more regulation, and more emphasis on business ethics – on protecting human rights, tackling financial crime, and on banks’ essential role as gatekeepers of the financial system. Ethics & integrity We have increased cooperation with the Dutch police can be referred to ABN AMRO’s Ethics Committee, Public prosecutor investigation and the FIU. We are also working closely with the chaired by the CEO. Ethics goes to the heart of our In September 2019, the Dutch public prosecutor informed Ministries of Justice and Finance. Currently, we are purpose as a bank – and to our role in society. ABN AMRO that it is the subject of an investigation relating looking at setting up a joint organisation with other Dutch Compliance is part of our long-term licence to operate; to requirements under the Dutch Act on the prevention banks that will help check and cross-reference payment we need to make sure that we not only comply with of money laundering and financing of terrorism (Wwft). transactions. existing laws, but that we also have the capacity to The scope of the investigation includes whether the bank keep up with new rules and regulations. has complied with the Wwft in relation to having client files Customer due diligence & compliance in good order, timely reporting of unusual transactions and It is important that, as a bank, we know our clients – Cum/Ex transactions discontinuing relationships with clients in good time. that we know exactly who we are lending or providing German authorities are conducting investigations into The timing of the completion of the investigation and the services to. In recent years, we have stepped up due the involvement of individuals from various banks and outcome are uncertain. Therefore, the financial impact of diligence in this area – we have an extensive Customer other parties in equity trading extending over dividend a potential fine, if any, cannot be reliably estimated at this Due Diligence (CDD) programme. In 2019, the Dutch record dates in Germany, including several forms of time. ABN AMRO is cooperating fully. central bank instructed us to review all retail clients. tainted dividend arbitrage, i.e. dividend stripping More than 2,000 people currently work for ABN AMRO (including cum/ex). ABN AMRO’s legal predecessor, As one of the country’s leading banks, we process a on detecting financial crime this is likely to increase Fortis Bank (Nederland) N.V., ABN AMRO and several large number of transactions. We want to prevent the further, going into 2020. Over the past two years, we (former) subsidiaries were directly or indirectly involved financial system being misused for money laundering have provisioned EUR 259 million to cover the costs in these transactions in the past. ABN AMRO is or other irregular transactions. We have measures of our DFC activities. cooperating with the requests and investigations of in place to detect, investigate and report suspicious the German authorities to the fullest extent possible. (or potentially) suspicious transactions to the Financial Internally, we provide extensive training on compliance. More information is available on our website. Intelligence Unit (FIU). This training also equips employees to deal with ethical dilemmas – usually where black-and-white policies do not provide a clear course of action. Ultimately, dilemmas 45 Human rights ABN AMRO Foundation For ABN AMRO, respecting human rights is part of responsible business. ABN AMRO Foundation helps disadvantaged children. Last year, more than We may affect human rights directly through our financial products and services – 6,700 of the bank’s employees volunteered to support ABN AMRO Foundation or, indirectly, through our corporate clients or through the companies our Private projects. These projects helped children with issues related to family income, Banking clients invest in. We acknowledge that our impact may not always be language barriers or other social problems. In 2019, ABN AMRO Foundation positive, not only as a lender, but also as an employer and provider of investment organised 277 activities, ranging from sports clinics and photography workshops and financial services. We have clients active in a number of sectors, with operations to museum visits, programming classes and coaching for young entrepreneurs. and supply chains around the world. As their bank, we have a responsibility to ABN AMRO Foundation is part of the bank’s long-term commitment to local identify real or potential adverse human rights impacts. communities – we believe that every child should have an equal chance in life to fulfil their talent. To reduce risk, we regularly assess our corporate clients (both existing and prospective) – to ensure they do business in a way that respects human rights. We ABN AMRO Foundation: key figures for 2019 carry out assessments when clients first sign up with the bank – and as part of our credit approval process. For client acceptance, sustainability checks are integrated Number of children/youngsters helped Number of volunteer hours 19,514 31,900 into our regular Risk Assessment Forms. For credit approval, we have developed a separate tool: our CASY sustainability risk index. This supports us when performing a detailed assessment of clients with more than EUR 1 million in outstanding debt or active in sectors where we have no specific sector policy. Clients operating in sectors we define as high-risk or sensitive require additional checks by the bank’s sustainability experts. Our Sustainable Banking department carried out enhanced Number of volunteers involved Number of projects 6,751 277 due diligence on human rights 49 times in 2019. 46 In terms of policy, we have a Human Rights Statement, based These issues form the basis of our work in this area.1 In June on international conventions; these include OECD guidelines 2019, we devoted specific attention to human rights defenders Since the financial and requirements under the Protect, Respect and Remedy and the decline in civic freedoms. Together with a number of crisis, we have seen Framework, part of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. We operate in accordance with these companies, NGOs, government representatives, academics and frontline human rights defenders, we discussed the business more regulation, more conventions. The Dutch Banking Sector Agreement also sets out community’s role in helping improve the situation. We also emphasis on business banks’ responsibilities with regard to human rights. Currently, stepped up our work on human trafficking – our Chief Risk we are working on two areas that emerged from our work with Officer (CRO) Tanja Cuppen joined the Financial Services ethics – and on banks’ the agreement over the past three years: ensuring access to Commission on Modern Slavery & Human Trafficking. Since essential role as remedy for victims of human rights abuses and the effectiveness 2015, ABN AMRO has been working on a project with the gatekeepers of the of clients’ grievance mechanisms. Inspectorate of the Dutch Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment (Inspectorate SZW) and the University of financial system. Our Human Rights Statement applies to all ABN AMRO Amsterdam (UvA) with the aim of sharing knowledge to identify businesses, and to relations associated with our business human trafficking. For more information on our Human Rights activities. Respect for human rights is also incorporated into our reporting, see our Human Rights Update, available online. Code of Conduct, and into the bank’s sector-specific policies At the end of 2019, we had more than (see page 58). Employees’ basic rights, meanwhile, are System stability 2,000 protected as part of ABN AMRO’s International Framework ABN AMRO has a responsibility to provide reliable access to Agreement (IFA) with trade unions. banking services. With clients switching to mobile banking, ABN AMRO is investing in new technology to protect its online FTEs working on our Detecting Financial Our policies cover a broad range of human rights issues. systems. In 2019, availability of ABN AMRO’s internet and Crime activities, including both ABN AMRO We need to focus, however, on the most severe risks. mobile banking reached just over 99.9%, above the sector and external staff. To do so, we have identified four priority – or ‘salient’ – issues, average. The bank has an information security strategy, updated following consultation with management and stakeholders: each year. This is aimed at protecting client data, preventing ÅÅ Privacy (protecting client data) cyber attacks, and maintaining round-the-clock banking services. In 2019, we carried out ÅÅ Discrimination (equal access to financial services, respecting 49 international labour rights, workplace equality) At the same time, ABN AMRO has closed branches in the ÅÅ Labour rights (living wage, supplier standards) Netherlands. More than 70% of our retail sales are now ÅÅ Land-related rights (community relocations, land rights). made digitally. Less cash is being used – country-wide, there human rights-related risk assessments. are fewer cash dispensers.2 Along with ING and Rabobank, 1 ABN AMRO publishes regular Human Rights Reports or Updates, available online. These describe the bank’s approach and explain how consideration for human rights is incorporated into daily decision-making. 2 In 2008, there were 64 ATMs in the Netherlands for every 100,000 inhabitants. By 2018, that had dropped to just over 41 (source: World Bank). 47 we are transferring our ATMs to Geldmaat. The first Supporting the international development agenda Geldmaat ATM opened in June 2019. The transfer will In 2015, UN member states adopted the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. At the heart of this agenda help guarantee accessibility of cash for clients. In 2019, are seventeen Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), covering everything from ending poverty to protecting the Netherlands saw a sharp increase in explosive human rights and combating climate change. In 2017, ABN AMRO identified three SDGs as most closely related attacks on ATMs; in December, as an emergency to the bank’s sustainability approach – where the bank believes it has most to contribute, both in terms of positive measure, we were forced to temporarily close 380 cash impact and in reducing the negative effects of its business.1 dispensers across the country (together with 90 Geldmaat ATMs). Our approach, in these GOAL Our contribution circumstances, is always to put the safety of local SDG 8 ÅÅ Human rights and labour standards are built into the bank’s lending, investment neighbourhoods first. Decent work and and procurement policies. economic growth ÅÅ We provide loans and support to SMEs to help them expand, drive economic growth Promote sustained, inclusive and create new jobs. ABN AMRO relies on having a stable financial system, and sustainable economic ÅÅ We issue social impact bonds, which are used to raise funds to help young people particularly in the Netherlands. Recently, banks’ growth, full and productive on state benefits get a job. capitalisation has improved. That includes ABN AMRO employment and decent work ÅÅ We partner with authorities to identify suspicious financial transactions. for all the European Banking Authority’s (EBA) last stress test confirmed our strong capital position.1 The sector faces SDG 12 ÅÅ We grant loans that are used to upgrade infrastructure, improve energy efficiency challenges, however: persistently low interest rates, Responsible consumption and retrofit industries with cleaner technologies. and production ÅÅ We provided nearly EUR 590 million to fund circular economy initiatives. increasing competition, climate change, skills shortages, Ensure sustainable consumption the cost of adapting to new technologies. Regulation has and production patterns also increased, as we have seen. That means more SDG 13 ÅÅ We help clients make their homes and commercial properties more energy efficient resources diverted to compliance. It is also likely that, Climate action to reduce CO2 emissions. in future, banks – including ABN AMRO – will have Take urgent action to combat ÅÅ We provide green financing through green bonds, our Energy Transition Fund and our to hold more capital, primarily because of new rules climate change and its impacts Groenbank in the Netherlands. under Basel IV (see page 14 and 42). ÅÅ We are working with clients to increase their sustainable investments, which now exceed EUR 20 billion ÅÅ We are on track to achieve our target of investing 20% of our overall energy portfolio in renewable energy by 2020. In September 2019, ABN AMRO became a founding signatory to the UN Principles for Responsible Banking. Under the principles, we have committed to bringing our business into line with the SDGs and Paris Climate Agreement. In signing the principles, we have joined a coalition of 130 banks worldwide. Together, these banks represent more than USD 47 trillion in assets. In 2020, we will report on our progress against the principles. 1 Based on results of stress tests published by the EBA in November 2018. 1 These SDGs were chosen following consultation with both internal and external stakeholders. See ABN AMRO’s Impact Report for details of the bank’s contribution to all SDGs. 48 Regulatory compliance & corporate governance ABN AMRO has now implemented the EBA’s new guidelines on internal governance. It is the first update of the guidelines since 2011. The EBA guidelines cover banks’ risk management and internal controls, compliance, organisation and senior management. A key part of compliance is to ensure ABN AMRO pays a fair amount of tax. Our approach is straightforward – where we make profits, we also pay tax. In 2019, we paid EUR 634 million in corporation tax, 87% of which Challenge was in the Netherlands. The bank’s bill was nearly 17% lower than in 2018. Social role of banks Income tax expenses What is the challenge? – that could be used elsewhere. Additional (2013-2019, in EUR millions) Recently, regulators have tightened controls to controls also mean a higher risk ‘hurdle’. The 1,000 979 combat money laundering. Though necessary, result may be to exclude certain individuals, 798 these controls will mean additional costs for markets or even sectors as ‘too risky’, when 800 736 banks, not only financial but also in terms of there is no specific evidence of wrong-doing. 650 634 600 resources. That may eventually hamper banks’ Banks are using technology to lessen the burden; 411 412 ability to lend and invest. It’s through lending they are also working together to manage 400 and investing that we support economic financial crime risk. At ABN AMRO, we have 200 growth and job creation. But it’s also our role clear policies on anti-corruption, bribery and to act as a gatekeeper – to help protect the international sanctions. But it is clear that banks 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 financial system. like ABN AMRO need support from governments and regulators. In the Netherlands, the right Chart covers income tax expenses only. ABN AMRO also pays other forms of tax, including social security contributions and VAT (or GST). What is our approach? steps are being taken. The Dutch police and FIU For ABN AMRO, there is no trade-off: we want already work closely with banks, including ABN to comply with laws and regulations, whatever AMRO. The government has also set out the subject – whether that is money laundering, proposals to increase cooperation and make data protection or employment standards. more public resources available. Like other And we invest in compliance. We now have banks, ABN AMRO needs the right regulatory more than 2,000 FTEs working on Detecting framework in place – and a strong commitment Financial Crime. Inevitably, this kind of activity from government to fight financial crime. diverts resources – time, money and manpower 49 Outlook – 2020 and beyond Going into 2020, ABN AMRO continues to face challenges. These include negative interest rates, slowing economic growth in the Netherlands, and continued political uncertainty in many parts of the world. We cannot predict the outcome of the Dutch public prosecutor’s current investigation into the bank. In 2020, Robert Swaak will start as ABN AMRO’s new CEO, pending regulatory approval. In 2020, we expect a slowdown in the Dutch economy, We expect to maintain a strong capital position, despite ABN AMRO expects key skills to remain in short supply, mainly the result of lower export growth. Brexit may also uncertainties, heading into 2020. These include the particularly those related to IT and data analytics. This is have an adverse effect if further negotiations about current investigation by the public prosecutor, risk model not unique to the banking sector – companies across future trade relations between the UK and the European reviews under TRIM and a change in the Dutch central all sectors are hiring more IT and data specialists. Union fail. Outside the Netherlands, the world economy bank’s position on mortgages.1 ABN AMRO’s aim is to attract more talent earlier in the faces definite headwinds, including continued international recruitment process when candidates leave full-time trade tensions and concerns over the COVID-19 outbreak. ABN AMRO expects house sales in the Netherlands to education. We are already the most popular IT employer The US economy is expected to slow, as is China’s and decline by around 5% in 2020. A shortage of homes for among Dutch banks. Japan’s. Meanwhile, the risk of recession in the euro sale is hampering transactions. House prices will zone has also risen. continue to rise on the back of low interest rates, strong Society’s expectations of banks like ABN AMRO have demand and dwindling housing construction. In 2019, increased. That trend will continue in 2020. In the Interest rates are likely to remain low. Indications are that ABN AMRO increased its share of the Dutch mortgage Netherlands, there is a continued focus on business the ECB will cut interest rates and will provide further market – in 2020, the bank will continue its disciplined ethics, as well as banks’ record on climate change and monetary stimulus. The banking sector will have to adapt approach to pricing to protect margins in its mortgage human rights. In 2020, ABN AMRO will again dedicate to a ‘lower for longer’ environment. Low rates will business. significant resources to combating financial crime (see continue to depress our net interest income, as well page 50). Investments will also continue in IT and new as delaying achievement of our cost/income ratio target digital technologies. In line with our strategy, we also of 56-58%. expect to further extend sustainable financing – notably by helping clients make their homes more sustainable, by investing in renewable energy and the circular economy, and by supporting clients who want to invest more in sustainable businesses and processes. 1 The Dutch central bank (DNB) wants Dutch banks to increase RWAs for mortgages, for ABN AMRO this results in increasing RWAs by around EUR 7.5 billion in 2020. 50 Detecting financial crime On the front line in the fight against financial crime In recent years, money laundering has grown in sophistication. With new technologies, criminals can move money anywhere in the world quickly and easily. The UN estimates that money laundering accounts for 2-5% of global annual GDP – that’s as much as USD 2 trillion a year. This is not just a problem for the banking sector, but for governments and regulators as well. To tackle money laundering, it’s clear close public-private cooperation is needed. Banks like ABN AMRO are on the front line – as gatekeepers of the financial system. It’s banks that monitor transactions for suspicious activity – there are more than 7 billion such transactions a year in the Netherlands. The vast majority are perfectly legitimate; only a small percentage will show evidence of criminal intent, often linked to drugs, human trafficking or organised crime. House in order For CEO Kees van Dijkhuizen, this is part of ABN AMRO’s day-to-day business. Last year, he told employees that the public prosecutor’s current investigation “proves that we need to have our house in order”. “Excelling at compliance with laws and regulations,” he said, “that’s what banking is all about.” CEO Kees van Dijkhuizen speaks to employees at the opening of our new Detecting Financial Crime centre in Amersfoort. 51 Currently, ABN AMRO has more than 2,000 FTEs fully in technology – fighting fire with fire by using artificial committed to detecting financial crime. Operations intelligence to speed up detection and lessen the heavy analyst Josephine Ottolander, says ’potentially unusual’ burden on banks’ resources. ABN AMRO is still transactions are automatically red-flagged. “We work expanding its financial crime unit: our aim is to add through different scenarios – for example, large amounts another 1,000 FTEs in 2020. being deposited or withdrawn, or payments from highrisk geographies – something that’s out of the ordinary.” Task force Banks are also working more with the government and After that, it’s a matter of investigation. Transactions judiciary. In 2019, we took the initiative to set up a new are matched against client profiles to identify possible serious crimes task force in the Netherlands, together anomalies. Documents may then be requested from with the public prosecutor, the police, the FIU and the the clients themselves. Ultimately, if there’s no credible Fiscal Intelligence & Investigation Service, as well as explanation, the bank can report them to the Financial fellow banks ING, Rabobank and Volksbank. Similar Intelligence Unit (FIU) and close clients’ accounts. efforts are happening elsewhere – the UK and US also have task forces. In Europe, ideas have been put forward Client profiles for a pan-European regulator. Key to this process is establishing reliable client profiles. Recently, ABN AMRO extended its Detecting Financial Crime (DFC) activities to cover all five million of the Adriaan van Dorp, Managing Director of Security & Integrity Management, welcomes increased “Three years ago, we bank’s retail clients. “That’s where we spend most of our cooperation: “You can achieve more by working together were dealing with around time – on client profiles,” says Josephine. “When I joined three years ago, we were dealing with around 2,500 with banks and public authorities because criminals often have accounts with, say, three banks,” he says. 2,500 alerts a month. alerts a month. Now it’s 6,000.” Like many of her colleagues, Josephine’s background is in criminology. “There is a lot more focus on these issues worldwide – Now it’s 6,000.” on money laundering, tax evasion, bribery, corruption. Josephine Ottolander, ABN AMRO Operations Analyst The deeper ‘dirty money’ gets into the banking system, Expectations of what we can do as a bank are very high. the harder it is to identify its origin. Criminals regularly It’s not easy, but we want to meet those expectations.” change their methods, switch banks and make use of new digital technologies and correspondent banks to ‘layer’ transactions and make them more difficult to detect. In response, Dutch banks are also investing more Leadership & 52 Governance Our governance structure is based on the principle of long-term value creation 53 Interview with our Supervisory Board Chairman Chairman Tom de Swaan talks about strategy, working with the Executive Board, and using compliance to create long-term value. ABN AMRO updated its strategy in November 2018. In your view, how well is the bank implementing this strategy? “I don’t think there is ever a moment when you say, ‘OK, the strategy is there, we’re going to execute’. It’s a continuous process. Overall, we’re on track. If you look across the financial sector, there are certainly issues out there, especially on detecting financial crime and the pressure we are seeing from negative interest rates. There are longer-term issues, too: what will be banks’ contribution to a future digitalised economy, for example? On digitalisation, we’re clearly at the forefront of banks in the Netherlands.” What about the relationship between the Executive Board and Supervisory Board? How well are they working together? “It’s working very well. We’ve spent a lot of time together. The “I don’t think there is ever a moment tone at the top is very important. At the same time, we have when you say, ‘OK, the strategy brought in lots of banking experience, with the appointments of Anna Storåkers and Michiel Lap. Laetitia Griffith just joined in is there, we’re going to execute’. December. She brings something different – a lot of knowledge It’s a continuous process.” on the legal side, social issues and the environment. That’s also very important. Overall, the composition is good. 54 One issue we’ll have to consider is diversity. That’s still Last year, what were the main topics for the You mention Kees’s succession – how do you look back lacking – not just gender diversity, but diversity more Supervisory Board? Obviously, the public prosecutor’s on his time as CEO? generally. Diversity will be high on the Supervisory investigation must have taken a lot of time? “He has had a very important role. He has steered the Board’s agenda for the coming year.” “Yes, that’s an important topic – it took up a lot of time. bank well, among others in terms of sustainability, in When it comes to compliance, we should see it as a making the bank fit for purpose, future-proof. What Kees value creator. People want a bank that is safe and has done well is to translate this into real action. We’re “Kees has served the bank reliable. Compliance can be perceived sometimes as a hassle because of the extra information and not there yet – it’s a continuous process. Kees has served the bank in an exemplary fashion. ABN AMRO in an exemplary fashion. documentation we need to ask from our clients, but it owes him a great deal. We’ve nominated Robert Swaak ABN AMRO owes him creates real value. It’s an opportunity to communicate with your clients – to give them a sense of the value we as Kees’s successor. The appointment still has to be approved by the regulator. But Robert will bring a host of a great deal.” offer as a bank. During the year, we also discussed the performance of the bank, particularly given negative experience – he spent a long time with PwC, so there’s hardly a bank in Europe he hasn’t seen from the inside, interest rates. And we spent a lot of time on Kees van either as an advisor or an auditor.” What’s your outlook for 2020? What will be the Dijkhuizen’s succession. In 2020, we’ll devote a lot of challenges for ABN AMRO? time to the longer-term agenda for the bank: digitalisation, “It will depend very much on the macro-economic the use of data, artificial intelligence, the platform environment. If you look at the projections, it seems economy, and so on. We will have deep dives on we’ll have a positive year. But we’ll still see pressure on longer-term issues.” the top-line because of negative interest rates – and we’ll have to find solutions to cope with that. We have already put some measures in place. It’s important, though, that we have a positive outlook. Internally, we need to focus on HR – on talent development and talent “People want a bank that is safe and reliable. spotting. We have to have a culture within the bank so that, despite what’s happening in the world around us, When it comes to compliance, we should see we continue to create value.” it as a value creator.” 55 Our system of governance ABN AMRO has a two-tier management structure, like most other Dutch companies. ÅÅ The Executive Board is the bank’s statutory management challenges and supports the Executive Board. In carrying out board, responsible for the general course of business their functions, members of the Supervisory Board are guided (including compliance with laws and regulations), as well as by the interests of the bank, and are required to take into ABN AMRO’s strategy, risk management, corporate standards account the legitimate interests of the bank’s stakeholders. and values. The Executive Board is supported by an Executive Committee.This Committee is charged with day-to-day For more information on our leadership and governance, management of the bank. see ABN AMRO’s 2019 Annual Report, available online. ÅÅ The Supervisory Board oversees the work of the Executive Board. It is independent of management, and advises, Supervisory Board1 Supervisory Risk & Capital Remuneration Selection & Nomination Audit Risk & Capital Committee Committee Remuneration, Selection Committee Committee Committee & Nomination Committee Executive Board2 Group Risk Group Central Group Asset & Group Disclosure Group Regulatory Committee Credit Committee Liability Committee Committee Committee 1 Former Remuneration, Selection & Nomination Committee was split into two separate committees in November 2019. 2 Members of ABN AMRO’s Executive Board also sit on the bank’s Executive Committee. 56 Together, the Executive Boards’ approach to value creation Together, the Executive and Supervisory Boards are Members of the Executive Board and Executive Committee and Supervisory Boards responsible for ABN AMRO’s long-term value creation: Our Executive Board comprises four members: the are responsible for ÅÅ Both Boards are expected to take into account the long-term viability of the bank’s strategy when making bank’s Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Risk Officer and Chief Innovation & Technology ABN AMRO’s long-term decisions. ÅÅ In developing the strategy, the Executive Board takes Officer. The Executive Committee consists of the members of the Executive Board, plus the CEOs of value creation. a view on long-term value creation (taking into Retail, Commercial, Private Banking and Corporate & account relevant stakeholder interests). Institutional Banking, and Chief HR & Transformation ÅÅ When implementing the bank’s strategy, the Officer. Executive Board’s aim is to contribute to long-term ÅÅ Kees van Dijkhuizen has announced he will step down value creation, and to build and maintain the corporate as CEO. He has served on ABN AMRO’s Executive culture required to ensure this. Board for seven years, initially as the bank’s CFO. Kees has been CEO since the beginning of 2017. In addition, the Executive Board oversees the preparation During that time, he has overseen a strengthening in and presentation of this Review. All content is presented the bank’s operating profit and capital position, as well to our Supervisory Board before publication. as the introduction of the bank’s new purpose and refreshed strategy. Robert Swaak, former Chairman Remuneration of PwC Netherlands’ Management Board, has been Members of ABN AMRO’s Executive Board are not nominated as ABN AMRO’s new CEO. Subject to currently eligible for variable compensation. ABN AMRO regulatory approval, Robert will take over from Kees does, however, pay incentives for other identified staff – at the bank’s 2020 AGM. these are based on a mix of performance indicators, ÅÅ Gert-Jan Meppelink – responsible for HR, including both financial and non-financial.1 In early 2020, Transformation and Communications (HTC) – left the we modified aspects of our Remuneration Policy which Executive Committee during 2019. He stepped down will be submitted to shareholders for approval at the by mutual consent following a restructuring of HTC. 2020 AGM. For more information, see the Remuneration Under the restructuring, HR & Transformation Report in our 2019 Annual Report, available online. continues to be a responsibility of the Executive Committee; Brand, Marketing & Communications, however, comes under the direct responsibility of the bank’s CEO. 1 In 2019, ABN AMRO used the following non-financial indicators: DJSI performance, Trust Monitor, Employee Engagement, NPS and ‘House in Order’ (related to compliance and risk culture). 57 Composition of the Supervisory Board to concentrate on value creation for stakeholders. We Supervisory Board members have various backgrounds – measure ‘vision & direction’ through our annual Employee in business, law and politics. ABN AMRO’s goal is to have Engagement Survey, as well through the Dutch Banking a ‘balanced’ Supervisory Board in terms of gender, Association’s Trust Monitor and by measuring the degree Gender diversity expertise and personal style. This diversity ensures more of acceptance of our strategy among both clients and Percentage of women on effective Board accountability. As part of this goal, employees. In 2019, we refreshed both our succession ABN AMRO’s Supervisory Board 29% ABN AMRO aims to increase the proportion of women on management process and our leadership development its Supervisory Board to at least 30%. At the end of 2019, programme. two of the bank’s seven Supervisory Board members were women (29%). Last year, there were some changes Shareholders, ownership structure & regulation to the membership of the Supervisory Board: ABN AMRO’s shareholders meet at least once a year. ÅÅ Anna Storåkers and Michiel Lap joined the Board. Both They are responsible for appointments to the Supervisory Supervisory Board meetings have extensive experience in international banking. Ms Board, and for adopting the bank’s annual accounts. ABN Number of Board and Committee Storåkers and Mr Lap replaced Steven ten Have and AMRO’s largest shareholder is the Dutch State, which meetings during 2019 27 Frederieke Leeflang, who resigned their positions at owns 56.3% of the bank.1 This stake is held through NL the 2019 AGM. Financial Investments (NLFI). NLFI acts independently of ÅÅ Laetitia Griffith was also appointed to the Board. the Dutch government to avoid conflicts of interest. There She was formerly a member of the Dutch House of is a ‘Relationship Agreement’ in place between NLFI and Representatives; she has also served on the country’s ABN AMRO. NLFI has no seat on our Supervisory Board; Council of State. Ms Griffith replaces Annemieke it doesn’t take part in executive decisions. The Roobeek, who has stepped down after nine years government’s intention is to fully re-privatise ABN AMRO. on the Board. As one of the eurozone’s larger banks, ABN AMRO is regulated directly by the European Central Bank jointly by Vision & leadership the Dutch central bank. This level of regulation for leading Senior management sets the tone within an organisation; banks helps ensure the overall stability of Europe’s this tone is crucial to successful strategy implementation. financial system. In 2019, we completed a legal merger In recent years, we have focused on building an executive between two entities – ABN AMRO Bank and ABN team that can connect up purpose, strategy and culture AMRO Group. The merger has a positive impact on some within the bank. We have refreshed our strategy – and of the bank’s capital ratios, and will also help simplify brought in a new purpose. As part of this, the bank took a administrative processes. conscious decision to focus more on the long term, and 1 At end-2019. This stake comprises: 49.9% of ABN AMRO shares, plus 6.4% in depositary receipts, issued by the ABN AMRO Trust Office (Stichting Administratiekantoor AAB), an independent structure created as a defence against any hostile situations. 58 Advice provided by Sustainable Internal controls, anti-corruption at Work, the OECD’s Guidelines for Multinational Banking department by sector (2019) and engagement Enterprises, the UN Guiding Principles on Business and ABN AMRO has a series of internal policies and controls. Human Rights, and the Equator Principles, which cover 16% 17% These include policies on bribery and corruption, privacy responsible project finance. ABN AMRO expects clients and use of client data, money laundering, responsible to live up to these standards. In most cases, the same 9% tax and human rights. The bank has a Code of Conduct, standards are also applied to our suppliers and the 13% applying to all employees worldwide. We provide training companies we invest in. 10% to employees to ensure compliance with this Code. 16% In addition, bankers are required to sign an oath in In 2019, ABN AMRO’s Sustainable Banking department 19% the Netherlands to respect minimum standards of provided advice on 407 clients operating in higher-risk professional conduct. Last year, 61 of our mortgage sectors. In total, 6% of requests were denied; another Oil & gas advisors were suspended for temporarily breaking the 51% were given ‘qualified approval’.1 With clients Mining & metals terms of this oath. or companies that fall short of its ESG standards, Manufacturing ABN AMRO’s approach is to engage, though the bank Agriculture Energy & utilities ABN AMRO has built ESG factors into its decisionmay exclude clients if there is no reasonable prospect Chemicals & pharmaceuticals making. For us, this is part of being a responsible of improvement. Before excluding, we take into account Others corporate citizen. We also have a Sustainable Risk Policy, the risk each client represents; this includes, for example, which sets out principles guiding our approach to assessing how much revenue the client may receive Outcome of requests referred lending, investment, procurement and product from activities responsible for the shortfall in standards. to Sustainable Banking department development. We will not finance activities we do not consider to be ecologically, socially or ethically responsible. These 6% Sector guidelines activities include new thermal coal plants, tobacco, tar Our Sustainable Risk Policy is supported by specific sands, oil & gas exploration in the Arctic – or companies sector guidelines (covering – among others – energy, involved in human rights abuses, or deforestation to 43% agriculture, extractives, manufacturing, chemicals & make way for large-scale agriculture. Precise terms are 51% pharmaceuticals). These guidelines set out minimum set out in our Exclusion List, available online. ESG standards in areas like corruption, working conditions, environmental performance and health We hold dialogues directly with the companies we lend to & safety. For the most part, ABN AMRO’s standards as part of our responsible financing approach. This dialogue Approved are based on accepted international norms, including helps us maintain high environmental, social and ethical Qualified approval the UN Global Compact, the International Labour standards, but is separate from formal engagement, Rejected Organisation’s Fundamental Principles and Rights which takes place with a more limited number of Second chart shows outcome of requests referred to ABN AMRO’s Sustainable Banking department. Requests include client acceptance, requests for finance and other requests. 1 With ‘qualified approval’, the bank usually requires a change in approach or improvement in sustainability performance. 59 companies. In 2019, we engaged 26 companies formally, ÅÅ that the bank should offer only products and services addressing issues such as deforestation, child labour, that are in the interests of its clients, and that clients human rights, water pollution and corruption. understand ÅÅ that the bank should avoid concentrating too much For more information about our internal controls, see risk in one sector, client or country ABN AMRO’s Annual Report, available online. ÅÅ that the bank should limit risk associated with unexpected currency or interest rate fluctuations Risk management ÅÅ that the bank should maintain a financial buffer, so Risk is an integral part of any bank’s business. ABN AMRO that it can always meet its obligations, even in times has five main risk ‘types’; these are associated mainly of economic stress. with credit risk or with movements in financial markets (interest rates, currencies, equity prices). ABN AMRO also faces operational or business risks (linked to regulatory compliance, HR, legal, tax, sustainability). To manage We hold dialogues with these risks, ABN AMRO has a comprehensive risk the companies we lend management framework, operating at all levels of the bank. Risk management begins with the businesses to – this helps us maintain themselves; they ‘own’ the risk, set the correct risk appetite and make sure proper, effective controls are in high environmental, social place. The businesses are ABN AMRO’s first line of and ethical standards. defence to keep the bank within the boundaries of its risk appetite. The second line of defence is ABN AMRO’s risk control function – responsible for rules and Management Control Statement frameworks, and ensuring that the first line performs as Every year, based on ABN AMRO’s risk management intended. Internal audit – the third line of defence – processes and in compliance with the Corporate assures all governance and control processes are Governance Code, the Executive Board issues a carried out by the first and second lines. The Executive Management Control Statement, addressing the internal Board has ultimate responsibility for risk management, risk management and control systems. overseen by the bank’s Supervisory Board. ABN AMRO’s approach to risk management is based on a number of For the Board’s detailed statement, see the Risk, funding key principles: & capital management section in the Annual Report, available online. 60 Executive Committee From left to right Daphne de Kluis CEO Commercial Banking Christian Bornfeld Chief Innovation & Technology Officer Tanja Cuppen Chief Risk Officer Kees van Dijkhuizen Chief Executive Officer and Chairman Pieter van Mierlo CEO Private Banking Rutger van Nouhuijs CEO Corporate & Institutional Banking Frans van der Horst CEO Retail Banking Clifford Abrahams Chief Financial Officer and Vice-Chairman 61 Supervisory Board From left to right Arjen Dorland Vice-Chairman Michiel Lap Anna Storåkers Tom de Swaan Chairman Laetitia Griffith Jurgen Stegmann Tjalling Tiemstra 62 Appendix We are transparent in our reporting, providing relevant and timely information to our investors and other stakeholders. 63 Our approach to reporting ABN AMRO takes a ‘core and more’ approach to reporting. This Review is the bank’s ‘core’ report. It is published alongside a number of other ‘more’ reports. These include the Annual Report, which contains the bank’s financial statements, as well as other publications and regulatory disclosures. For more information, see abnamro.com. Purpose of this Review publication. Some information has been drawn from accordance with ABN AMRO’s overall risk management The primary purpose of this Review is to explain how other ABN AMRO publications, notably the bank’s approach (for further details, see the Risk, Funding & ABN AMRO, over time, creates value for its stakeholders, Annual Report. The Review should not be seen, Capital section of our 2019 Annual Report). not only as a provider of banking and other financial however, as a substitute for these other publications. ÅÅ For this Review, we have also drawn from services, but also as an employer. In doing so, the ABN AMRO’s impact reporting. This reporting Review provides a comprehensive overview of Scope and boundaries covers most of ABN AMRO’s activities (based on ABN AMRO’s business, operating environment, ÅÅ Unless otherwise stated, this Review covers their contribution to the bank’s consolidated income), strategy and performance. The Review has been ABN AMRO Bank N.V. (including all businesses and and all material impacts (as explained in the bank’s written for all stakeholders, but will be of particular consolidated entities worldwide). Annual data relates Impact Report, available online). For more details on interest to investors (providers of financial capital). to the bank’s financial year, which runs from 1 January our Impact reporting approach, see pages 66 and 67. to 31 December. ÅÅ We have medium-term strategic targets for 2022 Review and approval of content ÅÅ Only content that is material to the bank’s strategy, (see page 19). Group targets for 2020 are ‘continuous’; Contents of this Review are based on extensive performance, reputation or value creation has been these depend ultimately on developments in our reporting by ABN AMRO businesses and operating units. included in this Review. Content is based on both operating environment (for example, new regulation). internal and external sources. Where external sources Long-term strategic targets – beyond 2022 – are Production of this Review is overseen by a dedicated are used, an explanation has been provided in the text. currently under development. project team. The team members are drawn from our ÅÅ This Review is structured around our value creation Communications, Finance, Investor Relations, Strategy model, and describes value created (or depleted) for and Sustainable Banking teams. Content is reviewed each of the bank’s main stakeholder groups (clients, by ABN AMRO’s Group Disclosure Committee, employees, investors and society). Risks to value and approved by the bank’s Executive Board before creation described in this Review are assessed in 64 Involvement of stakeholders in the reporting process ÅÅ Certain figures may not tally due to rounding. For the most part, larger figures are ÅÅ ABN AMRO regularly consults its stakeholders – their views are incorporated into rounded to the nearest million or billion. Some percentages are calculated using the bank’s decisions, strategy and reporting. ABN AMRO identifies the most rounded figures. Certain metrics used in this Review have inherent limitations (for important issues for stakeholders through its materiality process. These issues may example, estimated data vs. reported data). Where applicable, this is mentioned be social, economic, financial or environmental in nature. Our main stakeholder in the text. groups are: clients, employees, investors and society. For more information about ABN AMRO’s stakeholders, see page 22. We carry out a materiality exercise every External assurance two years. The last exercise took place in 2018; in 2019, we reviewed the results External assurance for this Review was provided by EY; its report can be found on against current market developments. pages 74-75. ABN AMRO believes external assurance strengthens the credibility of its reporting, and helps improve the bank’s own reporting systems and processes. Performance data EY provided limited assurance for all content, data and graphics in this Review, and ÅÅ For this Review, all financial data has been taken directly from ABN AMRO’s 2019 reasonable assurance for ABN AMRO’s value-creating topics chapter (see page 23). Annual Report. Figures are presented generally in euros (EUR), the bank’s reporting currency. Financial information contained in the Annual Report is prepared in Forward-looking statements accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by This Review contains certain statements that may be construed as forward-looking. the European Union (EU IFRS). All capital metrics and risk exposures are reported These statements are not historical facts, and represent ABN AMRO’s beliefs regarding under the Basel III (CRD IV /CRR) framework. As from 2019, all capital figures and future events, many of which are inherently uncertain and beyond the bank’s control. ratios, including comparatives, are shown on a fully-loaded basis (unless otherwise The statements apply only at the document’s publication date. ABN AMRO does not stated). Non‑financial data is collected centrally; this includes data relating to intend to publicly update or revise these forward-looking statements to reflect events environmental performance, customer loyalty, and employee engagement. or circumstances after the date of this report, and does not assume any responsibility ÅÅ Annual averages are based on month-end figures (management does not believe to do so. The reader should, however, take into account further disclosures that using daily averages would make any material difference to these figures). of a forward-looking nature that ABN AMRO may make in its interim reports. Management does not believe these month-end averages present trends that are materially different from those that would be presented by daily averages. 65 Compliance with International Integrated Reporting Framework This Review is written in accordance with the International Integrated Reporting <IR> Framework.1 This framework comprises both guiding principles and content elements. Details of our compliance may be found below: Guiding principles Our approach Reference Content elements Reference Strategic focus & This Review is structured around ABN AMRO’s approach Strategy and value creation (pages 15-26), setting out Organisational ÅÅ Our bank (pages 8-9) orientation to value creation. Strategy and performance sections relate ABN AMRO’s three strategic pillars, the bank’s overview and ÅÅ The world around us (pages 12-14) directly to the bank’s ability to create value for stakeholders. chosen strategic differentiators and its approach to external value creation. environment Connectivity of This Review makes a clear connection between ABN AMRO’s The world around us (pages 12-14), and Our valueGovernance ÅÅ Leadership & governance information operating environment, its strategic differentiators, creating topics (page 23), describing ABN AMRO’s (pages 52-57) opportunities and risks associated with these topics, strategy business environment, its strategic differentiators, Business model ÅÅ Our business model (page 9) and performance. and risks and opportunities. Risks & ÅÅ Our value-creating topics (page 23) Stakeholder In this Review, ABN AMRO defines its main stakeholder Our stakeholders (page 22), describing the bank’s opportunities ÅÅ Opportunities & Risks (page 27) relationships groups. The Review also addresses the relationship between main stakeholder groups, their expectations of the bank and these stakeholder groups. This is done with a view ABN AMRO and our current relationship. Strategy & ÅÅ Our strategy (pages 15-19) to better understanding ABN AMRO’s business environment. resource allocation Materiality This Review focuses on areas that have the most impact Our value-creating topics (page 23), identifying on ABN AMRO’s business, performance, reputation and material issues affecting ABN AMRO and its Performance ÅÅ Performance (pages 28-48) stakeholders, and where the bank believes it can create most stakeholders, as well as methodology used to identify value (strategic differentiators). these issues. Outlook ÅÅ Outlook (page 49) Conciseness ABN AMRO applies a materiality principle to this Review Our approach to reporting (pages 63-64), explaining Basis of ÅÅ Our approach to reporting (pages 63) to ensure focused content and sufficient information to how ABN AMRO applies the materiality principle to preparation understand the bank’s business and performance in its proper content for this Review. context. Reliability & ABN AMRO ensures this through internal review and external Our approach to reporting (pages 63-64), describing completeness assurance. This approach strengthens credibility in ABN AMRO’s review & approval process for this ABN AMRO’s reporting and ensures the correct balance Review. See also the External Assurance Report between positive and negative issues affecting the bank. of the independent auditor (pages 74-75). Consistency & This is ABN AMRO’s third successive annual integrated report, Our approach to reporting (pages 63-64), defining comparability using the IIRC framework. Where possible, data is shown in scope, boundaries and methodologies. Comparative context. ABN AMRO is committed to continuity in its reporting performance data for the previous reporting period and to facilitating comparability with other companies using (2018) is also included where appropriate. the same framework. All page numbers in the tables above refer to the present Review. 1 For more information, see integratedreporting.org. 66 Impact reporting Use of data Risk Management, Finance and business lines In this Review, we are publishing an assessment of To carry out this assessment, we have used primary departments were also consulted. ABN AMRO’s impact during the reporting year on its data (directly from ABN AMRO), secondary data main stakeholder groups. This assessment is contained (from external sources), and data from our partners at Our first bank-wide assessment was published in our 2018 in our Impact Statement on page 72. We provide an Impact Institute. Our data sources include the following: Impact Report. We have now included results from our assessment based on what we believe to be a ÅÅ ABN AMRO financial and risk data, including the second assessment in this 2019 Integrated Annual Review. representative selection of material impacts. Impact bank’s consolidated income, balance sheet and ranges have been estimated and monetised for inclusion cash flow statements. More detailed data was taken Notes in our assessment. For more details on our methodology, from internal management information systems. ÅÅ This assessment covers both positive and negative please see our separate ABN AMRO Impact Assessment ÅÅ Selected ABN AMRO non-financial data from the impacts; it also includes direct impacts from 2019: Note on Methodology (1.0), available online. bank’s Non-financial data & Engagement report ABN AMRO’s operations and indirect impacts, and other internal sources such as those related to clients’ value chains and Scope ÅÅ Academic research, as well as international and suppliers of goods, services and capital. Impacts Our impact assessment relates to the 2019 calendar year. national statistical organisations are presented in ranges equivalent to the estimated The assessment covers the majority of ABN AMRO’s ÅÅ Impact Institute, including data on monetisation euro impact on stakeholder groups. business activities (as measured by their contribution factors based on research and the Global Impact ÅÅ Our assessment includes analysis of both B2B to the bank’s consolidated income1). database (version 2.3), which includes key sources (business-to-business) and B2C (business-to-client) such as Eora and Exiobase.2 activities. For B2B activities, we have included the The scope of our assessment is based on the following: entire value chain on both sector and country levels. ÅÅ materiality exercises carried out by ABN AMRO Process ÅÅ Impacts are categorised according to the relevant and other banks Between 2014 and 2018, we conducted a number IIRC capital and stakeholder group. ÅÅ existing impact studies from ABN AMRO of pilot impact assessments. These assessments ÅÅ All well-being impacts relate to the well-being of and other organisations strengthened our understanding of the impact we individuals; in these cases, all individuals are given ÅÅ consultations with internal experts. have, as a bank, through both our operations and equal weighting. To calculate impacts on basic rights, value chain. While this remains a work in progress, we use the cost of remediation i.e. the cost of Some impacts have not been included, mainly because we believe that, with this assessment, we already remedying any abuse or violation. of limited availability of data. These include: ABN AMRO’s have an extensive overview and understanding ÅÅ All impacts are absolute; marginal impacts are out contribution to money creation and financial system of our impact. Production of the impact assessment of scope for this assessment. stability, as well as fraud, forced labour and other rights was overseen by a Steering Committee comprising ÅÅ To assess impact, we use a best-estimate valuation. violations in the bank’s value chain. team members of our Communications, Strategy and Where there is uncertainty over data or models, Sustainable Banking departments. During the process, our general approach is to select the more conservative option. 1 The assessment covers 95% of ABN AMRO’s business activities for internalities, and 75% for externalities. 2 For more details on sources used, see ABN AMRO Impact Assessment 2019: Note on Methodology (1.0), available online (abnamro.com/impactmethodology2019). 67 ÅÅ Some costs are voluntary – i.e. they are incurred willingly by stakeholders Examples of impact calculations anticipating that, in return, they will receive at least the equivalent value in services Our assessment is based on calculating individual impacts; below are two from ABN AMRO. For example, clients repaying mortgages (negative financial examples. These are for purposes of illustration only and are not intended capital) would expect to receive value in return through home ownership (positive to represent exact calculations. manufactured capital). ÅÅ External costs are not netted, unless shown as a disaggregated figure elsewhere 1 Well-being effects of employment in the Review. This is included under human capital, and refers to the well-being effects of employment (particularly, the contribution of a good working environment to overall Attribution ‘life satisfaction’). To estimate the impact, we use the European Social Survey scale Our assessment covers both direct and indirect impacts. Direct impacts result from (2018);ABN AMRO this estimates Foundation employment’s well-being effect on life satisfaction at +7 points ABN AMRO’s own operations. Indirect impacts are those to which the bank (on ABNa 0-100AMROscale).Foundation On average, helpsABNdisadvantaged AMRO has higher children. Last year, employee more thanthan engagement contributes through, for example, the business activities of its clients or suppliers other 6,700 Dutch the bank’s employees of companies. Based on this, volunteered to support we increased ABN AMRO the average effect Foundation for of goods, services and capital. ABN AMRO’s Impact assessment shows overall AMRO These ABNprojects. employees projects helped to +8.6 children points. with issues To calculate relatedimpact, the overall weincome, to family attributed ‘attributed’ impact – i.e. the total impact that may be attributed to the bank. language a factor of EUR 2,2171orforother barriers eachsocial additional point (based problems. In 2019, average onthe salaries), ABN AMRO and Foundation multiplied organisedthe 277 result by total FTEs activities, ranging at the fromend of 2019 sports (17,977). clinics and photography workshops Direct impacts of ABN AMRO, which are mainly internal impacts such as wages to museum visits, programming classes and coaching for young entrepreneurs. and payments from clients, are attributed fully to ABN AMRO. Indirect impacts of Much ABNof AMRO this impact may beisattributed Foundation part of thedirectly bank’stolong-term ABN AMRO (as the employer). commitment to local ABN AMRO, which are mainly externalities such as contribution to climate change, We communities estimate this –atwe 72% (based believe that child value an added onevery should calculation). have an equalThe chance remaining 28% in life are attributed proportionally among our value chain partners, where appropriate. maytobe attributed fulfil to other economic actors in the value chain. This comes to a their talent. Fifty percent of externalities are attributed to the organisation that has a primary positive impact of around EUR 250 million. In a similar way, other human capital responsibility (e.g. the organisation whose operations were responsible for the impactsABN(positive AMRO Foundation: and negative)key figures forare on employees 2019 calculated. The sum of these greenhouse gas emissions). The remaining 50% is allocated among value chains impacts is estimated in the impact range between EUR -50 to -100 million. according to their added value in the value chain. We estimate, based on the consolidated income statement, that ABN AMRO’s average share of the added value 2 Use of scarce materials in the value chains it operates in is 44% per euro of revenue or expense. Therefore This impact refers to the depletion of fossil fuels. ABN AMRO is responsible 44% of the 50% impact attributed to the value chain partners may be attributed for fossil fuels used in its own operations. To calculate this, information was taken to ABN AMRO (this calculation was applied to the example of ‘well-being effects from the bank’s own Non-financial data & Engagement report (which provides data of employment’, resulting in 72% of the impact in that case being attributed on energy use, business travel and carbon emissions). ABN AMRO also has shared to ABN AMRO – see example right). responsibility for consumption of fossil fuels by its clients (through their business activities and value chains). To calculate this shared responsibility, we matched average fossil fuel consumption data for sectors and countries to ABN AMRO’s interest and fee income from the same sectors and countries; we also used remediation costs for this fossil fuel depletion. 1 Fujiwara and Dolan (2012) and Fujiwara (2013). 68 Income statement (in millions) Note 2019 2018 Income Interest income calculated using the effective interest method1 9,701 10,007 Other interest and similar income1 355 317 Interest expense calculated using the effective interest method1 3,407 3,590 Other interest and similar expense1 181 140 Net interest income 4 6,468 6,593 Fee and commission income1 2,121 2,174 Fee and commission expense1 489 475 Net fee and commission income 5 1,632 1,699 Net trading income 6 84 173 Share of result in equity accounted investments 37 43 Other operating income 7 383 584 Operating income 8,605 9,093 Expenses Personnel expenses 8 2,247 2,441 General and administrative expenses 9 2,781 2,737 Depreciation and amortisation of tangible and intangible assets 23 240 173 Operating expenses 5,268 5,351 Impairment charges on financial instruments 657 655 Total expenses 5,925 6,006 Profit/(loss) before taxation 2,680 3,086 Income tax expense1 10 634 736 Profit/(loss) for the period 1 2,046 2,350 Attributable to: Owners of the parent company1 2,046 2,312 Non-controlling interests 39 Earnings per share (in euros) Basic earnings per ordinary share2 , 3 11 2.06 2.35 1 Comparative figures for 2018 have been restated. Please refer to Note 1 Accounting policies in the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements. 2 Earnings per share consist of profit for the period excluding results attributable to non-controlling interests and payments to holders of AT1 instruments divided by the average outstanding and paid-up ordinary shares. 3 As a result of the merger of ABN AMRO Group N.V. and ABN AMRO Bank N.V. the numbers of shares have been adjusted for comparison reasons by aligning the number of shares of ABN AMRO Bank N.V. to the number of shares of ABN AMRO Group N.V. Please refer to Note 1 Accounting policies in the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements. 69 Statement of financial position (in millions) Note 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 (in millions) Note 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 Assets Liabilities Cash and balances at central banks1 12 27,061 35,716 Financial liabilities held for trading 13 675 253 Financial assets held for trading 13 1,137 495 Derivatives 14 6,505 7,159 Derivatives 14 5,730 6,191 Securities financing 17 8,234 7,407 Financial investments 16 45,277 42,184 Due to banks 26 12,785 13,437 Securities financing 17 14,905 12,375 Current accounts 27 91,900 84,192 Loans and advances banks1 19 5,011 6,780 Demand deposits2 27 120,892 126,063 Residential mortgages 20 150,880 150,784 Time deposits2 27 21,232 25,058 Consumer loans 20 11,997 11,945 Other due to customers 27 967 810 Corporate loans at amortised cost 20 97,672 100,408 Issued debt 28 75,275 80,784 Corporate loans at fair value through P&L 20 1,261 783 Subordinated liabilities 28 10,041 9,805 Other loans and advances customers 20 6,292 6,966 Provisions 29 983 1,204 Equity accounted investments 22 639 522 Liabilities held for sale 24 41 Property and equipment 23 1,706 1,506 Tax liabilities 10 63 36 Goodwill and other intangible assets 23 178 164 Other liabilities 31 4,030 3,686 Assets held for sale 24 14 56 Total liabilities 353,582 359,935 Tax assets 10 764 516 Equity Other assets 25 4,530 3,904 Share capital 940 800 Share premium 12,970 4,041 Other reserves (incl. retained earnings/profit for the period) 6,993 15,437 Accumulated other comprehensive income -1,419 -906 AT1 capital securities 1,987 1,986 Equity attributable to owners of the parent company 21,471 21,357 Equity attributable to non-controlling interests 2 Total equity 32 21,471 21,360 Total assets 375,054 381,295 Total liabilities and equity 375,054 381,295 1 ABN AMRO has reclassified EUR 1.3 billion from loans and advances banks to cash and balances at central banks in the comparative Committed credit facilities 34 54,673 61,166 figures for 2018. Please refer to Note 1 Accounting policies in the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements. Guarantees and other commitments 34 17,479 15,241 2 ABN AMRO has reclassified EUR 2.0 billion from time deposits to demand deposits in the comparative figures for 2018. Please refer to Note 1 Accounting policies in the Consolidated Annual Financial Statements. 70 Strategic and other non-financial performance indicators Non-financial 2019 2018 Definitions used Gender diversity at the top 28% 28% Percentage of women at scales 14 and above, according to the Hay salary scale (Netherlands only). Gender diversity at the sub-top 27% 27% Percentage of women at scales 12 and 13, according to the Hay salary scale (Netherlands only). Gender diversity total 44% 44% Percentage of women within ABN AMRO’s workforce (Netherlands only). Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) Top 10% Top 5% Published by S&P Global, in cooperation with RobecoSAM, the DJSI tracks the sustainability performance of leading companies (according to ESG criteria). Scores are not directly comparable, from year to year, because of regular recalibrations and changes in methodology. Trust Monitor for banks 3.2 3.3 Degree of confidence in ABN AMRO among existing clients; measured on a scale of 1-5. Financial 2019 2018 Definitions used Return on average equity 10.0% 11.4% Annual profit (excluding coupons attributable to Additional Tier One capital securities and results from non-controlling interests) as a percentage of average equity attributable to company’s owners (excluding Additional Tier One capital securities). Cost / income ratio 61.2% 58.8% Operating expenses as a percentage of operating income. CET1 ratio (fully-loaded) 18.1% 18.4% Common Equity Tier 1 as a percentage of total risk-weighted assets. Dividend payout ratio 62% 62% Percentage of sustainable net profit attributable to company’s owners (excluding coupons attributable to Additional Tier One capital securities and results from non-controlling interests to shareholders through dividend payments). Strategic pillars 2019 20181 Definitions used Renewable energy commitment as a percentage 14% Based on nominal amount committed to renewable energy /non-fossil power generation clients, divided by total commitment of energy portfolio to oil & gas (fossil) clients. Sustainable financing –2 This amount represents the outstanding loans within the Commercial Banking loan book, complying with the Sustainable Risk Policy / in billions EUR Sustainable Finance Framework. Sustainable investments (client assets) 20.6 13.8 Assets invested by ABN AMRO on behalf of clients in investment funds, products and securities that explicitly base their investment in billions EUR approach and decisions on sustainability criteria. These investments factor in social and environmental factors. Scope includes all countries where ABN AMRO is active in private banking. Selection of sustainable assets is based on criteria developed by ABN AMRO, as well as other external criteria. Assets include both listed and non-listed securities. More information on these criteria are available online abnamro.com/sustainableinvestments. Clients rated on ABN AMRO’s CASY rating tool 42% Percentage of CB lending clients (with a proposed loan of > EUR 1 million) that have been categorized in low, medium or high sustainability Commercial Banking risk and adherence to the ABN AMRO sustainability risk policy has been determined at below, at or above par. Clients rated on ABN AMRO’s CASY rating tool 84% Percentage of CIB lending clients (excluding financial institutions, clearing entities and facilities under financial restructuring) that have Corporate & Institutional Banking been categorized in low, medium or high sustainability risk and adherence to the ABN AMRO sustainability risk policy has been determined at below, at or above par. Average energy label (residential properties) 60% Percentage of residential properties with A, B or C energy labels within the bank’s overall mortgage portfolio. Average energy label (commercial properties) 26% Percentage of commercial properties with A energy label within the bank’s overall mortgage portfolio. 1 New targets were introduced as part of the 2018 strategy refresh and therefore we have not reported on all strategy pillar metrics. 2 Sustainable financing is a new KPI which is still under development. We expect to report results in 2020. 71 Strategic pillars 2019 20181 Definitions used Net Promoter Score (relational) NPS uses a 0-10 scale. Clients are asked if they would recommend ABN AMRO to others. Those scoring 9 or 10 are regarded Retail Banking as promoters; those scoring 7 or 8 as passives, and those scoring below 7 as detractors. NPS is calculated by subtracting -10 -9 the percentage of detractors from the percentage of promoters. Commercial Banking 1 -2 ÅÅ Retail Banking: based on quarterly online /telephone survey carried out by Kantar TNS (sample size: 8,992 retail clients) Private Banking (consolidated) 9 -1 ÅÅ Commercial Banking: based on quarterly online /telephone survey carried out by Ipsos (sample size: 2,226 clients). Rolling average of last two measurements used to make results more representative. Includes results from a separate study covering ABF Lease. Corporate & Institutional Banking 29 45 ÅÅ Private Banking: average of scores from Private Banking International (PBI) and Private Banking Netherlands (PBNL), weighted by operating income. Based on an annual client survey carried out by Kantar TNS (sample size: 4,133 private banking clients). ÅÅ Corporate & Institutional Banking: based on online, telephone and face-to-face surveys conducted three times during year by Ipsos (sample size: 378 clients). Score shown is the result of the last measurement performed in 2019. Employee engagement Relates to degree of commitment and dedication employees feel towards their job (based on ABN AMRO’s regular Employee Engagement Group Survey, conducted by Willis Towers Watson). Total respondents by business (2019): 80% 80% ÅÅ Group: 16,721 Retail Banking 80% 80% ÅÅ Retail Banking: 4,140 Commercial Banking 80% 77% ÅÅ Commercial Banking: 2,298 ÅÅ Private Banking 2,665 Private Banking 79% 75% ÅÅ Corporate & Institutional Banking: 2,146 Corporate & Institutional Banking 78% 78% Other 2019 2018 Definitions used % availability of digital services 99.9% 99.5% Availability of internet and mobile banking services during peak hours (defined as ‘early morning to after midnight’). 1 New targets were introduced as part of the 2018 strategy refresh and, therefore we have not reported on all strategy pillar metrics. 72 Impact statement The Impact statement below provides an overview of all impact in scope by both capital and stakeholder group. Positive impacts are shown in green, negative in grey. All external costs1 are marked with an asterisk. EUR millions equivalent Clients Employees Investors Society presented in ranges Financial 1 Payments by clients 2 Payments made by other stakeholders Positive impact 3 Payments to suppliers for expensed goods and services + Negative impact 4 Employee payments + + 5 Income tax payments + 0 50 6 Interest payments + + + 7 Net profit/loss + 50 100 8 Corrections for non-financial profit items 100 500 9 Payments to suppliers for investments + 10 Cost of capital 500 -1,000 11 Value of capital + + 12 Value of services (financial) provided by suppliers 1,000 5,000 13 Consumer client value of lending services (non-mortgage) + 14 Business client value of lending services + 15 Consumer client value through home ownership + 5,000 10,000 16 Change in share price not captured in comprehensive income 17 Other financial impacts + + Manufactured 18 Contribution to final goods and services in value chain + 19 Client value through increase in house value + 20 Client value of money transfers + 21 Client value of money storage and management + 22 Client value of other infrastructure services + 23 Value of infrastructure services provided by suppliers 24 Value of goods provided by suppliers 25 Client value of housing + 26 Gross increase in tangible assets + 27 Depreciation of tangible assets 1 Negative impacts which cannot be compensated by benefits elsewhere in the value chain. 73 EUR millions equivalent Clients Employees Investors Society presented in ranges Intellectual 28 Consumer client value of asset management + 29 Consumer client value of other fee-based services + Positive impact 30 Business client value of other fee-based services + Negative impact 31 Change in intellectual assets + 32 Occurrence of cybercrime* 0 50 33 Unintended incidents with personal information* 50 100 Human 100 500 34 Well-being effects of employment + + 500 -1,000 35 Creation of human capital + + + 36 Value of employee time spent on work 1,000 5,000 37 Value of services provided by suppliers 38 Occupational health and safety incidents* 5,000 10,000 Social 39 Decrease in cash-related crime + 40 Change in brand value and customer loyalty + 41 Gender discrimination in access to higher skilled jobs* 42 Underpayment* 43 Child labour* 44 Financial distress due to difficulties in repaying loans 45 Social benefits of home-ownership + Natural 46 Contribution to climate change* 47 Use of scarce materials* 48 Air pollution* 49 Water pollution* 50 Use of scarce water* 51 Land use* 52 Limitation of climate change through certificates + 74 Assurance report of the independent auditor Assurance report of the independent auditor Limitations to the scope of our review and our audit The Integrated Annual Review includes prospective information such as ambitions, strategy, plans, expectations and To: the Executive Board and Supervisory Board of ABN AMRO Bank N.V. estimates and risk assessments. Inherent to prospective information, the actual future results are uncertain. We do not provide any assurance on the assumptions and achievability of prospective information in the Integrated Annual Our conclusions Review. We have reviewed the Integrated Annual Review for the year 2019 of ABN AMRO Bank N.V. based in Amsterdam (hereinafter: the Integrated Annual Review). The Integrated Annual Review describes the themes that are central to Calculation factors to determine the impact as included in the section “Our impact” as included in the Integrated ABN AMRO Bank N.V.’s strategy and value creation. The Integrated Annual Review includes information derived from Annual Review are mostly based on external sources and by using several assumptions. The assumptions and other reports published by ABN AMRO Bank N.V. as described on page 1 of the Integrated Annual Review. sources used are explained in the document ‘ABN AMRO Impact Assessment 2019: Note on Methodology (1.0)’ on Furthermore we have audited the section “Our Value-creating topics” on page 23 of the Integrated Annual Review. www.abnamro.com/impactmethodology2019 (hereinafter: the Note on methodology). We have not performed procedures on the content of these assumptions and external sources, other than evaluating the suitability and A review is aimed at obtaining a limited level of assurance. An audit is aimed at obtaining a reasonable level of plausibility of these assumptions and external sources used. assurance. An overview of our main procedures performed is included in the annex to this assurance report. The references to other external sources or websites in the Integrated Annual Review are not part of the Integrated Based on our procedures performed nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Integrated Annual Review as reviewed by us. We therefore do not provide assurance on this information. Annual Review is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the International Integrated Reporting Framework (hereinafter: the International <IR> Framework) of the International Integrated Reporting Council Responsibilities of the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board for the Integrated Annual Review (hereinafter: the IIRC) and the supplemental reporting criteria applied as disclosed in the appendix “Our approach to The Executive Board is responsible for the preparation of the Integrated Annual Review, including the section “Our reporting” of the Integrated Annual Review. value-creating topics”, in accordance with the reporting criteria as included in the section Reporting criteria, including the identification of stakeholders and the definition of material matters. The choices made by the In our opinion the section “Our value-creating topics” is prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Executive Board regarding the scope of the Integrated Annual Review and the reporting policy are summarized in reporting criteria as disclosed on page 23 of the Integrated Annual Review. the appendix “Our approach to reporting” of the Integrated Annual Review. Basis for our conclusions The Executive Board is also responsible for such internal control as the Executive Board determines is necessary to We have performed our review of the Integrated Annual Review and our audit of the section “Our value-creating enable the preparation of the Integrated Annual Review, including the section “Our value-creating topics”, that is topics” in accordance with Dutch law, including Dutch Standard 3810N, “Assurance-opdrachten inzake free from material misstatement, whether due to errors or fraud. maatschappelijke verslagen” (Assurance engagements relating to sustainability reports), which is a specified Dutch Standard that is based on the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000, “Assurance The Supervisory Board is responsible for overseeing the reporting process of ABN AMRO Bank N.V. Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information”. Our responsibilities under this standard are further described in the section “Our responsibilities” of our report. Our responsibilities Our responsibility is to plan and perform the assurance engagement in a manner that allows us to obtain sufficient We are independent of ABN AMRO Bank N.V. in accordance with the “Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van and appropriate assurance evidence for our conclusions. accountants bij assurance-opdrachten” (ViO, Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, a regulation with respect to independence) and other relevant independence regulations in the Netherlands. This includes that we do not Our procedures performed to obtain a limited level of assurance on the Integrated Annual Review are aimed to perform any activities that could result in a conflict of interest with our independent assurance engagement. determine the plausibility of information and vary in nature and timing from, and are less in extent, than for a Furthermore, we have complied with the “Verordening gedragsen beroepsregels accountants” (VGBA, Dutch Code reasonable assurance engagement. The level of assurance obtained in a review is therefore substantially less than of Ethics). the assurance obtained in an audit. Our audit on the section “Our value-creating topics” has been performed with a high, but not absolute, level of assurance, which means we may not have detected all material errors and fraud. We believe that the assurance evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusions. We apply the “Nadere voorschriften kwaliteitssystemen” (NVKS, Regulations for Quality management systems) and accordingly maintain a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures Reporting criteria regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and other relevant legal and regulatory The Integrated Annual Review, including the section “Our value-creating topics”, needs to be read and understood requirements. A further description of our responsibilities is included in the annex to this assurance report. together with the reporting criteria. ABN AMRO Bank N.V. is solely responsible for selecting and applying these reporting criteria, taking into account applicable law and regulations related to reporting. Amsterdam, 10 March 2020 The reporting criteria used for the preparation of the Integrated Annual Review are the International <IR> Framework of the IIRC and the supplemental reporting criteria applied as disclosed in the appendix “Our approach to reporting” of the Integrated Annual Review. The reporting criteria used for the section “Our value-creating topics” Ernst & Young Accountants LLP are disclosed on page 23 of the Integrated Annual Review. signed by J. Niewold The absence of an established practice on which to draw, to evaluate and measure non-financial information allows for different, but acceptable, measurement techniques and can affect comparability between entities and over time. 75 • Interviewing management and relevant staff unbalanced, or the risk of not detecting a material Annex to the assurance report of the independent auditor responsible for the sustainability strategy, misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than We have exercised professional judgement and have maintained professional skepticism throughout policy and results for one resulting from errors. Fraud may involve our review and our audit, in accordance with the Dutch assurance standards, ethical requirements and • Interviewing relevant staff responsible for collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, independence requirements. providing the information for, carrying out misrepresentations, or the override of internal internal control procedures on, and control. These further audit procedures consisted consolidating the data in the Integrated Annual amongst others of: Our review and our audit included amongst others: Review • Interviewing relevant staff responsible for • Performing an analysis of the external environment and obtaining an understanding of relevant social themes • Obtaining assurance information that the providing the information and carrying out and issues in the sector, the characteristics of the company and the themes that are most relevant to Integrated Annual Review reconciles with internal control procedures on the data in the achieving the company’s strategy and value creation underlying records of the company section “Our value-creating topics” • Evaluating the appropriateness of the reporting criteria used, their consistent application and related • Reviewing, on a limited test basis, relevant • Obtaining assurance information that the disclosures in the Integrated Annual Review and the section “Our value-creating topics”. This includes the internal and external documentation section “Our value-creating topics” reconciles evaluation of the results of the stakeholders’ dialogue and the reasonableness of estimates made by the • Evaluating whether the assumptions used in the with underlying records of the company Executive Board calculation of the impact as included in the • Evaluating relevant internal and external • Obtaining an understanding of the value creation model of ABN AMRO Bank N.V. section “Our impact” are plausible, which are documentation, on a test basis, to determine • Evaluating the overall presentation, structure and content of the Integrated Annual Review and the section included in the Note on methodology. the reliability of the section “Our value-creating “Our value-creating topics” • Evaluating the suitability and plausibility of the topics” • Considering whether the Integrated Annual Review as a whole, including the disclosures, reflects the purpose external sources used in the calculations on • Performing an analytical review of the data and of the reporting criteria used which the impact as included in the section trends “Our impact” is based, which are included in the For the financial information included in the Integrated Annual Review, the procedures consisted of: Note on methodology. • Reconciling the income statement and the statement of financial position on pages 68 and 69 of the • Performing an analytical review of the data and Integrated Annual Review with the full set of audited consolidated financial statements of ABN AMRO Bank trends in the information submitted for N.V. for the year ended 31 December 2019 as included in the separately published Annual Report 2019 of consolidation at corporate level ABN AMRO Bank N.V. (hereinafter: the financial statements) • Reconciling the financial information included in other sections of the Integrated Annual Review with the financial statements, or with information underlying the financial statements in case the reconciliation cannot We communicate with the Supervisory Board regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the be made directly review and the audit and significant findings that we identify during our review and our audit. We also communicate any significant findings in internal control that we identify during our audit. Our review of the Integrated Annual Review included Our audit of the section “Our value-creating topics” amongst others: included amongst others: • Obtaining an understanding of the reporting • Obtaining an understanding of the systems and processes for the Integrated Annual Review, processes for collecting and reporting the data in including obtaining a general understanding of the section “Our value-creating topics”, including internal control relevant to our review obtaining an understanding of internal control • Obtaining an understanding of the procedures relevant to our audit, but not for the purpose of performed by the external subject matter experts expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the of ABN AMRO Bank N.V. company’s internal control • Identifying areas of the Integrated Annual Review • Identifying and assessing the risks that the section with a higher risk of misleading or unbalanced “Our value-creating topics” is misleading or information or material misstatements, whether unbalanced, or contains material misstatements, due to fraud or error. Designing and performing whether due to fraud or errors. Designing and further review procedures aimed at determining performing further audit procedures responsive to the plausibility of the Integrated Annual Review those risks, and obtaining audit evidence that is responsive to this risk analysis. These further sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our review procedures consisted amongst others of: opinion. The risk that the section “Value-creating topics” is misleading or 76 Abbreviations AGM Annual General Meeting GDPR General Data Protection Regulation PBI Private Banking International AI artificial intelligence GST General Sales Tax PBNL Private Banking Netherlands ATM automatic teller machine HR Human Resources PCAF Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials bps basis points HTC Human Resources, Transformation PRI Principles for Responsible Investment CASY Client Assessment on Sustainability & Communications ROE Return on Equity CEO Chief Executive Officer ICS International Card Services RRP Regulatory Response Process CET Common Equity Tier IFA International Framework Agreement RSPO Roundtable for Sustainable Palm Oil CFO Chief Financial Officer IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards RWA Risk-Weighted Assets CIB Corporate & Institutional Banking ILO International Labour Organisation SDG Sustainable Development Goal CRO Chief Risk Officer IMF International Monetary Fund SME small and medium-sized enterprise DDoS Distributed Denial of Service IPO Initial Public Offering SREP Supervisory Review and Evaluation Process DFC Detecting Financial Crime IR Integrated Reporting TCFD Task Force on Climate-Related DJSI Dow Jones Sustainability Index IIRC International Integrated Financial Disclosures DNB De Nederlandsche Bank – Reporting Council TRIM Targeted Review of Internal Models the Dutch central bank NGO non-governmental organisation UNEP-FI UN Environment Programme-Finance Initiative DPA Dutch Data Protection Authority NII Net Interest Income VAT value added tax EBA European Banking Authority NLFI NL Financial Investments Wwft Dutch law on the prevention of money ECB European Central Bank NPE Non-Performing Exposures laundering and terrorist financing ESG Environmental, Social, Governance NPS Net Promoter Score GDP gross domestic product OECD Organisation for Economic Cooperation & Development Enquiries & contact details Acknowledgements We welcome feedback on our Review. Coordination & project planning Please send any comments or ABN AMRO (Brand, Marketing suggestions to brand.marketing. & Communications) communications@nl.abnamro.com Photography For further enquiries, Olivier Middendorp our postal address is: P.O. Box 283 Design & layout 1000 EA Amsterdam DartGroup (Amsterdam) The Netherlands We’re also present online at: Printing & production abnamro.com Altavia Sumis (Amstelveen) abnamro.nl Copywriting & editing Our Annual Report may be found at: ABN AMRO and Koan Group B.V. abnamro.com/annualreport (Amsterdam) abnamro.com/ir Please note that information on our websites is not part of this Review, unless expressly stated otherwise. abnamro.com
