United Nations Global Compact – Communication on Progress (COP Helmond, 2020, October 12th Statement of continuing support by the CEO In November 2011 NUNNER Logistics have committed themselves to support the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, and have submitted their Communication on Progress (COP) since than each year in November. I am pleased to confirm that NUNNER Logistics reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. In this Communication on Progress we describe our actions to continuously improve the integration of the Global Compact and it’s principles into our company strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Interesting to mention is that NUNNER Logistics was sponsor of some UN Global Compact Leaders Summit held in New York. The CEO of the company publishes regular blogs related to ethics in business. 2020 turned out to be a strange year because of the rise of COVID-19 in the first quarter. The whole year has so far been dominated by this. Sincerely yours, __________________________________ Erwin Cootjans CEO Description of practical actions 1 Human rights 1.1 Assessment, Policy & Goals NUNNER Logistics respects and actively supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The respect for human rights is integrated in both internal and external operations. On 2014 May 26th NUNNER has published its current company’s Code of Conduct that is applicable to all employees of the NUNNER group and must be complied with. This Code of Conduct is also published on the company’s website and can be found here: http://www.nunner-logistics.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Nunner-Code-of-Conduct.pdf Concerning human rights it explicitly states that NUNNER respects the opinion of other persons and their personal dignity, privacy and personal rights. NUNNER will not tolerate any type of discrimination, mobbing or harassment. TRIAL MODE − Click here for more information 1.2 Implementation All employees are subject to a detailed year-end-meeting with their manager. If requested, there is also the option to have this meeting with participation or face-to-face with a confidant representative of the Human Resources department. 1.3 Measurement of outcomes NUNNER Logistics has not received any complaints from employees, suppliers, business partners or customers in relation to any human rights violations, nor has it been involved in any investigation, legal case or incident involving human rights. With the Code of Conduct a specific contact and email address of the Compliance Office has been published. It can be addressed by every employee in case of questions or insecurities regarding the application of the Code of Conduct. Until 12.10.20197 no mails or communication about non-compliance with ethic objectives have been received. 2 Labour 2.1 Assessment, Policy & Goals All working conditions are defined not only through our detailed Human Resources handbook, but the legal framework is also given, where applicable, through the Dutch logistics union guidebook covering all work related topics like wages, working hours, benefits, workplace health & safety, etc. In addition to that we strive continually to assess our employees’ skills, goals and training requirements and to provide guidance or training to support the personal development of each individual. Every single employee of NUNNER Logistics receives a minimum of 80 hours of training per year. 2.2. Protection against disease Since the beginning of this year, we have been living around the world with COVID-19. It is of the utmost importance to NUNNER Logistics that its employees are safe. In this context, it was decided during the lockdown period to allow employees to work from home wherever possible. Furthermore, within NUNNER Logistics there is a duty where a mask when moving around the office and the 1.5 meter distance rule is mandatory. Of course in addition to frequent hand disinfection. External and internal meetings are kept to a minimum and where possible replaced by Microsoft Team Meetings. NUNNER Logistics was one of the first European companies to issue a travel ban for its employees as of March 1, 2020. 2.3 Implementation Since 2012 every staff member on all levels is trained in the NUNNER Total Performance Academy (warehouse staff, office staff, managers and directors). All office and warehouse employees have completed the course and have reached the level of MBO (Middelbaar Beroeps Onderwijs; middle level applied education”). Employees that are already qualified for MBO have the opportunity to complete the HBO-level (Hoger Beroeps Onderwijs; higher professional education ) This qualifies them for a professional master program in the Netherlands. The company offers for all employees regularly professional, specific work-related training courses that are held during or right after office hours in the company offices. All employees get updated new causes to stay aware of new developments and knowledge. In autumn 2018 a new training started on the newly implemented agile scrum structure in the company (see 2.3) New employees are offered the same educational opportunities. In spring 2019 the “NUNNER Learning & Development Centre was launched. This is a new training for all levels of employees on lean working methods, customer service orientation, leadership and many other topics. This new inititiave was very well received by all staff. TRIAL MODE − Click here for more information 2.4 Agile Scrum On 2018 January 1st NUNNER Logistics HQ started to work via the agile scrum method.The company has been restructured in socalled squads, chapters and tribes. The squads are self steering multidiscipline units that are responsible for as well their squad result as the total entities result. The job satisfaction and the performance have both increased significantly In order to improve the efficiency of the squads additional training for all staff started in autumn 2018. NUNNER sees optimization of the company as an ongoing process to keep ahead of the competition and to keep her stakeholders satisfied. The project had a very positive impact on our human resources and lead to an overall high satisfaction of our employees. Via the new initiatiative “NUNNER learning and development centre” the skills are currently further finetuned. 2.5. employees well-being In July 2020, NUNNER Logistics moved into a new head office in Helmond. The well-being of our employees was central to the design of this new head office. For example, a ventilation system has been put into use that refreshes the air in the building twice an hour, every employee has a sea of space of approximately 30m2 per employee, there is a professional fitness room in the building, a cozy company cafe, a large canteen with terraces etc. 2.6. Integration of minorities NUNNER logistics is actively promoting to contract employees from different cultural back grounds. In that respect 15% of the employees in the Netherlands is from Polish origin. To make them feel at home and to show NUNNERs appreciation towards them NUNNER organizes Polish events on a regular basis. On this kind of parties all employees in the Netherlands were invited (not only the Dutch) to promote integration. 2.7 Measurement of outcomes NUNNER Logistics has not been involved in any investigations or legal cases related to the UN Global Compact Labour principles and it has not been subject to any health and safety statutory notices in the last year. Despite the challenges that logistic companies are facing, the average duration of employment at NUNNER is, despite its relatively young staff, > 10 year, which we regard as a clear sign of workforce stability and mutual trust 3 Environment 3.2 ISO 26000 In july 2015, NUNNER Logistics implemented all ISO 26000 guidelines into the organization which lead to a socalled self declaration ISO 26000. This self declation has been approved and registered by NEN (Nederlandse Eenheids Norm) beginning of October 2015. The declaration has been prolonged in April 2019. NUNNER Logistics proudly presents its policy on the corporate website : http://www.nunner-logistics.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/motivation-NUNNER-LogisticsISO26000-02092015.pdf 3.3 Assessment, Policy & Goals TRIAL MODE − Click here for more information NUNNER Logistics has a detailed environmental policy that is communicated to staff, customers, suppliers and other stakeholders on all levels. Focus on sustainability is a fundamental part of the company’s mission and vision. It is lived throughout the company and is present at all levels. 3.4 Implementation NUNNER is member of Green Freight Europe, an initiative of European shippers and transport companies that aims for creating a neutral platform for analyzing and evaluating GHG-emission measure and reduction initiatives. NUNNER is participating in several workgroups and sends delegates to various meetings and exhibitions to be up-to-date about new developments in the logistics market. NUNNER operates a subcontracted fleet of more than 1.500 trucks, of which > 80% isl classified according to the latest lowest emission classes Euro VII. All subcontractors are regularly audited on a regular basis. Moreover all subcontractors mandatorily need to report on the emission classes utilized in their fleet and the fuel consumption based on actual figures. Fuel consumption is reported on a monthly basis and the composition of the subcontractors’ fleets biannually. The outcome is captured in a trend graph for all main customers and reported and analyzed in business reviews NUNNER moved one of its X-docks in 2014 to the distribution facility of one of its major customers in a common effort to reduce truck movements between the distribution centre and NUNNERs X-dock. This has led to a tremendous reduction of the carbon footprint for this particular customer. Furthermore NUNNER is actively promoting intermodal solutions. By its rail initiatives between China and Europe v.v. we could actively reduce tonnages of airfreight leading to less carbon footprint. 3.5 Carbon footprint reduction In the Netherlands, more than 140,000 m2 of NUNNER buildings will be fitted with solar panels by 2020. With this, NUNNER in the Netherlands has turned from an energy consumer to a producer of energy. NUNNER produces more energy with its buildings than they consume. 3.6 Measurement of outcomes We promote and support environmentally friendly modes of transport, such as rail, barge and shortsea, and we achieved Co2-emission-savings in several areas and for various customers. 3.7 External audit At December 19th, 2015 NUNNER Logistics received the a rating of its audit by independend auditor ECOVADIS on the overall Corporate Social Responsibility. The average in the industry is 41,5 points. NUNNER reached a level of 62 (!!) points which ranks us amongst the 5% most corporate social responsible companies. This makes us a GOLD rates company, which is a big achievement. Beginning of 2017 NUNNER received its new upgraded rating. The new rating went up to 65% which brings NUNNER Logistics in the best 1% of rated European companies. This score and rating is prolonged every year since than including in 2020. 4 Anti-Corruption 4.1 Assessment, Policy & Goals NUNNER’s Code of Conduct makes a clear statement: Bribery and Anti-Corruption “Many countries have bribery and other anti-corruption laws that are intended to prevent companies and individuals from gaining an unfair advantage and from undermining the rule of law. We must never offer or accept bribes or kickbacks, and must not participate in or facilitate corrupt activities of any kind. This prohibition on offering or paying bribes also applies to third parties acting on NUNNER’s behalf, TRIAL MODE − Click here for more information such as contractors or consultants. We must never engage a third party who we believe may attempt to offer a bribe to conduct company business.” It addresses detailed guidelines on related topics, such as e.g.: Direct and indirect bribery Gifts and invitations Expenses, donations, charitable benefits and sponsoring Money laundering Market abuse or manipulation 4.2 Implementation The Compliance Office contact details are applicable for questions concerning any part of the Code of Conduct. As check for appropriateness, NUNNER advises employees to ask themselves the following questions when in doubt: Are my actions legally permitted and are they in line with the objectives of NUNNER group? Does my “subjective feeling” tell me that my actions are correct? Would I be able to justify my actions before the board of NUNNER or before authorities? Special emphasis is made on business brokers, intermediaries and other third parties who act on behalf of NUNNER Logistics, to ensure that these principles are communicated and applied by them accordingly. 4.3 Measurement of outcomes NUNNER Logistics has agreed Codes of Conduct with many business partners and customers, that often include clauses about anti-corruption and are always accepted and signed by the management. National rules of anti-corruption are strictly monitored by Dutch tax authorities. NUNNER Logistics has never been involved in any investigations or cases of corruption or bribery. Until now, no suspected breach of rules has been reported to the NUNNER Compliance Office. TRIAL MODE − Click here for more information
