Integrated Integrated Report Report 2019 Summary 03 Message from Management 05 Who we are Performance profile Governance and compliance Sustainability management 17 Strategy An asset light business High efficiency More value in the field Certifications Business model 29 Innovation management Connectivity to digital agriculture Research and planning AgroExponencial Program 36 People Our people Our communities 48 Planet Water and effluents Waste Biodiversity Climate change 56 Prosperity Sectorial context Operational performance Financial performance 61 Annexes About the report GRI content index How to use this document MENU ARROWS HOME PRINTING Navigate through the side menu Navigate page by page through Click the icon to return Use this shortcut to print the to the chapters of your interest the arrows on the lower right side to the summary PDF content Integrated Report 2019 MESSAGE FROM MANAGEMENT SLC Agrícola is one of the largest agricultural continuous improvement, and create a virtuous companies in Brazil, and world reference in large scale circle that results, every year, in more efficiency and agriculture. Our success is certainly due to SLC Group productivity in farming. characteristic entrepreneurship and long term vision, In 2019, our people management model was but it is also due to the values that have always guided acknowledged in the three most renowned our business decision making process; which led to rankings in Brazil on the theme – the Great the development of the best in terms of Brazilian and Place to Work survey and also those of Você S/A global agriculture. magazine and Valor Econômico newspaper. These Message Employees working on farms distributed across awards consider the opinion of employees, which six different Brazilian states and in the headquarters, demonstrates correctness of our strategy to qualify Who we are in Porto Alegre, make possible the concretization of and support the development of all professionals. Our Big Dream, to build a positive legacy to future In addition to the human aspect, the year was Strategy generations by being world leader in agribusiness also marked by the advance in the application Innovation efficiency and respect to the environment. Our year of digital agriculture concepts. Connectivity in management We combined a large investment in the preparation of our professionals – from the internship program was marked by the the field makes possible for information to reach our operational centers in real time and increase People to leaders’ qualification – to an environment with triple recognition of our agility and quality in decision making. Among the excellence conditions to the development of the new technologies we have sensors that provide Planet work with safety, respect, ethical stance, and longpeople management localized application of pesticides, digital weather Prosperity lasting relations among all members of the production practices and the stations, remote sensing systems for machines chain. The teams’ acknowledgement and valuation and tracking of cotton lint, among other different Annexes of results achieved reinforces the passion for work, advance in digital innovations that strengthen our competitiveness in and, at each crop, drive the search for innovation and agriculture agribusiness. GRI 102-14 3 Integrated Report 2019 The combination of the initiatives developed in all The creation and implementation of the our fronts led our company to very positive results. AgroExponencial program, whose first edition occurred We reached an adjusted EBITDA of R$ 795.5 million in 2019, is another initiative intended to add value by and a new net revenue record (R$ 2.5 billion). We means of innovation, going beyond our frontiers. With the also advanced our strategy of monetizing gains in our platform we can map and create partnerships with startups The real estate assets, by selling 5.2 thousand hectares in Message focused on the agroindustry technological evolution, integrated vision Maranhão State for R$ 83.2 million. Who we are opening opportunities for experimental projects with transforming potential to be tested and validated for large of sustainability, The integrated view of production will lead to the continuation of our businesses’ growth. Respect to scale application. Seven startups were selected to advance investment in human rights, environmental preservation, construction Strategy to the Concept Test phase in 2019, and of these, three were hired by the company aiming at the expanded use of innovation and the of a worthy work environment and ethics – universal principles defended by the United Nations (UN) Global Innovation management the solutions presented. establishment of Compact that we practice in our company – guide the People The support for our growth is the trust of our clients in long-lasting relations and in sustainable development. lasting relationships way we will keep on cultivating the soil and producing healthy food to the society. We all, administrators and Our certifications with the Integrated Management contributed to employees at SLC Agrícola, are committed to work Planet System (IMS) and the sustainability certificates for the success of the with excellence and integrity in order to increasingly the commodities we produce attest that we practice contribute to the country’s sustainable development. Prosperity a production model of high quality, with responsible strategy and the Annexes management of our people and the environment. In 2019, good results for Aurélio Pavinato we achieved a total of eight certified units, compliant with CEO of SLC Agrícola environmental, occupational health and safety and social the year responsibility norms. GRI 102-14 4 who we are We are among the largest producers of grains and fibers in Brazil and have sustainability strongly linked to our Big Dream and our values. We were pioneers in the sector worldwide to go public on a stock exchange and we continuously evolve corporate governance, compliance and risk management practices Integrated Report 2019 PERFORMANCE PROFILE Our company, SLC Agrícola, is one of the largest producers of grains and fibers in Brazil 5 and is part of the SLC Group, which, in 2020, will 6 7 complete 75 years of existence. Over time, we 15 8 13 9 have contributed to strengthen the agribusiness, a 12 10 strategic sector for the country’s economic growth 1 16 14 and development. We operate in six different 2 17 states, with 16 farms. In the 2018/2019 crop, we cultivated 459 thousand hectares in these units. 3 Our planning, administrative and commercial teams work integrated in our headquarters, located in 4 11 Porto Alegre (Rio Grande do Sul). We are experts in the cultivation, harvest Message and processing of soybean, corn and cotton, with a business model that integrates modern Who we are SLC LandCo’s Farms technologies, high scale of production, SLC Agrícola Property (SLC Agrícola 82%, Valiance 18%) standardization of units, efficiency in cost 1 Paiaguás 63,403 ha1 Strategy 15 Planeste 59,089 ha1 and 2 management and socio-environmental 2 Planorte 30,912 ha responsibility. Operations are conducted in own 16 Panorama 21,753 ha2 Innovation 3 Pamplona 20,034 ha1 management areas and leased areas and also by means of 17 Piratini 5,499 ha2 4 Planalto 22,154 ha1 three strategic joint ventures (SLC LandCo, HQ Porto Alegre 5 Parnaíba 37,750 ha1 and 2 Joint Venture with People Fazenda Pioneira and SLC-MIT) with large 6 Palmeira 21,094 ha1 the Roncador Group agribusiness investor groups. Planet Our company employs around 3.6 thousand 7 Parnaguá 10,250 ha 12 Pioneira 29,874 ha1 people, including fixed and temporary employees, 8 Paineira leased farm Prosperity 9 Parceiro 14,360 ha2 which execute a strategy that adds value to Joint Venture with Mitsui Co. the agribusiness in the Brazilian Cerrado and 10 Palmares -23,139 ha 1 1 Units with 2nd crop. 13 Perdizes 26,295 ha1 Annexes 2 Planted area considers the strengthens the company’s competitive differentials. 11 Pantanal 42,883 ha total 2019/2020 crop. 14 Paladino 20,673 ha GRI 102-1 | 102-2 | 102-3 | 102-4 6 Integrated Report 2019 Our numbers in 2019 13 20 01 2,609 16 cotton processing units, grain seed employees with open-ended farms 2 of them new in reception units processing unit employment 2019 contract Storage Message capacity: Who we are Strategy 764 125.1 72.3 thousand tons thousand tons thousand tons Innovation of grains of cotton lint of cotton seeds management People Planet R$ 2.5 R$ 315 459 thousand 99.4 thousand 1,021 Prosperity Annexes billion million hectares hectares seasonal net income net profit of planted areas in 2018/19 of preserved areas harvesters with crop (1st crop + 2nd crop) fixed-term contract GRI 102-7 7 Integrated Report 2019 Our Big Dream The planet’s current population is of 7.7 billion people and the expectation is that, until 2050, this number will grow to 9 billion, according to the United Nations OUR BIG DREAM projection. The agribusiness has an important role to Positively impact future generations by being face this accelerated increase by ensuring the offer of foods, clothes and energy, minimizing environmental world leader in agricultural business efficiency impacts and contributing to reduce greenhouse gas and respect to the planet emissions to the atmosphere. At SLC Agrícola, our commitment is to put into practice a business model aligned to the agricultural OUR VALUES sector’s sustainability. We translate this purpose by means of “Our Big Dream”, a declaration that synthesizes the ambition for the company’s growth with We believe that those who balance and strengthening of positive impacts. have passion for what they do The corporate values practiced by our employees on a daily basis feed Our Big Dream. Driven by these beliefs, are committed and do so with our teams create a production cycle that generates maximum quality, preserving their Message positive economic impacts on the region we operate, integrity by means of ethical, strengthens ethic and worthy relations with all publics, Who we are promotes respect to the environment and transforms coherent and unquestionable the work on the land into wealth to be shared with the conduct. Strategy society. Innovation These attitudes altogether generate management long-lasting relations and respect People among all interested parties, Planet producing sustainable results that are economically feasible, Prosperity socially fair and environmentally Annexes responsible. GRI 102-16 8 Integrated Report 2019 Awards 2019 Valor Carreira As Melhores da Dinheiro 2019 We obtained the 1st position in the category We achieved the 1st position of agribusiness in IstoÉ of companies with 3,001 to 7,000 employees Dinheiro magazine ranking, which assesses aspects in Valor Econômico newspaper, which associated to financial sustainability, human resources, acknowledges the best companies in people innovation and quality, social and environmental management. responsibility, corporate governance. Best Companies Latin America Executive Team to Work for in (Small Caps) – agribusiness sector Rio Grande do Sul For the fourth year in a row, we deserved highlight For the third year in a row, we were in North-American magazine Institutional Investor’s acknowledged by Great Place to Work annual survey. We appear among the three best (GPTW) survey. In this edition we obtained Brazilian companies, occupying the top of the podium in the 8th position categories Best CEO, Best Investor Relations’ Team and Message Best IR Professional. 150 Best Companies to Work for Who we are 2019 Agribusiness Strategy We achieved the triple acknowledgement of Best Award practices in people management for appearing Innovation among the first positions of the ranking We obtained the position (“Champion of Champions”) in management by Você S/A magazine in partnership with the 15th edition of this award, promoted by Globo Rural Institute of Management Foundation (FIA). magazine. The acknowledgement considers the financial People results and sustainability practices of companies in 21 agribusiness sectors. Planet Destaques A Granja Prosperity Estadão Empresas Mais 2019 We were acknowledged as the best corn Annexes products by A Granja magazine award. We obtained the 1st position within the “Agriculture Defined by the magazine’s readers’ vote, this and Cattle Raising” sector in O Estado de S. Paulo award is annually promoted and is already in newspaper ranking, which assesses indicators of size its 34th edition. and financial performance. GRI 103-3 9 Integrated Report 2019 GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE Our company, the first grain and cotton producer worldwide In 2019, we advanced in this direction by implementing to have shares negotiated in a stock exchange, is listed and consolidating the Compliance System, which in the B3’s Novo Mercado segment, and adopts the best disseminates and reinforces the culture of integrity among corporate governance practices to ensure transparence in administrators and employees. the relations with shareholders, as well as the maximization The Compliance System’s guidelines, norms and in value generation. The 2007 IPO represented a milestone procedures were structured according to the Clean to our history, allowing fund raising to expand business with Company Act (12.846/2013), Novo Mercado regulation acquisition and development of lands. and all internal policies approved by the Administrative Since then, the evolution of governance policies and Council. Thus, this platform ensures that we will have system has led the management to a responsible and mechanisms to identify, prevent and fight not only illegal balanced growth of business, aligned to corporate ethics and values, as expressed in the Code of Ethics and Conduct. actions, but also misconducts that are not compliant with our internal values and requirements. We were the first grain and Message cotton producer in Who we are the world to have Strategy shares traded on a stock exchange Innovation management and, since then, People we have evolved in our corporate Planet governance Prosperity and compliance Annexes practices GRI 102-5 | 102-16 | 205-1 10 Integrated Report 2019 57% We count on a Compliance area dedicated to the System implementation and dissemination in of employees our management structure. One of the activities developed is classroom and distance (digital) were trained in the first qualifications to employees from all units, with focus year of the Compliance on the awareness for adoption to good practices and System respect to ethics and integrity. In the first year, 57% of employees were trained on ethics, compliance and mechanisms to fight fraud and corruption. Contato Seguro, a channel to receive complaints 100% of and communication of acts that violate our values and guidelines, complements the Compliance communications System structure. The tool, managed by an external company, ensures to all those that access it secrecy received by Contato of information and anonymity, where requested. Our Seguro were treated company also counts on a non-retaliation policy with secrecy and in order to safeguard the tool’s integrity. A total of confidentiality 114 records occurred in Contato Seguro in 2019. Investigations on critical complaints did not prove the mentioned irregularities. Message The analysis of all communications to Contato Seguro is made internally by the Loss Prevention Who we are Committee. Where necessary, the interaction with the complainant is made by means of the platform, Strategy without compromising secrecy and confidentiality. The tool is also used to provide answer to the case Innovation management conclusion. Though most communications in 2019 were associated to doubts and suggestions, our People company values the channel as means to establish ethical and worthy relationships with employees, Planet clients and suppliers. Prosperity Annexes GRI 102-17 11 Integrated Report 2019 Risk management The management of risks associated to our of all areas; the main externalities are identified and water dams in Pamplona Farm, thus ensuring business model was improved and reinforced in 2019 categorized in a Matrix that will assess probability of compliance of preventive maintenances and the with the approval of the Risk Management Policy occurrence and impact on the organization. Risks safety of these facilities. The farms also count on by the Administrative Council. This instrument perceived are divided in six different categories and a trained team to respond to emergency situations establishes principles and guidelines, and also prioritized according to limit criteria as established associated to accidents and other events that defines corporate responsibilities for identification, by existing mitigation policies and actions. may put at risk the patrimony or the physical assessment and mitigation of factors that can Treatment of residual risks is made through action integrity of employees. negatively impact the company. plans defined by the Board and implemented by In the context of climate changes, we count Moreover, our management is supported by leaders of areas impacted by these factors. The on business differentials that contribute to our the Market Risk Management Policy, which set policy provides for the installation of an internal adaptation capacity. Besides the 99% of areas forth guidelines to protect the company’s audit area, directly linked to the Administrative cultivated in dry farming, we distribute our farms operational margin in face of exchange rate Council, to continuously assess the efficacy of the geographically across six states of the Brazilian variations and commodities’ prices. This governance processes developed for this management. Cerrado, biome characterized by higher stability guideline, applied since 2008, is periodically ESG (Environmental, Social and Governance) of rainfall regime. Aiming at mitigating our impacts reviewed to adapt structures to the changes in the risk management is grounded on the Integrated to global warming, we defined, in 2019, a plan for context where we operate. Management System (IMS) and its certifications reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, in order to Message Among the main risk factors we manage is the associated to environment (ISO 14001), reduce them by 25% in the coming decade. exposure of the company to dollar variation and occupational safety (OHSAS 18001), social Who we are the impact of obligations in foreign currency on the responsibility (NBR 16001) and quality (ISO 9001). company’s cash flow, since large part of inputs have These norms have specific requirements to survey Strategy their price tied to the North-American currency and the products’ destination is the foreign market. To face critical aspects and impacts in each of these themes, ensuring the identification of hazards and risks 25% Innovation management this exposure, we count on a patrimonial protection and the definition of respective applicable control reduction strategy (hedge) and use different instrument to keep measures. The IMS also includes periodic internal in GHG emissions is People exposure within acceptable risk limits. audits and external verifications to expand the one of our goals for the The processes that we adopt to manage risks in an number of certified farms (learn more on page 26). next decade Planet integrated way are aligned to the best practices and Associated to this management, we monitor with methodologies and allow that, with the involvement a specialized team and periodic inspections two Prosperity Annexes GRI 102-15 | 201-2 12 Relatório Integrado 2019 Formal guidelines Risk Management Policy Market Risk Management Policy Risk categories Strategic Operational Financial Regulatory and/or Compliance Socio-environmental To the image Our risk management practices Risk management structure Risk Management Committee Formed by the Board of Directors, meets weekly Executive Committee CEO report to the Board of Directors, according to schedule of meetings of the governance body Message Who we are Instruments for hedge Strategy Swap contracts (B3 and CETIP) Non-deliverable forward (NDF) Innovation Futures contracts (B3, CBOT and NYBOT – ICE) management Plain vanilla options contracts (stock exchange and counter) Dollar debt contracts People Planet Instruments for Prosperity continuation of operations Annexes Integrated Management System (IMS) Certifications Internal and external audits GRI 102-15 13 Integrated Report 2019 Governance structure 60% of Our governance bodies are responsible for defining the corporate The Board of Executive Officers, responsible for members strategy and monitoring of tools and processes for management and protection against risks to the business. The Board of Directors executing the company’s strategic plan, is composed of four executives, appointed by the Board of Directors for a in the Board is the highest decision instance of the administration and works to two-year term, and two non-statutory executives. The four of Directors establish the general orientations to the company’s development in Senior Executives represent our company in administrative are independent, the agribusiness ambit. proceedings and monitor the work of internal management The Board members are elected at the Shareholders’ General structures, focused on continuous improvement and which Meeting for a two-year term, and can be re-elected. The body maximization of assets’ value. overcomes comprises five members; three of them being independent, with In 2019, the General Meeting determined the installation acknowledged professional experience. of the Fiscal Board, responsible for inspecting the the B3 Novo The Board is supported by three advisory committees. These administration acts. Though not permanent, the Fiscal Mercado’s structures are responsible for assessing in depth the critical aspects Board has been recurrently constituted since 2012. to the company’s management and providing recommendations for Comprising three external members with one year term, requirements the members’ decision making process. the Fiscal Board is independent and works according to the Corporation Act and the company’s Bylaws. Message Who we are Board of Directors Fernando Osvaldo Eduardo Jorge André Pessoa Aurélio Pavinato Strategy Reinach Logemann Logemann Independent Chief Executive Independent Schirmer Counselor Chairman Vice-Chairman Counselor Officer Counselor Innovation management Shareholders Risk Management People Comittee Planet Prosperity Annexes Fiscal Council Álvaro Dilli Angelo Castiglia Paulo Kruse Ivo Brum Gustavo Lunardi Aldo Tisott Chief Information Mauricio Carvalho Chief HR and Chief Financial Chief Operating Chief Sales Sustainability Technology João Sfreddo and IR Officer Officer Officer Officer Officer GRI 102-18 14 Integrated Report 2019 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Our sustainability view is aligned with Our Big Dream. It is transversal constraints of operation. These themes started to be considered in to operations and is materialized in several initiatives, like the efficient performance assessment and variable remuneration of employees. use of inputs driven by technology, qualification and digital inclusion This management is supported by transparence in accountability of our employees, development of communities where we operate and to the society and by the interchange of knowledge and practices environmental preservation as necessary condition to the future with other entities and companies. In this context, we have prepared, development of our activities. since 2016, our Integrated Report, aligned with the Integrated In 2019, we improved the integration of sustainability aspects to the company’s Reporting framework of the International Integrated Reporting strategy. In a workshop involving all corporate and farms’ directors and Council, and GRI Standards, the most adopted model worldwide managers, we identified our priority axes and their respective correlation with for this type of document and proposed by the Global Reporting UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) and Food and Agriculture Business Initiative (GRI). We are signatory of the Global Compact and Principles (FABP). Based on that, we incorporated sustainability issues to our participate in the Brazilian Food and Agriculture Network Working strategic map, like aspects associated to farms certification and environmental Group of the Global Compact. Message Who we are Strategy Innovation management People Planet Prosperity Annexes GRI 102-12 | 102-15 15 Integrated Report 2019 Priority axes of action Water and biodiversity Involves initiatives for optimization of water consumption and preservation of water resources and biodiversity. For such, we invested in eco-efficient production systems and promoted initiatives for conservation and reforestation, in addition to ensuring the adoption of best management practices by DECENT WORK AND means of certifications of our activities. LIFE ECONOMIC GROWTH ON LAND Climate changes and soil Stakeholders’ expectation Comprises all efforts to mitigate climate changes, with two main Gathers investments and approaches approaches: minimizing agricultural to promote the socio-economic and LIFE inputs consumption, generation RESPONSIBLE cultural development of the regions BELOW WATER CONSUMPTION of wastes and use of fossil fuels, AND PRODUCTION reducing our carbon footprint; and where we operate, based on transparent dialogue with all publics improving soil quality in cultivation and training of our leaders and areas, contributing to carbon Message other employees for them to better sequestration in the soil. understand the challenges of local CLIMATE Who we are ACTION communities. Strategy Innovation management People PEAA principles prioritized Planet Prosperity Annexes Economic feasibility Food security, Environmentally Human rights and values health and nutrition responsible and rural communities GRI 102-15 16 stra tegy Focused on high efficiency, our business model is increasingly migrating to an asset light structure. The prioritization of crops with high added value and investments in certification and traceability of production contribute to our differentiation in the markets in which we operate Integrated Report 2019 STRATEGY Strategic phases of SLC Agrícola PHASE PHASE PHASE 1 2 3 The history of our company, founded in 1977, followed the evolution of agribusiness in Brazil. The business growth and consolidation strategy, “The Miracle “Arbitration Window “Distance in relation which can be broken down in three main phases, of Cerrado” to Convert Lands” to the average” took advantage of market opportunities to expand cultivated areas while incorporating state-of-theBusiness model IPO speeds Technology as art management practices and new technologies to formation up the growth “game changer” increase productivity. 480 In the first part of this journey, we expanded our 440 presence in the Brazilian Cerrado and developed Area planted in thousand of hectares 400 a replicable production model that supported the 360 following phase. In 2007, when the company floated its shares on the B3 S.A. (São Paulo stock exchange), 320 we started the second phase with accelerated growth 280 of cultivated area by means of land leasing, formation 240 of joint ventures, and products certifications. 200 Message Now we are in the third phase of our strategy, 160 where digitalization and new technologies transform 120 Who we are agricultural practices. Our focus is on reaching 80 maximum efficiency with a management that Strategy 40 maximizes profitability on assets (“asset light”), 0 prioritizes growth in crops with higher added value Innovation 1977 2007 2015 2019 management and consolidates production traceability. With high efficiency and modern technologies, Foundation till IPO IPO 2007 to 2015 To date People we seek to expand production in already developed • 100% own area • Aggressive growth • High efficiency areas. Innovation and planning capacity lead us to • Gradual land • Onset of the leasing • Migration to the “asset Planet continuously improve all details of the production transformation strategy light” business model process. We invest in certifications and mechanisms • Land as value reserve • Joint ventures • Growth in greater added Prosperity value cultures that will ensure products’ traceability, which adds • Development of a • Certifications value to the production chain. replicable production • Consolidation of Annexes model production certifications and traceability GRI 102-15 18 Relatório Integrado 2019 Land sales AN ASSET LIGHT Paineira Farm 821 Revenue BUSINESS Rio Grande do Sul hectares R$ 10 million Our strategy conducts the company to build an operational structure that maximizes profitability Palmeira 14.6 Revenue on assets, with lower demand for investments and expansion of operational efficiency. The migration to an asset light type business model creates Farm Maranhão thousand hectares R$ 27million competitive advantages and distinguishes us in the agribusiness sector. 2008 Value capitalized 59 In 2019, we continued with our strategy to 2010 SLC LandCo. by Valiance 53 realize real estate gains and sold a total of 5,205 (Panorama, 2012 thousand US$ million hectares from Parnaíba Farm (in Maranhão Piratini and State). Our company will keep on carrying 2017 Planeste Farms) out agricultural operations in the 4,162 arable Maranhão hectares (for 18% of the company) hectares of the area. The new owner will be 2019 and Bahia Message remunerated with the payment of leasing at market price. The operation generated additional Who we are income of R$ 83.2 million, posting an internal Part of Strategy return rate of around 14.1% in dollars, considering only the historical acquisition value. Paiaguás and Parceiro 11.6 Revenue Innovation management Annually, we conduct an independent appraisal of our land portfolio in order to identify the average price of the arable hectare. Last year, this Farms Mato Grosso thousand hectares R$ 177million and Piauí People measurement amounted to R$ 18,415 and the total value was of R$ 3.8 billion. From this base, we Planet identified opportunities for disinvestments. Prosperity Part of Parnaíba 5.2 Revenue Annexes Farm Maranhão thousand hectares R$ 83 million GRI 102-10 19 Integrated Report 2019 Another evolution made possible by this change is the increase of leased lands participation in the portfolio, Planted area (thousand hectares) Harvest outsourcing which includes the SLC LandCo, Fazenda Pioneira and 458 449 SLC-MIT joint ventures, where the agricultural operation 404 17% 24% management is made by our company. In the 2018/2019 171 170 31% crop, over half of the area under our management was 145 cultivated in third parties’ properties. 116 142 136 The outsourcing growth in soybean mechanized 83% 76% 69% harvest also reflects our strategy and maximizes profitability on assets. It simultaneously drives value 143 145 143 CROP CROP CROP CROP CROP CROP sharing in a more efficient production chain. This 2017/ 2018/ 2019/ 2016/ 2017/ 2018/ 2018 2019 2020 2017 2018 2019 movement made possible, in only three years, the (estimate) evolution from 100% own operation stage (2015/2016 Own area Soybean own harvest crop) to other stage with participation of around 30% of 2nd crop area Soybean outsourced harvest Leased areas + joint ventures partners (2018/2019 crop). SLC Agrícola’s joint ventures 81.2% SLC LandCo 18.8% Message SLC Agrícola Valiance* Who we are *English private equity fund Strategy 50% Pioneira 50% SLC Agrícola Roncador Innovation management Farm Group People Planet 50.1% SLC-MIT 49.9% Prosperity SLC Agrícola Mitsui & Co. Annexes Click here and learn more about our partnerships 20 Integrated Report 2019 Relations with suppliers Message Our company’s supply chain counts on and legal compliance of the companies and, for Amounts paid to companies that supply inputs and equipment, specific cases, we assess practices of health, suppliers (R$ million) 2019 Who we are service providers and logistics. Hiring and safety and environment of employees. purchases are centralized, in a process Where contracts involve labor outsourcing, Per category coordinated by the supply area and guided by the as for soy harvest, we periodically check Strategy Agricultural supplies 1,121.0 Supply Policy. tax collection and labor contributions, a Our management model organizes suppliers requirement for payments to be made. Machines, implements and vehicles 303.7 Innovation in three purchase categories: agricultural supply; Our supplier base counted, in 2019, on 7,527 management Use and consumption, 548.4 machines, implements and vehicles; and use, companies already registered for the supply infrastructure and services consumption and infrastructure. With this of products and services. We do business with People segmentation, we improved our relations with 3,092 partners, totaling around R$ 1.9 billion in TOTAL 1,973.1 partners allocating expert employees to each type payments. In logistic handling, we perform the Per region Planet of hiring, which provides more agility and efficacy transportation of 260 thousand tons of cargo, to purchase processes. involving a total of 24 carriers in the handling Brazil 1,903.0 Prosperity All suppliers are homologated according to of cotton, corn, seeds, fertilizers and 475 Abroad 70.1 our internal guidelines before establishing the agricultural machines TOTAL 1,973.1 Annexes contract. In this stage, we check documentations GRI 102-9 21 Integrated Report 2019 HIGH EFFICIENCY Making land more productive is one of the premises for the With this combination of actions, our productivity has increasingly agribusiness to contribute to the sustainable society development. surpassed the national average. Soy plantations reached, in the The incorporation of new technologies and production techniques 2018/2019 crop, historical records of production and average makes our agricultural operation more efficient, and, therefore, more productivity of 3,739 kg per hectare planted. profitable, because it demands less investments to purchase inputs and prepare the soil. One of the focuses of this model of operation is the mature areas, Planted area per region those with at least three years of agricultural operation. This portfolio adjustment made in the last years has led to the expansion of cultivation in the central west region, which provides more stability to production. At each year, we have been increasingly more effective in plantation and harvest planning and execution. We reduced the average time 59% Crop 41% 47% Crop 53% of agricultural operations, which makes possible the use of the ideal 2014/2015 2019/2020 cultivation interval and reduces losses in harvest. We have also expanded the area planted with second crop cultivations – corn and cotton – to Midwest maximize the assets use and reduce exposure to climate factors. Northeast Message Who we are Land maturity Strategy 1% Plantation average time (days) Harvest average time (days) 19% 5% Innovation management 72 31 67 29 58 27 People 81% 95% 99% 24 50 49 23 46 20 Planet CROP CROP CROP CROP CROP CROP CROP CROP CROP Prosperity 2014/ 2016/ 2018/ 2017/ 2018/ 2019/ 2017/ 2018/ 2019/ 2015 2017 2019 2018 2019 2020 2018 2019 2020 (estimate) (estimate) Annexes Mature land Soybean Cotton Soybean Cotton Imature land (less than 3 years of cultivation) 22 Integrated Report 2019 Production cycle Message Who we are Strategy Innovation management People Planet Prosperity Annexes 23 Integrated Report 2019 MORE VALUE IN THE FIELD In order to be more competitive in agribusiness, we invest in production models that diversify our business and increase assets’ profitability. For that matter, cotton is a culture that opens opportunities to add value to clients by means of services that differentiate us in the market. After harvest, we conduct a visual classification and laboratory tests of the fiber’s characteristics. With our own software, we cross-check information and create standardized and uniform batches to be processed and directly sent to clients, according to their needs and orders. We use modern technologies like RFID (Radio-frequency Identification), which provide more agility to the process from plantation to processing units. Identification of lots in the field makes possible the automated reading of labels and makes more efficient the creation of blocks in storage yards and humidity control in fibers’ treatment. With these solutions, the volume of cotton sold directly to clients significantly increased in the last years. We could also access more external Message markets, expanding exportations and generation of incomes in dollars, in addition to reach prices with the so called “premium”, a positive difference with Who we are regard to the product quotation in New York stock exchange, which reflects our product valorization by clients. Strategy Evolution of cotton Innovation sales channel management 18% 24% 31% People Planet 80% 71% 64% Prosperity Annexes 3% 5% 5% CROP CROP CROP 2016/ 2017/ 2018/ Domestic market 2017 2018 2019 Indirect exports Direct exports (estimate) GRI 102-6 24 Integrated Report 2019 Another evolution of our portfolio is SLC Sementes, a new front of operation destined to produce soy seeds. operations, associated to RTRS standard certification, ensures to clients inputs’ quality and origin. 145 The initiative emerged from the project for production of The Field Day is an important event to show to the thousand certified seed for our own cultivation, started in 2013. In 2019, this activity was expanded and started to specialized public the advantages of SLC Sementes. Last year, we promoted five editions and around bags serve other producers, with trading of 145 thousand 40 300 people participated in the presentations and of 40 kg of soybean kg bags. technical visits, getting to know the news and the seeds comercialized The seeds we produce, from 14 different cultivars, work developed with responsibility and sustainability. in 2019 serve producers that work in the same region where we plant and large size multinational companies from the agricultural inputs sector. The use of the seeds in our own Message Who we are Strategy Innovation management People Planet Prosperity Annexes GRI 102-2 | 102-6 25 Integrated Report 2019 CERTIFICATIONS The grains and fibers we produce are traded with clients in the Brazilian market and abroad, mostly through trading companies that are related to food, animal feed, textile industries and many other sectors. The certifications we ISO 14001 obtained to our operations and product represent a relevant Environmental differential to our company, because they make possible to Management serve clients with high demand standards in Europe and Asia and add value to the production chain. The certification processes of units attest to external publics the quality of management tools and good practices we adopt. Our Integrated Management System (IMS) counts on ISO 14001 (environmental management), OHSAS 18001 (occupational health and safety), NBR 16001 (social responsibility) and ISO 9001 (quality) certifications. Today, eight farms are already certified by norms ISO 14.001, OHSAS ISO 45001 NBR 16001 Occupational Message 18.001 and NBR 16.001, comprising a total of 282 thousand Social Health and arable hectares. Responsibility Safety Who we are Our quality management model, certified by norm ISO 9001, the most internationally renowned to ensure Strategy standardization of processes and systematic forcontinuous improvement, contemplates grains and cotton storage and Innovation management processing operations. In 2019, two other units were audited and approved, totaling five certified farms. People We also adopted the best soy and cotton cultivation practices and, due to that, our products count on Planet ISO 9001 internationally renowned certifications. Among them, RTRS Quality and ProTerra are highlights for soy culture and ABR and BCI Prosperity for cotton culture (get to know them better in the chart). Annexes GRI 102-11 26 Integrated Report 2019 Our certifications Integrated Management System (IMS) Quality ISO 14001 Management System Defines the requirements for implementation and improving ISO 9001 of operations’ environmental management system. Guides the adoption of policies and requirements OHSAS 18001 to ensure standardization, Guides the structuring of norms and procedures for monitoring and a system of management of health and safety documentation of the conditions in work environment. Our company production process. is working on the migration to the new ISO 45001 standard, which replaces OHSAS 18.001 certification. NBR 16001 Establishes requirements for social responsibility management system, directing the operations towards promoting citizenship and social development. Message Who we are Soybean Cotton RTRS (Round Table on ABR Strategy Responsible Soy) (Res ponsible Brazilian Cotton) Establishes an international standard Promotes sustainable cotton Innovation for environmentally correct, socially management production encouraging the fair and economically feasible adoptions of good practices of soy production. environmental management, social People ProTerra responsibility and sustainability vision. Planet Standard that ensures compliance with BCI (Better Cotton Initiative) environmental and social requirements Encourages awareness in the Prosperity in the production of grains without whole production chain of the genetic modifications (OGM). importance of fair labor relations Annexes and socio-environmental responsibility in the field. GRI 102-11 27 Integrated Report 2019 BUSINESS MODEL We guide our operations by SLC Agrícola strategic drivers in order to create and share sustainable value with the whole society. Click on each capital to understand this management approach and get to know our main inputs and the value added by our activities. OUR BIG DREAM d leader in agricultural b e in g worl usin s b yb ess effi o n or th at w e d o • Last i ng Financial Manufactured r a ti s s io nf relat cie nc Human Natural capital capital ne P a i ons capital capital ge t y • t • H igh ad d ed v a hi p ya e g ri t ligh lue c s• nd u r t e ss e ultur Su re u t In y • A es• s tai sp t f S n c C na ec c U E c ie er pa L e f fi tifi c bl e tt m VA g h a tion r e Hi su o R Social and i Intellectual ve U s a l ep relationship capital ly O Y nd th Po G ts capital sit i TE s lan e ST ra t RA i Back to Message ab start OU tre Who we are R lity Strategy Innovation management People Planet Prosperity Annexes EXTERNAL CONTEXT Climate scenario • Global commodities market 28 innovation manage ment We are at the frontier of innovation in agribusiness, expanding our field connectivity project every year and investing in research and studies aimed at increasing productivity. In 2019, we approached the innovation ecosystem, with challenges proposed to startups in the AgroExponencial Program Integrated Report 2019 INNOVATION MANAGEMENT Innovation Ambition Research and development of new technologies and agricultural practices Being connected with the drive efficiency and productivity in our operations. These benefits increased most modern technology with the advance of digitalization and connectivity, which led to important transformation in all stages of the production cycle in the last years. and processes, being and In order to centralize and coordinate the management of this theme, we early-adopter of innovations, by count on the Innovation Committee, structure that completed its second year means of effective filtering the best of activities in 2019. The Committee’s main guidelines include fomentation solutions (external and/or internal) to innovative culture and connection with agribusiness innovation ecosystem, aligned with the best market practices and marked by focus on open and their quick implementation innovation. To guide the initiatives proposed by the Committee, we wrote our in all areas/units that may benefit Innovation Ambition, aligned with the current corporate strategy phase. from them, measuring gains. The Innovation Committee is currently responsible for managing the two programs included in the innovation architecture, AgroExponencial (a startups connection program, whose first cycle occurred in 2019) and Ideias & Message Resultados (an intrapreneurship program, launched in December 2019). With this structure, our company strengthens the innovation culture and also the Who we are evolution of administrative processes. With regard to people management, for example, new solutions changed and strengthened employees’ qualification Strategy to a more digital universe and improved processes for selection and hiring of talents (learn more on page 41). Innovation management People Planet Prosperity Annexes 30 Integrated Report 2019 CONNECTIVITY TO DIGITAL AGRICULTURE In 2019, we expanded the field connectivity project to five units, covering an area of approximately 70 thousand hectares with internet signal. The initiative covers the installation of telecommunication towers with 4G technology – 700 Mhz, integrating the agricultural operation to our company’s management systems, in Porto Alegre (Rio Grande do Sul). Digital sensors installed in agricultural machines and telecommunications in real time provide scale gains and higher control of agricultural activities. In the intelligence center, specialized Message technicians follow the development of activities in plantations and assess several types of data – like plantation failures, route and speed of Who we are machines, input application, among other important aspects to better execute agriculture planning. Strategy With this structure, technicians and operators go to the field with precise and updated information. Through apps in tablets and Innovation management smartphones, they manage the fleet and agricultural operations, in addition to receiving agronomic data and alerts for the best working of People machines and equipment. Our goal is to conclude the integration of all the other farms by the Planet end of 2020. The digitalization of agriculture leads to a significant At the end of 2019, we covered 70,000 increase in field operations’ quality, offering clearer benefits to the large Prosperity scale agriculture that we practice. hectares on five farms with 4G technology, Annexes allowing the integration of agricultural operation with corporate management systems 31 Integrated Report 2019 Innovation in plantations’ management Targeted application Aerial spraying Weed monitoring Georeferenced The technology involves the use of The system improves the follow-up System of monitoring by drones plantation monitoring embedded sensors in agricultural of aerial spraying of pesticides and that localizes and informs the Georeferenced monitoring platform machines turned to the localized fertilizers, increasing the efficacy of amount of weed in plantations. that creates maps of levels of plagues application of pesticides. In some applications. In 2019, the tool was The aerial monitoring helps in the and diseases infestation. Information cases, as in the control of weeds in tested in three farms and, due to good construction of a map for localized is directly transmitted to the plantation cultures’ post-harvest phase, there results, 100% of the cultivated area will application of herbicides. The tool sprinkler and makes the application is up to 95% reduction in the use of be monitored in 2020. is being tested in three farms. only where infestations can cause the inputs. economic losses. All the cultivated area is already monitored by the tool. Message Who we are Strategy Innovation management People Biofactories Planet The biological management of plagues presents Biodefensive production is made internally, in significant environmental and economic advantages. the farms. This technology, result of research Prosperity Products cost, on average, 7.5 times less that conducted by the company, does not fully chemical solutions and present high efficiency replace the use of chemical defensives. Annexes against plagues, with over 80% of efficiency in most However, when jointly used, solutions increase cases. Moreover, its actions preserve micro fauna plantations’ efficiency and productivity. and other insects (like bees) and is directed only to natural enemies. 32 Integrated Report 2019 RESEARCH AND d disea an anita ses ry) PLANNING Pl (p u h ag s e os yt Pr o du ct ion Our company counts on teams dedicated to S o i l h e a lt h systems (phy research and structuring of knowledge on the EXPERIMENTAL behavior of cultures in the different Brazilian TESTS’ regions and climate conditions. Our goals in RESEARCH research activities are validation of technologies LINES and assessment of managements and innovation in production techniques, aiming at gains in efficiency to t (fe e (productivity, cost reduction or operational rt ch ty ny improvement). We work with experimentation i li areas in 13 farms, totaling 1.5 thousand hectares ) ) destined to tests. The tests follow strict standards of agricultural experimentation, where all data are analyzed by dedicated professionals using statistics Message tools. Results are consolidated in managerial reports and used in our agricultural planning cycle. Who we are In 2019, a total of 415 tests were carried out for soy, Evolution in Strategy cotton and corn cultures’ studies in Central-West climate monitoring and Northeast regions. Most tests are intended to adjust cultures’ positioning; however, fertilization The permanent monitoring of climate conditions with Innovation management strategies, soil management and assessment of per planted hectare and reduced losses due to adoption of cutting-edge Technologies assists in decision phytosanitary technologies are very important in our climate factors. making to develop agricultural operations. Our farms People research lines. The results obtained in experimental Research data compilation and cultures’ count on own stations, forming a network that makes available data in real time on climate and allows forecasts and commercial areas indicate that there is potential performance assessment, for over 30 years, with fewer risks. Planet for productivity growth in the localities where created a robust database to subsidize planning Other digital equipment for measurement and climate we operate, a continuous challenge linked to of agricultural operations. This phase, conducted analysis, like digital rain gauges, are being installed in Prosperity experimentation phase. With this technological structure, agribusiness sustainability. by our company’s experts, is one of the most Investments in research make possible the important in the production process, because we seek to measure and obtain better understanding Annexes on rainfalls and improve our decisions on plantation and identification of genetic varieties better adapted to it defines the acquisition of inputs, times application of defensives and fertilizers. climate and soil conditions for the micro-regions for plantation and harvest and operation of where we operate. Thus, we increased productivity machines in the field. 33 Integrated Report 2019 Artificial In 2019, we reinforced the use of an artificial Our investment in research generate tax credits to intelligence system exclusively developed to our be discounted from the company’s Income Tax and company, which cross-checks information and assist in determining the best types of seed for each cultivation Social Contribution and are reinvested in research infrastructure with acquisition of equipment and intelligence area. Data manipulation by intelligent algorithms is one machines and re-adaptation of laboratories. Tax relief in in agricultural of the strategies we adopt to increase productivity in each plantation, maximizing the use of the data mass 2019 amounted to R$ 1.5 million. In addition to internal use for strategic actions and planning generated by the research. With the results obtained in planning, our research also plays an important social role. Digitalization and use the 2018/2019 crop tests, we identified soy productivity Many results obtained in tests are shared with neighbor superior to 102 bags/hectare (Planalto Farm) and cotton producers. Thus, we strengthen exchange of knowledge of artificial intelligence productivity superior to 450 arrobas/hectare (Paiaguás and the joint adoption of good practices. We learn systems make possible Farm), even under second crop conditions where the together, assessing good examples and continuously cross-checking of potential is more limited than that of the first crop. identifying opportunities and threats for assessment in data and provide more research. In 2019, 18 days of field were held, involving efficiency in the choice almost 1,250 people. of seeds • Database with 20 years record in all farms • Climate data compiled in Message the last 40 years Who we are • 2,717 cultivars • Over 10.3 million Strategy simulated combinations Innovation • Over 9 million records management on the database People Planet Prosperity Annexes 34 Integrated Report 2019 AGROEXPONENCIAL PROGRAM Executed for the first time in 2019, the AgroExponencial Program is a were assessed and selected in several planned stages. The finalist platform, under the Innovation Committee management, that connects projects could conduct pilot activities in our units. The objective of our company to startups with innovative solutions for problems that are not this work model is to identify pioneer technologies with potential to being addressed by our traditional supplier chain currently. The platform, be included in our production system and associated gains, aligned structured in partnership with Innoscience consultancy, selected seven with the High Efficiency pillar of the current strategic phase. By the finalists to develop pilot projects. end of 2019, five pilot projects were already concluded and two The program received registrations from 185 startups that were invited to others were in progress. Three of them were chosen for rollout in propose their solutions for one of the ten challenges of the initiative, and order to speed up the capture of gains identified in the concept test. Startup selection 10 proposed challenges 185 registered 63 Message • Tracing of cotton cargoes pre-selected Who we are • Agricultural YIELD GAP management 20 • Tax/accounting reconciliation selected for Strategy the Pitch Day • Monitoring of cultures Innovation • In loco sampling and/or analysis of nutrient 10 selected for immersion management contents in soil 7 Assessment pilot projects People • Sensing tools for on-time nutritional diagnosis of results • Management of land applications of 3 for possible projects approved Planet agricultural defensives for rollout commercial Prosperity • Nematological mapping 2 partnership • Identification of damages in grains projects selected Annexes for monitoring • Identification of contaminants in cotton 2 Click here project still in to learn more on pilot phase AgroExponencial Program 35 People We invest in the training of our people, prioritize life above all else and strengthen our corporate culture, generating pride in belonging. In our relationship with communities, our greatest legacy is related to the training of our employees in Youth and Adults Education, in addition to direct investments in education and culture actions Integrated Report 2019 OUR PEOPLE The materialization of Our Big Dream and the company’s growth in a sustainable way is result of the work developed by our employees in all units, ethically, and connected to the corporate values. Due to that, our management prioritizes the professional development and the acknowledgement of this team with structured programs and qualification initiatives. The different external acknowledgements we received in 2019 show the advance of our management model turned to investment in our human capital. Last year, our company appeared among the first positions in the “Great Place to Work – Rio Grande do Sul/RS” ranking, in the list of the “150 Best Companies to Work for” (Você S/A magazine) and in the “Best Companies in People Management” award (Valor Econômico). To further improve our activities, we implemented a new structure for people management that offers more support to leaders in the Message development of teams. Under the concept of “business partners”, expert employees work close to managers to guide and support Who we are the development of actions turned to the improvement of the organizational climate, qualification and succession planning Strategy of leaders. With this model, demands and needs specific to each of the Innovation management seven key areas mapped will be better served. Thus, we will provide support to Sales and New Business, Information Technology, HR People and Sustainability, Production and Supply Chain and Finance and IR teams, ind addition to the productived units, organized Planet in the Midwest and Northeast Regions. In 2020, a satisfaction survey will be conducted to asses this format’s results and identify Prosperity opportunities of improvement. Annexes GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 37 Integrated Report 2019 People qualification Qualification of our employees is one of our main investments within the people management scope. In 2019, there was 22% growth on the average hours of training offered to professionals, chiefly due to new online format courses and more course load dedicated to leaders. One of the highlights in this front is the Qualification for Agriculture Program 4.0, turned to agriculture operators in new technologies. This investment is intended to provide support to the company’s growth with innovation and digitalization. In 2019, 8,350 hours of training were provided in the Program ambit, in all our farms. We made available specific content, like drone flying in virtual reality, artificial intelligence and precision agriculture technology. For 2020, in addition to continuing trainings for the Production personnel, we intend to expand the program to agriindustrial employees and those from cotton processing. Message Who we are Strategy The Leadership Academy is our main platform to improve the Training hours average company’s leaders and potential managers’ behavior skills for them to Innovation per employee management manage their teams and strengthen the strategic alignment. In the last 75.2 68.1 triennium, this public has been continuously qualified. We count on an People 61.3 annual schedule of trainings, among which, Knowledge Management, Matrix Development and Farm Development Programs. Planet In 2019, 244 leaders and 76 potential leaders that participate in the Academy were trained, chiefly in agile mindset, with a classroom Agile Prosperity Leadership workshop and in distance learning on Digital Transformation, Empowerment, Project Management, Scrum for Productivity, Annexes Intra-entrepreneurship and Design Thinking, among others. 2017 2018 2019 GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 404-1 38 Integrated Report 2019 Message Who we are Strategy Digitalization and inclusion in farms Digital Inclusion Spaces are already present in all our farms, with studies, a transformation that overcomes operational demands Innovation management over 5 thousand training hours and 3 thousand research hours in 2019. and generates positive impacts on the whole local community, This initiative, started two years earlier as pilot project at Palmares influencing relatives, neighbors and friends. The education follows People Farm, is intended to qualify employees in the context of operations’ the Youth and Adult Education (EJA) methodology and is also digitalization and to promote digital inclusion. offered in Digital Inclusion Spaces. Planet The rooms were equipped with computers for online courses, in Two classes completed their studies in 2019 and other 141 students distance learning format. The themes of these trainings are diversified were enrolled to continue the courses. With this incentive, we have Prosperity and include knowledge on informatics and digital agriculture. increased our team’s curricular qualification – 65% of employees In addition to professional qualification, all employees in farms have completed at least middle school and 91% concluded Annexes are encouraged to advance their elementary and middle school elementary school. GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 404-2 39 Integrated Report 2019 Talent management Our employees undergo a performance assessment and preparation of Leadership and development plans every year. The initiative encompasses all professionals hired in people development the previous year and occurs with distinct procedures for leaders and for those that don’t hold management positions. Among leaders, the model is called Competence Assessment, because it assesses Team work performance according to nine competences that are essential to our business. In addition to the self-assessment and the manager assessment, it also counts on team assessment to provide a 180° vision of performance. The feedback meeting with Innovation the person assessed and his manager is the moment when the process results are analyzed and a consensus is reached about a closing grade. After the consensus, the manager and the appraiser together build an Individual Development Plan (PDI), in which they identify the skills with the greatest gap and define actions to Sustainability develop those skills. Leaders Message competencies Focus on results Who we are Strategy Excellence in the Innovation business processes management People Sense of ownership Planet Prosperity Initiative and sense of urgency Annexes Strategic vision GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 404-3 40 Integrated Report 2019 For the other employees, the process is called Performance Assessment and involver analysis of the company, team and individuals’ delivery. The employee makes a self-assessment of his performance and is assessed by his manager. The aspects raised are jointly discussed in the feedback meeting, when they reach a consensus about the final grade of the assessment and which also contributes to the definition of de PDI. For trainees, there is a distinct system for semesterly assessment as part of the program for their development. Percent of employees that received performance assessment in 2019 2019 Leadership 85.4% Operational 96.5% General 95.2% Message The performance assessment model is one of the Who we are elements that subsidize the identification of talents with potential to occupy leading positions in our company. Strategy In 2019, we conducted a broad survey of potential successors for managerial functions, which opens Innovation in selection process Innovation management opportunities for coordinator and analyst careers. We Innovation and technology are also our allies in employees’ recruitment and initially selected 33 professionals for an assessment selection. In 2019, we adopted a platform based on artificial intelligence that People based on three behavior profile assessment tools. Each digitalized 100% of these processes, adding more agility and interaction. assessment stage was followed by an interview to analyze Besides reducing the selection process’ time, this tool facilitates the position Planet the results jointly with each employee. At the end, results follow-up by managers and business partners and provides an interface for online test application and applicants’ ranking. The new model strengthened were consolidated in a system to visualize the potential of Prosperity the transparence with all participants, in internal or external selection processes, those assessed and then analyzed in meetings involving because follow-up can be made of all phases and respective feedbacks received. directors and managers. Annexes GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 404-3 41 Integrated Report 2019 Our team We closed 2019 with a team of 2,609 permanent employees, all of them hired under open-ended contracts fathers), food vouchers or lunch room, temporary rental allowance and accommodations in farms, education We have and full time work. We also counted on 104 trainees and 45 allowance and agreements with universities are permanent interns, whose working hours are determined by specific legislations. In our staff, we had 119 people with disabilities. outstanding. Permanent employees also have access to employees and Seasonal workers are hired throughout the year for the SLC Foundation benefits package, which includes seasonal workers, different plantation cycles and soy, corn and cotton harvest. Due to that, we present the annual average for seasonal medical assistance, dental plan, life insurance and funeral Grant, in addition to reimbursement of medical and all covered workers, the metric that reflects better the impact on job medications expenses. by collective generation. These professionals are hired under a fixed-term contract with rights to labor warranties as established in the Employees’ remuneration system is included in the strategy for valorization and acknowledgement of people. agreements Consolidation of Labor Laws (CLT), Act nº 5.889/73 and We continuously perform market surveys in order to ensure and with access Decree nº 73.626/79. Seasonal workers also work full time, the offer of a competitive salary and benefit package. to corporate but are under a fixed-term contract. In farms, the lowest salary paid, by the end of 2019, was Collective labor agreements we sign benefit both 10.6% superior to the national minimum wage. At the benefits permanent employees and seasonal harvesters. Among headquarters, this difference was 80.9% for men and 101.7% the benefits we offer to professionals, extended maternity for women, according to the highest qualification level for Message and paternity leave (6 months for mothers and 15 days for corporate positions. Who we are Strategy Employees by type Employees by Employees by gender in 2019 Innovation of contract in 2019 region in 2019 management 272 People 1,021 Planet 3,279 351 2,609 1,651 1,707 Prosperity Annexes Effective Northeast Midwest Men Women Seasonal South GRI 102-8 | 102-41 | 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 202-1 | 401-2 42 Integrated Report 2019 Health and safety Our commitment with promoting a safe environment to all workers with modern equipment and vehicles for transport to the nearest in our units is translated into practices and processes structured with medical assistance. the Integrated Management System (IMS), certified by OHSAS 18001, With regard to prevention, we monthly monitor the Safe Practice Index international health and safety norm. Among our 16 farms, eight count (IPS), which measures in operational activities the employees and work on this certification and two are in process to obtain it. In the others, we conditions’ adhesion to safety norms and practices. The Behavior Safety adopt the same management model, though not having, as yet, external Program also helps us, through field inspections, observe employees’ approval certified. conducts in order to identify deviations, guide on the best conduct and Each unit counts on an Occupational Safety and Health (OHS), acknowledge attitudes that are aligned with our prevention policies. Leaders formed by OHS coordinators, occupational safety technicians and in each unit visit the areas periodically to observe and talk to the employees occupational technicians and nurses, with focus on activities involving assessed, providing constructive feedbacks to strengthen the safety culture. accident prevention and employees’ health promotion. We also count on A third pillar of this accident prevention is training, held according to legal infrastructure, in each locality, to assist in case of occurrences, requirements and the company’s procedures and applied by our employees with proficiency in the area or by expert third parties. Message 50% Who we are of the farms are certified in OHSAS Strategy 18001 and we are Innovation working to migrate to management que new ISO 45001 standard People Planet Prosperity Annexes GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 43 Integrated Report 2019 We don’t have critical activities or with occupational disease incidence risk. All employees undergo periodic health examinations and trainings in safety in operational procedures, in addition to always wear collective and individual protection equipment appropriate to each activity. In all units we count on Internal Rural Work-related Accident Prevention Commission (CIPATR), with two-year term. These Committees comprise representatives appointed by the farm leadership and elected by employees, as defined in Regulatory Norm nº 31 of the Ministry of Economy. In each unit, CIPATR monthly meets to discuss themes associated to workers’ health and safety. Moreover, their members are involved in inspection and accident prevention, investigation of occurrences and planning of the Internal Rural Work-related Accident Prevention Week (SIPATR). These commissions represent 100% of workers and implement initiatives that will also benefit visitors and third parties. Message Who we are Strategy Innovation management In addition to the CIPATR, we have the SQP Program People committees (acronym Planet for Safety, Quality and Prosperity Productivity), which Annexes systematically assess the performance of farms GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 403-1 | 403-3 44 Integrated Report 2019 We also have implemented in all farms, since 2016, the SQP Program (Safety, frequency rate and severity rate of accidents involving permanent Quality and Productivity). In the ambit of this program, committees composed employees and seasonal harvesters, in addition to absenteeism. We also of the unit manager, area coordinators and other appointed employees meet follow the numbers of occurrences and temporary retirement of third monthly to assess key indicators of the Integrated Management System, like health parties. In this case, it is not possible to calculate the above rates. and safety aspects, adhesion to norms and operational procedures and product In 2019, lost-time accident frequency rate was 3.35, 4% reduction quality. In this moment, opportunities for improvement are identified and, for each against the previous year. This performance was affected by the increase of them, the teams define action plans. Discussions are recorded in minutes and in hours worked throughout all operations, even with the rise of the shared with the Sustainability corporate area, contribution to the alignment of number of accidents from 32 to 38 in an annual basis. The number of premises and good practices across units. accidents with third parties, on the other hand, went from 6 to 10, in the This scope of activities overcomes topics of health and safety as provided in annual comparison, chiefly due to more intensive works in the period, our collective labor agreements. These commitments agreed with unions vary mainly cotton processing structures in Perdizes and Planorte farms. according to the localities, but, in general, they comprise themes like availability of In the same period, the accident severity rate also decreased, from 76.15 protection equipment, readiness for transportation of victims, periodical medical to 69.30. We did not record any case of occupational disease among examinations, trainings and installation of CIPATR. permanent employees and seasonal harvesters. However, one death of an All accidents or near-accidents are investigated in order to mitigate their outsourced worker was recorded. root cause and avoid future similar occurrences. Corporately, we monitor the Accident severity rate* Planted area X Accident frequency rate Message 459 76.27 404 69.30 370 377 394 343 Who we are 282 41.51 223 226 247 Strategy CROP CROP CROP Innovation 2016/ 2017/ 2018/ 13.04 11.66 management 2017 2018 2019 8.65 7.65 6.41 3.51 4.31 2.85 3.19 3.35 People *Number of calendar days of leave associated to CROP CROP CROP CROP CROP CROP CROP CROP CROP CROP Planet Work Accident Notifications (CATs) recorded in the 2009/ 2010/ 2011/ 2012/ 2013/ 2014/ 2015/ 2016/ 2017/ 2018/ period / total of hours worked* 1,000,000. Considers 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 all levels of injuries and types of accident (commuting, Prosperity typical or occupational disease), including Area planted (hectares) Lost-time work accidents frequency rate* communications of deaths. *Number of lost-time Work Accident Notifications (CATs) recorded in the period / total of hours worked* 1,000,000. Considers Annexes all levels of injuries and types of accident (commuting, typical or occupational disease), including communications of deaths. GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 403-1 | 403-2 | 403-4 45 Integrated Report 2019 OUR COMMUNITIES Present in six different states, in the Brazilian possibility of destination, based on the Central-West and Northeast regions, our company verified tax profit projection. has potential to participate in the sustainable In addition to the supported projects, Distribution of private social investment development of communities near the farms we also encourage our employees to in 2019 (R$ thousand) where we cultivate and produce soy, corn and engage in local volunteer action with 65,0 cotton. The local transformation is conducted potential to transform the local reality. by means of partnerships made feasible by the This work is coordinated by the Socio106,0 application of the private social investment, driven environmental Action Group (GAS), by incentive laws. involving professionals from all units. Among 421,9 The total amount destined to social projects the initiatives developed we have health 106,0 supported was R$ 803.9 thousand in 2019, campaigns, donation of school materials and Culture benefitting several institutions and the community. food campaigns, and entrepreneurship for the Incentive Law Funcriança These funds vary each year, according to the local communities’ youth. Sports Law 105,0 National Fund for the Elderly Pronas/Pronon Message Who we are Evolution of private social investment (R$ thousand) Strategy 1,656.0 Innovation management People 803.9 Planet 373.8 Prosperity Annexes 2017 2018 2019 GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 46 Integrated Report 2019 Highlights among supported projects Estante de Histórias 17 public Empreender 8 theater (Story Shelf) schools benefitted Project presentations The Story Shelf project encourages reading among 17 municipalities Held in public schools from Cristalina and Luziânia (Goiás) 2 workshops public school children through served municipalities, the Empreender for teachers the donation of 17 shelves with a Project (Undertake) seeks to collection of 100 books and 100 comic books in each of them. 10,521 people raise awareness among youth and fight school drop-out. The 1,756 people Five booklets with suggestions reached educational actions promote sensitized in the theme (students and teachers) “Undertake for a better world” of activities to be conducted knowledge, self-esteem by teachers in classroom were and better communication also provided, with focus on promoting reading, in addition R$ 208 thousand between students and teachers to promote peace in teaching R$ 90 thousand to storytelling workshops. invested institutions. invested Message Who we are Strategy 10 workshops MudaMundo 10,800 books for teachers (Change World) from MudaMundo Collection and Innovation management Held for the third year in a row, MudaMundo Project is focused on 800 Teacher Notebooks People 12 MudaMundo the rescue and strengthening of ethics, citizenship, environmental donated to municipal education secretariats theater presentations for students education, diversity and inclusion. The Planet initiatives benefit elementary school 2 rounds Prosperity 427 educators and students and teachers from public schools in Barreiras and Formosa of conversation Annexes 4,206 children do Rio Preto (Bahia), Tasso Fragoso (Maranhão) and Santa Filomena R$ 201 thousand benefitted invested (Piauí) municipalities. GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 47 Planet Our commitment to the lowest possible environmental impact is put into practice on several fronts: from technology as an ally to reduce the consumption of inputs and the generation of waste to the preservation of habitats, also contemplating the strategic objective of reducing our GHG emissions Integrated Report 2019 WATER AND EFFLUENTS Production of grains and fibers with environmental responsibility guides the way we conduct our operation, parameters are defined based on analyses of soil humidity at different depths, water demands of each 99% and we always seek to become more efficient in the use culture at each phase of cultivation and rain forecast for of planted of our own lands and leased lands. The rational use and preservation of natural resources, particularly water, guides the regions. In the farms, we catch water from rivers chiefly to area continuous research in optimized cultivation and plantation irrigate cultures in Central Pivot system and from artesian as dryland management techniques. Currently, approximately 99% wells to maintain activities at the operational seat and farming (without of our planted areas don’t require mechanical irrigation – in field, such as washing of machines and equipment. irrigation) technique known as dryland farming. Plantations from the Human supply is made only by underground catchments. remaining 1% already count on infrastructure for irrigation We monthly monitor the amount consumed with water and adopt the Sistema Irriga technology. In it, irrigation meters installed in the wells. Message Who we are Strategy Innovation management People Planet Prosperity Annexes GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 49 Integrated Report 2019 In 2019, the total amount of water caught We installed, in 2019, one ETP in Panorama farm, was 26 million cubic meters, considering all which increased reused volume by 23.4% in the Water catchment per source agricultural units. This volume is aligned with that year. In total, it represented 138.7 thousand cubic (thousand m3)* of the previous year, but there was increase in meters of water for reuse, corresponding to 0.53% underground catchment due to the increase in the of the total caught in the period. 25,738.1 25,969.7 number of artesian wells authorized in the units. In addition to domestic sewage generation, in 826.5 1,307.4 23,373.1 According to the possibilities and opportunities units where industrial effluent generation also of each locality, we seek to establish plans to occurs, we adopted other two treatment methods. 643.7 reduce catchment supported by action plans and The first is the use of oil and water splitter boxes, efficiency increase projects. One of the fronts we with destination by infiltration in the soil after 19,729.4 24,911.7 24,662.3 work is water reuse, made possible in some farms treatment. The second involves treatment with with Effluent Treatment Plants (ETPs). There, ozone and evaporation in solarization tanks. With operations’ effluents are treated and destined to these methodologies, we treated 18 thousand 2017 2018 2019 an accumulation pond until they reach conditions cubic meters of effluents in 2019, volume 4% for reuse. higher than that of the previous year. Superficial water Underground water *Historical data represented. Message Disposal of effluents per method (thousand m3)* Who we are 18.1 18.3 17.6 Strategy Innovation management 15.1 14.6 15.3 People Planet 3.0 3.0 3.0 2017 2018 2019 Prosperity Water and oil separator box Annexes Ozonator and solarization tank * Historical data represented. GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 303-1 | 303-3 | 306-1 50 Integrated Report 2019 WASTE Destining wastes generated in our operations to recycling or treatment is the best solution to improve environmental performance in our units. For that reason, we prioritize this methodology both for common materials (paper, plastic, glass, metal, etc.) and for those that fit in hazardous category, like lubricants and contaminated materials. Our facilities are equipped with oil collection systems. The oil is destined to companies that re-refine it. Thus, the fluid returns to its original characteristics and can go back to the production chain. In 2019, we discarded 2.2 thousand tons of wastes, and 85.9% of this total is classified as non hazardous. With regard to destination methods, recycling responded for over 70% of the volume discarded, aligned with the previous year. Waste disposal per method (t) 2019 2018 2017 Non hazardous Message Recycling 1,333.26 1,060.87 479.43 Landfill 528.30 528.30 565.00 Who we are TOTAL 1,861.56 1,589.17 1,044.43 Strategy Hazardous Recycling 194.04 544.72 412.05 Innovation Incineration 110.50 156.28 218.79 management TOTAL 304.54 701.00 630.84 People Non-recyclable wastes (scraps) produced are disposed of in landfills Planet located in the units. Those framed as hazardous are forwarded to incineration or co-processing. Waste transportation is always made by companies Prosperity authorized to this type of operation. These partners are considered critical in the processes of suppliers’ approval for environmental, health, safety and Annexes social responsibility aspects, and so they undergo periodic documental assessment of their compliance. GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 306-2 51 Integrated Report 2019 BIODIVERSITY In our areas, which comprise the 16 farms we operate and also the Paineira farm (leased to a third party) we count on 99.4 thousand hectares of preserved areas that include vegetation typical of the local biomes and water stream springs, in addition to animal species. Destined as Legal Reserves and Permanent Preservation Areas (PPA), as determined by Brazilian environmental legislation, these areas correspond to 32.6% of our entire area. Legal reserves and PPAs are also, in some cases, are adjacent to conservation units or close to parks, environmental reserves and indigenous areas. In all localities, we permanently monitor farms’ geographic borders and apply with discipline operational procedures – like the construction of firebreaks and signs for plantations limits – in order to avoid any type of negative impact to the environment. Message Use of own land in 2018/2019 crop Who we are (thousand hectares) 11.0 Strategy 24.0 Innovation 27.0 management People 145.0 Planet Cultivated by SLC Agrícola 99.4 Preserved (Legal Reserve and Permanent Preservation Area) Prosperity Landbank* Others** Leased to third parties Annexes *Arable areas waiting for licenses or in process of soil correction. **Seats, roads and other areas not used for cultivation. GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 304-3 52 Integrated Report 2019 Actions for biodiversity protection Our company supports and participates in projects turned to fauna and flora protection in regions where our farms are located. Two initiatives were outstanding in 2019 – Cabeceiras do Pantanal (Pantanal Headwaters) and Cerrado Biodiversity Conservation project. The Pantanal Headwaters’ Defense Pact is intended to protect water course springs that start in Cerrado and cover long distances to irrigate the Pantanal plain and keep ecological processes in one of the regions with largest diversity of species in the planet. Around 4.7 thousand species of plants, birds, fish, mammals, reptiles and amphibians were already registered in the biome. Our company became signatory of the Pact in 2018 and, since then, our teams have contributed to the other entities that participate in the initiative with exchange of experiences such as environmental education, recovery of degraded areas and PPAs. Cerrado Biodiversity Conservation program is promoted in partnership with Rio Grande do Sul Message Federal University (UFRGS) at Planalto farm. The objective is to promote academic research in the Who we are ambit of doctorate programs, in the areas of legal reserve and PPA of the production units near Parque Strategy Nacional das Emas and Parque das Nascentes do Rio Taquari. Innovation The study focuses on assessing the impact of management agricultural activities as drivers of the quality of support to the remaining of native vegetation in People Cerrado, a biome that hosts 5% of the entire world biodiversity and springs of important national Planet hydrographic basins. The project, started in 2019, is expected to be developed for four years. We seek, Prosperity based on this study’s results, to develop other internal projects and programs aimed at reducing possible Annexes impacts within these areas. GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 53 Integrated Report 2019 CLIMATE CHANGE We annually prepare, since 2017, our inventory of greenhouse gases (GHG) according to methodology by the Brazilian GHG Protocol Program. These surveys comprise direct emissions of our operations, accounted as Scope 1, and those resulting from electricity consumption, classified as indirect and registered as Scope 2. The inventory referring to the 2019 activities is in progress and will be published in the Registro Público de Emissões (Emissions’ Public Regis try) in the first half of the year. For 2020, we are developing a methodology in partnership with Santa Maria Federal University (UFSM) that uses Daycent biogeochemical model. This improvement will provide higher precision in the verification of agricultural emissions, particularly those from soil management, which today respond for over 80% of our activities’ direct emissions. That because the GHG Protocol methodology does not distinguish emissions from climate Message conditions and soil in each farm – and the approach under study with UFSM will provide this distinction. With that, we will have an Who we are even more precise view of each unit, contributing to define plans to reduce carbon impacts. Strategy Mitigating our contribution to climate change is also one of the goals defined by the company. We intend to implement, as of 2020, Scope 1 emissions per category in 2018 Innovation (thousand tCO2e) management a decennial reduction plan in order to reduce in up to 25% GHG emissions by 2030. 47.1 1.5 People 278.8 Planet Inventory of greenhouse gas Prosperity emissions (thousand tCO2e) 2018 2017 1,462.5 Annexes Agricultural activities Scope 1 (gross emissions) 1,790.0 1,499.0 Stationary combustion Mobile combustion Scope 2 (indirect emissions) 3.9 4.2 Others (waste, fugitives and land use changes) GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 201-2 | 305-1 | 305-2 54 Integrated Report 2019 In the last inventory published, referring to operations throughout 2018, we emitted 1.8 million tCO2e with our operations, 19.4% rise against the previous year, chiefly cause by the higher volume of emissions from fuel consumption in fixed equipment and increase in cotton culture area, which responds for more use of nitrogen fertilizers. Nevertheless, we reduced by 19.5% the impact caused by fuel consumption in the fleet and agriculture machinery mainly be using technologies and innovations that optimized these vehicles’ management. Agricultural emissions are the most relevant in the company due to soil use and application of fertilizers. On the other hand, improvement in soil conditions is also vital to increase carbon sequestration and, due to that, we have developed a series of initiatives in this field (see diagram). Another system that has been quickly disseminated is the combined use of corn and brachiaria. By means of research we are developing a system where cotton can be combined to some species of coverage, which will make more sustainable the succession between soy and cotton in Mato Grosso Cerrado. Message Who we are Strategy Initiatives that Agriculture and contribute to carbon cattle-raising Innovation management sequestration in soil  integration systems, Conservation introducing cultures People Direct practices that with high biomass sowing avoid losses of Use of cover production and quick Planet system soil surface layer plants root growth Prosperity Annexes GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 201-2 | 305-1 | 305-2 55 Prosperity Our financial results confirm the assertiveness of our strategy. In 2019, despite a challenging scenario, the gains in productivity of soybean and corn, record net revenue and land sale in Maranhão were noteworthy Integrated Report 2019 SECTORIAL CONTEXT Brazil is one of the largest exporters of agricultural commodities worldwide and the agribusiness strongly contributes to the country’s Brazilian Amount (thousand t) Average price (US$/t) economic growth. According to projection disclosed by the Central exports in Variation Variation Bank by the end of 2019, the national GDP (Gross Domestic Product) 2019 2018 2019 (%) 2018 2019 (%) grew 1.2% last year, chiefly driven by the farming and cattle raising sector, which expanded 2%. Soybean grains 83,247 74,029 -11.1 397 353 -11.1 Agricultural exports generate significant wealth, despite the global Corn 22,941 43,254 88.5 171 170 -0.6 scenario of low economic growth and commodities’ price reduction. In 2019, the sector’s trade balance recorded surplus of US$ 83 billion, Cotton 974 1,611 65.4 1,731 1,638 -5.4 which ensured positive balance to Brazil in the accumulated result between external sales and imports, according to data disclosed by São Paulo Industries’ Federation (Fiesp). In the global grain and fiber trade, Brazil holds outstanding position. It is the larger soy exporter worldwide and the second corn and cotton Commodities’ quotation 125 exporter. China, main importer of agribusiness products, reduced 125 Message purchase volume by 12.5% against 2018, chiefly due to the reduction of soybean grains imports. 115 115 Who we are Exports to Japan and Mexico, on the other hand, increased significantly in annual comparison. In 2019, Asian expenses with Strategy 105105 US$ c/lb Brazilian farming and cattle raising products increased 41.3%. Large part of this increment occurred due to the growth of corn exportation to Innovation 95 95 management these countries. In the cotton segment, the main buyers are still Asian countries, People where large industries are installed that supply global textile chains. 85 85 China and Vietnam are the main destinations of national fibers. Planet International quotation for the main commodities we trade (soy, 75 corn and cotton) varied negatively in the 2018/2019 crop, due to larger 75 mai-19 May 19 Aug 19 Nov 19 Decdez-19 Jan 20 Prosperity Febjan-19 Mar 19 Sep 19 Octout-19 19 Janjan-19 19 Aprabr-19 19 Jun 19 fev-19 fev-19 abr-19 mai-19 jul-19 Jul jul-19 19 jun-19 jun-19 jul-19 ago-19 set-19 set-19 out-19 nov-19 jan-20 jan-19 mar-19 mar-19 dez-19 dez-19 ago-19 19 19 global supply. In the beginning of the 2019/2020 crop, prices presented nov-19 signs of recovery after a re-balance between production Fonte: Bloomberg Annexes Soja CBOT: 104 Algodão ICE: 99 Milho CBOT: 104 and consumption. Soybean CBOT: 104 Cotton ICE: 99 Corn CBOT: 104 Source: Bloomberg. 57 Integrated Report 2019 increase in exports of Brazilian corn and cotton reduction in average price of the three commodites Message World soy supply and demand World corn supply and demand World cotton supply and demand (millions of tons) (millions of tons) (millions of bales) Who we are 358 124 Strategy 1,137 351 1,125 Innovation 123 121 management 342 1,122 120 339 1,092 1,112 344 People 338 119 1,080 118 Planet CROP CROP CROP CROP CROP CROP CROP CROP CROP 2017/ 2018/ 2019/ 2017/ 2018/ 2019/ 2017/ 2018/ 2019/ Prosperity 2018 2019 2020 2018 2019 2020 2018 2019 2020 (estimate) (estimate) (estimate) Annexes Consumption Consumption Consumption Production Production Production Source: USDA(fev/2020). 58 Integrated Report 2019 OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE With standardized management of processes in all agricultural units, efficiency in the strategy execution and operations Corn 2nd crop yield comparison Maximization of resources use management considering climate variables to better use conditions in (kg/ha)* (tractors HP/ha) field, our company has reached productivity levels above the national average. This is one of the main competitive advantages of our 7,819 0.21 0.20 6,600 0.19 business model. 5,303 In the 2018/2019 crop, we reached an average productivity which was 7% superior to that of Brazil in both soybean crop and cotton lint. In corn, this distance was of 24.5%. These evolutions are fruit of an increasingly more precise planning and execution. Plantation and harvest average time is continuously being reduced, which shows SLC SLC Brazil CROP CROP CROP Best (Conab) 2017/ 2018/ 2019/ our capacity to use the best windows for sowing in each culture Farm Total 2018 2019 2020 and harvest efficiency, particularly with outsourcing of equipment, (estimate) minimizing plantations exposure to extreme weather conditions. *Crop average from 2016/2017 to 2018/2019 . Source: Conab and SLC Agrícola In addition to increasing production in arable area reducing the Message need of investments in new lands, we also seek to be more efficient in the use of inputs and resources in plantations. One of the indicators Who we are to assess this evolution is the relation of machines per hectare planted Cotton lint yield comparison Soybean yield comparison (kg/ha)* (kg/ha)* (HP/ha). Reduction in this index indicates that fewer tractors are Strategy being required for the operation and, therefore, there is maximization of assets’ use. 4,380 Innovation 1,990 management Portfolio diversity and system intensification with maximization 1,768 3,578 3,337 1,651 of areas in second crop are drivers of our operational excellence. 2,842 People In one same culture we can work with different cultivation cycles, which improves operations’ scaling, reducing exposure to risk and 784 Planet maximizing the use of the infrastructure. Besides, cultures scaling leads to better use of market favorable conditions. Cotton culture, Prosperity SLC SLC with higher added value, has obtained increasingly more relevance in Best SLC Brazil (Conab) World Average Best SLC Brazil (Conab) World Average Total Total Farm Farm the generation of income and operational margin. Annexes *Crop average from 2016/2017 to 2018/2019 *Crop average from 2016/2017 to 2018/2019 . Source: USDA, Conab and SLC Agrícola . Source: USDA, Conab and SLC Agrícola 59 Integrated Report 2019 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Our strategy efficiency is proved by the financial results reached in the Debt period. In 2019, we recorded a new record in net income, which amounted In 2019, we issued for the second time an Agribusiness Receivables to R$ 2.5 billion, 20.8% above that of the previous year. This evolution results Certificate (CRA), amounting to R$ 360 million, which contributed from the increase in planted area, higher productivity of soy and corn and to the extension of the debt profile in attractive costs. The net debt higher prices practiced in the market for all commodities. remained stable, around R$ 974 million, and around 63% of maturities Our adjusted EBITDA totalled R$ 795.5 million. Two factors contributed are provided in the long term. to this performance. In agriculture, we recorded a record of this indicator, because the factors mentioned above compensated the increases in costs per hectare and lower cotton productivity. Besides, we concluded in 2019 sales of lands in Maranhão (learn more on page 19), that positively impacted the adjusted EBITDA. Nevertheless, the net profit of R$ 315 million in the year was 22.5% lower in the annual comparison, chiefly due to more reduced margins for cotton in the 2018/2019 crop. The direct economic value generated and distributed was R$ 1.2 million, 13.5% lower than that of 2018, mainly due to income increase. In the added Message value distribution, remuneration of third parties’ capitals and own capitals, which responded, respectively, for 39.6% and 25.3% of the total, are Who we are outstanding. Strategy Innovation Added Value Distribution management People 25.1% 39.6% Planet Prosperity 10.0% Personnel Taxes, fees and contributions We reached a record net revenue Annexes Remuneration of equity R  emuneration of third of R$2.5 billion and kept indebtedness 25.3% party capital stable and mostly in the long term GRI 201-1 60 Annexes Reinforcing our transparency in accountability, we present in this section complements to the disclosures proposed by the Global Reporting Intitiative, which contribute to a more detailed understanding of our operations Integrated Report 2019 ABOUT THE REPORT For the fourth year in a row, we publicly disclosed our performance in economic, environmental and social aspects. Since 2018, this accountability is made in our Integrated Report in order to strengthen SLC Agrícola transparence to all our publics. This document was prepared according to voluntary guidelines most adopted worldwide for disclosure of corporate sustainability aspects: the Integrated Report, as proposed by the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC), and GRI Standards, prepared by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). As signatories of the Global Compact, this publication is also intended to present our advances in the 10 Principles proposed by the initiative and our contributions to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) as defined by the United Nations (UN). The report covers the period from January 1st to December 31, 2019. However, for some operation data – like planted and certified areas, operational and safety indicators – information is presented per cropMessage year, better reflecting the operational controls we adopt and making possible the comparison to disclosures made to the capital market, like Who we are Financial Statements. The scope covered includes the 16 farms where we operate, three of them belonging to SLC LandCo and other three as joint Strategy ventures. Paineira farm, considered for purpose of consolidation of the company’s financial results, is not incorporated to this document, since Innovation management it is leased to third parties and does not reflect economic, environmental and social impacts of our activities. People Information presented was collected in our areas and validated by the Board. However, only financial data were subject to external verification. Planet In case you have comments, doubts and suggestions to this content, contact our team via email sustentabilidade@slcagricola.com.br. Prosperity Annexes GRI 102-45 | 102-50 | 102-51 | 102-52 | 102-53 | 102-56 62 Integrated Report 2019 Materiality matrix Our material themes in each priority axis Our materiality matrix was built in 2016 through a process of identification of stakeholders’ expectations, assessment of sustainability context and • Emissions prioritization of the most relevant aspects for stakeholders’ decision making, Climate which will better reflect economic, environmental and social impacts of change • Environmental our activities. Publics with which we relate – shareholders, joint ventures’ and soil compliance partners, permanent employees, seasonal harvesters, suppliers, clients, experts, lessees, lessors, rural producers, associations and unions, schools and universities, NGOs and government agencies – were mapped based on the Survey on Social Aspects and Impacts on Regulatory Norm 16001. With the involvement of several areas of the company, we mapped representatives of these publics, which were prioritized according to their • Water level of influence for decision making, definition of SLC Agrícola strategies and results. The direct engagement was chiefly made via online consultation, • Biodiversity but for some groups we created specific questionnaires. For example, Biodiversity • Effluents and waste works in the farms: to facilitate their engagement, we trained our leaders to and water apply the consultation in person, ensuring opportunity for participation of them all. The materiality process also counted with sectorial benchmarking Message analysis, media analysis and workshop with SLC Agrícola teams. As result, 10 priority themes were listed in 2016: economic performance; Who we are presence in the market; anticorruption; water; biodiversity; effluents and • Economic Strategy wastes; environmental compliance; employment, occupational health and performance safety; and training and education. In 2018, we included in the material themes the aspect of Emissions, considering an assessment of market • Market presence Innovation management scenario and civil society demands. • Anticorruption In 2019, we further advanced the understanding of material themes in our People business by means of a workshop that defined SLC Agrícola three axes of • Employment operation in the sustainability context: climate changes and soil; biodiversity • Occupational health Planet and water; and stakeholders’ expectations (learn more on this project on and safety page 15). So, we present in this report our 11 material themes organized Prosperity under these three axes in order to strengthen the alignment between report Stakeholders’ • Education Annexes and strategy. expectation and training GRI 102-40 | 102-42 | 102-43 | 102-44 | 102-46 | 102-47 | 102-49 | 103-1 63 Integrated Report 2019 Complement to GRI disclosures 102-8 | Information on employees and other workers 2019 2018 2017 Total number of employees per employment contract * Permanent Harvesters Total Permanent Harvesters Total Permanent Harvesters Total Per gender Men 2,269 1,010 3,279 2,250 945 3,195 1,992 887 2,879 Women 340 11 351 315 3 318 278 2 280 Per region Northeast 1,194 513 1,707 1,171 424 1,595 914 373 1,287 Central-West 1,151 500 1,651 1,150 520 1,670 1,137 511 1,648 South 264 8 272 244 4 248 219 5 224 TOTAL 2,609 1,021 3,630 2,565 948 3,513 2,270 889 3,159 *Information obtained from the business intelligence system. Historical data were represented, because in previous years trainees and interns were included. Message Who we are Strategy Other contractees Number of permanent of the company employees per 2019 2018 2017 functional level Innovation 2019 2018 2017 management Trainees 104 81 30 People Leaders 244 243 225 Interns 45 50 51 Trainees 23 21 16 Planet Operational 2,342 2,301 2,029 Prosperity TOTAL 2,609 2,565 2,270 Annexes 64 Integrated Report 2019 102-8 | Information on employees and other workers 102-48 | Res tatements of information Number of permanent employees Eventual representations of data previously disclosed are per educational level 2019 2018 2017 marked throughout the content. Doctorate 4 3 3 102-54 | Claims of reporting in accordance Master’s degree 12 11 6 with the GRI Standards Post-graduation 102 101 76 This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Complete higher education 297 255 227 Standards: Core option. Incomplete higher education 77 78 63 Complete technical education 348 349 297 404-1 | Average hours of training per year per employee Incomplete technical education 5 5 8 Complete secondary school 862 812 662 Average training hours Incomplete secondary school 170 178 159 per employee 2019 2018 2017 Complete elementary school II 490 414 373 Per gender Incomplete elementary school II 108 178 207 Men 78.3 64.3 70.4 Complete elementary school I 74 99 95 Women 52.5 41.0 47.5 Incomplete elementary school I 56 69 80 Per functional level Preschool 0 2 2 Leadership 131.2 109.0 120.5 Message Illiterate 4 11 12 Trainees 161.5 132.7 149.5 TOTAL 2,609 2,565 2,270 Operational 69.3 55.7 60.0 Who we are GENERAL 75.2 61.3 68.1 Strategy 102-13 | Membership of associations SLC Agrícola participates in sectorial associations in order to contribute to the discussion Innovation management of topics relevant to the sector in which it operates and to the exchange of knowledge and good practices. Among them, the Brazilian Association of Agribusiness (ABAG), People the Brazilian Association of Cotton Producers (Abrapa), regional associations of cotton producers (Agopa Goiás state, Abapa Bahia state, Amapa Maranhão state, Planet Ampa Mato Grosso state and Ampasul Mato Grosso do Sul state) and the National Association of Cotton Exporters (ANEA). In terms of people management, we are part Prosperity of the Brazilian Human Resources Association (ABRH-RS), the National Rural Learning Service (Senar), Junior Achievement Rio Grande do Sul (JARS) and the Federation of Annexes Rural Wage Workers in Rio Grande Sul (FETAR-RS). 65 Integrated Report 2019 303-1 | Water withdrawal by source 2019 2018 2017 Captação de água por fazenda (m3) Water catchment per farm (m3) Surface Underground Surface Underground Surface Underground waters waters Total waters waters Total waters waters Total Paiaguás1 90,180 122,258 212,438 90,180 138,978 229,158 90,180 118,061 208,241 Planorte 109,325 123,087 232,412 109,325 71,436 180,761 109,325 43,828 153,153 Pamplona 1e2 10,874,318 84,756 10,959,074 10,874,318 166,272 11,040,590 10,874,318 113,214 10,987,532 Planalto 0 102,814 102,814 0 68,124 68,124 0 69,616 69,616 Parnaíba 0 163,740 163,740 0 83,651 83,651 0 10,608 10,608 Palmeira 0 50,717 50,717 0 22,429 22,429 na na na Parnaguá 1 0 24,317 24,317 0 5,408 5,408 0 5,408 5,408 Parceiro 1 0 55,217 55,217 0 6,656 6,656 0 59,696 59,696 Palmares 2 13,668,593 68,128 13,736,721 13,917,289 68,482 13,985,771 8,735,003 68,756 8,803,759 Pantanal3 0 49,063 49,063 0 19,968 19,968 na na na Message Pioneira 0 33,465 33,465 0 46,102 46,102 0 60,609 60,609 Who we are Perdizes 1 0 148,353 148,353 0 2,184 2,184 0 2,184 2,184 Paladino 1 1,020 38,250 39,270 1,728 48,256 49,984 1,728 9,152 10,880 Strategy Planeste1 0 144,446 144,446 0 13,312 13,312 0 19,188 19,188 Innovation Panorama 0 86,034 86,034 0 62,388 62,388 0 60,579 60,579 management Piratini 0 12,750 12,750 0 2,808 2,808 0 2,808 2,808 People TOTAL 24,473,436 1,307,394 26,050,830 24,992,840 826,454 25,819,294 19,810,554 643,707 20,454,261 1. Without water meters installed. In these cases, values are estimated based on existing pumps’ capacity and operation period, or, in case this information is not available, by the flow authorized in Planet the grant and operation period. 2. At Pamplona and Palmares farms water catchment occurs for plantations irrigation. 3. Farm leased in 2018. Prosperity Annexes 66 Integrated Report 2019 303-3 | Water recycled and reused 305-4 | GHG emissions intensity 2019 2018 2017 Reused Intensity of GHG water emissions (tCO2e/ton of Soy Corn Cotton per farm Total volume Total volume Total volume product) in 2019 (m3)* of reused Reuse of reused Reuse of reused Reuse water index water index water index Paiaguás 0.10 0.32 0.60 Planorte 24,908 10.72% 24,908 13.78% 24,908 16.30% Planorte 0.10 0.43 0.52 Pamplona 20,951 0.19% 20,951 0.19% 20,951 0.20% Pamplona 0.09 0.03 0.61 Planalto 21,039 20.43% 21,039 30.88% 21,039 30.20% Planalto 0.08 0.16 0.67 Parnaguá 8,588 35.32% 8,588 15.88% 8,588 14.20% Parnaíba 0.10 0.24 0.78 Parceiro 8,588 15.55% 8,588 12.90% 8,588 9.20% Palmeira 0.10 0.03 0.24 Message Pioneira 14,454 43.19% 14,454 31.35% 14,454 66.20% Parnaguá 0.11 0.11 0.66 Perdizes 11,070 7.46% 1,107 50.69% 11,070 5.30% Parceiro 0.09 na na Who we are Planeste 12,775 8.83% 12,775 9.60% 12,775 21.10% Palmares 0.09 0.67 0.56 Panorama 16,356 5.26% 0 0.00% 0 0.00% Pantanal 0.09 0.02 0.20 Strategy TOTAL 138,729 0.53% 112,410 0.47% 122,373 0.59% Pioneira 0.13 0.16 na Innovation Perdizes 0.10 0.75 0.38 management *Farms not listed in the table don’t count on reuse mechanisms. Paladino 0.13 0.81 0.63 People Planeste 0.09 0.21 0.86 Panorama 0.08 0.56 0.66 Planet Piratini 0.09 0.03 na Prosperity Annexes 67 Integrated Report 2019 304-1 | | Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Position of farms with regard to conservation units Paiaguás Distant 35 km from indigenous area in anthropized location Planorte Adjacent to indigenous area in anthropized location Pamplona Distant 10 km from federal conservation unit without relevant value for biodiversity Planalto Adjacent to conservation unit that was partly constituted by the donation of an area that belong to Planalto farm Parnaíba Distant 75 km from federal conservation unit with potentially higher social value and lower environmental vulnerability Palmeira Distant 79 km from Parque Nacional das Nascentes do Rio Parnaíba, managed by Chico Mendes Biodiversity Conservation Institute (ICMBio) and turned to the promotion of research, environmental education and ecological tourism Parnaguá Distant 25 km from federal conservation unit Paineira (arrendada) Distant 10 km from federal conservation unit Parceiro Distant 9 km from federal conservation unit and 5 km from state conservation unit Palmares Part of the farm is in Rio de Janeiro basin APA (Environmental Protection Area) and surrounding a state conservation unit. Pantanal Distant 29 km from Parque Nacional das Emas, administered by ICMBio, that preserve different characteristic environments of Cerrado Message Pioneira Distant 110 km from Araguaia State Park, full protection area considered contact zone between Cerrado and Amazon rainforest Who we are Perdizes Distant 30 km from indigenous area with potential for agriculture and forestry Paladino Distant 55 km Serra Geral de Goiás APA (Environmental Protection Area), relevant for maintenance of other two conservation Strategy units (Park and Extractivist Reserve) in the region Innovation Planeste Distant 45 km from indigenous area and 100 km from federal conservation unit, with higher social potential and lower management environmental vulnerability Panorama Distant 10 km from state conservation unit People Piratini Distant 25 km from federal conservation unit and 60 km from state conservation unit Planet Prosperity Annexes 307-1 | Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations We did not receive fines or significant sanctions associated to environmental aspects. 68 Integrated Report 2019 403-2 | Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, los t days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities Lost-time accident frequency rate among Number of lost-time employees (permanent and seasonal harvesters) CROP 2018/ CROP 2017/ CROP 2016/ accidents with third parties CROP 2018/ CROP 2017/ CROP 2016/ 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017 Per region Per region Midwest 3.80 5.24 4.45 Midwest 59.16 149.15 46.73 Northeast 3.38 2.59 2.66 Northeast 89.31 27.46 42.84 South 0.00 0.00 0.00 South 0.00 0.00 0.00 Per gender Per gender Men 3.60 3.88 3.27 Men 75.74 84.35 35.53 Women 0.95 0.00 2.39 Women 6.63 0.00 100.43 CONSOLIDATED 3.35 3.51 3.19 CONSOLIDATED 69.30 76.27 41.51 * Number of lost-time Work Accident Notifications (CATs) recorded in the period / total worked hours * Number of calendar days of leave associated to Work-related Accident * 1,000,000. Considers all levels of injuries and types of accidents (commuting, typical or occupational Notifications (CATs) recorded in the period / total of hours worked* 1,000,000. disease), including notifications of death. Considers all levels of injuries and types of accident (commuting, typical or occupational disease), including communications of death. Number of lost-time Number of calendar days of leave accidents with third parties CROP 2018/ CROP 2017/ CROP 2016/ associated to CATs with third parties CROP 2018/ CROP 2017/ CROP 2016/ 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017 Per region Per region Midwest 8 3 2 Midwest 149 47 10 Message Northeast 2 3 2 Northeast 15 14 0 South 0 0 0 South 0 0 0 Who we are Per gender Per gender Strategy Men 10 6 4 Men 164 61 10 Women 0 0 0 Women 0 0 0 Innovation CONSOLIDATED 10 6 4 CONSOLIDATED 164 61 10 management People Absenteeism rate among employees (permanent and seasonal harvesters)* CROP 2018/ CROP 2017/ CROP 2016/ 2019 2018 2017 Planet Per region Midwest 1.02 1.16 5.81 Prosperity Northeast 1.22 1.56 9.25 Annexes South 1.09 1.23 4.06 CONSOLIDATED 1.12 1.32 6.37 *Number of days lost due to doctor’s statement (except for maternity leave) / total of hours worked * 1,000. Data not available in segmentation per gender. 69 Integrated Report 2019 GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI Standard Disclosure PAGE OMISSIONS GLOBAL COMPACT GRI 101 | Foundation 2016 General disclosures Organizational profile 102-1 | Name of the organization 6 102-2 | Activities, brands, products, and services 6 and 25 102-3 | Location of headquarters 6 102-4 | Location of operations 6 102-5 | Ownership and legal form 10 102-6 | Markets served 24 and 25 102-7 | Scale of the organization 7 102-8 | Information on employees and other workers 42, 64 and 65 6 102-9 | Supply chain 21 Message GRI 102 | General 102-10 | Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 19 Who we are disclosures 2016 102-11 | Precautionary Principle or approach 26 and 27 102-12 | External initiatives 15 Strategy 102-13 | Membership of associations 65 Innovation Strategy management 102-14 | Statement from senior decision-maker 3 and 4 People 102-15 | Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 12, 13, 15, 16 and 18 Ethics and integrity Planet 102-16 | Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 8 and 10 10 102-17 | Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 11 10 Prosperity Governance Annexes 102-18 | Governance structure 14 GRI 102-55 70 Integrated Report 2019 GRI Standard Disclosure PAGE OMISSIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Stakeholder engagement 102-40 | List of stakeholder groups 63 102-41 | Collective bargaining agreements 42 3 102-42 | Identifying and selecting stakeholders 63 102-43 | Approach to stakeholder engagement 63 102-44 | Key topics and concerns raised 63 Reporting practice 102-45 | Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 62 GRI 102 | General 102-46 | Defining report content and topic Boundaries 63 disclosures 2016 102-47 | List of material topics 63 102-48 | Restatements of information 65 Message 102-49 | Changes in reporting 63 102-50 | Reporting period 62 Who we are 102-51 | Date of most recent report 62 102-52 | Reporting cycle 62 Strategy 102-53 | Contact point for questions regarding the report 62 Innovation 102-54 | Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 65 management 102-55 | GRI content index 70, 71, 72 and 73 People 102-56 | External assurance 62 Planet Prosperity Annexes GRI 102-55 71 Integrated Report 2019 GRI Standard Disclosure PAGE OMISSIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Material topic | Climate Change and Soil GRI 103 | 103-1 | Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 54, 55 and 63 Management 103-2 | The management approach and its components 54 and 55 approach 2016 1 103-3 | Evaluation of the management approach 9, 54 and 55 GRI 305 | 305-1 | Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 54 and 55 7e8 Emissions 2016 305-2 | Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 54 and 55 7e8 305-4 | GHG emissions intensity 67 8 GRI 307 | 307-1 | Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 68 8 Environmental compliance 2016 Material topic | Biodiversity and Water GRI 103 | 103-1 | Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 49, 50, 51, 52, 53 and 63 Management 103-2 | The management approach and its components 49, 50, 51, 52 and 53 approach 2016 2 103-3 | Evaluation of the management approach 9, 49, 50, 51, 52 and 53 Message GRI 303 | Water 303-1 | Water withdrawal by source 50 and 66 7e8 Who we are 2016 303-3 | Water recycled and reused 50 and 67 8 GRI 304 | 304-1 | | Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas 68 8 Strategy Biodiversity 2016 and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Innovation 304-3 | Habitats protected or restored 52 8 management GRI 306 | 306-1 | Water discharge by quality and destination 50 8 People Effluents and 306-2 | Waste by type and disposal method 51 8 waste 2016 Planet 1. The management approach refers to all GRI topics prioritized in the material topic of Climate Change and Soil. 2. The management approach refers to all GRI topics prioritized in the material topic of Biodiversity and Water. Prosperity Annexes GRI 102-55 72 Integrated Report 2019 GRI Standard Disclosure PAGE OMISSIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Material topic | Stakeholders’ expectation 103-1 | Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47 GRI 103 | and 63 Management 103-2 | The management approach and its components 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46 and 47 approach 2016 3 103-3 | Evaluation of the management approach 9, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46 and 47 GRI 201 | 201-1 | Direct economic value generated and distributed 60 Economic 201-2 | Financial implications and other risks and opportunities 12, 54 and 55 7 performance 2016 due to climate change GRI 202 | 202-1 | Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to 42 6 Market presence local minimum wage 2016 GRI 205 | 205-1 | Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 10 10 Anti-corruption 2016 GRI 401 | 401-2 | Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary 42 Message Employment 2016 or part-time employees Who we are GRI 403 | 403-1 | Workers representation in formal joint management–worker health and 44 and 45 Occupational safety committees Strategy health and safety 403-2 | Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and 45 and 69 Innovation 2016 absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities management 403-3 | Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 44 People 403-4 | Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 45 GRI 404 | Training 404-1 | Average hours of training per year per employee 38 and 65 6 Planet and education 404-2 | Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 39 2016 404-3 | Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 40 and 41 6 Prosperity development reviews Annexes 3. The management approach refers to all GRI topics prioritized in the material topic of Stakeholders’ Expectation. GRI 102-55 73 Corporate information SLC Agrícola S.A. Rua Bernardo Pires, 128, 3rd floor Bairro Santana – Porto Alegre/RS CEP 90620-010 www.slcagricola.com.br ri.slcagricola.com.br E-mail: ri@slcagricola.com.br Credits Coordination HR, Communication, Investor Relations and Sustainability teams of SLC Agrícola Consulting, content and design usina82 Photos SLC Agrícola’s collection and Gilberto Marques
