Annual Report 2019 Facts and Figures 2019 FACTS AND FIGURES – GROUP AND ASSOCIATED COMPANIES Group Casinos Austria Casinos Austria Österreichische (consolidated) AG International Lotterien (consolidated) Ges. m.b.H. Gross gaming revenues1 incl. ancillary revenues in millions euro 2019 1,359.15 – 180.77 – 2018 1,338.01 – 150.49 – Gross gaming revenues1 in millions euro 2019 – 321.62 – 817.71 2018 – 314.13 – 829.03 Taxes, fees and social security contributions in Austria in millions euro 2019 Total 643.37 129.32 – 498.70 Gaming-related taxes and fees 555.87 98.90 – 455.47 Other taxes, fees and social security contributions 87.50 30.42 – 43.23 2018 Total 650.63 124.53 – 509.49 Gaming-related taxes and fees 568.41 94.79 – 472.16 Other taxes, fees and social security contributions 82.22 29.74 – 37.33 Operating result/Operating profit in millions euro 2019 152.58 7.76 22.34 77.67 2018 143.95 6.10 17.36 75.70 Annual surplus in millions euro 2019 – 118.22 – 58.15 2018 – 78.88 – 71.06 Group result in millions euro 2019 111.98 – 13.17 – 2018 92.66 – 5.30 – Employees annual average full-time equivalent 2019 3,3362 1,7143 760 509 2018 3,438 2 1,898 3 788 484 1 Gross gaming revenue is the most significant indicator in the gaming industry for reporting the Group’s financial performance. 2 incl. win2day, WINWIN, tipp3 and Rabcat. 3 incl. Cuisino, CAST, CCB and CALL. Group Overview LOCATIONS IN AUSTRIA* 12 casinos 20 WINWIN outlets 3,122 tipp3 sales outlets 5,088 lottery sales outlets 1,153,919 win2day users on win2day.at * GRI 102-6 GRI 1027 ** GRI 102-2 CASINO GUESTS IN MILLIONS* GAMING TABLES*/** 2.28 5.59 241 514 Austria worldwide Austria worldwide SLOT MACHINES*/** VIDEO LOTTERY TERMINALS (WINWIN, CAI)** 2,188 6,016 849 3,694 Austria worldwide Austria worldwide LOTTERY PICKS PLAYED** INSTANT LOTTERY TICKETS PLAYED** 588,186,541 Lotto and LottoPlus picks 883,589,281 42,377,005 15,602,414 all pick slip games scratch-off cards break-open tickets 152,746,135 EuroMillions picks 1 Reporting Period and Practices This Annual Report is targeted at all stakeholders of the Casinos Austria and Austrian GRI Lotteries Group. In addition to the customary information provided, the 2019 edition includes 102-1 102-49 for the first time the contents of our Annual Report on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and thus also affords a comprehensive, in-depth insight into our commitment to CSR and our CSR management system. The CSR data and information contained in this report relate to the 2019 business year. GRI Unless otherwise indicated, the reference date for any data provided in the report is 102-50 102-51 31 December 2019. Our CSR reporting focuses on our operations in Austria and does not 102-52 extend to the business activities of Casinos Austria International Holding GmbH, which operates casinos outside Austria. This report has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) GRI Standards: Core option. It also constitutes our annual Communication on Progress (COP) 102-46 102-54 as required by the United Nations (UN) Global Compact. It likewise demonstrates our commitment to and engagement for the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). For purposes of convenience and transparency, we have included marginal references to the relevant GRI items and/or SDGs throughout the report. Where appropriate, we have also indicated areas where further information can be found on our casinos.at and lotterien.at websites. The CRS information provided in this report was prepared by our CSR Department in consultation with our CSR Director and with all Business Units and Corporate Functions (see Page 18) in our Group. The data and facts reported originate from various internal reporting systems. Unless otherwise indicated, all CSR indicators refer to the entire Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group in Austria, with the data assigned wherever possible to the individual Business Units. Since this is not possible for the environmental data provided, GRI we focus here on the Group’s administrative buildings, i.e. our headquarters at Rennweg 102-3 102-4 44 and 46 in Vienna and our MC4 logistics and parallel computing center in Wiener Neustadt. We also report on the environmental performance of our twelve casinos and 20 WINWIN outlets across the country. Talk to us Dialog with you, the readers of this report, is important to us. It lets us know what you like about the report, what you feel might be missing, and where you think the Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group could make further improvements. We therefore welcome and look forward to receiving your comments and feedback by e-mail to csr@casinos.at or csr@lotterien.at. Supplementary Documentation Additional documents (Disclosure on Management Approach), detailed indicators and the GRI context index are available for download at publikationen.casinos.at and publikationen.lotterien.at. 2 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 The Group Contents Facts and Figures C2 Group Overview 1 Reporting Period and Practices 2 Contents 3 The Group Our Vision 4 Our Values 5 Foreword by the Managing Board 6 Our Approach to CSR and our CSR Strategy 2020 10 Our Shareholders and Shareholdings 13 Supervisory Board Report 15 Outcome of the Internal Investigation Commissioned by the Supervisory Board 17 Our Organizational Structure 18 Our CSR Organization 19 Our Business Environment Our Key Stakeholders 22 Our Value Chain 23 Materiality Matrix 24 Analysis of Environmental Factors 25 Risk and Opportunities Management 26 Legal and Regulatory Framework 27 The Group Companies Casinos in Austria 32 Austrian Lotteries 45 win2day – Online Gaming 51 WINWIN – Video Lottery Terminals 53 Casinos Austria International 56 tipp3 – Sports Betting 59 Our Responsibility Compliance on all Levels 64 Responsible Gaming 69 Top Employer 75 Sustainable Use of Resources and Climate Protection 82 Commitment to Society and Social Responsibility 91 2019 Fiscal Year Gross Gaming Revenues and Financial Performance 100 Outlook 105 Consolidated Profit and Loss Statement and Consolidated Balance Sheet 106 Imprint 108 The Group 3 xxx THE GROUP Our Vision We enrich people’s lives by offering high-quality Austrian gaming products and services that consistently exceed customer expectations. ABOUT US Building on over 50 years of experience, we offer gaming, betting and entertainment of the highest standard. Our primary responsibility in all that we do is to our customers and guests. We are a group of companies whose business activities are shaped by the principle of responsible gaming and a clear and lasting sense of social responsibility. We GRI 102-16 conduct all our business in adherence to the defined legal and regulatory parameters and work in close cooperation with the licensing authorities. Our attractive portfolio of products and services reflects the diversity in society and provides our customers and guests with highest quality gaming fun and entertainment. We are responsible for our employees. The strength of our Group is based on their diversity. Accordingly, we give all our employees the opportunity to contribute personally to our corporate success according to their own qualifications and abilities. In return, we pay them fair, performance-based salaries. We encourage the professional development of our employees and support their commitment to and engagement for society. Competent management gives us the agility we need and creates an environment in which our employees can work autonomously and responsibly. We place our customers and guests at the center of our activities, encourage innovation and practice a constructive culture of learning from mistakes. Each and every one of us is proud to be part of an excellent Austrian enterprise. We embrace our responsibility to society and support charitable causes. Our tax payments facilitate important social initiatives. We also bear a responsibility to our shareholders. Efficiency and cost-awareness contribute to ensuring that our business activities generate commensurate value added. 4 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 The Group Our Values Our corporate culture is shaped by decades of experience in all sectors of the gaming industry, our innovative strength and ability to realize shared visions, our integrity and total professionalism towards our customers, guests, business partners and the authorities as well as by genuine teamwork and the provision of excellent support and opportunities for all our staff. Our Group is made up of a number of different Business Units. Be it casinos, lotteries, online gaming, international business, sports betting or video lottery terminals, they each focus on different areas of our business yet all share a common base upon which we build and work successfully together: our core values. Professional, respectful, cosmopolitan, proud and responsible – each of our values is expressed in a slogan that reflects our Group’s philosophy and the way we do business. The guiding principles below each of these values explain what they mean to us and how we apply them in practice. The final statement for each value summarizes these guiding principles. GRI 102-16 The Group 5 Foreword by the Management Board Director Martin Škopek and Director General Bettina Glatz-Kremsner. Dear Reader, Welcome to the Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group’s first-ever combined GRI 102-11 Annual and Corporate Social Responsibility Report. Merging these two publications 102-14 into one allows us to provide a comprehensive, in-depth report on our business and, at the same time, illustrate the links between our successful economic activities and our CSR Strategy 2020. It also underscores the importance we attach to our responsibility to society and demonstrates how we integrate this into our daily work. In doing so, we orient ourselves on international standards like the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the United Nations Global Compact and contribute towards achievement of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. 2019 was a very eventful and turbulent year for all of us in the Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group – more than we would have liked. The year was, of course, strongly impacted by the appointment of our new Management Board from 1 May 2019. The subsequent developments that emerged in the summer created a very difficult situation for the Group and were accompanied by negative reports in the media that continue to appear to the present day. As Members of the Management Board, we would, however, like to stress that the Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group itself is not – and never was – the subject of any investigations and that these therefore bear no connection whatsoever to our actual business activities. In challenging times like these, words like solidarity, unity and cohesion gain a whole new meaning and worth. We have had ample opportunity over recent months to feel and recognize the strength of the Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group’s outstanding team. Our Group is made up of a number of different Business Units and is thus also 6 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 The Group home to a variety of different corporate cultures. And that is a good thing. But what is also important is that all these different cultures share a common base, namely the core values that hold our Group together and create the foundations upon which we build and work effectively together: professionalism, respect, cosmopolitanism, pride and responsibility. Not least, our good business performance also clearly reflects our unity and shows that we are all working successfully as one. In the 2019 reporting year, the Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group posted consolidated gross gaming revenues (including ancillary revenues) of 1.36 billion euros, an increase of 1.58 percent compared to the previous year. The Group result rose to 111.98 million euros, an above-average increase of 20.85 percent and the best result in the history of the Group. We paid 643.37 million euros in taxes, fees and social security contributions in 2019, making our Group one of the biggest taxpayers in Austria. And there was positive news for our customers as well: we paid out a total of 3.31 billion euros in winnings in 2019, another record high. Financial performance in our individual Business Units in 2019 was also very positive. Our twelve casinos in Austria posted gross gaming revenues of 322 million euros, an increase of 2.4 percent compared to the previous year, and succeeded thereby in counteracting the market trend by effectively expanding their gaming mix. Casinos Austria International enjoyed one of its most successful years in the last decade, with gross gaming revenues up by 20 percent to 181 million euros and its consolidated subgroup result rising by almost 150 percent to 13.17 million euros. These strong figures can be attributed primarily to the positive performance of its operations in Germany, Liechtenstein and Belgium. Austrian Lotteries posted gross gaming revenues of 818 million euros, a slight drop of 1.37 percent compared to the previous year. Lady Luck clearly did not favor rollover jackpots as much as she had in previous years: there were two fewer six-time and one fewer seven-time rollover jackpots for the Lotto “6 aus 45” national lottery in 2019 than there had been in 2018. The EuroMillions lottery, in contrast, recorded an 11.71 percent increase in gross gaming revenues, while the Brieflos break-open lottery tickets also showed strong gains (+13.15 percent). Gross gaming revenues for the electronic lotteries on the online gaming site win2day were up by a gratifying 20 percent to 92 million euros, while the 20 WINWIN VLT outlets posted gross gaming revenues of just under 45 million euros, a rise of around 7 percent year-on-year. Business growth was thus very good across the whole Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group and is reflected in the corresponding positive results. This offers a clear demonstration of what we stand for and what we are good at: providing excellent gaming products and services across the board and doing so responsibly, professionally and with integrity – and, hence, also with success. It is, however, also important to note that our Business Units were each confronted with their own different challenges in the reporting year. Competition from illegal gaming operations – both online and terrestrial – once again, for instance, created a challenging market environment. The Group 7 Foreword by the Management Board In contrast, we are delighted by the continued positive momentum that repeatedly produces new and innovative ideas in all our Business Units. Implementing these ideas will substantially benefit our Group both now and in the future. We work diligently across the entire Group to continually develop our gaming mix and enhance the services we provide. In all such efforts, we adhere strictly to the principles of responsible gaming and necessity to protect our customers and guests, comply fully with all regulations as a matter of course and monitor this compliance through corresponding management systems and certifications. We would therefore like to take this opportunity to express our sincere thanks to all our staff, whose dedication, commitment and engagement are key to the success of our Group. We would also like to thank all our stakeholders for their continued support. The Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group assumes a leadership role in crucial matters like player protection and consistently sets the benchmarks for responsible gaming. We act as a role model with our clear commitment to society and corporate social responsibility. We are one of Austria’s biggest taxpayers, a good employer and a fair partner to our suppliers, customers and guests. Our investments likewise make a significant contribution to the country’s economy. The Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group will continue to be a good corporate citizen and actively contribute towards achievement of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. To do so, we have set ourselves our own clear goal: to work together to be the “Best in Class” for people, gaming and the environment. Bettina Glatz-Kremsner Martin Škopek 8 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 The Group Foreword by the Management Board CURRICULA VITAE Bettina Glatz-Kremsner, Director General Bettina Glatz-Kremsner has been Director General of Casinos Austria AG since 1 May 2019, where she had already played a decisive role in shaping the business in her capacity as Chief Financial Officer since 2010. She is also Director General of Österreichische Lotterien Gesellschaft m.b.H., where she was first appointed to the Management Board in 2006. In addition, she has been a Member of the Supervisory Board of Casinos Austria International since 2013. After successfully completing her degree in Commercial Studies at Vienna University of Economics and Business, Bettina Glatz-Kremsner began her career in the Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group in 1990. Until 1996, she served as Managing Director of the Group’s Hungarian subsidiary “Lotto Union”. She was then appointed Assistant to the Management Board of Casinos Austria AG and Deputy Head of the Executive Secretariat & Controlling Unit at Austrian Lotteries. From 2000 onwards, she was responsible for synergies in both companies. Bettina Glatz-Kremsner is a Member of the Supervisory Boards of a number of organizations, including EVN AG and Flughafen Wien AG, where she also chairs the Boards in both cases. She was appointed a Member of the General Council of the Oesterreichische Nationalbank in March 2018. Since January 2013, Bettina Glatz-Kremsner has been Honorary Consul for the Republic of Hungary in Vienna and Lower Austria. She was awarded the Grand Medal of Honor for Services to the Republic of Austria in April 2015 and the Silver Commander’s Cross Medal of Honor for Services to the State of Lower Austria in October 2016. Martin Škopek, Director Martin Škopek has been a Director of Casinos Austria AG and Österreichische Lotterien Gesellschaft m.b.H. since 1 May 2019. From the start of his career in the 1990s in the Czech Republic, Martin Škopek successfully specialized in business to customer (B2C) activities in the banking sector. In 1999, he was appointed to the Management Board of the Erste Bank’s Czech subsidiary, Ceská Sporitelna. In 2010, he moved for 18 months to the bank’s administrative headquarters in Vienna, where he managed its entire B2C operations in seven countries, including Austria. He then spent two years at the Romanian Banca Comerciala Româna in Bucharest, where he was likewise responsible for B2C operations. In 2014, Martin Škopek joined the Czech KKCG conglomerate. KKCG acquired the remaining shares in the Sazka Group in 2018 and has been its sole owner since that date. The Sazka Group, in turn, is a shareholder in Casinos Austria AG. The Group 9 Our Approach to CSR and our CSR Strategy There is virtually no other sector of the economy in which social responsibility is of such central importance as it is in the gaming industry. At the Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group, responsible gaming is not just a catchphrase, it is the guiding principle in all our business activities. Our responsibility to society goes far beyond player protection and responsible gaming. It covers the full spectrum of social responsibility along the entire supply chain from an economic, ecological and social perspective. Our aim thereby is clear: we strive to be the “Best in Class”. ONR 192500 Certified Corporate Social Responsibility To professionalize our commitment to social responsibility and sustainability, we have implemented a comprehensive CSR management system based on the requirements of the Austrian ONR 192500 Standard “Social Responsibility of Organisations”. The effectiveness of this management system has been audited and verified by the Austrian Standards Institute. Our CSR management system is managed by our CSR Department. It extends to all Business Units in the Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group with the exception of our International Business unit and helps them to adhere to the seven principles of social GRI responsibility: 102-16 • Respect for Stakeholders and Interest Groups GRI The concerns and interests of our stakeholders are important to us. But it is also vital 102-43 to us that our stakeholders know and accept our values. We listen intently to their expectations and demands and hear what they say. To do so, we adopt a dialog-based approach, inviting them to participate, for instance, in a regular Stakeholder Dialog event during our annual Responsible Gaming Academy conference. • Transparency GRI We have been publishing CSR reports and organizing internal and external CSR infor103-1 103-2 mation events for many years, thus communicating and providing information on our 103-3 commitment to CSR and our corresponding measures and activities. We will also continue to do so in the future, ensuring thereby that such reports and events remain focused and transparent. • Respect for Human Rights Our corporate Code of Conduct accords special emphasis to respect for human rights. We are committed to the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and have implemented corresponding internal and external measures to respect these rights. • Respect for International Standards of Conduct GRI 102-12 Our commitment to corporate social responsibility is oriented on international stan102-13 dards of conduct. We are committed to the UN Global Compact and its principles in the fields of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. We are an active member of the Austrian Global Compact network through our membership of respACT, Austria’s leading platform for CSR and sustainable development. Our CSR strategy is aligned to the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. Our CSR reports are compiled in accordance with 10 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 The Group the GRI Standards (2016). As a GRI GOLD Community member, we help to shape the future of sustainability and reporting. Through this membership, we also remain constantly up-to-date on sustainability trends. We likewise comply fully with the provisions of the Austrian Sustainability and Diversity Improvement Act [Nachhaltigkeitsund Diversitätsverbesserungsgesetz; NaDiVeG] even though these do not extend to our Group in their current version. • Ethical Conduct We strive to conduct ourselves in an ethically correct manner at all times and in all that we do. Our corporate Code of Conduct, internal rules and guidelines (e.g. for procurement activities) and CSR Strategy 2020 all reinforce our core values. • Respect for the Rule of Law We respect justice and the law and strive to abide by the rules on all levels and in all our activities. To assist us thereby, we have implemented a comprehensive compliance management system across the entire Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group. • Accountability We are fully aware that our decisions and actions impact society, the environment and the economy. To avoid any negative effects and increase our positive impact, we have defined corresponding goals and measures in our comprehensive CSR Strategy 2020. This strategy is evaluated and adapted at regular intervals to ensure that it is continually improved and remains in line with the precautionary principle. “Best in Class” for People, Gaming and the Environment At the Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group, CSR means conducting all our business activities in a sustainable manner that goes beyond our legal obligations and making responsibility to society a core principle in all that we do. Our CSR Strategy, which is valid until 2020, demonstrates how we seek to contribute towards the achievement of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). This CSR Strategy 2020 focuses on three particular areas, each with its own two fields of action. These action fields are closely linked to specific SDGs and indicate those goals to which our Group can make a specific and valid contribution. BEST IN CLASS FOR PEOPLE, IN GAMING & FOR THE ENVIRONMENT Compliance on all levels Sustainable use of resources Top employer PEOPLE SPIEL GAMING ENVIRONMENT Good for Austria Climate action Player protection of the highest quality The Group 11 Our Approach to CSR and our CSR Strategy Our SDG Priorities in Detail The Sustainable Development Goals, or SDGs for short, were adopted by the United GRI Nations in 2016. At the Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group, we have assigned 103-1 priority to those SDGs that could be significantly impacted by our business activities. SDG 3 – Good health and well-being. We strive to provide our staff with the best possible health-related support and guarantee them secure jobs. For them and their families. SDG 4 – Quality education. We offer a broad range of training and education options – from apprenticeships and croupier training programs through to multiple opportunities for lifelong learning and acquiring new skills and qualifications. We also place a strong focus on teaching our staff about sustainable development and sustainable ways of life. SDG 5 – Gender equality. Gender equality is a focus topic in our CSR Strategy 2020. Our goal thereby is to ensure that women and men are employed equally, sustainably and for the long term in all areas of our business. SDG 8 – Decent work and economic growth. We consider it a core duty to create fairly paid jobs in Austria. Through our close ties to our domestic suppliers and the so-called effects on demand, jobs are created and secured each year in Austria along our supply chain. As a key player in the Austrian tourism sector, we support local cultures and regional products. SDG 12 – Responsible consumption and production. We place great emphasis on the sustainable use of raw materials. We also consider it our duty to encourage our customers and guests to consume our products in a sustainable manner, in other words, to only gamble responsibly and within their means. SDG 13 – Climate action. We take our responsibility to the environment very seriously. Each year, we take measures to improve our energy efficiency and strive to continuously reduce our carbon footprint. SDG 16 – Peace, justice and strong institutions. Compliance plays a central role for companies in the gaming sector. Total compliance in the handling of our games, the battle against corruption and money laundering and the provision of the highest possible standards of safety for our customers and guests are an absolute priority for us. SDG 17 – Partnerships for the goals. The 17 Sustainable Development Goals can only be achieved if we all work together. That is why we work with a whole range of different national and international partners to support the exchange of knowledge, expertise, technology and financial resources. We do so, for instance, at a national level through our many CSR partnerships. At an international level, we strive to advance sustainability in our industry through our membership in key associations like the European Casino Association (ECA), the European Lotteries (EL) and the World Lottery Association (WLA). 12 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 The Group Our Shareholders and Shareholdings Casinos Austria and its affiliated companies offer gaming and entertainment products and services of the highest quality. Our Group is one of the few operators worldwide that can offer innovative solutions for all sectors of the gaming industry from a single source. CASINOS AUSTRIA AG SHAREHOLDERS GRI 102-5 in % Medial Beteiligungs-GmbH 38.3 ÖBAG Österreichische Beteiligungs AG 33.2 Novomatic AG 17.2 Private Shareholders 6.0 Bankhaus Schelhammer & Schattera AG 5.3 SHAREHOLDINGS in % Casinos Austria AG HQ: Vienna Österreichische Lotterien Gesellschaft m.b.H. HQ: Vienna Casinos Austria International Holding GmbH 100 73.83 mit HQ: Vienna Cuisino 100 Ges.m.b.H. 95 100 56 HQ: Vienna Casinos Austria Rabcat Computer Glücksund Österreichische 100 Sicherheitstechnologie GmbH Graphics GmbH Unterhaltungsspiel Sportwetten HQ: Vienna HQ: Vienna Betriebsgesellschaft m.b.H. Gesellschaft m.b.H. HQ: Vienna HQ: Vienna Casinos Austria Liegenschaftsverwaltungs100 und Leasing GmbH HQ: Vienna Congress Casino Baden 89 Betriebsges.m.b.H. HQ: Vienna as at 31 December 2019 The Group 13 Our Shareholders and Shareholdings CHANGE IN THE LEGAL STRUCTURES OF ÖSTERREICHISCHE LOTTERIEN GRI 102-10 GESELLSCHAFT M.B.H 102-48 At the meetings of the Supervisory Boards of Casinos Austria AG and Österreichische Lotterien Gesellschaft m.b.H. on 19 March 2019, the merger of Entertainment Glücksund Unterhaltungsspiel Gesellschaft m.b.H. (as transferring entity) with Österreichische Lotterien Gesellschaft m.b.H. (as acquiring entity) and consequently also the merger of win2day Entwicklungsund Betriebsgesellschaft m.b.H. with Österreichische Lotterien Gesellschaft m.b.H. were agreed. The mergers were subsequently implemented with effect from 16 April 2019. The aim thereby is to simplify the Group’s organizational structure, reduce financial liabilities and streamline internal accounting activities. Glücksund Unterhaltungsspiel Betriebsgesellschaft m.b.H. (WINWIN) remains as an independent company and has become a wholly-owned subsidiary of Österreichische Lotterien Gesellschaft m.b.H.; the 56% share in Österreichische Sportwetten Gesellschaft m.b.H. previously held by Entertainment Glücksund Unterhaltungsspiel Gesellschaft m.b.H. is now held by Österreichische Lotterien Gesellschaft m.b.H. 14 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 The Group Supervisory Board Report The Supervisory Board has performed the duties incumbent upon it pursuant to statutory GRI provisions and the Articles of Association in its meetings. The Management Board has 102-10 provided regular reports on business progress. The Casinos Austria AG Financial Statements and Management Report were audited by the independent auditor appointed at the Annual General Meeting on 19 March 2019, BDO Austria GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsund Steuerberatungsgesellschaft. The completed audit raised no grounds for objection. The independent auditor has therefore confirmed that the Casinos Austria AG Financial Statements and Management Report comply with statutory provisions. The Supervisory Board confirms that it concurs with the Management Board’s Management Report and the proposed distribution of profits and that it formally approves the Casinos Austria AG Financial Statements, which are hereby adopted pursuant to Section 96 of the Austrian Stock Corporation Act [Aktiengesetz]. Furthermore, the Supervisory Board recommends that the aforementioned audit firm, BDO Austria GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsund Steuerberatungsgesellschaft, also be appointed as independent auditor for the 2020 fiscal year at the Annual General Meeting. The Supervisory Board Walther Rothensteiner Chairman Vienna, 24 March 2020 The Group 15 Supervisory Board Report GRI 102-22 copy CASINOS AUSTRIA AG STATE COMMISSIONERS ELECTED MEMBERS OF THE CENTRAL WORKS COUNCIL SUPERVISORY BOARD (CWC) DELEGATES (SHAREHOLDER REPRESENTATIVES) (STAFF REPRESENTATIVES) Supervisory Board Presidium Alfred Lejsek Walter Rothensteiner Manfred Schönbauer Johannes Pasquali (Chairman) (CWC Chairman) Alfred Katterl Robert Chvátal Christian Holz (1st Deputy Chair) Maria Laister Harald Neumann Peter Löb (2nd Deputy Chair) Alexander Nachbaur Josef Pröll Alois Suppan (3rd Deputy Chair) Supervisory Board Members Francine Brogyányi Gerhild Hofer Pavel Horák Jürgen Kitte Katarína Kohlmayer Gerald Neuber Thomas Polzer Elisabeth Stern as at 31 December 2019 ÖSTERREICHISCHE LOTTERIEN GESELLSCHAFT M.B.H. STATE COMMISSIONERS ELECTED MEMBERS OF THE CENTRAL WORKS COUNCIL SUPERVISORY BOARD (CWC) DELEGATES (SHAREHOLDER REPRESENTATIVES) (STAFF REPRESENTATIVES) Supervisory Board Presidium Martin Atzmüller Walter Rothensteiner Bettina Forman Christoph Schlager (Chairman) Erich Eckel Robert Chvátal Gertrude Kopp (1st Deputy Chair) (to 10.12.2019) Harald Neumann Martin Kubalek (2nd Deputy Chair) (from 10.12.2019) Josef Pröll Judith Malle (3rd Deputy Chair) Erika Pilz Gerald Schwarz Supervisory Board Members Štepán Dlouhý Christian Jauk Gerald Neuber Thomas Schmid Gerhard Starsich Christian Widhalm Leo Windtner Alexander Wrabetz as at 31 December 2019 16 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 The Group Outcome of the Internal Investigation Commissioned by the Supervisory Board In an Extraordinary Meeting of the Casinos Austria AG Supervisory Board held on GRI 2 December 2019 to discuss the findings of its internal investigation, it was determined 102-10 that the Supervisory Board had acted correctly and within its discretionary powers in the severance from Alexander Labak and Dietmar Hoscher as Members of the Management Board. It was also determined that the Supervisory Board had acted correctly in the appointment of Peter Sidlo to the Management Board, in particular given the content of an advisory opinion obtained from the law firm CMS at the time of this appointment. The Supervisory Board also agreed by a large majority to remove Peter Sidlo from his position as Director and terminate his contract with immediate effect. This decision was taken after in-depth and comprehensive discussions and consultations and was deemed to be in the best interests of the company. The overriding basis for this decision were circumstances subsequent to the appointment of Peter Sidlo that did not form part of the aforementioned internal investigation. The Group 17 Our Organizational Structure The Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group’s individual areas of business are organized into separate Business Units, which draw on the services of our Corporate Function divisions. BUSINESS UNITS GRI 102-2 102-18 CASINOS IN AUSTRIA CASINOS AUSTRIA LOTTERIES & ONLINE INTERNATIONAL GAMING Lotteries: Elisabeth RömerRusswurm Christian Lang, Helmut Wede, Online Gaming: Martin Jekl, Reinhard Summerer Christoph Zurucker-Burda Emmerich Hager SPORTS BETTING VLT/WINWIN Philip Newald, Georg Weber Fritz Pühringer CORPORATE FUNCTIONS PROJECT, PROCESS INTERNAL AUDIT HUMAN RESOURCES & INNOVATION MANAGEMENT Erich Schuster, Matthias Steininger Erhard Peinthor Naida Karabeg CORPORATE FINANCE & LEGAL, PUBLIC & COMMUNICATIONS GROUP CONTROLLING EUROPEAN AFFAIRS Patrick Minar Wolfgang Sperl Peter Erlacher INFORMATION SERVICES RESPONSIBLE GAMING & TECHNOLOGIES COMPLIANCE Herbert Beck* Erich Schuster Nathan Bomze Arno Nagelschmied** * to 30 November 2019 ** from 1 February 2020 18 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 The Group Our CSR Organization From an organizational perspective, corporate social responsibility in the Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group falls under the purview of our Corporate Communications division, which reports directly to the CSR Director. Together with the Head of Corporate Communications and the CSR Officer, the CSR Director sets the strategic direction for our CSR activities. Our CSR Forum is the linchpin of these activities, and representatives GRI of all our Business Units and Corporate Functions meet regularly in this forum to discuss 103-1 CSR topics and initiate projects. GRI CSR DIRECTOR 102-18 102-19 BETTINA GLATZ-KREMSNER 102-20 102-53 · Definition of CSR strategy · Initialization of CSR projects · Approval of CSR resources CSR OFFICER HEAD OF CORPORATE THORSTEN LEITGEB COMMUNICATIONS · Preparation of PATRICK MINAR CSR strategy · Preparation of CSR strategy · Coordination with CSR Director and Head of · Coordination with CSR Division Director and CSR Officer · Resource allocation · CSR organization · Planning · Facilitation · Organization · Budget · Documentation CSR Forum · Planning CSR Jour fixe · Goals · Partnerships · Reporting · CSR contact · Management, steering and discussion body CSR Working · Communication of CSR activities Groups · Information exchange · 6 times a year CSR · Project-oriented Forum · Development of concrete solutions · Development of decision-making basis · Experts for the respective topic from the CSR Forum · Proposals · Subject experts from the Business · Implementation Units and Corporate Functions · Feedback · External experts · 60 CSR Officers = representatives of all Business Units and Corporate Functions · CSR clause in job description The Group 19 // When I first tried the exoskeleton in 2017, it changed my life. I was able to walk again for the first time in 20 years. The feeling is indescribable. // Gregor Demblin, Initiator 20 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 The Group Luck is... Seeing the world from a new perspective There are many people in Austria who are no longer able to walk without assistance as a consequence of an accident or illness. The psychological and physical effects on these people are devastating, and around half of them are confined to wheelchairs. “suit” that is worn over clothing and uses electric motors to move the legs. It is a life-changing technology that allows people to walk again despite paralysis. With the support of Austrian Lotteries, the successful business consultant Gregor Demblin, himself a paraplegic, has brought groundbreaking exoskeleton technology to Austria. Developed by the US-based firm Ekso Bionics®, an exoskeleton is a battery-driven “suit” that is worn over clothing and uses electric motors to move the legs. It is a life-changing technology that allows people to walk again despite paralysis. The assisted gait training provides patients with far more than just a chance to walk again: the strenuous treatment also strengthens the cardiovascular system, internal organ functions and remaining musculature. It likewise slows down the bone resorption that commonly occurs following paralysis. In some cases, if patients still have enough residual muscle, the exoskeleton can even help them to learn to walk again on their own. According to Demblin, the training also has an impact on motivation and positive thinking in addition to these physical components. Thanks to the funding from Austrian Lotteries, the exoskeleton is now available in Austria for outpatient treatment with physiotherapists at an affordable price. Gregor Demblin is the founder of the myAbility business consultancy and the mastermind behind the tech2people initiative, which works to bring innovative technologies to Austria that will enable people with disabilities to live different lives. tech2people is thus pioneering the use of future-oriented IT that will change not only the lives of people with disabilities but also society as a whole. The Group 21 21 OUR BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT Our Key Stakeholders We consider it our duty and responsibility to maintain close contact with our stakeholders, clarify their demands and engage in regular dialog with them. Our interaction with our key stakeholders allows us to augment the topics identified in our own business, risk and opportunities analyses with the primary issues and concerns of our stakeholders and take appropriate action. We therefore foster and maintain continual contact to all our stakeholders and conduct GRI this exchange on four different levels: through the systematic provision of information via 102-42 various channels, through dialog, through surveys and through cooperation activities in partnerships and associations. OUR STAKEHOLDERS GRI 102-40 STAFF, INCLUDING SHAREHOLDERS/ THE WORKS COUNCIL AND SHAREHOLDER GAMING CUSTOMERS MANAGEMENT BOARD REPRESENTATIVES AND GUESTS SUPPLIERS AND SPONSORING PARTNERS MEDIA SERVICE PROVIDERS PLAYER PROTECTION UNIVERSITIES AND REGULATORS AND ORGANIZATIONS RESEARCH INSTITUTES AUTHORITIES RETAIL PARTNERS ASSOCIATIONS NGOS 22 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Our Business Environment Our Value Chain A responsible company has to monitor and check for the effects of its business on society and the environment along its complete value chain. Globalization is raising the complexity of value creation processes. Demands from stakeholders for transparency and information are likewise growing ever louder. Alongside purely economic factors, ecological and social concerns now play an increasingly important role in these demands. The figure below illustrates the Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group’s supply chain and provides an overview of our business processes. It also shows the resources that are required upstream as input factors as well as the results generated downstream in the form of output. The topics identified along the supply chain were all taken into GRI consideration in our materiality analysis process. 102-9 NEED TO GAMBLE CASINOS IN LOTTERIES BETTING & VLT/SLOT MACHINE ONLINE GAMING AUSTRIA SPORTS-RELATED BUSINESS SKILL GAMES GOODS & LEGAL FACILITIES IT SERVICES HUMAN FINANCE & SERVICES EXPERTISE RESOURCES ACCOUNTING Long-term Mediumand shortSetting goals Measures and Compliance development term development projects BUILDING UP THE BUSINESS RELATIONSHIP Customer and guest acquisition Provision of an attractive and innovative portfolio of products and services ONGOING OPERATIONS GAMING AND ENTERTAINMENT EXPERIENCE FOLLOW-UP ADVANCE CONTACT CORPORATE SUCCESS LEGAL, REGULATED GAMING EXPERIENCE Our Business Environment 23 Our Materiality Matrix The Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group’s CSR Strategy 2020 was developed in 2017 in a three-stage process in consultation with our internal and external stakeholders. In a first step, we identified the relevant topics using the results of a peer group analysis, by considering appropriate ratings and by analyzing the Business Model Canvases for our Business Units and the requirements of the ONR 192500 and GRI (2016; aspects, indicators, sector supplements) standards. These topics were then rated in a second step by around 400 of our stakeholders on a scale of 0-10. In a final step, the identified and rated topics were consolidated into key topics for our CSR Strategy 2020 and prioritized in terms of urgency by 2020 by the participants in our CSR Forum in cooperation with our CSR Director and CSR Officer. The results of this process are shown in the materiality matrix below. GRI 102-47 103-1 MATERIALITY MATRIX Gaming People Very high relevance Environment RELEVANCE OF ECONOMIC, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACT Corporate governance Sustainable procurement Supplier management Anti-money laundering Anti-corruption indirect economic effects Data protection Materials Climate protection Responsible gaming Training and further education Waste disposal Energy High relevance Awareness raising Heath and safety at work Diversity High relevance Very high relevance IMPACT ON STAKEHOLDER ASSESSMENTS AND DECISIONS 24 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Our Business Environment Analysis of Environmental Factors To ensure long-term success, a company has to know and understand its business enviGRI ronment and be able to recognize risks and opportunities at an early stage. 103-1 At the Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group, we monitor and analyze global economic, environmental and social parameters and trends as a matter of course. We conduct periodic analyses of our environment and focus at length on our opportunities and risks. OUR UPDATED ESTEMPLE ANALYSIS FOR 2018 REVEALS THE FOLLOWING PICTURE: ECONOMIC TRENDS MEDIA TRENDS • Larger income gap • Big data • Reduction in disposable income for gambling • Change in media landscape and use • Lower employment rate • Everyone is a communicator • Loss in domestic value added • More personal data – different communication content • Rise in GDP • Data protection and privacy on social media • Increase in volume of tourism • Currency trend • Concentration in online trading • Globalization • Competition (illegal competitors) • Market partitioning LEGISLATIVE TRENDS • Fixed-term licenses • EU directives and national implementations thereof • Increasing regulation through legislation • Changes to legislation • Liberalization of gambling POLITICAL TRENDS • Change in ownership and interests • Volatility in voter behavior • Increases in taxes and fees • Subsidiarity in Europe • Measures to counter illegal gambling • Statutory provisions for corporate social responsibility • Regulations in neighboring states • Gender mainstreaming • New or amended standards and norms from • Relevance of targeted communication with professional associations political stakeholders • Increased border controls • Anti-gold plating ENVIRONMENTAL TRENDS • Shortage of green resources • Regionalism ETHICAL TRENDS • Climate change and its consequences • Growth in relevance of player protection • Increasing environmental awareness • Being a good corporate citizen • Change in values – work as an identification factor and ethical conduct as competitive advantage • Sustainability in the tourism and entertainment sectors • Various new ethical trends (#metoo, etc.) SOCIAL TRENDS • Image of gambling • Polarization and manipulation of opinions • Aging population • Social (im)balance • Urbanization • Digitalization TECHNOLOGICAL TRENDS • Fragmentation and individualization in society • Digital transformation – constantly available worlds • “All-risks-covered” mentality of experience • Diversity • Development of key technologies • Health – increasing need for balance and relaxation • Production technologies • Personal qualifications • Green IT • Increase in mobility • RegTech • Ideological developments • Accessibility of venues • Cryptocurrency • Increasing complexity of infrastructure Our Business Environment 25 25 Analysis of Environmental Factors Our risk and opportunities management activities help us to recognize and assess the key risks and opportunities from the Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group’s perspective and link them to effective control measures. We carry out a quantitative risk and opportunities analysis and a qualitative assessment of long-term strategic influences twice a year. The results of these analyses and assessments are reported to the relevant audit committee and corresponding control measures are defined. The table below shows an excerpt from our latest risk and opportunities management report. Risks/Opportunities Control Measures Permanent Risks and Opportunities Economic Situation, Trends, GRI Leisure Activities 102-15 A negative economic climate (fall/rise in Early warning system in place to enable timely economic performance, unemployment, etc.) response. Recognition of trends in leisure activiand technology trends (e.g. internet) can cause ties and implementation of innovative measures a significant change in gambling behavior. to maintain or raise attractiveness for customers. Trends in leisure and gambling behavior, future Monitoring of the market and development/ opportunities and market developments are launch of new products. not recognized or not recognized in time. Anti-Money Laundering Directive The Anti-Money Laundering Directive requires Training for guest relations staff to ensure the operators to obtain information from guests provision of optimal guest services; implemenon the origins of funds spent on gambling. This tation of tiered due diligence procedures. could lead to a reduction in guest numbers. Event-Based Risks and Opportunities Regional Licenses, Art. 5 Austrian Gaming Act Regional gaming machine licenses could be Lobby for a reduction in access to gaming issued in those Federal States that have not yet machines in the interests of player protection. done so (Vienna, Salzburg, Tyrol, Vorarlberg). Source: RCM Update 2019 26 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Our Business Environment Legal and Regulatory Framework In Austria, the state holds a monopoly on games of chance – the Austrian Gaming Act [Glücksspielgesetz; hereinafter referred to as the Gaming Act] is the basis upon which the Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group offers games of chance in Austria. Under the provisions of the Gaming Act, the right to operate games of chance in Austria – unless otherwise provided for in said Act – is reserved for the Federal Government (monopoly on games of chance). The Federal Minister of Finance can transfer this right to third parties through the award of corresponding licenses. The conditions for the award of such licenses are likewise regulated in the Gaming Act. The Austrian legislator stipulates in the Gaming Act that a license may only be granted to an applicant when said applicant can be expected to exercise the license most effectively as a result of its particular experience, infrastructures, development measures and equity capital, as well as its systems and measures to prevent gambling addiction, protect players, prevent money laundering and criminal activities, guarantee operational reliability, provide quality assurance, monitor its own activities and comply with any other applicable provisions in the Gaming Act. The license to operate lotteries in Austria was awarded to Österreichische Lotterien Gesellschaft m.b.H. (hereinafter referred to as Austrian Lotteries) and is valid until 30 September 2027. This license also includes the right to operate so-called electronic lotteries, which include online gaming and video lottery terminals. The Federal Ministry of Finance has awarded twelve casino licenses to Casinos Austria AG (hereinafter referred to as Casinos Austria). The licenses for the casinos in Bregenz, Graz, Innsbruck, Linz, Salzburg and Vienna (the so-called city package) are valid until 31 December 2027; the licenses for the casinos in Baden, Kitzbühel, Kleinwalsertal, Seefeld, Velden and Zell am See (the so-called regional package) are valid until 31 December 2030. Three further casino licenses provided for in the Gaming Act have currently not been awarded. Art. 5 of the Gaming Act also provides for the operation of gaming machines in individual Federal States. Under these provisions, the nine Federal States in Austria have the right to issue licenses for the operation of gaming machines provided that certain regulatory measures are adhered to. Sports betting is classed in Austria as a skill game and is not subject to the provisions of the Gaming Act; legislative responsibility for sports betting lies with the individual Federal States. LEGAL DEVELOPMENTS AT NATIONAL LEVEL SDG 16 Austrian Gaming Act GRI On 19 September 2019, the Austrian government passed the Financial Organization 102-16 Reform Act [Finanz-Organisationsreformgesetz]. With effect from 1 January 2020, there will only be two tax administration offices in Austria: the Tax Office Austria [Finanzamt Österreich] and the Tax Office for Large Enterprises [Finanzamt Großbetriebe]. There will also be an Anti-Fraud Office, which will assume the tasks of the Financial Police, the Tax Investigation Unit and the Financial Crime Office. The supervision of gambling and gambling license holders and the award of gambling licenses fall within the remit of the Tax Our Business Environment 27 Legal and Regulatory Framework Office Austria. The Ministry of Finance is expressly authorized both to participate therein and to set supervisory measures of its own accord. The powers of authorization already accorded to the Ministry of Finance in the Gaming Act remain in place along with the responsibility to authorize shareholdings of licensees and shareholdings in licensees. The Ministry of Finance remains responsible for scrutinizing the qualifications of the Members of a licensee’s Management and Supervisory Boards and retains the associated rights both to intervene therein and to appoint State Commissioners and their Deputies. The transition period provided for in Art. 60 (36) of the Gaming Act for “Poker offers based on an approval under trade law that was upheld as at 31 December 2012” ended on 31 December 2019. With effect from 1 January 2020, the provisions in Art. 2 (4) of the Gaming Act relating to “prohibited draws” thus also now apply to such offers. Accordingly, Poker can now only be offered in licensed casinos. SDG 16 Transposition of the 4 th and 5th Anti-Money Laundering Directives into National Law GRI In response to a formal notice from the European Commission regarding the insufficient imple102-16 mentation of the 4th Anti-Money Laundering Directive and transposition of the 5th Anti-Money Laundering Directive into national law, further anti-money laundering provisions were incorporated into the Austrian Gaming Act. The new provisions in conjunction with those of the Austrian Financial Markets Anti-Money Laundering Act [Finanzmarkt-Geldwäschegesetzes] have introduced stricter requirements for customer due diligence. At the Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group, the anti-money laundering compliance measures already in place for win2day were thus expanded to include verification of customer identity for payouts pursuant to Art. 6 of the Financial Markets Anti-Money Laundering Act. This expansion of the customer due diligence process for payouts is an effective measure in preventing money laundering and establishes the basis for low exposure to the risk of money laundering. This, in turn, means that the possibility to not conduct such an identity verification at the time of establishment of the business relationship can remain in place for the entire Austrian Lotteries Business Unit. Tobacco and Non-Smoker Protection Act The Amendment to the Austrian Tobacco and Non-Smoker Protection Act [Tabakund Nichtraucherinnenbzw. Nichtraucherschutzgesetz], which came into force in Austria on 27 July 2019 (Federal Law Gazette No. 66/2019), introduced a general ban on smoking in establishments that offer food and beverage services with effect from 1 November 2019. This ban was implemented in WINWIN outlets and in those areas of Casinos Austria’s casinos where food and beverage services are offered. In Casinos Austria’s interpretation of the provisions of the Tobacco and Non-Smoker Protection Act, those areas of its casinos where no food and/or beverages are served qualify as “other rooms of public places” in which “a side room can be set up as a smoking room in the publicly accessible areas”. All smoking booths or converted smoking rooms in these casinos are located in areas where no food and beverage services are offered and include clear signage prohibiting the consumption of food or beverages therein. Casinos Austria staff also continuously monitor adherence to the smoking ban. The smoking booths that have been installed in the casinos are tested and certified non-smoker protection systems that are enclosed on all sides and can (only) be entered through a door. The converted smoking rooms in the casinos likewise meet these criteria in full. 28 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Our Business Environment Legal and Regulatory Framework Following the receipt of notification (Ref. 2020 – 0.050.050; issued 27 January 2020, received 3 February 2020) from the Ministry of Labour, Social Affairs, Health and Consumer Protection that the Ministry did not concur with Casinos Austria’s interpretation of the law and that the provision of smoking rooms and/or smoking booths in casinos was inadmissible, the smoking rooms and booths were decommissioned or made smokefree. Since 3 February 2020, smoking has thus only been permitted at Casinos Austria’s casinos in the designated outdoor areas. Illegal Gambling The executive and judicial authorities are pursuing an Amendment to the Austrian Penal Code [Strafgesetzbuch] that will add organized, illegal gambling to the list of predicate offenses that constitute organized crime. LEGAL DEVELOPMENTS AT EUROPEAN LEVEL EUROPEAN COMMISSION EU Supranational Risk Assessment Report on Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing On 26 July 2019, the European Commission published the updated version of its Supranational Risk Assessment Report on Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing (SNRA). Since the Commission does not deem the gambling and betting sector to be potentially vulnerable to terrorist financing risks, it only assesses the money laundering risks for this particular sector. The 2019 SNRA assesses the levels of risk of exposure to money laundering for the gambling and betting sector as follows (on a scale of 1 to 4): casinos – very significant (Level 4) or moderately significant (Level 2) due to the measures already taken; sports betting and online gambling – significant (Level 3); terrestrial lotteries – moderately significant (Level 2). These risk assessment levels are unchanged compared to the 2017 SNRA. Some of the possible measures to reduce risks listed in the SNRA include: • Improved cooperation between supervisors • Regular reporting by operators on measures taken and their effectiveness • Implementation of recognized identification systems for online services • Prevention of multiple accounts • Prevention of transfers between player accounts • Improved feedback from Financial Intelligence Units on Suspicious Activity Reports A new and completely revised version of the SNRA will be published by the Commission by 2021 at the latest. Our Business Environment 29 29 Luck is... A night to remember You can buy plenty of great things for 13 euros: a good bottle of wine or a colorful bouquet of flowers, for instance. But thanks to Casinos Austria and its special “Lucky 13” promotion, for the same price you can also enjoy the very best in drama and entertainment at four of Austria’s top theaters. On the 13th of every month, tickets for seats in the 13th row or bearing the number 13 in the Burgtheater, Akademietheater, Volkstheater and Ronacher theater in Vienna can be purchased for just 13 euros. A wonderful cooperation that has been offering people access to first-class stage shows at a bargain price for many years. It is really important that culture is made accessible to a broad audience and does not remain simply the domain of a small, established circle of enthusiasts. For the Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group, promoting culture is far more than just a sponsoring activity: it is an integral part of our commitment and responsibility to society. Austria is home to an incredible variety of world-class cultural options – from its big stages and museums to its vast cultural heritage. But cultural establishments also need reliable partners. Over the course of our 50+-year history, the Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group has become such a partner to many important institutions. The Wiener Festwochen art festival in Vienna, for example, has enjoyed Casinos Austria’s support since 1968, and the company has likewise been the main sponsor of the Bregenz Festival for 40 years. And this project goes even further – it helps to fund the “Vorarlberg Kulturpass” culture card, an initiative that enables people on low incomes to attend cultural events in the region. Austrian Lotteries has been a permanent partner of the Kunsthistorische Museum in Vienna for over two decades. The funding provided for the renowned art history museum’s “Annual Ticket” constitutes a further step towards making culture affordable. With its “Lottery Day” initiative, Austrian Lotteries has found a wonderful opportunity to win new target groups for cultural institutions and make them accessible to a broad audience. On a “Lottery Day”, anyone who presents an Austrian Lotteries product receipt or lottery ticket in a participating venue gains free entry to a whole range of outstanding cultural institutions – from the Technical Museum and Museum of Natural History in Vienna to the city’s MuseumsQuartier contemporary art and culture district or Kammerspiele der Josefstadt theater, to name but a few. Our Business Environment 31 THE GROUP COMPANIES Casinos in Austria The twelve casinos in Austria delight more than 2.2 million guests each year with their choice of 241 gaming tables, 2,188 gaming machines, superb dining in the Cuisino restaurants and well-equipped event facilities. In 2019, these casinos had plenty of occasions to commemorate: Casino Seefeld celebrated its 50-year anniversary, Casino Graz turned 35, Casino Velden marked 30 years in its current location, and Casino Bregenz welcomed its eleven millionth guest in July. The Casino Gaming Experience Casinos Austria offers its guests a comprehensive, international-caliber gaming mix. Alongside classic table games like Roulette, Blackjack and multiple variants of Poker, our casinos also offer new favorites like Macau Baccarat and Sic Bo, which was recently introduced in Casino Wien. Sic Bo is a dice game of ancient Chinese origin in which players bet on a variety of possible dice combinations and whose outcome is based on the roll of three dice in an enclosed shaker. After the bets have been placed, the lid of the shaker is removed, the numbers rolled are entered on a keyboard, and the winning fields on the table light up. The Sic Bo table format, equipment and rules of play used in Austria’s casinos are identical to those found in Macau. Our table games are complemented by an outstanding range of latest-generation gaming machines, with a number of new options introduced in this area in 2019. The Fort Knox Jackpot, for instance, replaced the Mega Million Jackpot in May and has been providing a unique slots experience in our casinos ever since. After it is hit – as was the case on six occasions in the past year – the Fort Knox Jackpot is immediately replenished with 200,000 euros. The biggest Fort Knox Jackpot payout of the year went to a lucky winner in Casino Baden, who took home the grand sum of precisely 286,847.84 euros. “Game Night”, a new event format launched in Casino Bregenz in November 2019, adds a whole new spin to a traditional night at the casino. The slogan for these events – “Play for Fun” – says it all: “Game Night” guests compete for points in an exciting range of fun and casino games, where speed and dexterity ultimately determine who makes it to the final. While the games might be free and the chips used have no monetary value, the winner definitely does not leave empty-handed. And the finalists even get to decide for themselves what the main prize will be – cash or an attractive non-cash prize. The new “Game Night” event format delights guests in Casino Bregenz. The unique slot gaming experience in our casinos. 32 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 The Group Companies Casinos Austria offers a comprehensive, international gaming mix. Blackjack is always a favorite with casino guests. Since December 2019, a casual club atmosphere and cool party feeling reign on Fridays and Saturdays from 7 pm in the new “Game Zone” at Casino Baden. Croupiers compere all games live, expertly entertain guests and even play their music requests. They also provide demonstrations of how to play Roulette or Blackjack, which the audience can then try out for themselves at the gaming terminals. A giant LED video wall intensifies the experience, making the “Game Zone” the ideal place for a party and for guests seeking a night of fun and entertainment. The Easy Roulette terminals in all twelve Austrian casinos have been linked since September 2019 to a Roulette table in Casino Wien, thus providing guests with an opportunity to play the game “live” in their casino of choice even before its table gaming area opens for the day. Easy Roulette combines classic Roulette with state-of-the-art technology: the ball is spun live by a croupier, with players placing their bets via touchscreen terminals. This easy-to-play variant of the game allows players to enjoy a game of Roulette from a comfortable seat and place their bets using their customary payment options. The twelve casinos in Austria hosted around 600 Poker tournaments in 2019 with total prize monies in excess of 5 million euros. These ranged from local daily cash events and weekly competitions to some of Europe’s biggest and most impressive tournaments with competitors from around the globe. In July, Casino Velden was host to one such extravaganza, the 30th Annual European Poker Championship, where 1,500 players from 30 countries took to the tables to battle it out for no less than six European Championship titles and some 3 million euros in prize monies. In November, a new nationwide Poker Cash Game Challenge was launched across the country with a prize pool of 100,000 euros. 2019 also marked the eleventh anniversary of the ever-popular Casinos Austria Poker Tour, with numerous exciting tournament weeks in selected casinos across the country, buyins from 100 to 25,000 euros and attractive programs of side events to suit all tastes. Casinos Austria continuously invests in its casino facilities. In addition to the investment in the new “Game Zone” in Casino Baden and Poker Lounges in Baden, Linz and Vienna, we also completed the project to link our slot machines to the Austrian Federal Computing Center, thereby updating a further 700 machines in our slots portfolio. We likewise continued to invest in our Casino app, adding new features like a feedback and push notification tool. The Group Companies 33 Casinos in Austria Culinary delights await casino guests in the Cuisino restaurants. The Casino Dining Experience A night at the casino is not only an exciting gaming experience, it is also a treat for the taste buds. In 2019, our Cuisino food and beverage subsidiary cooked its way to 14 Gault&Millau toques and thus now offers award-winning haute cuisine in all its restaurants. “Die Yacht”, the Cuisino restaurant in Casino Velden, is recognized in the 2020 edition of Gault&Millau Austria with three toques, while the restaurants in Casino Graz and Casino Salzburg and the “Falstaff” restaurant in Casino Bregenz each boast two toques. The restaurants in our casinos in Baden, Kitzbühel, Kleinwalzertal, Linz and Vienna all feature with one toque each. Eight of the Cuisino restaurants also participate in the Slow Food movement’s “Ark of Taste” project to preserve artisan products that might otherwise disappear for good. The Cuisino chefs and their teams integrate traditional Austrian food products that are only found in their host regions into their menus, thus promoting their rediscovery and ensuring their continued existence. Cuisino has always embraced the Slow Food concept in all its restaurants: one of the clear goals when the company was founded back in 2004 was to extend the Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group’s core values of sustainability and social responsibility to its food and beverage services. Wherever possible, Cuisino sources top quality produce from outstanding domestic suppliers. Casinos Austria’s gourmet package options cover everything the fascinating world of the casino has to offer: culinary delights, great fun, superb gaming and a touch of excitement. The new “Genuss & Casino” package launched in 2019 includes a two-course dinner, a glass of sparkling wine, welcome chips to the value of 10 euros and a very special lucky chip that could win its owner 1,000 euros in cash. In other words, all the ingredients for a thrilling night at the casino for just 39 euros per person. To win the 1,000 euros, all the player has to do is bet their lucky chip on the right number at Roulette twice in a row. Sales of these packages confirm their attractiveness: around 100,000 vouchers for the “Dinner & Casino” package alone were purchased in the reporting year. 34 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 The Group Companies Casinos in Austria Multifaceted Event Operator The twelve Austrian casinos are popular venues for cultural and social events alike: their event calendars are packed with literary readings, art previews, comedy shows, concerts and panel discussions as well as gala dinners, balls, festivals, gaming tournaments and much more. At the start of 2019, live Bingo events were also added to the mix. The new Bingo sessions are held each week on Saturday or Sunday (and sometimes even both) in casinos across the country. Bingo fans play free promotion books for non-cash prizes, with entertaining callers, plenty of chances to win and a fun atmosphere all ensuring that they have a great time crossing off the numbers. Two dedicated venues – Congress Casino Baden and Studio 44 in Vienna – round off our events portfolio. Congress Casino Baden and Studio 44 are the ideal locations for all manner of events and offer versatile room layouts, excellent catering, a full support and organization service, cutting-edge technology and equipment and much more. Last but not least, our “Casino-on-Tour” can be hired for corporate and private events, with all proceeds raised at the mobile casino donated to charity. In 2019, our mobile charity casinos provided gaming fun at a total of 273 events and raised 71,500 euros for a range of good causes. Number of Gaming Tables in 2019 American Roulette 41 Party Roulette 31 Blackjack 73 Blackjack X-change 2 Tropical Poker 11 Poker 51 Easy Hold’em 20 Macau Baccara 9 Other 3 Total 241 Number of Gaming Machines in 2019 Slot machines 2,188 Easy Roulette terminals 207 Stadium Games terminals 30 OUR TWELVE AUSTRIAN CASINOS Our twelve casinos in Austria are located across the whole of the country, and each one is just as unique as its own host region. As leading tourism operations, they blend in harmoniously with their settings and generate a high level of regional value added. The Group Companies 35 Casinos in Austria CASINO BADEN Casino Baden’s winning concept – “gaming, events and cuisine all under one roof” – ensures that the casino has been the place to go in the region to the south of Vienna for many years. The impressive building overlooking its host town’s spa gardens is home to one of the largest and most attractive casinos in Europe with its own dedicated congress and event center, Congress Casino Baden (CCB). In December 2019, Casino Baden introduced a new event format to its portfolio. The “Game Zone” is targeted at leisure guests and offers them the chance to experience the thrill of the casino at a low cost in a casual, club setting. Fun is the underlying concept behind the “Game Zone” – relaxed gaming with friends, great vibes, cool croupiers and good entertainment all take the fun factor to a whole new level. The new Fort Knox Jackpot launched at all twelve casinos in Austria in May 2019 was subsequently hit a total of six times in the reporting year, including twice at Casino Baden, where the biggest Fort Knox Jackpot to date – 286,847.84 euros to be precise – was paid out in November. On 1 December 2019, Casino Baden opened a new Poker Lounge in its conservatory, where it offers a diverse range of Poker options including daily Texas Hold’em and Omaha Pot Limit cash games and weekly tournaments. Congress Casino Baden is one of the most important event centers in Lower Austria and hosted a range of events in 2019, including the international Hollywood Music Workshop for film music and composers and the Teatro Barocco opera festival directed by Bernd R. Bienert. The Baden Wedding Fair is an annual event at CCB and attracted more than 100 exhibitors in 2019. The City of Baden’s Ball Royale is likewise held there each year and was attended in 2019 by over 1,700 guests. Its theme for 2019 was “Heal the World”, and sustainability was a top priority: the ball was organized for the first time as a “Green Event” and was the first of its kind in the region to receive Austrian Eco-Label certification. On 1 September 2019, Alexander Frantes became the new Director of Casino Baden, succeeding Edmund Gollubits who began his well-deserved retirement after a 43-year career with Casinos Austria. 36 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 The Group Companies Die Unternehmen Casinos in Austria CASINO BREGENZ Casino Bregenz is a modern casino whose illuminated façade truly comes into its own after dusk. The casino is a popular leisure destination in the festival city on the shores of Lake Constance, and welcomed its eleven millionth guest – a lady from Switzerland – on 20 July 2019. A new event format was launched at Casino Bregenz on 15 November 2019. The “Game Night” is a “play-for-fun” event in which participants play a range of games for points using chips with no monetary value. The games are all designed to be fun and give the players the chance to demonstrate their skill, dexterity and determination at tasks like stacking gold bars, throwing corks or identifying pictures in a quiz as well as at the ever-popular casino games of Roulette and Blackjack. “Game Night” finalists decide for themselves what the main prize will be: in 2019, they could choose between a cash prize or a trip to Las Vegas. The new Fort Knox slots jackpot launched in Casinos Austria’s casinos in May 2019 was hit for the first time in Casino Bregenz on 26 June 2019 by a guest from Germany, who took home a prize of 262,000 euros. Casino Bregenz also scores highly as an event venue and supporter of arts and culture. The “Kulturpreis Vorarlberg” [“Vorarlberg Culture Award”], for instance, is an initiative launched by Casino Bregenz in collaboration with the Sparkasse Bregenz and with the support of the State of Vorarlberg and ORF Vorarlberg. The 10,000-euro award supports innovative artistic formats, focuses each year on a different genre and provides young artists with a platform to present their works. The Kulturpreis Vorarlberg focused in 2019 on the painting genre and was won by the contemporary artist Drago Persic. A new culinary event held at Casino Bregenz in June in collaboration with the Lebenshilfe Vorarlberg aid organization proved to be a resounding success. The participants at the event cooked and served a six-course dinner in the casino’s “Falstaff” restaurant, which boasts two Gault&Millau toques. At the end of the evening, the kitchen and service teams received a hearty round of applause and presented a check for 10,000 euros to the Lebenshilfe team. The Group Companies 37 Casinos in Austria CASINO GRAZ Casino Graz celebrated its 35th anniversary in 2019. It also completed a challenging project to modernize the former 1980s-style casino and transform it into a fitting venue for the 21st century. Work on this project had begun back in 2015, with the casino remaining fully operational throughout the extensive renovations. The success is plain to see, and the results have been lauded not only by guests but also by the architecture community: in February 2019, both the “Gold Bar” and the Cuisino restaurant in Casino Graz received “Special Mentions” at the German Design Awards 2019 in Frankfurt. Siegfried Dick, Chef de Cuisine in Cuisino Graz, was named 2019 Chef of the Year at the Graz Food Festival. He and his team were likewise recognized in the 2020 edition of Gault&Millau Austria, where they received a rating of 14.5 out of a possible 20 points and two toques. The lights now go out in the Cuisino restaurant in Casino Graz several times a year for its popular “Dinner in the Dark” events. Launched four years ago, all proceeds from these charity events go to the city’s Odilien Institute for the Blind and Visually Impaired. As the name suggests, guests at these events dine in total darkness and are served a fourcourse menu by blind members of the institute’s staff. Casino Graz has earned itself a strong reputation in the entertainment sector with its highly popular “Casino Comedy Club”. The casino is now a destination of choice both for Austria’s star comedians and the future generation of comedy stars alike. CASINO INNSBRUCK Casino Innsbruck once again demonstrated its tremendous diversity in 2019, attracting huge numbers of guests with its colorful portfolio of events. A highlight of the year, its popular international Blackjack tournament series was expanded even further, with over 200 Blackjack fans taking to the tables in the 2019 edition to battle it out for the 350,000 euro prize pool. The casino also reaffirmed its commitment to social responsibility and culture with numerous initiatives throughout the year, details of which can be found in this report in the section on “Commitment to Society and Social Responsibility”. Casinos Austria continually invests in the expansion and maintenance of its casinos. In 2019, the seating in Casino Innsbruck was refurbished, the carpeting was replaced in the main gaming area and Jackpot Casino, and the interior walls and ceilings were redecorated. The control panels in the elevators were likewise replaced to comply with the height requirements for barrier-free access. 38 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 The Group Companies Casinos in Austria CASINO KITZBÜHEL Casino Kitzbühel is set behind a colorful façade decorated with traditional Tyrolean murals. With its welcoming and discerning ambience, the casino is a popular meeting place for visitors and locals alike and plays an important role in social life in its legendary host town. Always a popular venue for events, Casino Kitzbühel once again hosted the press conference for Elina Garanča’s mesmerizing “Klassik unter Sternen” evening of classical music in 2019. And the casino naturally also got into the spirit on Kitzbühel’s annual “White Night” party on 1 August, serving an ingenious “all-in-white” tasting menu in its Cuisino restaurant to complement the theme in the medieval town center. The Cuisino restaurant in Casino Kitzbühel, which boasts one Gault&Millau toque, also catered to famous and future movie stars during the 7th Kitzbühel Film Festival at the end of August, when the Cuisino kitchen team served a four-course tasting menu with wine pairings from the Topf Winery in Lower Austria’s Kamp Valley. CASINO KLEINWALSERTAL A winning combination of casino, restaurant, club and event facilities makes Casino Kleinwalsertal a popular meeting place in the region. The casino in Riezlern is especially popular with guests from Germany, who welcome its successful combination of top-quality gaming, entertainment and food. The Cuisino restaurant in Casino Kleinwalsertal boasts one Gault&Millau toque and serves first-class cuisine in a relaxed setting. In 2019, Casino Kleinwalsertal hosted a new Equestrian Gala, a superb evening of entertainment for fans of equestrian sports. Guests at the event were treated to a superb gala dinner, horse riding equipment exhibition, fashion show, great live music and an exclusive prize draw. Team building was the name of the game at the Casino Alpen Cup in Casino Kleinwalsertal in August 2019, when 85 croupiers from Austria, Switzerland and Liechtenstein swapped their suits and bow ties for football kit and took to the pitch to play against each other in a transnational football tournament. The Group Companies 39 Casinos in Austria CASINO LINZ This city casino is located on the famous Landstraße shopping mile in the heart of Linz in the same building as the four-star Austria Trend Hotel Schillerpark. Totally revamped at the end of 2019, the Poker Lounge at Casino Linz now offers an even bigger range of Poker options and can also be hired for a thrilling evening of Poker fun with friends. Guests looking to complement their gaming fun with an excellent meal are definitely in the right place at Casino Linz: its Cuisino restaurant serves a superb selection of top-quality, creative cuisine for every taste. Casino Linz has always been a strong supporter of charitable causes and this was no different in 2019: its mobile “Casino-on-Tour” was on the road over 50 times throughout the year – more than any other casino. The casino is also one of the most popular leisure venues in town and is well-known across the region for its diverse program of events. CASINO SALZBURG A visit to Casino Salzburg takes guests outside the festival city to nearby Schloss Klessheim, a majestic 18th century palace that is home to the city’s casino and where the juxtaposition of baroque elegance and modern gaming give it a very special flair. The 2020 edition of the Gault&Millau Austria guide ranks the Cuisino restaurant at Casino Salzburg in the twotoque league, and its elegant dining room offers a beautiful reminder of the palace’s historic heritage. Interest in the building and history of this baroque treasure is understandably high, and Casinos Austria therefore organizes tours several times a year, including on National Monument Day, thus offering visitors and school groups the opportunity to learn about the palace and gain in-depth insights into its impressive history. In 2019, Casino Salzburg placed a strong focus on supporting cultural and social organizations, projects and initiatives. Details of its corresponding activities can be found in this report in the section on “Commitment to Society and Social Responsibility”. 40 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 The Group Companies Casinos in Austria CASINO SEEFELD Rustic and down-to-earth yet also elegant and diverse: a fitting description of this popular casino in the heart of the Seefeld Olympic sports region. As a leading tourism enterprise, Casino Seefeld has been the heart and soul of social life in the region for half a century. The casino began its successful journey in 1969 and celebrated its 50th anniversary with a gala event for 1,200 guests. Casino Seefeld makes full use of its strength as a destination of choice for visitors from across Europe and beyond and every year welcomes around 100,000 guests from over 30 nations. It remains particularly true thereby to its sporting heritage and proudly assumed a very special role in March 2019 as official “Maxpulse Norway House” during the Nordic World Ski Championship. It also served as the venue for the Austrian Ski Federation press conferences when it welcomed not only the members of the Austrian ski team but also countless representatives of the national and international media. In line with Casinos Austria’s policy to continually invest in its casinos, the seating in the slot gaming area was replaced and a new guest terrace opened at Casino Seefeld in 2019. Casino Seefeld is a strong supporter of social projects in its host region. Further details of its activities and initiatives in this regard can be found in this report in the section on “Commitment to Society and Social Responsibility”. The Group Companies 41 Casinos in Austria CASINO VELDEN Casino Velden enjoys a particularly desirable location directly on the shores of Lake Wörth and offers all the necessary components for a great night at the casino: a diverse gaming mix, attractive events and fine dining. Guests are treated to superb haute cuisine with maritime flair in the casino’s award-winning “Die Yacht” restaurant, which boasts an impressive – and well-deserved – three Gault&Millau toques. In May 2019, Casino Velden hosted an open day to mark its 30th anniversary. Some 2,000 visitors took advantage of the opportunity to enjoy a tour and find out more about the venue. Over the past three decades, the team at Casino Velden has worked tirelessly to integrate the casino into the area’s tourism portfolio and is fully committed to supporting social causes and the sustainable development of its host region. As a result, Casino Velden is now the biggest tourist magnet and employer in the Lake Wörth region: more than 8.2 million people have visited the casino in the last 30 years, with the 8,000+ events hosted there over the same period attracting a further 2.3 million guests. In recent years, Casino Velden has made quite a name for itself as a Poker venue. In July 2019, it hosted the 30th European Poker Championship – the sixth time this Poker highlight had featured on the casino’s event calendar. When Casinos Austria hosted the first European Poker Championship back in 1990 – in those days in Casino Baden – none of the initiators could possibly have imagined just how huge an event it would become. While the premier consisted of a three-day Seven Card Stud tournament with around 90 competitors, the 30th European Poker Championship in 2019 brought more than 10,000 guests to Casino Velden. Some 1,500 Poker enthusiasts from 30 nations competed in the one-and-a-half-week event for six European Champion titles and prize monies of around 3 million euros: a unique experience for every Poker fan and a “Royal Flush” for Austrian tourism. The “Silent Heroes” initiative launched by the Kleine Zeitung newspaper, Casino Velden and the Raiffeisenbank Kärnten to spotlight the region’s dedicated volunteers and the superb work they do is just one of many social projects supported by Casino Velden. Further information on its activities and initiatives in this regard can be found in this report in the section on “Commitment to Society and Social Responsibility”. 42 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 The Group Companies 42 GESCHÄFTSBERICHT 2019 Die Unternehmen Casinos in Austria CASINO WIEN Casino Wien in Palais Esterházy, an impressive 15th century building in downtown Vienna, is an elegant city casino. Its second floor is home to its award-winning Cuisino restaurant, which boasts one Gault&Millau toque. In summer 2019, restoration work began on the façade of the listed building that is home to Casino Wien, a project that will make an important contribution towards preserving the Vienna cityscape and supporting tourism in the capital. Casino Wien has been located in Palais Esterházy – the oldest building in the city’s Kärntner Straße pedestrian shopping street – since 1968. Its historic façade was constructed in 1678 and is being restored in consultation with the City of Vienna’s Historic Monuments Office [Denkmalamt], allowing it to shine in new splendor from 2020 onwards. Since 1 October 2019, Poker fans can take to the tables in a new Poker Lounge in the Fuchs Room at Casino Wien. The casino is the premier Poker venue in the Austrian capital and offers daily Texas Hold’em No Limit and Omaha Pot Limit cash game tournaments as well as regular Cash Game special events. In December 2019, a further game – Sic Bo – was added to the gaming mix in Casino Wien. Sic Bo is a dice game of ancient Chinese origin in which players bet on a variety of possible dice combinations. CASINO ZELL AM SEE Casinos Austria’s newest casino, Casino Zell am See, is located in the Grand Hotel, which enjoys a prestigious location directly on the shores of Lake Zell and is one of town’s most prominent buildings. The casino attracts national and international visitors to the region, and its lakeside terrace offers an unrivalled view of Zell am See’s magnificent Alpine backdrop. The Casino Golf Days in Zell am See/Kaprun are a firm fixture on the region’s sporting calendar. A particular highlight of this annual event is the challenging hole-in-one competition in which golf enthusiasts tee off from the casino’s panorama terrace in an endeavor to score a hole-in-one on a 160-square-meter green located 120 meters away in the middle of the lake. While no golfer has yet succeeded in achieving this elusive feat and winning the 100,0000-euro prize, the hole-in-one competition is always a huge crowd-puller! Guests at Casino Zell am See can choose from a diverse range of games: its expansive gaming area is home to more than 60 gaming machines, three American Roulette tables, three Blackjack tables and six Poker tables. Dining options include a choice of four partner restaurants as well as the Cuisino Bar in the casino itself. On 1 December 2019, Gerhard Dell-Osbel succeeded Robert Rudler as Director of Casino Zell am See. The Group Companies 43 Casinos in Austria Events in 2019 Events 2,500 Tournaments 1,132 Tournament participants 47,456 “Casino-on-Tour” events at balls, corporate functions, trade fairs, etc. 273 GRI 102-6 CASINO LOCATIONS Casino Baden Casino Kitzbühel Casino Seefeld Kaiser-Franz-Ring 1 Hinterstadt 24 Bahnhofstraße 124 2500 Baden 6370 Kitzbühel 6100 Seefeld Tel.: +43 2252 444 96 Tel.: +43 5356 62300 Tel.: +43 5212 23 40 E-Mail: baden@casinos.at E-Mail: kitzbuehel@casinos.at E-Mail: seefeld@casinos.at baden.casinos.at kitzbuehel.casinos.at seefeld.casinos.at Casino Bregenz Casino Kleinwalsertal Casino Velden Platz der Walserstraße 31 Am Corso 17 Wiener Symphoniker 3 6991 Riezlern 9220 Velden 6900 Bregenz Tel.: +43 5517 5023 240 Tel.: +43 4274 2064 Tel.: +43 5574 45127 E-Mail: E-Mail: velden@casinos.at E-Mail: bregenz@casinos.at kleinwalsertal@casinos.at velden.casinos.at bregenz.casinos.at kleinwalsertal.casinos.at Casino Wien Casino Graz Casino Linz Palais Esterházy Landhausgasse 10 Rainerstraße 2–4 Kärntner Straße 41 8010 Graz 4020 Linz 1010 Vienna Tel.: +43 316 832578 Tel.: +43 732 654487 Tel.: +43 1 5124836 E-Mail: graz@casinos.at E-Mail: linz@casinos.at E-Mail: wien@casinos.at graz.casinos.at linz.casinos.at wien.casinos.at Casino Innsbruck Casino Salzburg Casino Zell am See Salurner Straße 15 Schloss Klessheim Esplanade 4–6 6020 Innsbruck 5071 Wals-Siezenheim 5700 Zell am See Tel.: +43 512 587040 Tel.: +43 662 854455 0 Tel.: +43 6542 47447 E-Mail: innsbruck@casinos.at E-Mail: salzburg@casinos.at E-Mail: zellamsee@casinos.at innsbruck.casinos.at salzburg.casinos.at zellamsee.casinos.at 44 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 The Group Companies Austrian Lotteries With the launch of its Lucky Day and TopTipp products, Austrian Lotteries added two GRI 102-2 new pick-slip games to its portfolio in 2019. A record 414 customers each won over 100,000 euros with a lottery product in the reporting year. The rollout of 3,000 new multimedia terminals marked a milestone in lottery sales activities. Austrian Lotteries offers a broad portfolio of lottery games for all target groups. These include the pick-slip products Lotto “6 aus 45” with LottoPlus, EuroMillions, Joker, Toto with Torwette football pool, Zahlenlotto 1–90, Bingo, Lucky Day (ToiToiToi until 31 March 2019), TopTipp (since 4 November 2019) and Klassenlotterie as well as the Rubbellos scratch-off cards and Brieflos break-open tickets, where players find out instantly if and what they have won. These instant lottery products are complemented by a series of new Click&Win electronic instant lottery games that have been available on the win2day online gaming site since May 2019. Lucky Day Lives up to its Name A new Lucky Day daily numbers lottery replaced the former ToiToiToi product from 1 April 2019. Lucky Day players bet on their own personal “lucky day” and can win up to 250,000 euros (up to 50,000 times the price of the ticket) each day. A Lucky Day pick consists of a six-digit combination of numbers plus one of 16 lucky symbols selected at random at the time of purchase. The six digits must correspond to a valid calendar date and are shown in this format both on the pick slip and the purchase receipt with two digits each representing the day, month and year, respectively. Players can bet one of four amounts (two, three, four and five euros), play up to four combinations of numbers on a single ticket and also use the Quicktipp lucky dip option to pick their numbers. Betting on the Lottery Numbers with the new TopTipp Game Austrian Lotteries’ new TopTipp fixed odds game was launched on 4 November 2019. While the game is based on the numbers drawn for the Lotto “6 aus 45” national lottery, it is an entirely separate stand-alone game: TopTipp customers don’t have to have played Lotto “6 aus 45”, they bet instead on the numbers that will be drawn. Unlike Lotto, TopTipp players do not try to predict all “six correct numbers”, they bet on up to five numbers in the Lotto draw (the Bonus number does not count). If all the numbers bet on are drawn, the player wins a fixed amount of up to 75,000 euros. The amount won is independent of the number of valid tickets or the winnings in the corresponding tier. Die Unternehmen The new fixed odds TopTipp game was launched on 4 November 2019. Lucky Day replaced ToiToiToi from 1 April 2019. The Group Companies 45 Austrian Lotteries Live casino events complement the Bingo product range. The Brieflos Bonus Wheel – The New Second Chance to Win The Brieflos TV show – the second chance to win for Brieflos instant lottery ticket customers – was broadcast for the final time at the end of 2018. It was replaced from 2019 onwards by a new “Bonus Wheel”, thus retaining the show’s central element, the “Brieflos Wheel”. When a Brieflos ticket is opened to reveal the word “Bonusrad” [“Bonus Wheel”], the customer now finds out directly in the retail outlet if they have won a bonus prize: the barcode on the ticket is scanned at the sales terminal, the Bonus Wheel spins on the display and can land on one of nine fields containing bonus prizes of up to 100 euros in cash or free Brieflos tickets. Online Bingo and Live Bingo in Austria’s Casinos The Bingo TV show was likewise broadcast for the final time at the end of 2018. The results of the draw are now broadcast in an online Bingo show on win2day, which can be accessed for a period of seven days. As an added bonus, players can also take part in an integrated quiz with regular prize draws for the winners. And guests at Casinos Austria’s casinos now have the chance to experience the Bingo-hall feeling live at a range of regular Bingo events with professional callers. Click&Win Since 8 May 2019, new Click&Win games have been successively integrated into the gaming mix on win2day and are proving a popular addition to the existing instant win games already available on the site (like the online versions of the Brieflos break-open tickets and Rubbellos scratch-off cards). The high entertainment value achieved through new gaming mechanisms, a broad range of betting limits and low minimum bets differentiate the new Click&Win games from their existing digital counterparts. The new electronic instant win games on win2day constitute electronic lotteries pursuant to Art. 12a of the Austrian Gaming Act: their outcome is decided on a central computer in the Austrian Lotteries computer center and communicated via electronic media. The new games are based on the products offered by IWG Instant Win Gaming Ltd. and have been specially adapted for the Austrian market by Austrian Lotteries in cooperation with the London-based game development firm. 46 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 The Group Companies Austrian Lotteries New Terminals for 3,000 Retail Partners May 2019 marked the start of a pilot test for Austrian Lotteries’ new multimedia sales terminals in 50 retail outlets in the Greater Vienna area and Linz. Following an international call for tenders in which 13 manufacturers of lottery terminals were invited to submit bids, the contract was ultimately awarded to KEBA AG in Upper Austria. KEBA had already produced the earlier generations of the Austrian Lotteries terminals, and the continuation of this business partnership thus also contributes to value added in Austria. The acquisition of the new terminals was accompanied by a number of new challenges and goals, including the need to enhance network connection speeds or the possibility to integrate new components like near-field communication (NFC) technology. The replacement of the terminals also required a modernization of the software architecture. The new terminals not only raise technical standards, they are also easier to use. Retail partners can now log in using a fingerprint scanner, while the modern scanner technology used is better at handling folded or crumpled lottery tickets. The terminals also improve the customer experience by giving them access to a touchscreen that displays their purchase information in more detail. To ensure an optimal fit to the needs of the Austrian market, Austrian Lotteries had already developed the software for the terminals and corresponding central computer systems for the previous generation of its sales terminals. At the end of the six-month pilot test, work began in November 2019 on rolling out the new terminals to a total of 3,000 retail partners across the country. The roll-out is expected to be completed by June 2020. Social Media Activities Social media is gaining more and more relevance in corporate image-building activities. Austrian Lotteries is embracing this trend by augmenting its presence on Facebook – through its company page and various different product pages – and making increasing use of Instagram as a communication channel. The premier social media platform for sharing photos and videos has been used to promote the new Lucky Day numbers lottery from the outset, i.e. prior to, during and since its launch in April 2019. Followers of the “dein_luckyday” account see inspirational daily posts to help them turn each day into their own personal High entertainment value with the new Click&Win games on win2day. The fourth generation of lottery terminals were also supplied by KEBA AG. The Group Companies 47 Austrian Lotteries lucky day. In October 2019, Austrian Lotteries own corporate Instagram account went live and keeps its followers up-to-date with news from the Group, notifications of winners, details of events like “Lottery Days” and much more. Regular prize games are also a permanent fixture, while the newsfeed contains plenty of interesting guest articles that link to the account. New Service Platform for Retail Partners A second major project completed by the Austrian Lotteries sales team in 2019 was the development and launch of a new service and information platform for retail partners. The new “LotterienPortal” went online in May, giving staff in all Austrian Lotteries retail outlets access to a platform that is continuously updated and customized to the needs of all users. The “News” section keeps them up-to-date with all the latest news, while the promotions calendar informs them of current and future promotion activities. The platform also includes detailed information on all Austrian Lotteries products as well as on the key topic of responsible gaming. It gained even greater worth towards the end of the reporting year with the addition of a new “Training” section: four learning modules now facilitate knowledge transfer to new and existing retail partners, who can also use the platform to complete their mandatory training courses. The platform’s responsive design ensures that the content is optimized for display on all devices. Lotterien App with Glücksbörse e-Wallet and Subscription Functions The goal behind all technical innovations in the Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group is to ensure the highest possible level of customer satisfaction, and this also applied to the new features added to the Lotterien app in 2019. Since July 2019, users of the app can top up their Glücksbörse e-wallet in any Austrian Lotteries retail outlet and buy tickets for up to ten Lotto, LottoPlus, Joker and EuroMillions draws using all customary pick options (normal, system and Quicktipp). The app also now offers a subscription option that allows customers to play the lottery automatically as long as they have enough credit in their e-wallet. When adding a subscription to their account, they can choose whether they want to purchase tickets for every draw or only for rollover jackpot draws and enjoy the benefit of knowing that they will never miss a draw. Since December 2019, users have also been able to deposit funds in their Glücksbörse e-wallet using prepaid EuroBon cards, which can be purchased at all Austrian Lotteries retail outlets. Since July 2019, the Glücksbörse e-wallet in the Lotterien app also offers a subscription option. 48 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 The Group Companies Austrian Lotteries The Austrian Lotteries field sales team received top grades for its quality of service. Survey Confirms Service Excellence The results of a representative survey (response rate: 75 percent) of all Austrian Lotteries retail partners conducted in the first half of 2019 clearly confirm the excellence of the service provided by the company’s field sales team and online service staff. Survey participants were asked to rate service quality in six different areas on a scale of 1 to 5, with at least 93% of respondents rating it as “satisfactory” or “very satisfactory” in all six areas. Three out of four survey participants rated the support received from the field sales representatives as “very good”, while the telephone support provided by the online service and logistics teams was given a positive rating of over 98 percent. A detailed analysis of the results revealed particularly high ratings for professional competence and friendliness. 45 Lottery Millionaires and a Record Number of Big Wins In 2019, 414 Austrian Lotteries customers (47 more than in the previous year) each won prizes of 100,000 euros or more. This made 2019 a record year for winners in the company’s 33-year history – never before had there been more than 400 “big wins” in a single year. These wins were spread across ten different lottery products. Of the 414 big wins, 45 customers each won over a million euros, thereby creating two more lottery millionaires than in the previous year. 41 of them hit the jackpot in the Lotto “6 aus 45” national lottery and four in the EuroMillions lottery. The 45 new lottery millionaires were spread across the whole of the nation, with at least two jackpots in excess of one million euros hit in each of Austria’s nine federal states. The biggest lottery jackpot in 2019 was won by a customer from Upper Austria, whose Lotto system pick rewarded him on 17 November with a solo quintuple rollover jackpot of precisely 6,552,614.70 euros – a new record for Upper Austria, and the highest amount The Group Companies 49 Austrian Lotteries ever paid out in that region for six correct lottery numbers. There was also cause to celebrate on 15 May, when all six correct numbers for the Lotto “6 aus 45” national lottery were picked correctly for the 3,000th time, much to the delight of the sole winner. Austria’s biggest EuroMillions jackpot in the reporting year – over 5 million euros – was hit in the draw on 24 September by a lucky winner from Carinthia. 2019 was also a year to remember for the Joker lottery, which produced the first-ever quintuple rollover jackpot in its 31-year history. The prize – some 1.3 million euros – was shared by three players from Vienna, Salzburg and Carinthia. Austrian Lotteries – 2019 Key Figures in millions euro Gross gaming revenues 817.71 Taxes, fees and social security contributions 498.70 Gaming-related taxes and fees 455.47 Sports funding 80 Operating profit 77.67 Annual surplus 58.15 in actual numbers Employees (full-time equivalents) 509 Retail partners (total network) 5,088 50 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 The Group Companies win2day – Online Gaming win2day is the premier address for games of chance on the internet. Whether via computer, GRI tablet or smartphone – the online gaming site brings the gaming experience to every 102-2 102-6 device. Gross gaming revenues for the electronic lotteries on win2day were up in 2019 by 19.47 percent to 92.33 million euros, a rise that can be attributed to its continual and effective introduction of new games, attractive promotions and the corresponding high level of customer acceptance. CLICK&WIN – AN EXPANDED PORTFOLIO OF INSTANT WIN LOTTERY GAMES Since 8 May 2019, a selection of new Click&Win electronic instant lottery games have been added to the gaming mix on win2day. The new games are offered in addition to the existing digital break-open and scratch-off products available on the site and thus expand its range of online instant win products. THE WIN2DAY GAMING MIX win2day captivates its users with a comprehensive selection of online gaming products and services. The Casino Room offers fun and excitement with classic casino games like Roulette and Blackjack as well as an exclusive range of slot, Novoline slot and video Poker games. The Lotteries Room allows users to play all their favorite Austrian Lotteries games online. The Poker and Bingo Rooms highlight the fun of the shared gaming experience, while good preparation and knowledge are the name of the game in the Sports Betting Room. In 2019, win2day added the Treasure Heroes, Tropical Wilds, Zombie Chaos, Hyper Fusion, Fruit Royale, Goldmine Adventures, Sanara’s Magic and Secret of the Sunken Galleon slot games to its Casino Room and also expanded its choice of Novoline slot games to include Book of Ra Magic, Amazon’s Diamonds and Lucky Lady’s Charm Deluxe 10. The protection of minors and safeguarding of all players against excessive gambling has always been an absolute priority for Austrian Lotteries and Casinos Austria, and the Group’s exemplary responsible gaming principles naturally also extend to win2day. Detailed information on the responsible gaming measures in place on win2day can be found in this report from page 69 onwards. Online gaming via smartphone – any time, any place. Online gaming fun via tablet with an extensive choice of games. The Group Companies 51 win2day – Online Gaming AUSTRIAN & FINNISH ONLINE POKER SERIES 2019 The Poker Room on win2day regularly hosts large tournaments and special promotions, including a range of world-class events in cooperation with the Finnish operator Veikkaus. The Poker highlight of the reporting year was the Austrian & Finnish Online Poker Series 2019 (AFOPS 2019), which – as in previous years – was hosted exclusively on win2day. The 2019 AFOPS finalists were determined in a series of ten qualification tournaments, with the champion ultimately crowned in a thrilling grand finale. The cumulative prize money for all AFOPS 2019 events amounted to some 200,000 euros. IDENTITY VERIFICATION ON WIN2DAY The Austrian Gaming Act contains specific provisions to prevent money laundering and the financing of terrorist activities, and win2day has implemented corresponding measures to ensure its full compliance. Accordingly, all users have been required since 5 December 2019 to complete a one-time identity verification check to enable win2day to pay out any winnings. The identity verification checks can be completed using an online banking system, the Austrian mobile phone signature system or a photo identification procedure. Online casino games – Roulette via smartphone. ELECTRONIC LOTTERIES Pursuant to Art. 12a of the Austrian Gaming Act, electronic lotteries are draws in which the player participates directly using electronic media and for which the outcome is decided centrally and provided on electronic media. The license to operate electronic lotteries in Austria is held by Österreichische Lotterien Gesellschaft m.b.H. The games offered in the win2day Poker, Bingo and Casino Rooms all constitute electronic lotteries. Keno is run in accordance with Art. 12b of the Gaming Act and is offered exclusively via the internet on win2day. 52 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 The Group Companies WINWIN – Video Lottery Terminals The slogan “WINWIN – Gaming & More” highlights WINWIN’s focus on its core gaming GRI product. WINWIN now operates 20 video lottery terminals outlets across Austria, with 102-2 102-6 two new outlets opened and a further two extensively renovated in the reporting year. In 2019, WINWIN posted gross gaming revenues of 44.74 million euros, an increase of 6.7 percent compared to 2018. All WINWIN outlets offer guests the chance to try their luck on a selection of latest-generation video lottery terminals (VLTs). Contemporary settings, well-trained staff, regular events, attractive promotions and high-quality bistro cuisine at fair prices round off the package. WINWIN outlets are open 364 days a year (closed on 24 December). Admission is free, and there is no obligation to wear a jacket or tie. The WINWIN outlets are open to guests aged 18 or over, with access to their gaming areas restricted to holders of a personalized WINWIN Card. Each outlet has between 12 and 50 terminals with over 80 different games. Players can play for as little as 10 cents and win up to 10,000 euros. Detailed information on the responsible gaming measures in place at WINWIN outlets can be found in this report from page 69 onwards. A WINWIN outlet is an attractive and important addition to the leisure and tourism amenities in its host town or city. As strong partners in their respective regions, they support local clubs, institutions and initiatives such as the African Toboggan Championship integration event organized by the “Sport spricht alle Sprachen” [“Sport Speaks all Languages”] association. Sustainability is a high priority at WINWIN, and the company successfully demonstrates its commitment to this goal in various projects: it serves Fairtrade-certified organic coffee in all its outlets, the vast majority of which draw their electricity from renewable sources. GAMING & MORE The slogan “WINWIN – Gaming & More” emphasizes the brand’s focus on its core business of gaming. But it also demonstrates that WINWIN outlets have plenty “more” to offer: more fun, more atmosphere, more hospitality – in short, more good times for guests seeking good entertainment. And they offer “more” for sports fans as well, who can watch Bundesliga football matches and other top sporting events live in HD in most WINWIN outlets. Newly renovated: the WINWIN outlet in Mayrhofen, Tyrol. The newly renovated gaming area in WINWIN Mayrhofen. The Group Companies 53 WINWIN – Video Lottery Terminals The WINWIN outlet in Wolfsberg, Carinthia, opened on 4 December 2019. TWO NEW OUTLETS IN 2019 GRI 102-10 The opening of a new outlet in Vienna’s Prater amusement park on 22 May 2019 brought the number of WINWIN outlets in the capital to three. The new WINWIN Prater offers a choice of 50 VLTs with over 80 different games in a contemporary, 140-square-meter venue. On 4 December 2019, the 20th WINWIN outlet in Austria – and first in Carinthia – was opened in Wolfsberg. The newest WINWIN outlet offers 600 square meters of top-quality fun and entertainment. Cutting-edge technology is the name of the game here: guests not only have a choice of 45 brand-new VLTs, they can also try their luck on state-of-the-art Black Series Curved and VIP terminals. RENOVATED OUTLETS In 2019, the WINWIN outlets in Mayrhofen and Wels were both extensively renovated. The benefits of the investments are plain to see: the renovated WINWIN Mayrhofen now features a light and airy gaming room that is home to 44 VLTs. Its bistro area was also revamped and given a contemporary, rustic look with plenty of wood and glass elements that perfectly complements the style of its host region. Last but by no means least, the modern terrace with its inviting lounge furnishings is now the ideal spot to take a break from the gaming action and relax in the fresh air. A total of 50 video lottery terminals await guests in the expansive gaming area at the renovated WINWIN Wels, whose exclusive VIP terminals are a highlight at the venue. The lounge and bar areas were also refurbished, and the outlet can now accommodate up to 80 guests in a modern, industrial-design setting. The new-look WINWIN Wels offers exciting gaming and entertainment on a floorspace of around 700 square meters. 54 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 The Group Companies WINWIN – Video Lottery Terminals VIDEO LOTTERY TERMINALS (VLTS) Video lottery terminals might look similar to classic slot machines but they differ very significantly from the latter in their gaming mechanism. While each slot machine calculates its win/lose decisions autonomously by random generator, this decision is calculated for VLTs by a central random generator and is based on predetermined odds and payout rates. This central computer then transmits the results to the individual terminals via a telecommunications link. The minimum/maximum bets per game are 10 cents/10 euros respectively, and the maximum amount that can be won on a VLT game is 10,000 euros. WINWIN WINWIN’s purpose of business is the operation of video lottery terminals, which are marketed in Austria under the WINWIN brand. The license to operate VLTs pursuant to Art. 12a of the Austrian Gaming Act is held by Österreichische Lotterien Gesellschaft m.b.H. Austrian Lotteries contributes its innovative strength in the media and technology sectors to this joint venture, while Casinos Austria handles the operational aspects and provides WINWIN with know-how and expertise in the gaming, food and beverage sectors. WINWIN Outlets Opening Date Mayrhofen Tyrol 21 May 2004 Lienz Tyrol 14 August 2004 Schärding Upper Austria 21 April 2005 Zell am See Salzburg 23 March 2006 Steyr Upper Austria 6 June 2007 Wels Upper Austria 27 September 2007 Landeck Tyrol 23 April 2008 Vöcklabruck Upper Austria 29 October 2008 Kufstein Tyrol 14 May 2009 Krems Lower Austria 30 March 2011 Salzburg Salzburg 24 May 2012 Linz Urfahr Upper Austria 22 January 2015 Schwaz Tyrol 13 May 2015 Wiener Neustadt Lower Austria 21 August 2015 Bischofshofen Salzburg 19 April 2017 Wiener Prater Vienna 15 February 2018 Eugendorf Salzburg 25 March 2018 Bohemian Prater/Monte Laa Vienna 27 April 2018 Wiener Prater Vienna 22 May 2019 Wolfsberg Carinthia 4 December 2019 The Group Companies 55 Casinos Austria International In 2019, Casinos Austria International increased its gross gaming revenues (including GRI ancillary revenues) and more than doubled its consolidated operating result. 102-2 102-6 Casinos Austria International Holding (CAIH) and its affiliates together form an international gaming group. CAIH consolidates Casinos Austria’s comprehensive international activities under one roof. Since it was founded back in 1977, the wholly-owned subsidiary of Casinos Austria AG has gone on to become a leading player in the global casino industry. With its unique portfolio of casino management and development services, Casinos Austria International has realized more international casino projects in more jurisdictions than any other operator worldwide. Its principal markets currently lie in the European Union, Switzerland and Australia. Tradition, innovation, integrity, responsibility to society, security and service excellence are the cornerstones of Casinos Austria International’s strong reputation. Its business activities include the operation and management of its own casinos as well as the operation of casinos on a management contract basis. A clear priority is placed thereby on ensuring the product is an optimal fit for its local host market. In 2019, the Casinos Austria International portfolio comprised 26 operations in 12 countries. Together, these operations offered 273 gaming tables, 3,828 gaming machines and 2,845 video lottery terminals and employed a total of 760 members of staff. While total guest numbers for Casinos Austria International’s operations fell from 3.5 million in 2018 to 3.3 million in 2019, this drop can be attributed to the closure of a number of its casinos in the reporting year. Visitor numbers in its active operations, in contrast, were up by around 4 percent. CAIH’s consolidated gross gaming revenues (including ancillary revenues) increased year-on-year from 150.5 million euros in 2018 to 180.8 million euros in 2019. This corresponds to a rise of 20 percent and can be attributed in particular to the positive performance of its operations in Germany, Belgium and Liechtenstein. The casino in Hannover, Germany, with its contemporary lighting. 56 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 The Group Companies Casino Schaanwald in Liechtenstein. 2019 IN REVIEW The following list summarizes the key developments at Casinos Austria International’s operations in 2019 compared to the previous year. • The casinos in Germany reported a strong rise in guest numbers and slot revenues, which can be attributed to the change to the German Interstate Treaty on Gambling [Glücksspielstaatsvertrag] and resulting reduction in the number of slots operations on the market. • The expansion of the gaming mix at Grand Casino Brussels in Belgium led to a significant rise both in guest numbers and in slot and live gaming revenues. • Additional slot machines were installed in Hungary, thus also increasing slot revenues. • Guest numbers and slot revenues at Casino Schaanwald in Liechtenstein were up significantly compared to the previous year. • Guest numbers and revenues from video lottery terminals operations in North Macedonia were again up significantly year-on-year due to the increase in the number of VLTs from 1,888 as at 31 December 2018 to 2,900 as at 31 December 2019 as planned. • Casino Lugano in Switzerland posted strong rises in guest numbers, gaming revenues and turnover compared to 2018 following the closure of a large competitor casino in the region. • Grand Casino Bern in Switzerland likewise reported rises in guest numbers and gaming revenues compared to the previous year. • The closure of the casino in Brno in March 2019 marked the end of the Group’s gaming operations in the Czech Republic. The Group Companies 57 Casinos Austria International The Reef Hotel Casino in Cairns, Australia. • In September 2019, the 50 percent share in Grand Casino Batumi Ltd. in Georgia was relinquished. • In Australia, sluggish tourism figures had a negative impact on guest numbers and thus also on revenues. Casinos Austria International publishes financial reports in the Oesterreichische Kontrollbank’s (OeKB) Issuer Information Center. The 2019 Financial Report will be available for download at the end of April 2020 at issuerinfo.oekb.at/startpage.html. CASINOS AUSTRIA INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS IN 2019 • The Reef Hotel Casino, Cairns, Australia • Spielbank Norderney, Germany • Grand Casino Brussels Viage, Belgium • Spielbank Osnabrück, Germany • Casino Grand, Brno, Czech Republic* • Spielbank Seevetal, Germany • Casino Copenhagen, Denmark • Spielbank Wolfsburg, Germany • Casino Marienlyst, Helsingør, Denmark • Casino Sopron, Hungary • Casino Munkebjerg Vejle, Vejle, Denmark • Casino Schaanwald, Principality of Liechtenstein • Casino Odense, Denmark • Oasis Hotel Casino Resort, Jericho, Palestinian • Casino Royale, Sharm El-Sheikh, Egypt Autonomy (not operational) • Casino Semiramis, Cairo, Egypt • Casino Lugano, Switzerland • Casino International Batumi, Georgia** • Casino St. Moritz, Switzerland • Spielbank Bad Bentheim, Germany • Grand Casino Bern, Switzerland • Spielbank Bad Harzburg, Germany • Spielbank Bad Pyrmont, Germany • Video Lottery Terminals, North Macedonia • Spielbank Bad Zwischenahn, Germany • Spielbank Göttingen, Germany * Closed in March 2019. • Spielbank Hannover, Germany ** Shares in Casino International Batumi relinquished in September 2019. 58 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 The Group Companies tipp3 – Sports Betting In the run-up to the UEFA European Football Championship 2020, tipp3 introduced a GRI number of measures in the 2019 reporting year to further strengthen its portfolio. These 102-2 102-6 included measures to augment the tipp3 Club loyalty program, which now has around 18,300 members. A focus was also placed on strengthening and promoting the digital betting options in tobacconist shops, tipp3’s primary retail partner. The partnership with the Austrian Football Association (ÖFB), the national football team and its head coach Franco Foda – a tipp3 brand ambassador – continued to feature strongly in the tipp3 communication and marketing strategy and will significantly highlight and boost its presence during UEFA Euro 2020. As an Austrian company, Österreichische Sportwetten Gesellschaft m.b.H. offers its products exclusively on the domestic market under the tipp3 brand. tipp3 is an exceptionally strong brand with an excellent reputation and assets that are well maintained and secured for the long term. At the beginning of 2019, tipp3 redesigned its logo to give it a more contemporary look that appeals to a younger target group yet also takes account of the recognition factor and retains the brand’s well-established identity. The level of recognition of the tipp3 brand currently stands at around 80 percent (Source: Nielsen Fußball-Monitor, November 2019). Since tipp3 products are sold primarily via Austrian Lotteries retail outlets, tobacconists are tipp3’s primary retail partner. AMENDMENTS TO BETTING LAWS IN AUSTRIA The 2019 reporting year at tipp3 was strongly influenced by regulatory changes and challenges. Amendments to betting laws were enacted in five Austrian Federal States, necessitating intensive internal review processes and extensive organizational and operational measures and activities (adaptations to IT processes, training, product changes, etc.). In a positive side effect, the work that this entailed further strengthened and reinforced the already strong business relationship between tipp3 and its retail partners. The tipp3 brand ambassador Franco Foda. The popular tippBox in the retail outlets. The Group Companies 59 tipp3 – Sports Betting The new tipp3 betting site for smart betting. UEFA EURO 2O2O AS COMMUNICATION HIGHLIGHT tipp3 is one of the Austrian Football Association’s premium partners and thus also one of the biggest supporters of the country’s national football team. Throughout the qualifications for the UEFA European Football Championship 2020, tipp3 worked closely with the team’s head coach Franco Foda to prepare for the event, animate the fans and support the team at all its matches. Foda, in turn, continued in his role as tipp3 brand ambassador and featured in the new tipp3 TV, radio and print media adverts with their apt slogan “Tipp dich zum Teamchef!” [“Bet your way to head coach!”]. Corresponding promotions with attractive welcome bonuses, special prize games and targeted social media posts and press publications prior to and during the qualification season supported communication and whetted the appetite of the betting fans. The head coach campaign was backed up by accompanying measures at the points of sale (POS). These included a new 100,000 euro free bet promotion in which random draws were held among all tipp3 customers for free betting credits to the value of three euros. Advertising this promotion in the 3,200 tipp3 points of sale took precedence in the sales team’s VIPOS Tour in fall 2019, which also focused on setting up tipp3 “green islands” in 640 selected VIP points of sale (VIPOS). 470 of these VIPOS were visited once every three weeks by a trained tipp3 promoter, who set up the advertising materials and trained the POS staff. Due to their geographical locations, the remaining 170 VIPOS were each visited on three occasions throughout the year. The VIPOS tour is now a well-established promotion tool that is popular with tipp3 retail partners, as was confirmed in its annual survey of POS satisfaction levels: 84 percent of tipp3 retail partners gave the company top marks for service in the 2019 survey. 60 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 The Group Companies tipp3 – Sports Betting TIPP3 BETTING SITE Following its relaunch at the end of 2019, the tipp3 online sports betting site boasts a fresh new design with clearer, easier-to-use betting options. The user interface is now built like a social media newsfeed: users scroll through content that is reduced to the essentials, highlights key items and reflects their own betting preferences. The redesigned site navigation and account access functions are also particularly intuitive. A further new feature is the innovative “Cash-Out” function, which turns every tipp3 wager into a dynamic sports bet. Bets can now be paid out early, i.e. before the end of a game or match. The bonus system is likewise more user-friendly and clearly indicates what stage the user is at in the bonus process. As part of the relaunch, the number of live betting games offered was raised from 3,000 to 5,000 per month. TIPP3 APP AND TIPP3 CLUB The tipp3 app offers a wide range of smart betting functions. At the start of 2019, it was extended to include an e-wallet function with real added value: betting customers can top up their tipp3 e-wallet directly in a retail outlet and then use these funds to place bets at their leisure – anytime and anywhere. The clear focus in the first six months of the year thus lay on digitalization in the retail outlets – the tipp3 app, tipp3 app e-wallet and EuroBon prepaid cards were all implemented in these locations during the annual VIPOS tour. The tipp3 Club continues to grow in popularity. As at 31 December 2019, some 18,300 members enjoyed the benefits of membership in this loyalty program. tipp3 Club members regularly have the chance to win great bonus prizes, exclusive trips or tickets for “Meet & Greet” events with the Austrian national football team’s players and head coach Franco Foda. They can also now use their membership benefits in the tipp3 app. “The team at tipp3 have been devoted fans and a loyal partner of the Austrian national football team for many years. So, needless to say, we were ecstatic when the team qualified for Euro 2020. The general euphoria surrounding this success brings to life many of the things that tipp3 stands for: solidarity, passion, success and demonstrating responsibility for one another.” ÖSTERREICHISCHE SPORTWETTEN GESELLSCHAFT M.B.H. Österreichische Sportwetten Gesellschaft m.b.H. holds licenses from all nine federal states in Austria to operate sports betting, which does not fall under the national monopoly on games of chance. The company was founded in April 2000, with its first bet placed on 24 August 2001. Since then, it has gone on to become the leading sports betting operator in Austria. Some 6.3 million tipp3 betting slips are placed on average each year, which corresponds to more than 100 million betting slips over the course of the company’s history. tipp3 bets can only be placed – in retail outlets, via app or online at tipp3.at – by persons aged 18 or over. The Group Companies 61 Luck knows no boundaries Austrian Lotteries is firmly anchored with sports through the funding provisions in the Austrian Gaming Act and is the biggest financer of sports in Austria. The company thus plays a crucial role in maintaining the diversity and substance of amateur sports in Austria. It also supports the nation’s top athletes – who have a huge role model effect – on their paths to successful sporting careers. Since it was founded back in 1986, Austrian Lotteries has provided a remarkable 1.6 billion euros in funding for sports. This funding is not just the most important source of finance for Austrian athletes, it is also something they know they can rely on: each year, Austrian Lotteries makes a guaranteed contribution of at least 80 million euros to sports in Austria. In recognition of its longstanding commitment to Austrian sports, Austrian Lotteries was honored with the Austrian Federal Sports Organization’s “Sport Austria Award” at the 2019 Sport Austria Summit. Austrian Lotteries is also a longstanding and proud partner of the Austrian Sports Aid Foundation, the Austrian Olympic Committee and the Austrian Paralympic Committee. Sport speaks all languages – this is the clear message conveyed by the Casinos Austria Integration Football World Championship. Launched in 2006, this annual five-a-side football tournament in Vienna, Baden, Linz, Salzburg, Innsbruck and Graz brings together 1,800 amateur players in 150 teams that speak 50 different languages. Its clear goal: to promote integration through sport. The Integration Football World Championship is thus not merely a sports tournament, it is a wonderfully harmonious social gathering of people who live in Austria yet stem from different corners of the world. Each team plays in the tournament for its country of origin. Multiculturalism and diversity are a benefit to every society, and this message must be demonstrated and communicated. Sport is an ideal way to do so: not only does it speak all languages, it is – like culture – also a universal language that unites people across borders. Casinos Austria has been the main sponsor of the Integration Football World Championship for the last eight years. In 2019, the Integration Football World Championship was won by the favorite, “Bosnia-Herzegovina Salzburg”, who came out top in the final round ahead of runnersup “Somalia Innsbruck” and “Afghanistan Graz” in third place. The trophy was presented to the winning team in front of journalists prior to the Austrian national team’s match against Latvia on 6 September 2019 in the Red Bull Arena in Salzburg. Only 20 percent of schoolchildren in Austria do the minimum daily recommended amount of exercise (Source: SportsEconAustria Institute for Sports Economics). To help change this situation, the motion4kids initiative launched by Casinos Austria in 2018 funds innovative projects that combine physical activity with modern communications devices like mobile phones and tablets. A total of 100,000 euros was invested in the realization of the motion4kids projects selected for funding in 2019. The Group Companies 63 OUR RESPONSIBILITY Compliance on all Levels SDG 16 Full compliance in the handling of our games, the fight against corruption and money GRI laundering, data protection and privacy and the provision of the highest standards of 102-16 security and safety for all our customers and guests: these are all imperatives for legal and licensed gaming operators. Compliance thus plays a central role in all our business activities. The long-established and regularly audited pillars of compliance in the Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group are as follows: • Anti-money laundering & compliance (ISO 19600) • Anti-corruption (ISO 37001) • Information security (ISO/IEC 27001:2013); “Security Control Standard” (WLA-SCS: 2016) • Data protection and privacy (GoodPriv@cy Standard) • Quality management (ISO 9001:2015) Year after year, the Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group sets itself ambitious goals in all these areas to ensure that we continue to develop and remain at the top of our game. Our internal Code of Conduct serves thereby as the basis for our behavior in all our activities. Compliance plays a central role in all our business activities. 64 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Our Responsibility SDG 16 OUR GOALS: STATUS QUO GRI 103-2 205 Status 2017 Status 2018 Status 2019 Continuously improve our anti-corruption, antifurther further improvemoney laundering and data measures ments planned protection management planned for (incl. information system completed 2019/2020 security system) Prepare for the EU General Data Protection Regulation extended to 2018 completed Update our internal data protection and privacy policy extended to 2018 completed Review our compliance risk and opportunities analysis tool planned for 2018 completed Evaluate the structured collection of stakeholder invitations in our compliance check tool planned for 2018 extended to 2019 extended to 2020 Evaluate more effective methods of checking the planned for 2020: compliance of sponsoring extend compliance activities planned for 2019 completed 2018 checks to CAI Document all compliance training activities offered via the Group-wide learning platform new planned for 2019 extended to 2020 Prepare internal surveys to assess the level of knowledge regarding compliance provisions new planned for 2020 planned for 2020 Provide compliance training to 95% of staff at our headquarters planned for 2020 planned for 2020 planned for 2020 Provide compliance training to 95 % of responsible staff in our operations planned for 2020 planned for 2020 planned for 2020 Update and extend communication measures regarding compliance planned for 2020 planned for 2020 planned for 2020 Our Responsibility 65 65 Compliance on all Levels Compulsory e-learning courses for staff, e.g. on data protection and privacy. COMPLIANCE For the Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group, compliance means not only observing the statutory provisions and regulatory standards but also meeting further ethical requirements and standards set by the Group itself. Compliance thus also includes the establishment of appropriate organizational arrangements and procedures to ensure adherence to all applicable provisions and guidelines. SDG 16 Compliance is therefore not an abstract topic for our Group, it is a clear, binding and GRI unambiguous set of rules that apply to all our staff. We maintain a systematically struc102-2 102-16 tured and transparent compliance management system that contains both preventive 205-2 measures such as information, education and training activities for our staff as well as measures to guarantee the effective monitoring of our internal processes. The long-established pillars of compliance in our Group outlined below have been audited regularly by external bodies for many years. • Anti-corruption. We have an extensive set of principles and measures in place to ensure that the Group, our staff and, where appropriate, any third parties comply with all applicable anti-corruption provisions. • Data protection and privacy. The effectiveness of our long-established data protection and privacy management system is regularly confirmed through transparent internal and external audits. Particularly high relevance is attributed in this system to the stricter requirements introduced by the EU’s General Data Protection Regulation in 2018. Customer and guest data take priority in all our data protection and privacy compliance activities. 66 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Our Responsibility Compliance on all Levels • Anti-money laundering. Through our audited management system for the prevention of money laundering and criminal activities, we routinely assess money laundering risks and provide regular anti-money laundering training courses. In this regard, the Group works in close cooperation with the Money Laundering Department at the Austrian Federal Criminal Police Office [Bundeskriminalamt]. • Information security. Information security serves to protect against dangers or threats, avoid economic damage and minimize risks. It thus plays a crucial role in ensuring compliance with statutory data protection and privacy requirements. • Responsible gaming. Gambling addiction is the pathological overconsumption of gambling. Effective staff training and a bundle of organizational and technical measures ensure the Group’s compliance with all statutory and internal provisions to prevent gambling addiction. GoodPriv@cy Standard and GDPR Maintenance Audits GRI Our data protection and privacy management system has been audited and certified to the 102-16 GoodPriv@cy standard since 2009. It was adapted to fulfill the new requirements introduced by the EU’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and recertified under these new parameters in May 2019. GoodPriv@cy is a registered quality guarantee mark that is awarded for exemplary data protection and privacy practices and corresponding high standards of information security. The SQS GoodPriv@cy Seal of Quality is an internationally recognized certification, whose primary aim is to reinforce public confidence in its holders by verifying their compliance with data protection (and thus also privacy) requirements. GoodPriv@cy audits were successfully carried out in 2019 at the headquarters of Casinos Austria AG, Österreichische Lotterien Gesellschaft m.b.H. and Casinos Austria Sicherheitstechnik GmbH as well as at our casinos in Bregenz, Kleinwalsertal, Linz and Velden. Audits of the Group’s compliance with the ISO 9001:2015 standard (quality management at Casinos Austria), the ISO 27001:2013 standard (information security at Austrian Lotteries) as well as the World Lottery Association’s WLA-SCS:2016 Security Control Standard (Austrian Lotteries) were all likewise successfully completed in the reporting year. Guest Data Compliance Project The purpose of our “Guest Data Compliance” project is to identify and document all corresponding data processing activities in the Group that are relevant from a data protection and privacy perspective. Our existing list of guest data processing activities was updated in 2019 and is continually expanded as required. DELETE Project The purpose of our “DELETE” project is to implement the customer and guest data deletion requirements set out in Articles 5 and 17 of the GDPR and ensure the sustained and automated deletion of such data in our SAP system. Our Responsibility 67 Compliance on all Levels Whistleblower System Compliance with statutory regulations and internal rules is an absolute priority in our Group. We can only avert damage to our companies, guests, customers, staff and business partners if such rules and regulations are observed. Accordingly, any misconduct must be recognized, addressed and rectified without delay. SDG 16 Our Whistleblower System offers a confidential means of reporting serious violations of GRI statutory regulations and internal rules. This includes violations that might significantly 103-2 205 harm the (financial) interests of our Group and/or seriously damage our reputation. By ensuring that any reports of misconduct are handled fairly and transparently, our Whistleblower System protects the Group, the implicated parties and the whistleblowers themselves. The Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group’s Whistleblower System has been available to internal and external whistleblowers since 2018 and can be accessed online at www.bkms-system.net/cal. The system already meets the requirements of the future EU Directive on the protection of whistleblowers. Repeat Successful Compliance Recertification in Accordance with ISO 19600 and ISO 37001 ISO 19600 is an international standard that establishes guidelines for the use of compliance management systems. Such systems help organizations to identify, understand and respond correctly to the risks of irregular conduct. Risk assessment is a central element of compliance management in the ISO 19600 standard: risks are weighted and prioritized based on their likelihood of occurrence, and corresponding measures must be taken against the most serious risks identified. The ISO standard also extends to the roles and responsibilities of the individuals involved. The new ISO 37001 standard is a practicable tool used by organizations to critically assess their current risk situation and incorporate appropriate measures against corruption into their existing structures and processes. Like all management system standards, ISO 37001 is based on the “High-Level Standard Framework” and can thus be easily integrated into an existing ISO 19600-certified compliance management system. In 2019, the Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group was once again the only gaming group worldwide to be audited and successfully certified according to the ISO 19600 and 37001 standards. 68 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Our Responsibility Player Protection of the Highest Level The Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group is an international pioneer in responsible gaming. Player protection is established practice in all companies in our Group, and our corresponding measures and activities take many different forms. Comprehensive information and awareness-raising for players and customers, education and training for staff and retail partners, and an extensive range of measures and activities to protect minors and all our players and customers are the cornerstones of our exemplary approach to responsible gaming. The Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group is fully aware that gambling can become a problem for the person concerned in some individual cases. Accordingly, our strict guest and customer policies are specifically designed to minimize the undesired effects of gambling wherever possible and play a decisive role in doing so. This is also our regulatory mandate. Responsible gaming is a fundamental principle of business at all companies in our Group. Access to our casinos is restricted to persons over the age of 18 and is subject to the Casinos Austria AG House Rules and Gaming Regulations. An official photo ID is required to gain admission to our casinos, and guests must check in at the reception desk every time they visit one of our casinos or WINWIN outlets. The sale of our lottery products or payout of lottery prizes is restricted to persons over the age of 16. The sale of tipp3 sports betting products, participation in the online games on the win2day site and purchase of EuroBon (win2day.at) and e-Eurobon (Glücksbörse e-wallet and Lotterien app) prepaid vouchers are all restricted to persons over the age of 18. 5-POINT RESPONSIBLE GAMING PROGRAM To protect our guests and players, we have developed a strategic framework that sets out clear rules for responsible gaming. This 5-Point Responsible Gaming Program comGRI prises the following areas: (1) player protection, (2) regular, lasting training, (3) responsible 103-2 416-1 advertising, (4) the promotion of research and cooperation with counseling centers and treatment facilities, and (5) quality assurance in content and processes. Point 1: Player Protection GRI To ensure gaming remains a fun pastime, the Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries 203-2 Group is committed to ensuring that our terms and conditions of play are adhered to at all times and to actively informing our customers and guests about responsible gaming and player protection. We also assign high relevance to player protection aspects in the development of any new games and game designs. Pursuant to the provisions of Art. 25 (3) of the Austrian Gaming Act, Casinos Austria and WINWIN monitor visit frequency and gambling intensity for all guests. Should there be reasonable cause to suspect that a guest’s visit frequency or gambling intensity does not reflect their financial circumstances, a credit check is obtained from one or more independent credit rating agencies. This is particularly important because an increase in gambling intensity could ultimately threaten a person’s means of existence. Further measures are then taken as required. These can range from an informative meeting with the guest to discuss the situation or a counseling interview pursuant to Art. 25 (3) of the Gaming Act through to entry restrictions or a complete entry ban. In this way, Casinos Austria and WINWIN are able to ensure that the emergence of a gambling problem is recognized at an early stage. Our Responsibility 69 Player Protection of the Highest Level Responsible gaming in our casinos begins in the foyer. In 2019, a total of 1,666 counseling interviews were held and 8,749 restrictive measures taken in our casinos and WINWIN outlets across Austria. 4,399 self-exclusion orders were likewise received and enacted in these operations. Children and young people are not – and never have been – a target group for our products and services. This is a cornerstone of our responsibility to society and applies without restriction to all companies in our Group. The protection of minors is thus also an absolute priority for Austrian Lotteries. Its retail partners are strictly prohibited from selling its products to children and young people under the age of 16 under any circumstances. This voluntary age restriction was introduced in 2009 and is contractually binding for all retail partners. Compliance with this age restriction is monitored using regular mystery shopping checks, and repeated infringements can lead to termination of the contract with the respective retail partner. In 2019, four rounds of mystery shopping checks were carried out, none of which resulted in a need to terminate any contracts. In the run-up to Christmas, Austrian Lotteries once again participated in the international youth protection holiday campaign. Its contribution to this annual campaign communicates the message that “Gambling is not for Children” and emphasizes the fact that gambling products are intended solely for adults. Austrian Lotteries has participated in this global campaign each year since 2011. Austrian Lotteries also updated and reprinted its responsible gaming brochures for customers in the reporting year. 70 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Our Responsibility Player Protection of the Highest Level Since 2013, players on the win2day online gaming site have been able to register for the MENTOR prevention tool, a predictive behavioral feedback program that analyzes the gaming histories of all registered users. MENTOR compares a player’s gaming history with that of the average user and provides them with personalized feedback that can increase their willingness to change or motivate them to alter their gaming habits at a very early stage. The tool also includes a self-test that allows the player to self-assess their gaming activities on win2day. The results of this self-assessment are then compared with the respective player’s actual usage data. The Group’s dedicated responsible gaming website underwent a soft relaunch in 2019 and can now be reached both at its existing address – spiele-mit-verantwortung.at – and a new shortened address: smv.at. The website provides detailed information on responsible gaming as well as the corresponding measures that are in place at Casinos Austria, Austrian Lotteries, win2day, WINWIN and tipp3. The Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group also offers a dedicated responsible gaming phone hotline, which can be contacted free-of-charge on the following number: 0800 202 304. Point 2: Regular, Lasting Training GRI Our internal responsible gaming training courses are tailored to the needs of our different 102-2 203-2 Business Units and the corresponding provisions in the Austrian Gaming Act. They are designed to provide appropriate information on responsible gaming, create awareness among our staff for the problem of gambling addiction and provide them with the support they need to work effectively and responsibly in their respective functions and work environments. Our compulsory Responsible Gaming Basic Training course, for instance, creates awareness for the topic across the Group. This mandatory e-learning course for all staff was updated in 2019 to include new test questions based on the findings of current research. It establishes a common level of knowledge in the Group regarding problem gambling and our responsible gaming programs. It also equips staff with concrete responsible gaming guidelines that correspond to their actual roles and functions in the Group. We attach a similarly high level of importance to the provision of regular internal awareness-raising measures. Accordingly, managers and staff in our Group with direct contact to customers and guests again participated in targeted training courses and workshops with national and international experts throughout the reporting year. The Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group’s annual Responsible Gaming Academy GRI (RGA) is one of our most important responsible gaming training measures. This conference 102-43 102-44 was held for the 16th time in 2019 and again attracted high-caliber international experts to Studio 44 in Vienna to present and discuss trends and developments in responsible gaming. During the RGA, a joint workshop was held for Casinos Austria guest relations and organization managers and WINWIN outlet managers. Moderated by Herwig Scholz, the workshop focused on how best to approach and communicate with guests and customers with potential gambling problems. Pursuant to Art. 25 of the Austrian Gaming Act, certain player protection and responsible gaming duties can only be performed by so-called “specially trained staff”. These include, amongst others, counseling interviews and consultations with guests regarding potential Our Responsibility 71 Player Protection of the Highest Level visit restrictions or entry bans. The special know-how required to carry out these tasks is attained in a dedicated training program, which provides participants with fundamental knowledge of gambling addiction and focuses in particular on the social and legal aspects of problem gambling. It also includes a series of workshops in which students practice how to conduct consultations with problem gamblers and inform them that prevention measures are required. Two such training programs were held in the 2019 reporting year, giving Casinos Austria and WINWIN a total of around 200 members of staff who are specially trained in responsible gaming duties pursuant to the Gaming Act (as at 31 December 2019). All new Austrian Lotteries retail partners are required to complete our Responsible Gaming Basic Training course prior to commencement of their contract. This course is available online to staff in all Austrian Lotteries retail outlets via their online sales terminals. All retail partners receive additional face-to-face responsible gaming training from our field sales representatives at least once a year and are also required to complete an annual responsible gaming training course via the online terminals. Some 16,000 Responsible Gaming Basic Training certificates were issued to retail partners in the reporting year. Austrian Lotteries introduced a new “LotterienPortal” service portal for its retail partners in 2019, which includes a dedicated section on responsible gaming with comprehensive information for retail partners. Regular reports in the Lotterien aktuell newsletter for retail partners rounded off the knowledge transfer in the reporting year. tipp3’s terrestrial retail network likewise continues to play a decisive role in sales of its products. Accordingly, tipp3’s responsible gaming measures in the 2019 reporting year followed the same approach taken by Austrian Lotteries and were largely directed at staff in its points of sale. These measures included a mandatory responsible gaming training session with tipp3 sales representatives in August and September, which was based on the Group’s revised “Responsible Gaming ABC” and focused in particular on the support required by retail partners. Prior to receiving this training, retail outlet staff were required to complete a corresponding responsible gaming training course on their online sales terminals, which included detailed content on sports betting with tipp3 products. The responsible gaming website www.smv.at was updated and All Austrian Lotteries retail partners receive regular training in relaunched in 2019. responsible gaming and related topics. 72 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Our Responsibility 72 Player Protection of the Highest Level Point 3: Responsible Advertising The advertising of gaming products is a highly sensitive socio-political topic, and the Austrian Gaming Act thus stipulates that gaming operators must maintain a “responsible standard” with respect to their advertising campaigns and ensure that these meet the necessary standards of player protection. All advertising activities in the Casinos Austria and GRI Austrian Lotteries Group are conducted in full accordance with the regulatory intentions 203-2 of the Austrian legislature and the European Court of Justice. Accordingly, any advertising of our products is carefully designed to demonstrate their attractiveness in an informative manner that corresponds to the target group. Our strict Code of Conduct Responsible Advertising and corresponding internal rules and guidelines contain extensive criteria that must be adhered to in all our advertising activities. In addition, we also comply strictly in all such activities with the Interpretations for the Practice of Advertising for Gambling Products and Services issued by the Ministry of Finance’s Addiction Prevention and Counselling Unit. The following three steps serve in particular to ensure that we achieve our goal of advertising responsibly: • External advertising partners are required to adhere strictly to our Code of Conduct Responsible Advertising, which details a set of eleven criteria that must be met by all our advertising materials. • All our advertising partners are given training in responsible advertising. This serves to heighten awareness in these creative agencies for player protection aspects in the advertising of gaming products and services. • All our advertising materials, activities and projects must be forwarded to, checked and approved by our Responsible Gaming & Compliance division prior to implementation. In the 2019 reporting year, our Responsible Gaming and Compliance division checked a total of 1,484 advertising materials and activities for compliance with the provisions of Art. 56 of the Gaming Act and our own internal rules and guidelines. Any deviations were GRI 102-16 documented and corresponding measures initiated to amend their form and content. A total of 143 sponsoring projects were likewise checked for compliance with the Group’s responsible sponsoring rules and guidelines. Point 4: Promotion of Research and Cooperation with Counseling Centers and Treatment Facilities The Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group remains in constant contact with an GRI 203-2 international network of experts and gambling research institutes to share knowledge and experience. Point 5: Quality Assurance of Content and Processes All our responsible gaming and player protection measures and processes are audited regularly by independent institutions and certified to international standards and guidelines. Our Responsibility 73 Player Protection of the Highest Level Always clearly visible: the protection of minors in our retail outlets. SDG 17 In 2014, Casinos Austria became the first gaming company worldwide to obtain certifiGRI 203-2 cation from Austrian Standards according to the Responsible Gaming Standards developed by the European Casino Association (ECA). Following an external audit in 2017, this certification was reissued for a further three years. Austrian Lotteries have been certified according to the European Lotteries Responsible Gaming Standards since 2009. This corresponds to full Level 4 certification according to the Responsible Gaming Standards issued by the World Lottery Association (WLA). OUR GOALS: STATUS QUO Status 2017 Status 2018 Status 2019 Relaunch the responsible gaming website spielemit-verantwortung.at planned for 2019 planned for 2019 completed 74 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Our Responsibility Top Employer The Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group provides an attractive working GRI environment that encourages innovation and fosters development. We place great 102-16 103-2 importance on providing our staff with excellent training and education. In addition to our regular activities in this field, we focused in our 2019 HR development activities in particular on “diversity management” and “career and family”. With a total of 2,576 employees, the Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group is an important provider of jobs in Austria. We offer good career opportunities, job security and an inclusive working environment. We consider an open communication culture with regular sharing of information and opinions to be a prerequisite for successful daily work. Training and Education The Casinos & Lotteries (C&L) Academy is an important element in our internal training SDG 4 and education program for junior and senior staff alike. This electronic platform for indiGRI vidual and joint learning provides training on company-specific topics in an innovative 404-2 format and features a large range of personal development seminars and management training options that are updated each year. For specialist fields relating to the casino and gaming sectors, Casinos Austria draws on a well-qualified team of experienced internal trainers to teach and train staff in its casinos. These internal trainers share their knowledge and experience in a range of fields, including regulatory and legal topics such as responsible gaming, information security, data protection and privacy or the combating of money laundering as well as customer-related and personal development topics like service and guest orientation, communication and dealing with conflict situations. At the Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group, new staff are integrated into our business processes as soon as they join the Group. Events like our “Welcome Days” and “Corporate Governance and Awareness Days” facilitate onboarding and provide new members of staff with valuable insights into our business and processes. Current topics are communicated and discussed in innovative formats at our “Crazy Thursday”, “Innovation Breakfast”, “Security Breakfast” or “Let’s Talk about CSR” events (to name but a few), which are open to all members of staff. Knowledge sharing in a contemporary setting. Numerous internal events for staff provide insights into new topics. Our Responsibility 75 Top Employer Successful representation at the 2019 European Dealer Championship: Highest standards of training for new Junior Croupiers. Croupier Selina Joy Hager. In June 2019, a total of 24 members of staff from our casinos successfully completed our SDG 4 comprehensive Junior Leadership Program (JLP). The JLP focuses on three main aspects GRI 404-2 related to leadership: personal development, professional competence and internal company knowledge. Casinos Austria likewise issued a new nationwide call for applicants for its Junior Croupier Training Program in Vienna and Bregenz. The target group for this program were young adults interested in this exciting career path. One group of trainees successfully completed this program in December 2019, providing Casinos Austria with 19 fully-trained new junior croupiers. The quality of the training provided by Casinos Austria was expertly confirmed at the 2019 European Dealer Championship, which was held from 29 April to 1 May in the Olympic Park Casino in Tallinn, Estonia. Selina Joy Hager, a croupier at Casino Wien, demonstrated her clear skills at handling the games of Blackjack and Roulette and made it through the tough 38-participant competition to the final round, where she achieved the best ranking for a female croupier. All twelve casinos in Austria place a key focus on the training and wellbeing of their staff. This is aptly demonstrated at Casino Linz, which offers its staff a range of sporting, cultural and teambuilding options, including self-defense courses and a motivation seminar on “The Power of Thought – How Emotions Develop”. Throughout the 2019 reporting year, regular training events were likewise organized for the Group’s field sales teams, including a series of seminars on topics like active selling, customer communication and presentation techniques. To further support our aim to be a top employer, we introduced a new “Glücksbringer” (“Lucky Charm”) recommendation program in 2019 to give our staff the opportunity to recommend potential new employees. If a recommended person joins the Group, the member of staff who recommended them receives a bonus. “Work and Family” Audit The “Work and Family” audit seeks to promote a strong work-life balance. The Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group has various measures in place at our headquarters in Vienna to support this goal, including an annual “Family Business Breakfast” for staff GRI on maternity/paternity/care leave, childcare provisions in school holidays and on other 401-2 401-3 workdays when schools are closed as well as information and support on actively managing maternity/paternity leave and parenthood, home office options and – where possible – care responsibilities. Our current work and family action points will remain a focus of our HR strategy until 2020 in order to raise further awareness for these topics among management-level staff and achieve an even stronger work-life balance within our Group. 76 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Our Responsibility Top Employer Job shadowing allows participants to learn about work in the various companies in our Group. In 2019, we joined the “Unternehmen Zukunft” (“Companies for the Future”) association, an initiative set up by Austrian companies to promote family-friendly workplaces that support women and to lobby for the necessary changes to the law required to achieve this. Diversity Management GRI 405 The Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group actively practices and promotes corporate social responsibility and diversity management. To ensure that diversity is managed professionally and strategically, a Diversity Roadmap 2020 was developed for the Group in consultation with the Management Board. This roadmap focuses on three key areas: disability, gender and age. Targeted measures relating to disability and gender were implemented in the Group in 2019. We participated, for example, in the Disability Talent Program for the third time, an initiative to provide job shadowing opportunities for students and graduates with disabilities that allow them to experience work through the lens of different stakeholders. In 2019, 14 students and graduates from different academic fields participated in this sensing journey across the Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group. Two “Disability Awareness” workshops for managers and staff in the Group were also organized throughout the year. And last but by no means least, the Group participated for the first time in the Ö3 radio station’s employment initiative for apprentices with special needs – and gained a new permanent member of staff in the process. DIVERSITY ROADMAP Our Responsibility 77 Top Employer Topic #1 Topic #2 Parenthood, parental leave, return to work, Home office and active fatherhood reachability Topic #3 Topic #4 Care duties and Advancement of older workers women CSR at the Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group covers the full spectrum of responsibility from an economic, ecological and social perspective. We take our responsibility to society very seriously and were thus equally proud not only to participate in the 2019 Austrian DIVÖRSITY Days but also to be recognized as one of the country’s most diversity-oriented employers: the Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group was one of the top three nominees in the “2,000+ Employees” category at the DIVÖRSITY Awards 2019. SDG 5 One of our stated long-term goals is to incorporate men and women equally and sustainably into all areas of our business. We thus reaffirmed our commitment to actively raising the share of women in management positions in our Group and maintaining a gender balance in our new and replacement hires in the 2019 reporting year. To promote gender diversity at Austrian Lotteries, for instance, the share of female sales representatives was raised to 30 percent, while our regular “Women in Leadership Breakfast” networking forum provides women in management positions across the Group with an opportunity to meet and discuss experiences and insights with other successful career women. Performance Management and Grading Performance management across the entire Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group was completely revised in 2019, starting with our headquarters in Vienna. The revised approach focuses on establishing a more agile process with multiple reviews GRI throughout the year. In 2019, managers were trained in the new system and detailed 404-2 information provided to all staff at headquarters. A corresponding project was carried out in collaboration with managers to develop a unified grading system for positions at headquarters. The new standardized procedure allows jobs and job requirements in the Group to be graded objectively and in a comparable manner based on a set of predefined criteria. 78 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Our Responsibility Top Employer SDG 3 Focus on Health GRI We are committed to maintaining the health of our workforce and offer a broad range 401-2 403 of preventive measures each year in collaboration with our corporate physician. These include both internal sports classes (e.g. spinal gymnastics, Pilates or yoga) as well external sports activities. 144 members of our staff participated in 2019 in the annual “Vienna Business Run” on 5 September. At the start of the year, our Management Board funded a “Stop Smoking” seminar. Interest in this seminar was high, and twelve members of staff in the Group took advantage of this opportunity to stop smoking for good. A key focus of our health-related activities in 2019 lay on mental health. We organized a number of “Mindfulness” seminars and actively supported and promoted the use of the free “KEEPBALANCE” hotline run by the Hilfswerk Österreich humanitarian aid organization. Information sessions were also held for management-level staff to raise their awareness of bullying and sexual harassment in the workplace. Continued Recognition of our Excellence in Recruiting The quality of recruiting at the Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group is among the best in the country. This was once again confirmed by the “Best Recruiters” study, which ranks the quality of recruiting at some 500 of Austria’s largest companies. Austrian Lotteries proudly retained its top spot in the ranking for the “Services” sector and was once again awarded the “Best Recruiters” Gold Seal of Approval. It was also ranked among the Top Ten employers in the overall ranking (in 7th place). Casinos Austria’s rankings were likewise impressive: it retained its second place in the “Services” sector ranking, and thus also its “Best Recruiters” Silver Seal of Approval, and was ranked among the Top 30 employers in the overall ranking. Recruiting quality at the Group is among the best in Austria and was recognized in 2019 with both a Gold and a Silver Seal of Approval in the “Best Recruiters” study. Our Responsibility 79 32,79 % Top Employer >50 Jahre 71 % Unklar 14 % Nein AGE STRUCTURE 2019 GRI 405-1 in FTE* and percent Unternehmen mit < 400 Mio. Umsatz 22.06 % <30 years of age 45.15 % 30–50 years of age 32.79 % >50 years of age 71 % Unklar *Annual average full-time 14 % equivalent Nein 14 % EMPLOYEES INja2019* Group 3,336 Casinos Austria AG 1,714 Casinos Austria International 760 Österreichische Lotterien Ges.m.b.H. 509 *Annual average full-time equivalent COMPOSITION OF WORKFORCE BY EMPLOYEE CATEGORY AND GENDER IN 2019 male female Casinos Austria Management Board 50.00 % 50.00 % Austrian Lotteries Management Board 50.00 % 50.00 % Head of Business Unit/Corporate Function 81.25 % 18.75 % Head of Department/Group 59.70 % 40.30 % Director, Tier 1 and 2 Manager (casinos), WINWIN Outlet Manager 76.47 % 23.53 % Other employee/temporary staff/intern/apprentice 61.72 % 38.28 % 80 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Our Responsibility Top Employer OUR GOALS: STATUS QUO Status 2017 Status 2018 Status 2019 Health & Safety Hold a “Health Day” at our headplanned again quarters in Vienna planned for 2018 completed for 2021 Increase the share of Cuisino staff continually being canteens in our casinos with a focus implemented and on “healthy meals and snacks” planned for 2018 planned for 2019 improved completed; to be Hold mindfulness workshops planned for 2019 continued in 2020 Introduce the “KEEPBALANCE” hotline planned for 2019 completed Hold information sessions on bullycompleted; to be ing and sexual harassment continued in 2020 Good Training & Motivation further measures completed; further Develop (junior) managers and planned for measures planned promote talent completed 2019/2020 for 2020/2021 Obtain second “workandfamily” audit recertification and establish a shared understanding for and commitment to family-friendly measures planned for 2018 in progress in progress Provide in-depth training to 100% of WINWIN staff using the new training concept planned for 2020 planned for 2020 planned for 2020 Update the casino and Cuisino recruiting processes planned for 2020 planned for 2020 planned for 2020 Provide training to casino staff across Austria in managing emergency situations completed Diversity & Fairness Update the diversity roadmap completed completed in progress Gender Diversity Increase the share of women in planned for management positions planned for 2020 2019/2020 in progress Improve the gender balance planned for in all areas planned for 2020 2019/2020 in progress Age Diversity Develop a talent management program to promote and retain planned for planned for young talent planned for 2020 2019/2020 2020/2021 Disability Break down barriers (e.g. reservations and prejudices) among staff planned for 2020 started in 2018 completed Hire people with disabilities to meet the quota stipulated in the Austrian Disability Employment Act [Behinderteneinstellungsgesetz] planned for 2022 started in 2018 in progress Our Responsibility 81 Sustainable Use of Resources and Climate Protection The Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group has set itself the goal of being an environmentally friendly and sustainable business. We are committed to making a tangible SDG 13 contribution to climate protection by 2020 and have defined concrete measures and tarGRI gets to ensure we meet this commitment. This is an extremely important endeavor given 103-2 the recent extreme weather conditions. In Austria, the data and statistics published by the Central Institution for Meteorology and Geodynamics show that 2019 was the second warmest summer since records began. Our Group felt the effects of this extreme weather in our procurement and guest management activities in particular: guest numbers were low on hot summer days, while suppliers were unable to deliver certain products for our restaurants and bars, which thus had to be taken off the menus. OUR GOALS: STATUS QUO Status 2017 Status 2018 Status 2019 Replace the cold water supply circulating pumps deferred; at our MC4 site in Wiener will be completed Neustadt extended to 2018 partly completed as required) Successively switch to LED lighting at all sites extended to 2020 extended to 2020 extended to 2020 Raise awareness for environmental protection among staff planned for 2020 planned for 2020 planned for 2020 Improve energy data with regard to annual accuracy, data from utility bills planned for 2020 planned for 2020 planned for 2020 Obtain energy certificates for all WINWIN outlets planned for 2020 planned for 2020 planned for 2020 Introduce CSR criteria for new/retrofitted sites planned for 2020 planned for 2020 planned for 2020 Total Energy Consumption Total energy consumption for the Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group in 2019 amounted to 120,908,793 megajoules (MJ) and was made up as follows: GRI 302-1 • Electricity consumption for the operation of our casinos, WINWIN outlets, computing centers in Vienna (Rennweg 44) and Wiener Neustadt, offices at all sites and warehouse in Wiener Neustadt. • Energy consumption for heating and cooling our casinos, WINWIN outlets, computing centers, offices and warehouse. • Fuel consumption for sales trips by Austrian Lotteries sales representatives and for business travel. 82 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Our Responsibility TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION1 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS (GHG)2 in MJ in tO2e* 9,817.9 200,000 10,000 8,962 154,247,365.98 150,000 7,500 126,073,073.8 126,649,965.4 100,000 5,000 50,000 14 % 2,500 14 % ja ja 855.91 0 0 2017 2018 2019 Total GHG Direct GHG Indirect GHG emissions emissions emissions We are currently working to improve the quality of this data. Some of the data available for the reporting year does not correspond to the actual reporting period used (2019), while some data (e.g. for thermal energy) were not yet available at the time of preparation of this report. *Carbon dioxide equivalent In November 2019, the Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group underwent an energy 1 GRI 302-1 audit pursuant to Art. 18 and Appendix II of the Austrian Energy Efficiency Act [Bundes2 GRI 305-1, 305-2 Energieeffizienzgesetz]. The audit covered Casinos Austria AG, Österreichische Lotterien Gesellschaft m.b.H. and Glücksund Unterhaltungsspiel Betriebsgesellschaft m.b.H. and served to verify our corporate and usage data as well as to identify further measures to protect energy savings (e.g. further optimization of ventilation system operating periods at individual sites or replacement of cooling units). Energy Consumption We have already been drawing electricity from 100 percent renewable sources at the majority of our sites for many years. We negotiated a new electricity supply contract in the reporting year, ultimately electing to remain with our existing electricity provider for the period from 2020 to 2023. Our electricity will therefore be generated in that period from the following sources: Energy Source Hydroelectric power 80.96 % Wind power 8.28 % Solid or liquid biomass power 8.31 % Solar power 1.51 % Other green energy 0.94 % Total 100 % We have implemented many measures to save electricity in the past few years such as gradually switching to LED lighting and making sure that our IT equipment is energyGRI efficient. In our computing centers, we switched increasingly in 2019 to all-flash storage 102-16 302 systems. Unlike conventional rotating hard drives, all-flash arrays are equipped solely with solid state drives (SSD). Dispensing with rotating drives and the corresponding reduction in installation capacity requirements greatly reduces electricity consumption (by up to 30 percent). Our Responsibility 83 Sustainable Use of Resources and Climate Protection Wherever possible, we choose the most energy-efficient slot machines for our casinos and video lottery terminals for our WINWIN outlets. We also strive to minimize downtimes, i.e. the periods when a slot machine/VLT runs without being played. Such machines not only consume a great deal of energy, they also produce a lot of heat, which means that the rooms in which they are located have to be cooled accordingly. In 2019, the number of gaming machines operated in the Group was reduced overall. While the number of VLTs at WINWIN rose from 785 to 820 following the opening of two new outlets, the number of slot machines in the twelve Austrian casinos fell from 2,361 to 2,188. SDG 13 Heating, Cooling, Ventilation IT systems and hardware generate residual heat that can be used in colder months to heat the rooms in which they are located. This saves energy and reduces heating costs. But when the temperatures rise, cooling systems run at full blast. 2019 was one of the three hottest years in Austria since records began (Source: Central Institution for Meteorology and Geodynamics, 19 December 2019), with temperatures lying at 1.3° C above the longterm average. Temperatures in June were the warmest on record and lay at 4.7° C above the average. Our Group is thus increasingly being faced with increased cooling demands. The rooms at our headquarters are fitted with ventilation units that supply them with fresh air. The air in a room is exchanged three to five times an hour and is heated, cooled or humidified as required. Our computing centers are also energy efficient and use the economical “free cooling” method, which utilizes the naturally cool air in the environment to reduce the temperature in a room. Corresponding cool-heat cycles also make optimal use of the available airflows. New Cooling Unit at Headquarters (Rennweg 44) In 2019, a new cooling unit with no long-term negative impact on the environment was installed at our headquarters in Vienna. “Normal” cooling units (air conditioners, refrigerators, freezers) use a refrigerant in the cooling process. This refrigerant is a gas. While all gases are different, many of them have one thing in common: they damage the environment when they are released (the so-called greenhouse gas effect). The EU has thus passed a regulation that prohibits the use of old-style refrigerants in the future and requires the use of new refrigerants with a reduced greenhouse gas effect. The negative impact of the respective gases is referred to as their global warming potential (GWP), i.e. the ability of an individual greenhouse gas to trap heat in the atmosphere relative to an equal amount of carbon dioxide or a carbon dioxide equivalent. The frequently used refrigerant “R134a”, for instance, has a GWP of 1,430. One ton of “R134a” GRI thus corresponds to 1,430 tons of carbon dioxide equivalent. The switch from the “R410A” 305 (GWP 2,088) to the “R454B” (GWP 466) refrigerant thus reduces our carbon dioxide emissions (incl. refrigerant loss) by around 70 tons. It is also a more energy-efficient solution (EER 3.0) than the previous cooling unit (EER 2.5), hence the calculated reduction in energy consumption of 196,357 kWh. 84 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Our Responsibility Sustainable Use of Resources and Climate Protection Old Cooling Unit New Cooling Unit Saving Electricity Consumption (kWh) 809,971 613,615 196,357 Reduction in carbon dioxide emissions due to improved level of impact (kg) -54,980 Reduction in carbon dioxide emissions due to refrigerant (kg) -15,119 70,099 The switch to high-efficiency cooling systems with heat exchangers that began in 2017 will also be continued in 2020. Sales and Business Travel In the 2019 reporting year, Austrian Lotteries optimized its sales network. Potential analyses were used to re-cluster retail outlets, thus increasing the efficiency of trips made by field sales representatives and reducing the distances driven. As a result, the total distance driven for sales purposes was decreased from 1.1 million km in 2018 to 0.95 million km in 2019, a reduction of 14 percent. We have sought for many years to make our business travel greener and more energy GRI 305 efficient. In 2019, staff in the Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group traveled over 214,455 km by train for business purposes. This corresponds to a carbon dioxide saving of around 44 tons compared to if the same journeys had been made by car. SUSTAINABLE USE OF RESOURCES SDG 12 To be sustainable, we all have to use our resources sparingly and with care. At the GRI 301 Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group, we thus make sure that our procurement 102-16 activities are sustainable and fair and that we have efficient and effective waste management concepts in place to protect our environment and resources. Fairtrade coffee is served in all WINWIN cafés. Our Cuisino restaurants use regional produce like the Hirschbirne Autumn Pear from the Pöllau Valley in Styria. Our Responsibility 85 Sustainable Use of Resources and Climate Protection OUR GOALS: STATUS QUO Status 2017 Status 2018 Status 2019 Sustainable & Fair Procurement Include and document CSR criteria in supplier assessin progress; in progress; ment procedures planned for 2020 planned for 2020 planned for 2020 Encourage and promote in progress; in progress; local procurement planned for 2020 planned for 2020 planned for 2020 Introduce CSR guidelines in progress; in progress; for procurement planned for 2020 planned for 2020 planned for 2020 Evaluate possibilities to replace non-Austrian products with Austrian in progress; in progress; equivalents at Cuisino planned for 2020 planned for 2020 planned for 2020 Sustainable Waste Management Improve the quality of our in progress; in progress; data on waste planned for 2020 planned for 2020 planned for 2020 Revise waste collection in progress; in progress; concepts planned for 2020 planned for 2020 planned for 2020 Launch the project to avoid food waste in in progress; in progress; Cuisino venues planned for 2020 planned for 2020 planned for 2020 SDG 8 Sustainable and Fair Procurement GRI To be an environmentally friendly and sustainable business, we have to know and keep 301 308 a watchful eye on our supply chain. Our procurement practices play a significant role in achieving this goal. Accordingly, we screen all our procurement practices in all three dimensions of sustainability (economic, environmental and social) and ask ourselves thereby the following questions: • What materials do we use? Which of them could we replace with environmentally friendly alternatives? Who are our suppliers? What are the working conditions like in our supplier companies? • Long-term partnerships are important to us. How can we maintain and enhance these partnerships even further? We focused at length on these questions in the 2019 reporting year and implemented the following projects to ensure we continue to be an environmentally friendly and sustainable business. Inclusion of CSR Criteria in Supplier Assessment Procedures/Introduction of CSR Guidelines for Procurement In 2019, we carried out an in-depth analysis of our procurement practices for our advertising and marketing materials and defined a corresponding set of CSR criteria and guidelines. 86 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Our Responsibility Sustainable Use of Resources and Climate Protection This new catalogue of CSR criteria is designed to assist our procurement officers in decision processes regarding the selection of suppliers and materials. To ensure they were clearly communicated to our suppliers, we summarized these GRI requirements and added them to our official Code of Conduct for Suppliers. This Code of 308 Conduct for Suppliers clearly shows that we only work with companies who meet our high quality standards and criteria. SDG 12 In 2019, 91 percent of our procurement volume was placed with Austrian suppliers and a GRI further 8 percent with suppliers in other European countries. Pursuant to our CSR Strategy 204-1 2020, we are now also focusing on gathering more data on the corresponding upstream value chains. Office Renovations at Headquarters in Vienna (Rennweg 44) In 2018, we launched a major renovation project at our headquarters in Vienna. The aim of this “Pimp Up” project is to modernize each floor by 2020. In addition to aesthetic considerations, particular importance is being placed thereby on • the environmental credentials of the products used, • the use of materials that are produced in an environmentally friendly manner with low carbon dioxide emissions, and • the repair and reuse of existing materials. “Made in Austria”: New Multimedia Sales Terminals for Retail Outlets At the end of 2019, Austrian Lotteries began replacing 3,000 online sales terminals in its retail outlets with new terminals produced by the Linz-based company, KEBA AG. The new terminals use state-of-the-art technology, are optimized to the needs of all user groups and feature easy-to-use multi-touch screens. They are also designed to work largely without a cooling fan and are thus extremely quiet. A decisive factor in the choice of these high-quality terminals was the fact that they are “Made in Austria” and thus also ensure local value creation. Regional, Organic and Fairtrade Alongside our core business of gaming, we place a strong emphasis on our food and beverage services. These include our staff canteens at headquarters and in our casinos as well as our popular WINWIN cafés and award-winning Cuisino casino restaurants. By introducing organic and Fairtrade coffee in our WINWIN cafés, we successfully raised the share of organic produce used in these venues to over 20 percent. As leading Austrian enterprises, our twelve casinos in Austria strive to support the country’s economy and thus “buy local”. Where appropriate and viable, they purchase regional products from local suppliers. Casino Seefeld, for instance, sources its meat and game produce from the nearby Gut Leutasch butchery, while Casino Innsbruck buys its Alpine prawns from Austria’s first indoor aquafarm in the neighboring town of Hall. In 2019, 91 % of all goods and products purchased by the Group were sourced from Austrian suppliers. Our Responsibility 87 Sustainable Use of Resources and Climate Protection Total Procurement Volume Procurement volume in Austria 91 % In the coming years, we plan to further increase the share of high-quality Austrian products that we buy. Corresponding potential to achieve this goal has been identified in particular in the staple products used in our Cuisino restaurants and bars. Cooperation with the Slow Food Foundation’s “Ark of Taste” Project Cuisino is a longstanding promoter and advocate of the Slow Food movement, which places special emphasis on preserving traditional artisan food production and biodiversity. “Ark of Taste” is an international project run by the Slow Food Foundation for Biodiversity that catalogs small-scale food products and culture around the globe. In doing so, it helps to protect and rediscover valuable regional food products, plant species and animal breeds that might otherwise have disappeared within a few generations. SDG 17 Eight of our Cuisino restaurants have each “adopted” one of these products and are GRI 204 thus helping to ensure that eight traditional Austrian food products continue to exist. In keeping with the Slow Food philosophy, the selected products all stem from the regions in which their sponsor restaurants are located: • Cuisino Baden – Leithaberger Edelkirsche – Heirloom Leithaberg Cherries • Cuisino Bregenz – Subirer-Birnenbrand – Pear brandy from the “Subirer” pear • Cuisino Graz – Hirschbirne – Autumn Pear from the Pöllau Valley • Cuisino Kitzbühel – Tyrolean Organic Camembert from Milchbuben KG • Cuisino Linz – Sheep and Goat Milk Cheese from Pranz Premiumkäserei • Cuisino Salzburg – Wildshut Beer from Stiegl-Gut Wildshut • Cuisino Velden – Gailtal Valley White Maize • Cuisino Wien – Wiener Gemischter Satz from the Weingut Wieninger winery Cuisino has always embraced the Slow Food concept in all its restaurants: one of the clear goals when the company was founded back in 2004 was to extend the Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group’s core values of sustainability and social responsibility to its food and beverage services. Wherever possible, Cuisino sources top quality produce from outstanding domestic suppliers. SUSTAINABLE WASTE MANAGEMENT When products and materials have been used for the last time, they inevitably become waste. But even sustainable products and materials have to be disposed of correctly at the end of their useful life. The Group’s internal waste officers assist and advise colleagues in such matters. 88 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Our Responsibility Sustainable Use of Resources and Climate Protection Our main aim is to avoid waste wherever possible. But when waste cannot be avoided, SDG 12 we need to know its precise location and volume. We have therefore set ourselves the goal GRI of improving the quality of our waste data. In 2019, we generated a total of 1,066 tons of 306 waste, of which 4 % was hazardous waste and 96 % was non-hazardous waste. WASTE VOLUMES in tons 2018 2019 Hazardous waste 72.03 43.17 Non-hazardous waste 944.12 1,023.52 Total waste 1,016.15 1,066.69 We are currently working to improve the quality of this data. Some of the data for the reporting year are partly incomplete or were not yet available at the time of preparation of this report. Our waste volumes differ across our various sites. 29 % of the waste we produce stems from our headquarters and warehouse, where paper and cardboard waste are two major items. A further 71 % is produced at our casinos and WINWIN outlets, where waste from food and beverage services or the entry areas play a particularly large role. Avoiding Single-Use Plastics in our Cuisino Restaurants and Bars We regularly evaluate where and when we generate waste and what measures we can take to reduce it. In 2019, for instance, we stopped using single-use plastic straws in our Cuisino restaurants and bars. Any straws used in future will be made of biodegradable organic plastic. Preventing Food Waste with the “Tafelbox” Every year, we organize events and functions across the whole of Austria, both at our Congress Casino Baden and Studio 44 event venues as well as in our casinos and WINWIN outlets with event facilities. We make it a priority to incorporate sustainable solutions into these events right from the very start. The topic of food waste is especially important in our catering activities. Event organizers tend to err on the generous side: they want to make sure they have provided adequately for all their guests and in most cases order too much food. This can often then end up in the trash. To prevent this, we signed up in 2019 to the Wiener Tafel’s “Tafelbox” project. Through this initiative run by a Vienna-based food bank charity, our guests now have the opportunity to take leftover food home with them at the end of an event. EXPANSION AND MAINTENANCE ACTIVITIES Casinos Austria regularly invests in the expansion and maintenance of its operations. Particular emphasis is placed thereby on aspects like energy efficiency and the conservation GRI 301 of the historic buildings that are often now home to our casinos. Casino Salzburg is a prime 302 example. It is housed in the majestic Schloss Klessheim, a calling card for Mozart’s home town, which has been extensively renovated and beautifully conserved in recent years. In line with our goal to reduce electricity consumption, further light fixtures in this venue were switched to LED technology in the 2019 reporting year. Our Responsibility 89 Sustainable Use of Resources and Climate Protection In summer 2019, restoration work began on the façade of the listed building that is home to Casino Wien, a project that will make an important contribution towards preserving the Vienna cityscape and supporting tourism in the capital. Casino Wien has been located in Palais Esterházy – the oldest building in the Kärntner Straße pedestrian shopping street – since 1968. Its historic façade was constructed in 1678 and is being restored in consultation with the City of Vienna’s Historic Monuments Office [Denkmalamt], allowing it to shine in new splendor from 2020 onwards. In 2019, the seating in Casino Innsbruck was refurbished, the carpeting was replaced in the main gaming area and Jackpot Casino, and the interior walls and ceilings were redecorated. The control panels in the elevators were likewise replaced to comply with the height requirements for barrier-free access, while the switch to LED lighting made a further contribution to reducing electricity consumption. 90 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Our Responsibility Commitment to Society and Social Responsibility At the Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group, all our activities are shaped by our clear and lasting sense of commitment to society and social responsibility. These go far beyond responsible gaming or our legal and regulatory mandate. Our Group places great importance on supporting and being a reliable partner to charitable and social institutions, projects and initiatives. Our staff also demonstrate their own commitment to society and make a valuable contribution through our corporate volunteering program. 2,505 Hours of Volunteering for Good Causes Our corporate volunteering program was introduced in 2013 and provides all our staff with time to demonstrate their personal commitment to society. Through this program, our Management Board gives each member of staff the possibility to spend up to five working days a year volunteering for a good cause. In 2019, Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group staff spent a total of 2,505 hours volunteering through this program and GRI helping charitable causes like Caritas, the Hilfswerk humanitarian aid organization, the 103-2 203-2 Diakonie social welfare charity, the Wiener Tafel food bank, the Austrian Red Cross or the e.motion-Lichtblickhof equitherapy center for children in need. 250 kg of Food for the Wiener Tafel – The 2019 “Tafel Weeks” From 14 January to 8 March, staff at our headquarters in Vienna organized a series of activities in support of the Wiener Tafel’s 2019 “Tafel Weeks”. The aim thereby was to collect donations for the Vienna-based food bank charity and at the same time raise awareness among staff for nutrition and the sensible use of food products. The activities began with a “Shop Sensibly” collection day on which staff were called upon to buy and donate hygiene products and food staples with long sell-by dates. This was followed by a “Jam Market”, where staff sold homemade jams and donated the proceeds to the collection fund. The slogan for final event on 8 March was “Fancy some soup? Then why not make it yourself?”. In this variation on the soup kitchen, members of staff cooked homemade soup to sell to their co-workers for a donation of one euro per bowl. Through these “Tafel Weeks” activities, we raised a total of 1,520 euros and delivered over 250 kg of food staples and hygiene products to the Wiener Tafel. 22 members of staff made use of our corporate volunteering program to participate in this charity project. Staff in the Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group can spend Staff donations for the Wiener Tafel food bank charity. up to five working days per year volunteering for social causes. Our Responsibility 91 Commitment to Society and Social Responsibility Give Luck a Chance For the companies in the Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group, sponsoring in all its different facets is a clear expression of social responsibility. Our sponsoring projects and activities create opportunities for people to experience personal moments of luck and happiness beyond those provided by our core business of gaming. This is also the message communicated in our new image campaign that was launched in August 2019. Developed in cooperation with the advertising agency gantnerundenzi, this new campaign focuses on the notion that luck is a very personal thing and does not necessarily have to be a question of money. A series of “Luck is…” statements illustrate the many different facets of luck and relate them to the various sponsoring activities in the Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group. Culture fans, for instance, might consider luck to be the chance to buy a theater ticket for just 13 euros. Casinos Austria gives them this chance in four theaters in Vienna: on the 13th of every month, seats in the 13th row or bearing the number 13 at the Burgtheater, Akademietheater, Volkstheater and Ronacher theater can be purchased for precisely that amount. Other people might feel lucky spending a day in a museum or at the zoo. The “Lottery Day” initiative allows them to do so free of charge. For people with walking disabilities, luck and happiness might be that wonderful moment when they are able to walk again with the help of the new exoskeleton technology developed in the United States. Our Sponsoring Activities in 2019 Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries place great importance on establishing long-term, lasting sponsoring partnerships. The “Licht ins Dunkel” [“Light into Darkness”] campaign has been supported by Casinos Austria since its launch over 40 years ago and by Austrian Lotteries since 1990. In 2019, the Group donated a total of 100,000 euros to this campaign GRI 203-2 to provide help for people with special needs. Wednesday night is “Ladies Night” in Austria’s casinos and is transformed once a year into a “Pink Ladies Night” in support of the Österreichische Krebshilfe’s “Pink Ribbon” initiative. In 2019, Casinos Austria donated one euro for every guest who came to one of its casinos on “Pink Ladies Night” and a further one euro for each “Pink Drink” sold, thus raising 10,000 euros for the Austrian cancer support organization. Casinos Austria’s “Casino-on-Tour” is another good example of a successful combination of gaming entertainment and social responsibility. The mobile charity casino is a popular guest at all manner of different events and was booked in 2019 for a total of 273 balls, corporate functions, trade fairs and other social gatherings. Over the course of the year, these “Casinos-on-Tour” raised more than 71,500 euros for a range of charities. Our commitment to society is also clearly demonstrated in our support of projects like the “MixedAbility” workshops at the ImPulsTanz festival in Vienna, which open up the world of dance to people with special needs, or the Tango en Punta festival, which gives Tango enthusiasts with or without special needs the opportunity to dance together. Our support for the Haus der Musik museum of sound in Vienna lets deaf, blind or sight-impaired members of society enjoy the fascinating world of music. Barrier-free accessibility at the museum goes far beyond mere construction measures: its visitors are 92 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Our Responsibility Commitment to Society and Social Responsibility copy accompanied on their tailormade musical voyages of discovery by expertly-trained music teachers. Casinos Austria funds 100 tickets for these tours each year. The Volkshilfe social aid organization’s 2019 “Night Against Poverty” once again sent a strong message of unity and a clear signal against discrimination. Casinos Austria has been a sponsor of this annual charity gala since 2010. Casinos Austria also supports a number of health and research initiatives including NF Kinder, a non-profit association which supports people of all ages who suffer from neurofibromatosis. The funding provided is used to finance treatment, awarenessraising measures and research in this field. The annual Alpha Prize for Literature presented by Casinos Austria in cooperation with Vienna Municipal Libraries recognizes talented authors at the start of their literary careers. In 2019, the 10,000-euro prize was won by Angela Lehner for her debut novel Vater unser [“Our Father”]. Upcoming young talent is also the focus of our support for the Wiener Kabarett comedy festival where Casinos Austria hosts a series of talent shows for young comedians in its casinos prior to the event. The best two young comedians are then given the chance to take to the big stage at the festival proper alongside the Austrian comedy elite. Austrian Lotteries likewise places particular focus on social Director General Bettina Glatz-Kremsner with the 2019 “Sportler mit Herz” Christoph Vetchy. responsibility in its sponsoring activities. Art and culture often play a key role in breaking down barriers and bringing people together, and Austrian Lotteries once again affirmed its recognition of this fact through its diverse sponsoring activities. In 2019, the company sponsored the “Simultania Prize for Art” for the 7th year in a row. The prize gives people with special needs a chance to fulfil the dream of becoming an artist. Literary talent is brought to the fore in the “Ohrenschmaus” [“A Feast for the Ears”] Prize for Literature, which is also sponsored by Austrian Lotteries and recognizes literary works by people with learning disabilities. Support was also provided to the “Austrian Inclusion Awards” for the fourth time. Together with the Lebenshilfe aid organization, Austrian Lotteries presents these awards to outstanding projects that give people with special needs equal opportunities and the chance to live independent lives. In 2019, the 5,000-euro award was won by “Der kleine GRI magische Laden” [“The magic little shop”] in Wiener Neustadt, a shop and social venue 203-2 that employs people with disabilities and ensures they are paid at full rates. The “LOTTERIEN Sporthilfe-Gala” [“Sports Aid Gala”] has been a firm fixture in the Austrian sporting calendar for over 20 years. Organized by the Sporthilfe sports aid foundation in collaboration with the Sports Media Austria association, proceeds of this event go to support Austrian athletes with and without disabilities. For the last seven years, Austrian Lotteries has presented its prestigious “Sportler mit Herz” [“Athlete with a Heart of Gold”] award at the gala, which recognizes outstanding humanitarian and social achievements Our Responsibility 93 Commitment to Society and Social Responsibility by Austrian athletes. The 2019 award went to the former middle-distance runner Christoph Vetchy for his “Vienna Charity Run” project – along with a check for 5,000 euros for his chosen charity, the Sterntalerhof children’s hospice. Austrian Lotteries also continued its support for the Coca-Cola “Inclusion Run” that is held during the Vienna City Marathon by donating a total of 15,000 euros – 10 euros for each participant in the run – to the Special Olympics Austria organization. The Red Noses Clowndoctors not only support children, they also bring a lot of joy to senior citizens in care homes and help them to awaken hitherto undiscovered talents. Austrian Lotteries is a proud supporter of this initiative. On “Lottery Days”, Austrian Lotteries customers enjoy free entry to Schönbrunn Zoo in Vienna and a wide range of museums and theaters. Through this initiative, Austrian Lotteries makes art and culture accessible to everyone – especially those members of society who would otherwise not be able to afford to enjoy them. Anyone who presents an Austrian Lotteries product receipt or lottery ticket in a participating venue on a “Lottery Day” automatically gains free entry for the day. For venues where the number of available places are limited (e.g. theaters), tickets are allocated via a prize draw on the Austrian Lotteries website at lotterien.at. The 100th “Lottery Day” was held in September 2019 and attracted around 8,000 enthusiastic visitors to its host venue, Schönbrunn Zoo in Vienna. 1.6 Billion Euros for the Funding of Sports Providing support for sports is a social mandate that Austrian Lotteries has embraced since 1986: via the sports promotion provisions anchored in the Austrian Gaming Act, over 1.6 billion euros in taxes paid by the company over the course of its 33-year history GRI have been used to fund sports in Austria. 203-2 In recognition of its longstanding commitment to Austrian sports, Austrian Lotteries was honored with the Austrian Federal Sports Organization’s (BSO) “Sport Austria Award” in May 2019. The prestigious award was presented by the BSO for the first time at the 2019 Sport Austria Summit in Vienna. “The “Luck is…” campaign highlights the many different facets of The happy winners of the Austrian Inclusion Prize 2019. luck and happiness. 94 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Our Responsibility Commitment to Society and Social Responsibility motion4kids – Encouraging Children and Young People to Get Moving In April 2018, Casinos Austria played an integral role in the establishment of the “Wirbewegen-unsere-Zukunft-Bildungsstiftung“ [“Active-for-our-own-Future Education Foundation”] and the motion4kids brand. A co-foundation of the Austrian Innovation Foundation for Education, the new foundation’s goal is to encourage children and young people to exercise more frequently by seeking out and funding innovative projects that combine education and exercise. The underlying aim is to address children where they are now all too frequently found – namely on their mobile phones, tablets and other devices – and make use of modern forms of communication and innovative digital technologies to encourage them to be more active in the “real world”. Following on from the successful launch in 2018, a second call for funding applications was issued in May 2019. The winner was announced in October 2019: the team behind the “sport-attack” app received 50,000 euros to fund its development. Comprehensive media support packages worth 50,000 euros in total were likewise granted to the “Skillcademy” and “SportAnalytik” projects. A total of 100,000 euros was thus made available to promote these projects and provide them with cash funding and non-cash support, including reports in high-reach media and mentoring by experienced experts from the fields of science, medicine, sport and business. tipp3 “#checkthesack” Campaign “#checkthesack” is a testicular cancer screening initiative run by the Austrian Football Association and supported by tipp3. Testicular cancer is the most common form of cancer among men in the 15-34-year-old age group. If detected early enough, it can be cured in 95 percent of cases. With the help of the football community and prominent ambassadors, the “#checkthesack” initiative aims to raise awareness of this important topic. In October 2019, tipp3 and the Austrian Football Association were awarded the Silver Medal in the “Corporate Responsibility” category and the Bronze Medal in the “Best Digital Campaign” category for this initiative at the iab WebAd 2019 Awards. Social Responsibility in our Casinos Casinos Austria’s twelve casinos across the country are firmly established social instituGRI tions in their host regions and strong supporters of social and cultural projects, initiatives 203-2 and activities in their respective areas. Casino Baden hosted a “Dancers against Cancer – Help Comes from the Heart” ball in November 2019 in support of the Österreichische Krebshilfe cancer support organization. Staff at the casino regularly participate in our corporate volunteering program, providing welcome assistance to social initiatives like the SOMA social market in its host town of Baden. The “Kulturpreis Vorarlberg” [“Vorarlberg Culture Award”] is an initiative launched by Casino Bregenz in collaboration with the Sparkasse Bregenz and with the support of the State of Vorarlberg and ORF Vorarlberg. The 10,000-euro award supports innovative artistic formats, focuses each year on a different genre and provides young artists with a platform to present their works. In 2019, the “Kulturpreis Vorarlberg” focused on the painting genre and was won by the contemporary artist Drago Persic. A new culinary event held at Casino Bregenz in June in collaboration with the Lebenshilfe Vorarlberg aid organization proved to be a resounding success. The participants at the event cooked and served a six-course dinner in the casino’s “Falstaff” restaurant, which Our Responsibility 95 Commitment to Society and Social Responsibility Social commitment at Casino Bregenz in cooperation Casinos Austria supports Österreichische Krebshilfe with Lebenshilfe Vorarlberg. with its “Pink Ladies Night” events. boasts two Gault&Millau toques. At the end of the evening, the kitchen and service teams received a hearty round of applause and presented a check for 10,000 euros to the Lebenshilfe team. The lights now go out in the Cuisino restaurant in Casino Graz several times a year for its popular “Dinner in the Dark” events. Launched four years ago, all proceeds from these charity events go to the city’s Odilien Institute for the Blind and Visually Impaired. As the name suggests, guests at these events dine in total darkness and are served a four-course menu by blind members of the institute’s staff. Casino Innsbruck regularly organizes events to raise money for the Österreichische Krebshilfe cancer support organization’s “Pink Ribbon” initiative and a range of other good causes. Its charity Poker tournaments, for instance, are always popular, and its mobile “Casino-onTour” is a regular guest at many fund-raising events. The casino also works with the City of Innsbruck and the Tiroler Landestheater to make drama accessible to everyone in society and donated 8,000 euros in 2019 to purchase theater tickets for families in need. A strong GRI supporter of regional initiatives, Casino Innsbruck hosted and sponsored a special 10,000203-2 euro tournament event for local cultural associations in 2019. Casino Kleinwalsertal consistently supports talented young athletes from its host region. It also holds regular charity Poker tournaments, including one such event in 2019 in aid of the “Licht ins Dunkel” [“Light into Darkness”] campaign to raise money for people in need. Casino Linz has always been a strong supporter of charitable causes and this was no different in 2019: its mobile “Casino-on-Tour” was on the road over 50 times throughout the year – more than any other casino. The mobile charity casino can be booked for any occasion, with guests purchasing chips with no monetary value and all proceeds raised at the table donated to a good cause. In 2019, over 8,000 euros was raised for charity with the “Casino-on-Tour” from Casino Linz. It featured prominently at many highlights in the city’s ball season – including the annual “Ball des Kaufmännischen Vereins” run by the local merchants association and the “Gala-Nacht des Sports” [“Gala Night of Sport”] – as well as a range of other events like the Austrian Beach Volleyball Trophy in Ebensee 96 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Our Responsibility Commitment to Society and Social Responsibility or the Life Radio station’s “Brückenpicknick” picnic on the Traun Bridge in Gmunden. Casino Linz is also a popular venue for events run by charities like the Kinderkrebshilfe organization, which provides support to children with cancer and their families. Casino Salzburg is a member and sponsor of the Kunsthilfe Salzburg association, which supports local young artists. In cooperation with its host municipality of Wals-Siezenheim, the casino co-funded the “Salzburger Straßentheater” street theater initiative in August 2019. It also sponsored a range of social projects and initiatives to support seriously ill children and their families, including the Sonneninsel care and retreat center in Seekirchen and the Salzburg Krebshilfe support organization for cancer victims. Casino Seefeld demonstrates its commitment to its host region through its support for cultural and social organizations, projects or initiatives and is a popular venue for shows and events staged by local artists and associations. Croupiers from Casino Seefeld regularly accompany its mobile “Casino-on-Tour” to various charity events. The casino also provides direct support to civic and care organizations in the community such as the local mountain rescue service or the Arche Herzensbrücken children’s hospice, which offers children with serious illnesses and their families the opportunity to enjoy a vacation together in Seefeld. Each week since the end of March 2019, the Kleine Zeitung newspaper’s “Silent Heroes” initiative spotlights some of the countless volunteers across Carinthia and East Tyrol who donate their time to help others in society. In October 2019, Casino Velden and the Raiffeisenbank Kärnten hosted a gala event in honor of 35 such “Silent Heroes” from these regions. Casino Velden is a key meeting place in its host town and plays a central role in social life in the Lake Wörth region. It also demonstrates and confirms its commitment to society and social responsibility through its membership of various organizations like the Velden Tourism Association, the “Verantwortung zeigen” [“Show Responsibility”] network of local companies or the “Caritas & Du, Brückenschlag – Sozialberatung und Sozialhilfe Klagenfurt” social counselling, bridge-building and aid initiative. OUR GOALS: STATUS QUO Status 2017 Status 2018 Status 2019 Partnerships & Activities for the Common Good Initiate new CSR partnerships to achieve the SDGs planned for 2020 planned for 2020 planned for 2020 Promoting Sustainability in Austria Hold at least 4 internal and 2 external events to raise awareness about sustainability planned for 2018 extended to 2019 completed Encourage and promote the organization of completed; certified Green Events will be continued in or ÖkoEvents planned for 2020 planned for 2020 2020 Our Responsibility 97 98 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Our Responsibility Luck is… Selfless Without them, many a system would collapse: the fire brigade, the mountain rescue service and many other organizations all depend on the countless volunteers who make such a valuable contribution to our society. They give up their free time for others. And while they do so voluntarily and without pay, their dedication and commitment are without price. The Kleine Zeitung newspaper spotlights just some of society’s many volunteers and is supported in this “Silent Heroes” initiative by Casino Velden and Raiffeisenbank Kärnten. It is so important to give these outstanding people a stage, thank them for what they do and let them know that it is by no means taken for granted. The Casineum in Velden is proud to be able to give them that stage. Casinos Austria’s mobile “Casino-on-Tour” charity casinos are on the road throughout the year at all manner of different functions and events. The chips played at these tables have no monetary value and are purchased by making a donation to a good cause. In 2019, over 70,000 euros was raised for charity at these mobile casinos. “Humanitarian Commitment” is one of the categories honored at the annual Austria Gala organized by the country’s Die Presse newspaper, and Austrian Lotteries has assumed the patronage for this humanitarian award since 2004. In 2019, it was presented to the plastic surgeon Harald Kubiena for his work with NOMA Hilfe Austria, a non-profit organization that treats children suffering from this devastating disease in the poorest countries of the world. Dr. Kubiena and the two runners-up for the award each received a donation of 10,000 euros to support their outstanding humanitarian work. Austrian Lotteries also sponsors the “Simultania Prize for Art”, the “Austrian Inclusion Award” and the “Ohrenschmaus” [“A Feast for the Ears”] prize for literature, three further awards that recognize commitment to society and integration. Last but by no means least, staff across the Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group demonstrate their own strong commitment to society and social responsibility. In the 2019 business year alone, they spent over 2,500 hours working for a range of different social and charity projects through our corporate volunteering program, which gives each member of staff the possibility to spend up to five working days each year volunteering for a good cause. Our Responsibility 99 GESCHÄFTSJAHR 2019 FISCAL YEAR2019 Gross Gaming Revenues and Financial Performance In the 2019 fiscal year, the Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group posted consolGRI 102-2 idated gross gaming revenues (including ancillary revenues) of 1.36 billion euros. Total 102-6 tax payments for the Group for the period amounted to 643.37 million euros. The Group 102-7 employs over 3,300 members of staff worldwide and provides jobs to 2,576 people in Austria. The general business environment in Austria in 2019 was good, with economic growth of 1.7 percent and a stable labor market. However, the conditions in the country’s gaming market remained complex and highly competitive given the different and constantly changing products and product formats offered (both online and offline) in this industry. Unlicensed gaming operations continue to impact strongly on financial performance at Casinos Austria’s casinos. Online gaming operators are also steadily increasing their market share. Yet none of these operators – with the exception of Österreichische Lotterien Gesellschaft m.b.H. – has a license to operate in Austria pursuant to the Austrian Gaming Act, and they are thus not subject to the same strict terms and conditions that apply to the country’s legal lottery license holder. Consequently, these operators are increasingly impacting the Austrian market with their unlicensed gaming products. Despite this complex and challenging situation, the Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group achieved consolidated gross gaming revenues (including ancillary revenues) of 1,359.15 million euros in the 2019 fiscal year, an increase of 1.6 percent compared to the previous year. This positive performance clearly demonstrates that the products and services offered by the individual companies in the Group are well received in their respective target markets. And there was also positive news for our customers: in 2019, the Group paid out record winnings of 3.31 billion euros. Positive financial performance for the Group in 2019. 100 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 2019 Fiscal Year xxx The Group result for the 2019 fiscal year was equally positive and was up by around 21 percent compared to the previous year to 111.98 million euros (2018: 92.66 million euros). Operating profit also rose by 6 percent to 152.58 million euros. With total tax, fee and social security payments of 643.37 million euros, the Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group remains one of the biggest taxpayers in Austria. In 2019, the twelve casinos operated by Casinos Austria posted gross gaming revenues of 321.62 million euros, a rise of 2.4 percent compared to 2018. By consistently optimizing its processes and enhancing its gaming mix and services, Casinos Austria effectively counteracts negative trends in the market, takes advantage of positive trends and creates a sound basis for a sustainable business model. It also does so in strict compliance with the guiding principle of and necessity for responsible gaming. Casinos Austria International enjoyed one of its most successful years in the last decade, with gross gaming revenues (including ancillary revenues) up by 20 percent compared to the previous year to 180.77 million euros. These strong figures can be attributed primarily to the positive performance of its operations in Germany, Liechtenstein and Belgium. GROSS GAMING REVENUES – CASINOS AUSTRIA AG (2017-2019) in millions euro 500 400 330.14 321.62 314.13 300 200 100 0 2017 2018 2019 Austrian Lotteries reported gross gaming revenues of 817.71 million euros in 2019, a slight drop of 1.37 percent compared to the previous year. These included 188.82 million euros from the EuroMillions lottery product, a rise of 11.71 percent year-on-year. This rise can be attributed to two factors: (1) 2019 was the first full year of business for the 4.000 changes to the EuroMillions product and its pricing structure introduced in July 2018, and (2) the prospect of a 190-million-euro jackpot is clearly popular with customers. 3.500 Gross gaming revenues for the Lotto “6 aus 45” with LottoPlus national lottery totaled 292.24 million euros and were thus down by 14.8 percent on 2018. This can be attributed 3.000 to rollover jackpots being hit at lower rounds in the cycle and the fact that there were two fewer six-time and one fewer seven-time rollover jackpots in 2019 than in the previous 2.500 year. The Zahlenlotto numbers lottery achieved gross gaming revenues of 2.42 million euros (-5.62 percent), the Toto with Torwette football pool 2.95 million euros (-16.1 percent), 2.000 2019 Fiscal Year 1.500 101 1.000 Gross Gaming Revenues and Financial Performance Bingo 2.48 million euros (-51.57 percent, attributable to the termination of its TV show), the Klassenlotterie class lottery 14.86 million euros (+5.53 percent) and the Joker lottery 104.01 million euros (-0.14 percent). The new Lucky Day numbers lottery replaced the ToiToiToi daily lottery from 1 April 2019 and recorded gross gaming revenues of 6.28 million euros (-14.23 percent). The new TopTipp lottery game was launched on 4 November 2019 and posted gross gaming revenues of 1.19 million euros. GROSS GAMING REVENUES – ÖSTERREICHISCHE LOTTERIEN GES.M.B.H. (2017-2019) in millions euro 1,000 829.03 817.71 779.40 800 600 400 200 0 2017 2018 2019 In the instant lottery sector, gross gaming revenues for the Brieflos break-open tickets lay at 10.75 million euros, a rise of 13.15 percent compared to 2018. This can be credited to the strong popularity of the new “Bonus Wheel” second chance to win that was introduced 4.000 in all Brieflos categories in the reporting year. Gross gaming revenues for the Rubbellos scratch-off cards (48.72 million euros) remained at a similar level to the previous 3.500 year. The new Click&Win games launched on 8 May 2019 posted gross gaming revenues for the year of 1.12 million euros. 3.000 The electronic lotteries on win2day recorded gross gaming revenues of 92.33 million euros in 2019, a rise of 19.47 percent compared to 2019. This can be attributed in particular 2.500 to the continual and effective introduction of new games on the site, the popularity of its Novoline 2.000 slot games and the corresponding high level of customer acceptance. Gross gaming revenues from Poker games on win2day were up in 2019 by 2.97 percent yearon-year 1.500 to 2.88 million euros. WINWIN 1.000 opened two new outlets in 2019: a second outlet in Vienna’s Prater amusement park on 22 May and an outlet in Wolfsberg on 4 December, its first in Carinthia. The 500Wels II outlet was closed permanently following the completion of renovations at the Wels I outlet. Together, the 20 WINWIN VLT outlets posted gross gaming revenues of 44.74 0 million euros, a rise of 6.71 percent compared to 2018. The sports betting provider tipp3, in which the Group holds a 56-percent share, introduced a number of measures in 2019 to further strengthen its portfolio in the run-up to the UEFA European Football Championship 2020. Results for the 2019 fiscal year at tipp3 remained at a similar level to the previous year. 102 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 2019 Fiscal Year Gross Gaming Revenues and Financial Performance GROSS GAMING REVENUES: COMPARISON 2018-2019 Change in millions euro 2019 2018 in % Casinos in Austria 321.62 314.13 +2.38 Austrian Lotteries 817.71 829.03 -1.37 Lotto “6 aus 45” incl. LottoPlus 292.24 342.99 -14.80 TopTipp1 1.19 – – EuroMillions 188.82 169.03 +11.71 Toto incl. Torwette 2.95 3.52 -16.10 Zahlenlotto 2.42 2.56 -5.62 Bingo 2.48 5.12 -51.57 Joker 104.01 104.16 -0.14 Lucky Day 2 6.28 7.32 -14.23 Klassenlotterie 14.86 14.09 +5.53 Brieflos 10.75 9.50 +13.15 Rubbellos 48.72 48.70 +0.04 Click&Win 3 1.12 – – win2day (incl. Keno, sports betting) 94.24 77.31 +21.89 win2day Poker4 2.88 2.80 +2.97 WINWIN (VLT) 44.74 41.92 +6.71 1 From 4 November. 2 ToiToiToi until 31 March, Lucky Day from 1 April. 3 From 8 May; only available via win2day. 4 Rake. GROSS GAMING REVENUE – DEFINITION The first step in being able to assess the Group’s financial performance is to define the key indicator used in the gaming sector: gross gaming revenue. Since gaming revenues at Casinos Austria AG are calculated in an almost identical manner to gross gaming yield at Österreichische Lotterien Gesellschaft m.b.H., both are defined (and referred to in this report) as gross gaming revenue. Gross gaming revenue is an economic indicator used in a gaming company’s profit and loss statement. Gross gaming revenue is the amount wagered minus the winnings paid out to players1. It thus represents a gaming company’s gross yield before taxes, fees, duties and any other expenses. 1 cf. Hirschler: Bilanzrecht: Kommentar, Band 1: Einzelabschluss. UGB, § 196, 1.4. Die Darstellung der GuV bei Glücksspielunternehmen [Rz 127–132]. 2019 Fiscal Year 103 Gross Gaming Revenues and Financial Performance INVESTMENTS AND NEW DEVELOPMENTS IN 2019 The Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group invests each year in the development of new games, the maintenance and renovation of our venues, our gaming equipment and technology as well as our food and beverage services. In 2019, countless measures were taken across the Group to encourage and promote innovation. Austrian Lotteries added two new lottery games – Lucky Day and TopTipp – to its portfolio in the reporting year. Lucky Day players bet on their own personal lucky day, while TopTipp customers wager on the numbers that will be drawn in the Lotto “6 aus 45” national lottery. The new “Bonus Wheel” second chance to win with a Brieflos break-open ticket is also proving very popular with customers, who particularly enjoy the fact that they now find out immediately whether – and, if so, what – they have won directly in the retail outlet. In the digital sector, new Click&Win instant online lottery games were added to win2day to expand its portfolio and augment the existing digital versions of the Brieflos break-open tickets and Rubbellos scratch-off cards. A primary goal in all such technical innovations is to maintain the highest possible levels of customer satisfaction. The new features added to the Lotterien app in 2019 represent a further successful step in this direction. A focus of investments at Casinos Austria in the reporting year lay on replacing and updating around 700 slot machines to modernize and maintain the attractiveness of its casino gaming mix. The project to link all slot machines to the Austrian Federal Computing Center was likewise completed in the process. In addition to the investments in the new “Game Zone” in Casino Baden and Poker Lounges in Casino Baden, Casino Linz and Casino Wien, the extensive renovations to Casino Graz that had begun back in 2015 were also successfully completed in 2019. When renovating its venues, Casinos Austria takes great care to preserve the historic listed buildings that are now often home to its casinos, and this aspect featured strongly in the renovations to the façades at Casino Salzburg and Casino Wien, both of which were beautifully restored in the reporting year. New gaming options were also introduced in Casinos Austria’s casinos in 2019. The Fort Knox Jackpot, for instance, replaced the Mega Million Jackpot in May and has been providing a unique slots experience in the twelve Austrian casinos ever since. The new “Game Night” event format launched in Casino Bregenz towards the end of the year takes a classic night at the casino to a whole new level. And last but not least, by linking the Easy Roulette terminals in all casinos to a Roulette table in Casino Wien, Casinos Austria now provides guests with an opportunity to play the game “live” in their casino of choice even before its table gaming area opens for the day. Easy Roulette combines classic Roulette with state-of-the-art technology. Austrian Lotteries invested in the reporting year in new online multimedia sales terminals for 3,000 of its retail outlets. It also completed another major project – the development of a new service and information platform for retail partners. The new “LotterienPortal” went online in May 2019. At WINWIN, the outlets in Mayrhofen and Wels were extensively renovated in 2019, and two new outlets opened – one in the Prater amusement park in Vienna and one in Wolfsberg in Carinthia. 104 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 2019 Fiscal Year Outlook The Casinos Austria and Austrian Lotteries Group is working continuously to expand its GRI customer base and to incorporate even more new products and services for the growing 102-15 102-11 digital target groups into its portfolio. By introducing new games and innovative technologies, the companies in the Group will further strengthen their market position in the future. New locations for further WINWIN video lottery terminals outlets are also being evaluated. Following the end of the transition period for so-called Poker casinos, the Group will likewise be expanding and raising the attractiveness of its Poker facilities 2020 onwards. Casinos Austria’s current advertising campaign will be redesigned and realigned in 2020 on a brand process basis and in line with the results of extensive market research. One of the goals thereby is to anticipate and be ready for any potential future changes in the Austrian gaming market. The smoking ban in restaurants, cafés and bars that came into effect in Austria from 1 November 2019 will be a major factor of influence in 2020, since it also constitutes a ban on smoking in our casinos and WINWIN outlets and will lead to a significant drop in revenues compared to 2019. The measures introduced to contain the spread of COVID-19 (the “coronavirus”) will likewise have a major negative effect on the Group’s financial performance. The extent of this effect could not yet be quantified at the time of publication of this report (24 March 2020). In early January 2020, work commenced on the roll-out of the new Austrian Lotteries online multimedia sales terminals in retail outlets across the country. The new fourth generation terminals were once again developed in cooperation with the Linz-based technology firm KEBA AG and produced in Upper Austria. Initial plans foresee the completion of this roll-out by mid-June 2020. The new terminals will be installed in all 3,000 retail outlets that currently still use old-generation terminals produced in 2007. The remaining 2,000 retail outlets will continue to use the micro-terminals installed in 2013. Our renowned Responsible Gaming Academy will be held for the 17th time in Studio 44 on 28 April 2020. A fire in Casino Linz on 8 February 2020 has led to a partial shutdown of operations at this venue. Gaming operations reopened in the Jackpot Casino on the ground floor on 10 February 2020 with an extended gaming mix. The main gaming area on the first floor will remain closed until further notice while the extensive work required to repair the damage is completed. 2019 Fiscal Year 105 Consolidated Profit and Loss Statement for the 2019 Fiscal Year for the Casinos Austria Group in TEUR 2019 2018 Gross gaming revenues incl. ancillary revenues 1,359,147 1,338,014 Gaming taxes, fees and other taxes -640,272 -632,899 Net gaming revenues incl. ancillary revenues 718,875 705,115 Other operating income 19, 887 23,144 Expenditure for materials and services -17,383 -16,493 Personnel expenses -264,430 -255,426 Depreciation and amortization -51,962 -35,384 Other operating expenses -254,693 -272,154 Income from at equity consolidated companies 8,253 8,191 Operating result before restructuring expenses 158,547 156,993 Restructuring expenses for personnel -5,971 -13,041 Operating result 152,576 143,952 Financial income 8,290 2,496 Financial expenses -13,094 -18,454 Financial result -4,804 -15,958 Result before income taxes 147,772 127,994 Income taxes -34,116 -29,386 Result from continuing operations 113,656 98,608 Result from discontinued operations -1,675 -5,947 Group result 111,981 92,661 Attributable to shareholders of the parent company 87,890 69,859 to non controlling interests 24,091 22,802 111,981 92,661 106 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 2019 Fiscal Year Consolidated Balance Sheet to 31 December 2019 for the Casinos Austria Group in TEUR 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 ASSETS Cash and cash equivalents 227,451 197,250 Inventories 2,891 3,127 Receivables and other assets 83,566 83,586 Other financial assets 37,115 50,108 351,023 334,071 Assets held for sale 866 911 Short term assets 351,889 334,982 Tangible assets 195,831 200,008 Goodwill 240,670 232,077 Other intangible assets 27,857 17,728 Usage rights 101,940 0 At equity consolidated companies 79,482 91,385 Deferred tax assets 22,886 18,758 Long term financial assets 247,135 253,308 Long term assets 915,801 813,264 Total assets 1,267,690 1,148,246 LIABILITIES & EQUITY Financial liabilities 28,414 31,435 Leasing liabilities 15,556 0 Trade payables 32,240 29,902 Provisions 15,554 12,526 Income tax liabilities 10,901 2,926 Other short term liabilities 329,257 316,733 Short term liabilities 431,922 393,522 Financial liabilities 153,620 224,816 Leasing liabilities 86,291 0 Provisions for employee entitlements 141,285 131,971 Deferred tax provisions 3,433 2,711 Other long term provisions 27,698 28,356 Other long term liabilities 14,034 11,916 Long term liabilities 426,361 399,770 Share capital 40,000 40,000 Retained earnings and balance sheet profit 358,028 285,138 Reserve for actuarial gains and losses -73,021 -59,853 Reserve from hedging transactions 15,051 11,292 Equity – shareholders of the parent company 340,058 276,577 Non controlling interests 69,349 78,377 Equity 409,407 354,954 Total liabilities & equity 1,267,690 1,148,246 2019 Fiscal Year 107 Imprint CASINOS AUSTRIA AG AND EDITORIAL TEAM ÖSTERREICHISCHE LOTTERIEN GESELLSCHAFT M.B.H. Patrick Minar Martina Landsmann Rennweg 44 Thorsten Leitgeb 1038 Vienna Alexandra Gräf Austria Maria Schidl Tel.: +43 1 53440-0 Richard Emele Tel.: +43 1 79070-0 GRAPHICS & PRODUCTION casinos.at lotterien.at schoeller corporate communications casinosaustriainternational.com 1070 Vienna win2day.at Austria winwin.at tipp3.at PHOTO COPYRIGHTS smv.at Casinos Austria & Casinos Austria International PUBLISHER photo archives, Austrian Lotteries photo archive, Casinos Austria AG and tipp3, WINWIN, win2day photo archives Österreichische Lotterien Gesellschaft m.b.H. Management Board: Christof Wagner Corporate Communications Other photos: APA/Ludwig Schedl, Achim Bieniek, E-Mail: presse@casinos.at GEPA, Alexandra Gräf, Christian Husar, Marija Kanizaj, presse@lotterien.at Felicitas Matern, Udo Mittelberger, Arnd Ötting, Luzia Puiu, Mike Ranz, Julius Silver, Thomas Steinlechner, Anna Stöcher, Peter Svec, tinefoto.com, Klaus Vyhlanek, Roman Zach-Kiesling. Certifications and Awards 108 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 casinos.at lotterien.at
