Introduction I am pleased to confirm ISSEE Ltd’s continued support of the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact. As a provider of training, mentoring and consultancy services to UK and International governments, businesses and NGOs it is beneficial for us to have these clear principles to align our sustainability agenda with so many other committed organisations. Our goal has consistently been to run a good business. Adhering to the principles gives us a clear framework for our business strategy and operational processes. We firmly believe that this makes us a better business partner, employer and mentor to our clients. ISSEE has been a participant with the UN Global Compact since 2018 and this annual Communication on Progress, in which we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact serves as a timely reminder of our original commitment. We are committed to sharing information about our activities and are now arranging for this progress report and our ongoing activity to be made available on our web pages Human Rights Commitment ISSEE Ltd is committed to protecting human rights. Our Ethical & Code of Conduct Policy has been updated within the past 12 months and now includes a positive commitment to refrain from any activity which may cause or be associated with causing deliberate harm. All our policies demonstrate this commitment to ensuring safe and healthy working conditions, non-discrimination in employment practices, guarding against use of forced or child labour, and accommodating employees’ and customers’ religious observance and practices. Our Supplier Code of Conduct demands similar standards from our suppliers and sets out our aim to ensure that our suppliers adhere to our ethics and standards. It also considers the protection and improvement of economic livelihoods of local communities as best we can through our contract services delivery in Africa, where we train male and female students equally. Our Supplier Code of Conduct can be found on our website. Policies and processes Our induction programme for staff includes ethical training covering human rights, modern day slavery, and gender sensitivity, with annual refresher training. This is supported by our Whistleblowing Policy which provides staff with a process to raise or report any ethical or legal issues to senior management for investigation. Our Ethical & Code of Conduct Policy states: Employees must also respect the rights of other employees and third parties. Their actions must be free from discrimination, libel, slander or harassment. Each person must be accorded equal opportunity, regardless of age, race, sex, sexual preference, gender identity, colour, creed, religion, national origin, marital status, handicap or disability. Activities For many of the projects that we undertake, the risk of human rights violations is low. As part of our commitment to ensuring that we fully respect human rights, we have developed a number of mechanisms for our staff and contractors to raise any issues or concerns they may have. These include: Our Grievance Procedure, which provides clear instructions on how to formalise any complaints and sets out our commitment to investigating any matters raised. Our Disciplinary Procedure, which sets out clearly the process for investigating any complaints raised involving issues including harassment, bullying, bribery, corruption, dishonesty, and acts of violence and aggression. No complaint in terms of a violation of human rights has been reported to date. We believe that this is due in part to our continued dedication to ensure an inclusive work environment for all. We do not have a specific Policy regarding Human Rights. This is a deliberate act as we consider that human rights should be and are reflected across all our policies. 2 Labour Commitment ISSEE Ltd is committed to the UN principles on Labour. Our Diversity & Equal Opportunities Policy states: Our success depends in great part on our work environment. We support a positive environment in which all individuals may grow, contribute, and participate free from discrimination. We are committed to legally compliant human resource policies and practices in all aspects of employment, including recruiting, hiring, evaluation, training, discipline, work and service assignments, career development, compensation, promotion, and termination. We do not tolerate unlawful discrimination of any kind. To ensure respectful and fair treatment for all employees and contractors, you have the following responsibilities: Treat your fellow employees/contractors equally, regardless of race, colour, religion, sex, pregnancy, national origin, disability, age, veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity, or other protected status Understand and abide by all corporate and business unit policies, procedures, and work rules relating to employment and workplace fairness It is a requirement of the Company that all subcontractor organisations who employ one or more members of staff have in place a suitable equal opportunities policy and that they agree to comply with the Company’s commitment to equality and diversity. ISSEE Equal Opportunities Policy is available from HR Department upon request. 3 People Policies ISSEE Ltd aims to ensure that the highest levels of performance are achieved by all persons working for us or on our behalf. We require the same level of performance from our contractors. We select our consultants based on objective criteria such as price, quality, and prior performance. As a condition of employment, all consultants and part-time or temporary workers are required to follow the code of conduct laid down for ISSEE staff as well as corporate and business unit policies and practices. Our commitment to the rights and support to the wellbeing of our staff, students and suppliers is clear from our comprehensive HR policies. Additionally, we promote annual appraisal, development and feedback strategies coordinated by our dedicated HR staff. To support our statements and ensure that we meet our commitments under the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact, we aim to o Provide a workplace where health and wellbeing are positively and actively promoted, where people feel valued, engaged and developed to their full potential. o Embed and encourage a supportive and consistent culture which is inclusive, positive, fair and safe. o Ensure that opportunities are open to all, where people can lead and are led effectively and where change is approached with positive and inquisitive minds. We enhance the support to our people policies by developing dedicated contractor and student policies. Additionally, we apply a minimum Living Wage policy, maintain antibribery and anti-corruption policies, encourage the employment of female staff and promote the inclusion of female students on our various training courses. We also undertake to comply with all provisions of the Modern Slavery Act. 4 Activities Since our last report, we have made positive steps towards encouraging female students to undergo training on our humanitarian development courses. We are now regularly welcoming female students on our courses delivered in Africa, notably Kenya, Malawi and Zambia and recorded our first female student on our Humanitarian demining training course from Colombia. Risk Although still very low, there is a slightly higher risk of human and labour rights violations in some of environments we work in, as we are often working in areas of post conflict or in countries with low governance standards. For these projects we employ UK and international contractors, as well as local labour. Our local staff have varied skill sets including drivers, interpreters, and as locally employed instructors On these projects we work closely with the contractor to ensure that labour rights are protected. Prior to deployment, all ISSEE Staff and contractors are carefully vetted and briefed. They will also receive a project briefing that will include details of security, travel, logistics, communications, administration, current situation and cultural sensitivities. Arrival briefings also will include, in country induction visits/briefs, cultural briefs and a thorough understanding of the risk management plan. We ensure all our staff have opportunities for continuous learning and development. We deliver first aid/responder training, and gender and conflict sensitivity training to all our staff and integrate gender and conflict sensitivity issues into our training delivery. We are also acutely aware of the potential effects on our staff, contractors and customers caused by the global coronavirus Covid –19 pandemic. Isolation measures have been put in place to protect staff and clients as far as possible. All staff have been provided with suitable home working facilities to maintain a meaningful work ethic and maintain communication for both work and social engagement. Daily welfare calls to all staff are being made in addition to keeping staff updated on physical and mental health advice. 5 Future plans Since our last report, ISSEE has relocated its business premises. The new facilities have enhanced the standard of working conditions for all staff, improved the conditions for staff welfare and encouraged free and open communication. All relevant staff employment and support policies have all been updated to reflect the new working environment. Environment Commitment As set out in our Environmental Policy, ISSEE Ltd undertakes to ‘conduct its business operations in an environmentally friendly manner at all times’. Our Environmental Policy describes how we: o Strive to continuously improve our environmental performance and integrate recognised applicable best practice into our business operations. o Reduce our consumption of resources and improve efficiency in the use of these resources. o Manage waste generated from our business operations according to the principles of reduction, reuse and recycling. o Ensure environmental criteria are taken into account in the procurement of goods and services, wherever possible. Policies and processes ISSEE Ltd delivers its services in both the classroom and on external training areas. Our impact on the environment is chiefly through noise caused by explosives used in training. We maintain ISO 14001 Accreditation and we recycle all paper and office waste where possible. General waste is removed from site by accredited public services. Our business management is largely conducted online and so contract bidding requires a reduced consumption of paper 6 We are conscious that our impact on the environment can be improved and we now have active policies to improve our environmental impact by: o Reducing food waste through efficient contract management o Introducing separation facilities for our general waste to increase recycling opportunity o Introducing reusable water bottles for all staff and students, replacing one time use plastic cups o Reduce unnecessary noise on our ranges by ▪ limiting firings to certain times in the time of the day ▪ using minimal quantities of explosives, conducive to an effective training requirement ▪ constructing ‘berms’ to direct noise away from inhabited areas o Installation of improved IT to encourage less use of paper We have also relocated our business premises and the new facility is built to modern, environmentally compliant standards, with integrated energy management systems to reduce waste. Through relocation, ISSEE has reduced its carbon footprint significantly and commits to reduce this further, year on year with a net carbon free business as its ultimate target. Anti-Corruption Commitment ISSEE Ltd is a global business which works with clients from a variety of cultures and ethics. ISSEE Ltd is actively committed to the fight against bribery and corruption. This commitment to do business with honesty and integrity is enshrined in our core values and is a theme that runs throughout the fabric of the business. Our specific commitment to work against corruption is expressed in our ethics, anti bribery and corruption policies which explicitly states that: 7 ISSEE has implemented this policy to ensure the highest standards of honesty and integrity in its business. The Company has assessed the risk to the business of acts of bribery and corruption and expects all employees and associated persons acting on behalf of the company to comply with this policy and to ensure that no offence under the Bribery Act 2010 is committed for which the company would be liable. Failure to comply with this policy may constitute a serious act of misconduct which could result in the dismissal of an employee or the cancellation of a contract with an associated person. Our commitment to eradicating bribery is set out in more detail in our Anti-Bribery Policy. The policy requires staff to operate within full compliance of the regulatory and legal framework in whichever country we operate in, including in relation to the Bribery Act and other, similar legislation, and it reiterates that “Bribery of any kind is strictly prohibited”. These requirements are also reflected in our contracts with both clients and suppliers. Training All staff read and commit to abiding by our Ethical & Code of Conduct Policy when they join the company. The message is reinforced through a briefing with the CEO and then periodically as part of other training sessions, including sessions on how to manage third parties. Whistleblowing policy We foster a culture of openness and accountability within the organisation and we encourage staff to report any wrongdoing by staff or third parties with which we work with and who fall short of the standards that we set out in our Ethical & Code of Practice Policy, including bribery or corruption. There are several avenues through which staff can raise any concerns they may have. They are encouraged to discuss any potential issues with their line manager in the first instance, but they can also seek independent advice from one of our senior staff or CEO. Should a more formal process be needed; our Whistleblowing Policy outlines the process for escalating matters or staff can raise them with our Chairman. 8 Future Our plans for the future include: o Maintain an annual reiew of all policies for personnel safety, anti-corruption and whistle blowing policies. o Update our ethical training materials and spread these standards across our client base as far as possible o Roll-out regular ethical training to employees and all staff working in deployed areas. 9
