Building with conscience. Sto SE & Co. KGaA | 2019 Annual Report Sto at a glance Sto Group 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019* Changes in % 19/18 Turnover 1,208.7 1,216.6 1,230.7 1,277.4 1,332.4 1,398.2 4.9 % Germany 549.2 535.4 548.7 562.8 596.0 611.3 2.6 % Outside of Germany 659.5 681.2 682.0 714.6 736.4 786.9 6.9 % Investments (without: financial assets and IFRS 16) 39.1 35.8 37.5 32.7 32.1 35.3 10.0 % Depreciation/amortisation (without: financial assets and IFRS 16) 29.9 31.0 32.7 33.3 31.3 33.2 6.1 % EBITDA 126.9 112.6 103.0 117.3 113.2 138.2 22.1 % EBIT 97.0 81.5 70.3 84.0 81.9 85.9 4.9 % EBT 96.2 81.2 68.1 82.2 80.2 83.1 3.6 % EAT (earnings after taxes) 66.0 55.7 45.7 55.8 53.8 56.3 4.7 % Earnings per limited ordinary share (EUR) 10.29 8.71 7.14 8.62 8.33 9.03 8.4 % Earnings per limited preference share (EUR) 10.35 8.77 7.20 8.68 8.39 9.09 8.3 % Cash flow from operating activities 93.9 78.9 95.4 86.5 80.7 117.0 45.0 % per share (EUR) 14.61 12.28 14.85 13.46 12.56 18.21 45.0 % Total assets 751.3 641.9 714.2 749.6 784.4 896.1 14.2 % Equity capital 506.5 404.7 425.2 450.1 477.5 486.5 1.9 % in % of total assets 67.4 63.0 59.5 60.1 60.9 54.3 Employees (year end) 4,979 5,032 5,251 5,308 5,333 5,533 3.8 % of which in Germany 2,623 2,652 2,895 2,884 2,887 2,943 1.9 % of which outside of Germany 2,356 2,380 2,356 2,424 2,446 2,590 5.9 % * From 2019 including IFRS 16 Sto SE & Co. KGaA 2014 2015 2016** 2017** 2018** 2019** Changes in % 19/18 Turnover 604.2 598.8 610.7 627.0 667.1 685.3 2.7 % Export ratio in % 17.4 18.7 20.5 19.9 20.2 20.2 Investments in property, plant and equipment and Intangible assets 11.6 20.1 15.5 9.5 14.5 14.7 1.4 % in financial assets 6.4 9.6 14.7 18.4 5.5 40.7 640.0 % Depreciation/amortisation (without financial assets) 13.4 13.4 12.7 12.8 12.5 13.2 5.6 % Earnings before income taxes*** 79.1 64.6 56.5 62.0 59.3 71.4 20.4 % Net profit for the year 62.8 48.2 45.4 45.8 40.8 51.8 27.0 % Cash flow from operating activities**** 35.1 41.9 35.6 47.6 56.3 27.4 –51.3 % Dividend per limited ordinary share (EUR)***** 0.25/25.14 0.25/4.56 0.25/3.00 0.25/3.78 0.25/3.78 0.25/3.78 per limited preference share (EUR)***** 0.31/25.14 0.31/4.56 0.31/3.00 0.31/3.78 0.31/3.78 0.31/3.78 Total assets 560.6 446.0 475.2 508.2 531.5 572.3 7.7 % Equity capital 433.9 318.7 333.1 357.9 372.6 398.4 6.9 % in % of total assets 77.4 71.5 70.1 70.4 70.1 69.6 Employees (year end) 2,134 2,148 2,133 2,102 2,093 2,149 2.7 % (Figures in EUR million unless otherwise indicated) * From 2016 in accordance with BilRUG (Accounting Directive Implementation Act) ** Until 2015 earnings on ordinary activities *** Since 2014 cash flow has been adapted to comply with the new DRS 21 (German accounting standard) ***** 2019: proposal by the personally liable partner STO Management SE and the Supervisory Board Rounding of amounts may lead to minor deviations in totals and in the calculation of percentages in this report. Sto SE & Co. KGaA | 2019 Annual Report Foreword2 Research and development 39 Report of the Supervisory Board 6 Production and procurement 39 Corporate Governance Report 11 D. Events after the reporting period 43 Management Report E. Risks and opportunities report 43 for the Sto Group (IFRS) 18 F. Outlook report 56 The 2019 fiscal year at a glance 19 The Sto share 62 A. Group fundamentals 19 Sustainability and B. Financial report 24 Corporate Social Responsibility 66 Overview of business performance Consolidated annual financial statements in 2019 and general statement on of the Sto Group (IFRS) 91 economic development 24 Statement of profit and loss 92 Overall economic and sector-related Statement of comprehensive income 93 general conditions in 2019 26 Statement of financial situation 94 Business performance and development of turnover 27 Statement of changes in equity 96 Income situation29 Cash flow statement 98 Financial situation 31 Notes 99 Asset situation 33 Audit certificate 186 C. Other performance indicators 35 Responsibility statement Employees 35 by the legal representatives 193 Financial calendar 194 For reasons of simplification, the terms ‘colleague’ and ‘employee’ shall be used to refer to both female and male colleagues and employees in this Annual Report. Picture caption for title page: For the new Paper Museum in Düren/Germany, the Cologne-based architect Klaus Hollenbeck took inspiration from the material to which the museum is dedicated. Folds, impressions, and watermarks hence became the starting point for his striking design. The consultants of the Sto Group took care of the technical feasibility of his ideas and trained the skilled craftsmen. The architect used a ventilated rainscreen cladding system (StoVentec R), which covers both parts of the building with a seamless render surface, to create a visual link between the existing and the new building during the comprehensive renovation and expansion of the aging museum. As protection against algae and fungi, the biocide-free facade paint StoColor Dryonic with its biomimetic principle was applied. Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Foreword Foreword With the acquisition of Liaver GmbH & Co. KG on 1 January 2019, we also ensured our access to a strategically important raw material. Liaver is one of the few manufacturers of expanded glass granulate made from recycled glass. We use this environmentally friendly and sustainable material in several Sto products. The next acquisition followed in May, when we acquired a majority interest in Skyrise Prefab Building Solutions Inc. in Canada. We have already been working with this company for some time as part of our StoPanel network. Skyrise specialises in the industrial prefabrication of large-size facade panels. In July, we acquired the remaining 49.9 % of the brick and ceramic manufacturer Ströher, which had already been part of our companies consolidated Rainer Hüttenberger, Spokesman of the Executive Board since the beginning of 2016. We also ensured access to the Australian market with Unitex Dear Shareholders, Australia Pty Ltd, which we acquired on 1 August 2019. Unitex mainly produces plasters, Sto SE & Co. KGaA is turning 65 years old in renders, reinforcing compounds, and decorative 2020. Since its founding, the company has expeprofiles for interior and exterior use. rienced its share of highs and lows, but all in all, The acquisition of VIACOR Polymer GmbH we can look back on very positive corporate dewas the last one during the year under review velopment. The 2019 fiscal year is no exception; and helped to strengthen our floor coatings we saw operational growth, were able to improduct segment, which is sold under the brand prove our earnings and reach all projected values name StoCretec. VIACOR Polymer GmbH has despite another year of challenging conditions. made a name for itself in the industrial and Overall, I am satisfied with the 4.9 % increase in sports floor coatings sector. This investment of sales to EUR 1,398.2 million and the EBIT plus of 50.1 % will be consolidated into the Sto Group 4.9 % to EUR 85.9 million we achieved. beginning from 2020 onwards. Business development benefitted from On the other hand, we have stepped away mostly good weather conditions, which have from the operation of VeroStone GmbH, which always played a crucial role at Sto because the previously included the Sto Group’s natural majority of our products are used in exteriors. stone activities. As part of a management Positive currency translation effects and, not buyout, the assets of this company were sold least, the company acquisitions completed in to long-standing members of management, 2019 contributed massively to the company’s effective as of the 2019 year end. growth in the last year. In the year under reThe numerous changes made last year have view, we carried out five M&A measures to furopened up new opportunities for Sto. At the ther develop our regional presence, our product same time, they present us once again with range, the skills available within the Group, our challenging tasks that need to be tackled, competencies, and our staff capacities. as does the uncertain environment in which 2 Foreword | Sto SE & Co. KGaA we operate. Over the past 65 years, we have to environmental protection that we are continlargely succeeded in doing so. We have always ually expanding – for example, in our new and looked to the future and made use of our further development of products. potential, been prepared for market developWe have been adapting to the heavily growments, and proactively incorporated them into ing demand for building products that are not our decisions, such as considerations for acquiharmful to health, with preservative-free prodsition. We aim to maintain this way of thinking ucts in particularly gaining in importance. In and to never stop working on optimising the addition to the planned expansion of our range Group. in this direction, we reworked existing products In 2019, we started another thorough review in 2019 and introduced a new quality seal to of our strategic direction in order to determine increase transparency for the user. Products where we can improve. We are currently anabearing this seal of quality have been tested for lysing both external factors such as megatrends harmful substances, conserve resources, are low and developments in construction as well as in emissions, and are free from preservatives, internal approaches and potential to enhance solvents, and plasticisers. If the use of preservaefficiency. We will then use this as a basis to detives cannot be avoided entirely in order to prefine tangible measures and begin to implement vent the product from premature deterioration, them. At the end of the process, our aim is for we will only use them to the extent technically the Sto Group to be in a position to better recnecessary. ognise and tap into our market opportunities. The building sector in which we operate genMeanwhile, we have always kept our eyes erally considers matters of climate protection to firmly on the company’s mission. It is embedded be extremely important, as good insulation can in our brand claim of ‘Building with conachieve tremendous savings in energy and, in science.’, which has stood for our commitment turn, carbon dioxide. Appropriate solutions are to contribute to maintaining the value and available, but require political decision-makers aesthetic appeal of buildings since 1988. These to implement them. These decision-makers values, sustainable action, and conscientious must work together and set the right course in handling of resources are seeing a strong rise order to bring about climate change. The Gerin popularity in society at the moment. For us, man federal government took an important first these objectives are not just short-term trends. step at the end of December 2019 and decided Rather, the issue of sustainability has been the to subsidise insulation measures. As of 1 Jancore of Sto and has embodied our ‘way of life’ uary 2020, energy-focused building refurbishfrom the very beginning. ment by private homeowners and flat owners As such, conservation of the environment will receive a tax incentive, which may lead to and resources plays a significant role in our an increased rate in refurbishment in Germany company. Our products mainly serve to protect and higher demand on the EWIS market. buildings and in doing so make a signifiWe’re also seeing a major opportunity for cant contribution to sustainability. Without a Sto in digitisation, which is a big part of our protection layer, buildings would age much reorientation. To benefit even more strongly more quickly and then require refurbishment from the opportunities associated with it in the years earlier than anticipated. Furthermore, our future, we have established a comprehensive facade systems help to protect the climate with programme that involves nearly all processes efficient building insulation that save a considwithin the company. The projects included in erable amount of energy. This is a contribution the programme are designed to help us think 3 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Foreword more strongly in line with processes, which we markets. At the same time, we are continuing will then optimise across divisions and hierarour consistent cost management. chies. To do this, we will use digital tools such This year, we expect a growth in turnover of as a cloud-based CRM software, which will be 6.6 % and an EBIT of between EUR 93 million introduced during the year. This will ensure that and EUR 103 million, before taking into conall customer and project data can be retrieved sideration potential impacts from the coronaand edited by sales staff at any time and from virus pandemic – as described in the Risks and anywhere. opportunities report. Overall, we initially had a positive outlook The prospects for the global economy have for 2020. Our project forecast is promising, worsened considerably since March 2020 in the most important regions we can build due to the coronavirus pandemic, which has on good market development and both the overshadowed all other influences. At the political and economic general conditions time of preparing the Group management provide a strong tailwind for us. The growing report, it was not possible to make a reliable commitment and efforts by the younger genprediction of the economic consequences of eration in particular not has not only prompted the pandemic because of the high level of the German government to address the topic uncertainty regarding the further spread of the of climate protection in much more tangible virus, the effectiveness of the measures taken ways, but has also triggered a global trend that by governments to contain the disease, and the corresponds to our mission and our goals. macroeconomic extent of the consequences. However, as has been the case throughout Ambitious and extremely challenging our company’s history, 2020 brings with it a general conditions, for which we’ll once again host of uncertainties. These include economic need the commitment of our highly motivated factors such as international trade disputes, employees. An extensive global employee protectionist tendencies, and the subdued mosurvey that we conducted in 2019 revealed, mentum in the global economy. In Germany, among other things, that over 80 % of our the growing shortage of specialists in construcemployees would recommend Sto as an emtion, political decisions, such as the rent cap in ployer. An impressive testament to the level to Berlin, among other things, are causing a strain which our employees feel solidarity and identify on the market segments important to us. We with the company. 91 % of respondents, a perare also keeping our eyes on the coronavirus centage well above average, said they fully and pandemic at the moment, which may have an completely support Sto’s values. On behalf of enormous impact on economic development the entire Executive Board, I would like to take and people around the world. this opportunity to express my sincere thanks In addition to dealing with these external pato the Sto team for their services and spirit. rameters, we have internal tasks to accomplish We would also like to thank the shareholders in order to reach our goals. Our primary confor their trust and confidence. To ensure that cern in 2020 will be the integration of new acthey benefit appropriately from the success of quisitions, as well as the improvement of profitthe company while also further strengthening ability within the Sto Group. We are addressing the equity base of Sto SE & Co. KGaA, we will this issue at all stages of the value-added chain: propose to the 2020 Annual General Meeting, from procurement and development to sales as in the previous year, to distribute an ordinary and the product mix, which is even more condividend of EUR 0.31 per limited preference sistently being aimed at high-income offers and share and EUR 0.25 per limited ordinary share, 4 Foreword | Sto SE & Co. KGaA as well as a special bonus of EUR 3.78 in both cases. If the negative development of the overall economic situation due to the coronavirus pandemic further deteriorates until the Annual General Meeting scheduled for 10 June 2020, especially in the markets relevant to Sto, the Annual General Meeting could, in deviation from the proposals of the management and at the request of the shareholders with the required quorum in place, resolve a dividend payout that is lower or that is limited to the statutory minimum dividend of preference shareholders, or even no dividend payout. ‘Close’, ‘Experienced’, ‘Performing’, and ‘Advanced’ – these values have embodied the focus of Sto for 65 years. In the next few years, we also need to continually check whether we are still targeting them efficiently, how market participants perceive us, where there are opportunities for Sto, and how we can best achieve our goals. As we do so, we will remain true to our core, while also being flexible and forward-thinking – a good basis for successfully continuing the Sto company story. Dear shareholders, employees, members of the committees, customers and other stakeholders: Stay healthy! Rainer Hüttenberger Spokesman of the Executive Board of STO Management SE as the personally liable partner of Sto SE & Co. KGaA 5 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Report of the Supervisory Board Report of the Supervisory Board Members of the Supervisory Board Fritz Stotmeister, Öhningen/Germany | Honorary Chairperson Dr Max-Burkhard Zwosta, Wittnau/Germany, Chartered accountant and tax consultant | Chairperson Lothar Hinz*, Reutlingen/Germany, Chairperson of the General Works Council and Chairperson of the Works Council for the Baden-Württemberg sales region of Sto SE & Co. KGaA and StoCretec GmbH (until 30 September 2019) | Deputy Chairperson (suspended from office since 1 October 2019) Dr Max-Burkhard Zwosta, Chairperson Maria H. Andersson Peter Zürn Roland Schey* Munich/Germany, Family Bretzfeld-Weißlensburg/GerTengen/Germany, Head of Officer, Partner, Managing many, Member of the ManageFinance and Accounting of the Director ment of the Würth Group Sto Group (until 31 December 2019) Dr Renate NeumannMartina Seth* Schäfer, Überlingen/Germany, Wolfgang Dell* Bad Münder/Germany, Head of Corporate Consultant, EconHattersheim/Germany, Adminthe IG BCE Wilhelm-Gefeller omist istrator for Maintenance Plant Education and Conference Technology, Sto SE & Co. KGaA Center Cornelia Reinecke Emmendingen/Germany, Frank Heßler* * Employee representatives Head of Human Resources and Mannheim/Germany, Political Member of the Management Trade Union Secretary and Board of Sick AG Deputy regional manager of IG BCE of the regional district Prof. Dr Klaus Peter of Baden-Württemberg Sedlbauer, Rottach-Egern/ Germany, Chairholder at the Barbara Meister* Institute of Building Physics at Blumberg/Germany, Deputy the Technical University of MuChairperson of the General nich, and Head of the FraunWorks Council and Chairperson hofer Institute for Building of the Weizen Works Council, Physics, Stuttgart, Holzkirchen, Sto SE & Co. KGaA and Nuremberg/Germany 6 Report of the Supervisory Board | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Dear Shareholders, purpose. During the reporting period, there were no conflicts of interests affecting the Supervisory The Supervisory Board of Sto SE & Co. KGaA Board members’ abilities to perform their duties. conscientiously and with due diligence fulfilled No member of the Supervisory Board was absent the duties incumbent upon it by law, the articles from half or more sessions during the period in of association, the German Corporate Governwhich they belonged to the Board. ance Code and the rules of procedure in the year under review. The Supervisory Board advised the Key issues dealt with by the Supervisory personally liable partner STO Management SE in Board the management of the company and continDuring the 2019 fiscal year, the Supervisory Board ually monitored and supervised its work. This held four regular meetings, on 25 April, 25 July, cooperation was constructive and characterised 30 October, and 19 December. The Supervisory by an open and trusting exchange between the Board constituted a quorum at all of the meetparties. The personally liable partner briefed ings. The members of the Executive Board of the the Supervisory Board on a regular, timely, and personally liable partner STO Management SE comprehensive basis on the issues relating to the were present at the meetings unless topics had to company and the Group and discussed these be discussed in their absence. contents in both their regular meetings and At each session, the Supervisory Board in their committees. In addition to the Superaddressed the market situation as well as the visory Board meetings, the Supervisory Board current business development of Sto SE & Co. maintained constant contact with the Executive KGaA and of both domestic and foreign Group Board of the personally liable partner through its companies in depth. The strategy, opportunities Chairperson and obtained information about all and risks for the company, personnel matters, important issues and decisions of the Group. compliance, investments, and Group planning In particular, the Supervisory Board was always were also discussed regularly. In addition, the comprehensively informed about the current strategic procedure in connection with possible situation of the company and the Group, the acquisition projects or investments was one of business policy, planning including financial, the main topics in 2019. investment, and personnel planning, the income At the first session on 25 April 2019, the situation, and the business development of the annual financial statement and management individual company and Group, the opportunities report for Sto SE & Co. KGaA as well as the and risks, risk management, and the compliconsolidated annual financial statement of the ance situation. The members of the Supervisory Sto Group and the Group management report, Board also comprehensively reviewed and gave including the sustainability report, were each conscientious advice on decisions and measures discussed in detail for the 2018 fiscal year. The of the personally liable partner, sometimes based auditor reported on their audit at the Superon the preparations of the responsible commitvisory Board meeting and explained the focal tees. In decisions that were of crucial importance points of the audit. The chairperson of the Audit to the Group, the Supervisory Board was always Committee, who had looked at the documents involved immediately. in depth beforehand, also reported on the audit Furthermore, the Supervisory Board obtained and the discussion of the financial statements, assurances that the actions of the Executive the sustainability report, and the dependent Board of the personally liable partner STO Mancompany report in accordance with sections agement SE were legitimate, orderly, and fit for 312 et. seq. of the Law on share companies 7 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Report of the Supervisory Board (Aktiengesetz, AktG). The Executive Board of the implementation of the company-wide Complipersonally liable partner STO Management SE ance Management System. The Executive Board provided a report on the mandatory publications presented both the current state of implementhat must be stated in the management report, tation and the main aspects of the system. The especially the Corporate Governance, remuneraSupervisory Board also discussed the planned retion and sustainability report. Following detailed structuring and sale of the Group’s natural stone discussions and based on its own extensive audit, activities, as well as the results of the employee the Supervisory Board approved the annual fisurvey conducted in 2019. nancial statement of Sto SE & Co. KGaA and the Planning for 2020 for both Sto SE & Co. consolidated annual financial statement of the KGaA and the Sto Group was the main item on Sto Group for the 2018 fiscal year, as well as the the agenda to be deliberated at the Supervisory company’s sustainability report, the dependent Board meeting held on 19 December 2019. The company report, and the Corporate Governance draft of the 5-year plan for 2020 to 2024 was Report, in accordance with section 171 of the also debated. It is to be finalised in the meeting Law on share companies (AktG). scheduled for April 2020. Other important topics After thorough discussion, the Supervisory were the auditor’s preliminary audit and audit Board also finalised the Supervisory Board report planning of the annual financial statement and for the 2018 fiscal year, and the agenda for the consolidated annual financial statement of the ordinary Annual General Meeting of 19 June Sto Group for the 2019 fiscal year for Sto SE & 2019. The appropriation of profits proposed by Co. KGaA, the risk assessment and provisions the personally liable partner STO Management SE for risk, and the adoption of the Declaration of was approved by the Supervisory Board. Conformity in accordance with Section 161 of Furthermore, the Supervisory Board addressed the Law on share companies (AktG). the 2019-2023 5-year plan for the Sto Group, The Supervisory Board reviewed its activities which was the subject of thorough discussion as part of an efficiency review in accordance with taking into consideration the details elaborated Item 5.6 of the German Corporate Governance on in the finance committee. The Board also reCode (DCGK) in a special organisational meeting viewed the planned investment in Skyrise Prefab on 15 March 2019. Building Solutions Inc., near Toronto/Canada, and the takeover of the remaining shares in Ströher Supervisory Board committees GmbH in Dillenburg/Germany. In the 2019 fiscal year, the Supervisory Board of The main topics of the Supervisory Board Sto SE & Co. KGaA formed a nomination commeeting on 25 July 2019 included business mittee, an Audit Committee, and a Finance Comdevelopment in the first half of the year and the mittee. These bodies make preparations for the projection for the 2019 fiscal year. The Superviagenda items to be discussed by the Supervisory sory Board also deliberated on various investBoard and the decisions which need to be taken. ment projects and the planned acquisition of The Nomination Committee met once in the majority interest in VIACOR Polymer GmbH, 2019 to initiate the appointment of Ms Kirsten Rottenburg/Germany. Stotmeister as an alternate candidate for all In the meeting of 30 October, the Supervisory members of the Supervisory Board representing Board discussed, among other things, the current the shareholders. The Audit Committee and development of operational business, which Finance Committee held four meetings each. was presented and interpreted in detail, the Major topics for the Audit Committee were the current projection for 2019 as a whole, and the 2018 annual financial statement for Sto SE & Co. 8 Report of the Supervisory Board | Sto SE & Co. KGaA KGaA, the 2018 consolidated annual financial of the Law on share companies (AktG). The statement of the Sto Group, the management relevant audit partners with respect to Section report, the dependent company report, and the 319a paragraph 1 sentence 4 of the German auditor’s report. The current business developCommercial Code (HGB) were Dr Eckart Wetzel ment, the projection for the year as a whole, and and Stephan Busser. The auditors confirmed that the interim reports and half-year report for 2019 the management reports appropriately describe were each reviewed in detail. Furthermore, the the economic situation of Sto SE & Co. KGaA members of the committee discussed issues of and the Group as well as the opportunities and Compliance Management and the effectiveness risks associated with future development. The of the internal control and risk management effectiveness of the monitoring system within system, as well as the internal audit. The Finance the scope of Section 91 paragraph 2 of the Law Committee primarily examined the important on share companies (AktG) was also confirmed. management issues of STO Management SE, The auditors therefore issued an unreserved particularly potential acquisitions, the expansion audit opinion. of some of the company’s business units, the The annual financial statements of the comfinancing of Group companies, as well as Group pany and the Group, the management reports, planning. and the auditor reports as well as statements to be published in the annual report which were not Corporate Governance and Declaration of to be reviewed by the auditor were distributed to Compliance all Supervisory Board members in a timely manIn the year under review, the Supervisory Board ner. The Audit Committee pre-examined these of Sto SE & Co. KGaA duly addressed the Gerdocuments in its meeting held on 15 April 2020. man Corporate Governance Code. A Declaration In advance of the committee and Supervisory of Conformity in accordance with Section 161 of Board meeting, other preliminary examinations the Law on share companies (AktG) was issued and explanatory meetings were held between the in December 2019 which is based on the version Executive Board of the personally liable partner of the Code of 7 February 2017. It is permanently STO Management SE, the Chairperson of the available on the company’s website. Details can Supervisory Board, and the Chairperson of the be found in the Corporate Governance section of Audit Committee to discuss key audit matters. At the 2019 Annual Report. the Supervisory Board meeting on 16 April 2020, the statements and reports as well as declaraAudit of the annual financial statement tions were discussed in detail and consequently On 19 June 2019, the ordinary Annual General reviewed. Auditor representatives were present Meeting of Sto SE & Co. KGaA appointed Ernst at both meetings to report on the audit results & Young GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, and provided additional information when reStuttgart/Germany, to act as the auditor for quested. They confirmed the effectiveness of the the 2019 fiscal year. Ernst & Young audited monitoring systems within the scope of Section the annual financial statement of Sto SE & Co. 91 paragraph 2 of the Law on share companies KGaA, prepared by the personally liable partner (AktG) to the Supervisory Board. The auditors STO Management SE, the management report, also confirmed in writing that, apart from the the consolidated annual financial statement, and audit, they did not provide the company with any the Group management report for the 2019 other significant services in the fiscal year and fiscal year as well as the dependent company there were no circumstances that could impair report in accordance with Sections 312, 278 their independence as auditors. 9 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Report of the Supervisory Board The auditors from Ernst & Young GmbH virus pandemic further deteriorates until the issued the dependent company report with the Annual General Meeting scheduled for 10 June following audit certificate: ‘In our opinion, based 2020, especially in the markets relevant to Sto, on the examination which we have carried out the Annual General Meeting could, in deviation in accordance with professional standards, the from the proposals of the management and at factual information contained in the report is the request of the shareholders with the required correct, and the consideration given by the Comquorum in place, resolve a dividend payout pany for the legal transactions referred to in the that is lower or that is limited to the statutory report was not unreasonably high.’ minimum dividend of preference shareholders, The Supervisory Board carried out its own inor even no dividend payout. depth audit of the annual financial statements, the management reports of Sto SE & Co. KGaA Personnel-related matters and the Sto Group as well as of the statements On 19 June 2019, the company’s Annual Gento be published in the annual report which were eral Meeting elected Ms Kirsten Stotmeister as not to be reviewed by the auditor, and did not an alternate candidate for all members of the have any objections. The Supervisory Board apSupervisory Board representing shareholders. proved the annual financial statement of Sto SE Charles Stettler, the previous alternate member, & Co. KGaA prepared by the Executive Board of had passed away in 2018. the personally liable partner STO Management The employment relationship with Supervisory SE, and the consolidated annual statement for Board member Lothar Hinz ended on 30 Sep2019 in accordance with Section 171 of the Law tember 2019. Mr Hinz filed an action against the on share companies (AktG), as well as the determination. Until the court decision regarding pendent company report. The Supervisory Board the effectiveness the termination of his employwill hence propose the approval of the annual ment relationship, Mr Hinz will be suspended financial statement of Sto SE & Co. KGaA for the from his Supervisory Board office and is hence 2019 fiscal year at the Annual General Meeting not currently a member of the Supervisory to be held on 10 June 2020. The non-financial Board. statements, in particular those statements and The Supervisory Board thanks all employees data on sustainability and Corporate Social of Sto SE & Co. KGaA and the Executive Board Responsibility, have been reviewed by the Sumembers of the managing STO Management pervisory Board and judged to be accurate in its SE for their great dedication and the results analysis and objective. delivered in the 2019 fiscal year. We would like The Supervisory Board agrees to the proposal to wish the entire team every success in tackling of the personally liable partner STO Managethe challenges and achieving the goals that the ment SE to recommend a dividend distribution 2020 fiscal year is set to bring, and above all, of EUR 26,049,060.00 at the Annual General good health. Meeting. This means that limited preference shareholders are expected to receive an ordinary Stühlingen/Germany, 16 April 2020 dividend of EUR 0.31 as well as a bonus of EUR 3.78 per share, and limited ordinary shareholders are expected to receive an ordinary dividend of EUR 0.25 and also a bonus of EUR 3.78 per share. If the negative development of the Dr Max-Burkhard Zwosta overall economic situation due to the coronaChairperson of the Supervisory Board 10 Corporate Governance Report | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Corporate Governance Report/ Declaration on management of the company Corporate Governance at Sto Compliance in accordance with Section 161 of In this report, Sto SE & Co. KGaA and its the Law on share companies) in the ‘Investor personally liable partner STO Management Relations’ area of the ‘Unternehmen’ (ComSE describe all the processes involved in the pany) section. management and monitoring of the company (Corporate Governance) in accordance with Bodies Item 3.10 of the German Corporate GovThe bodies of Sto SE & Co. KGaA are the ernance Code (‘Code’) as well as the key personally liable partner STO Management SE, company management practices in accordance which is responsible for managing the comwith Sections 289f and 315d of the German pany, the Supervisory Board, and the Annual Commercial Code (HGB). The combined General Meeting. There is a separation in terms document is part of this Annual Report and of personnel between management of the is published under ‘Investor Relations’ in the company and monitoring of the Management section ‘Unternehmen’ (Company) on the Sto Board in accordance with the statutory regulawebsite (www.sto.de). The supplementary tions. Both the personally liable partner and the remuneration report is included in the Notes to Supervisory Board of Sto SE & Co. KGaA colthe consolidated annual financial statement of laborate closely for the company’s benefit and the Sto Group. consistently abide by the standards of proper Sto is committed to responsible and transcorporate management at all times. parent management and monitoring of the company, with a focus on sustainable value Shareholders and the Annual General creation. This mission forms the basis for the Meeting internal decision-making and control processes At the end of 2019, Sto SE & Co. KGaA’s subin the Sto Group. scribed capital amounted to an unaltered figure Statutory regulations, ethical standards, of EUR 17.556 million. Each of the 4.32 million a sound financial policy, the strategy that is limited ordinary shares (ordinary shares) grants geared towards sustainability, and the Code all one voting right. The 2.538 million limited prefprovide the foundation for corporate governerence shares (preference shares) do not have ance. Sometimes, Sto departs from the requirevoting rights but take priority for the purpose of ments of the Code in its version of 7 February profit distribution and are entitled to a higher 2017 in relation to issues that concern the dividend. There were no shares with preferential specific requirements of a medium-sized family or multiple voting rights. business or the legal form of a partnership The shareholders exercise their voting right limited by shares (Kommanditgesellschaft auf at the Annual General Meeting. As the personAktien). In these cases, adapted standards are ally liable partner of Sto SE & Co. KGaA, STO applied instead. Deviations from the recommenManagement SE is responsible for convening dations of the Code and the respective reasons the Annual General Meeting and the timely for doing so are explained in the Declaration dispatch of all statutory reports and documents, of Conformity in accordance with Section 161 including the agenda. These documents and of the Law on share companies (AktG). The the Annual Report are also available on the Sto current and previous versions of this declaration website. At the Annual General Meeting, the are published on the website at www.‌sto.‌de personally liable partner presents the annual and can be found under ‘Entsprechensfinancial statement of Sto SE & Co. KGaA, the ­erklärung nach § 161 AktG’ (Declaration of consolidated annual financial statement of the 11 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Corporate Governance Report Sto Group as well as the management/Group was unanimously agreed upon and declared by management report for the previous fiscal year the Supervisory Board of Sto SE & Co. KGaA. and explains the key events. The annual finanAccordingly, the Supervisory Board must include cial statement is then ascertained by the Annual at least two women and two men on both the General Meeting. For shareholders who are unshareholder and employee representative sides. able or unwilling to exercise their voting rights Currently, three of the six shareholder reprethemselves, a proxy of the company bound by sentatives on the Supervisory Board and two of their instructions is available in each case. the six employee representatives are women. The composition of the company’s SuperviSupervisory Board sory Board ensures that the necessary expertise, The Supervisory Board of Sto SE & Co. KGaA skills, and professional experience required monitors and advises the personally liable partto properly carry out the Board’s responsibiliner STO Management SE in the management of ties are represented. All members are proven Sto SE & Co. KGaA’s business. Furthermore, it experts in their respective fields. They are solely checks for compliance with the statutory discloresponsible for engaging in the education and sure rules in the manner detailed by the Supertraining measures that are necessary for them visory Board. The work of the Board is regulated to meet the requirements placed on them by legal provisions, the articles of association, as Supervisory Board members, and receive the Code, and rules of procedure. appropriate support from Sto SE & Co. KGaA in In accordance with the German Co-Deterdoing this. Among others, Maria H. Andersson mination Act, the Supervisory Board of the and Dr Renate Neumann-Schäfer qualify as company is composed of an equal number of independent financial experts for the purposes shareholder and employee representatives, i.e. of Section 100 Paragraph 5 of the Law on share six shareholder and six employee representacompanies (AktG). tives. The members are introduced in the report When proposing new members, the Superof the Supervisory Board. Information on remuvisory Board must ascertain that the candidates neration of the Supervisory Board is contained can invest the necessary time involved and must in the Notes/Notes to the consolidated annual examine their personal and business relationfinancial statement as well as in the Declaration ships with the company, corporate bodies, and of Conformity in accordance with Section 161 major shareholders. of the Law on share companies (AktG). The Supervisory Board is directly involved in In accordance with Section 96 Paragraph all decisions that are of fundamental impor2 Sentence 1 of the Law on share compatance to Sto SE & Co. KGaA. In the 2019 fiscal nies, it must be ensured that at least 30 % year, the Supervisory Board gathered for four of the Supervisory Board consists of women ordinary meetings. The main topics discussed or men respectively when new members are and the focal points of the meetings are being appointed to the Supervisory Board of reported in depth in the report of the Supervico-determined listed companies. The minimum sory Board. In addition to the regular gatherpercentage must be fulfilled by the Supervisory ings, the Supervisory Board is briefed by the Board on the whole unless the shareholder Executive Board of the personally liable partner or the employee representatives object to the STO Management SE on a continual, timely, overall fulfilment in accordance with Section and comprehensive basis about the Group 96 Paragraph 2 Sentence 3 of the Law on strategy, planning, business development, the share companies. A corresponding objection financial and income situation, the employment 12 Corporate Governance Report | Sto SE & Co. KGaA situation, as well as the risk situation, and risk next elections for shareholder representatives management. Any departures from plans in the will take place at the Annual General Meeting context of business development are discussed, in 2022. The elections of employee representand relevant documents are made available to atives are conducted in compliance with the the Supervisory Board in a timely manner. Co-Determination Act from 1976. They start It is the job of the Chairperson of the Superwith the announcement by the company and visory Board to coordinate the Board’s work, finish with the election. steer the meetings, and represent it externally. Between meetings, the chairperson maintains Personally liable partner close contact with the members of the ExecuThe Executive Board of the personally liable tive Board of the personally liable partner STO partner STO Management SE is responsible for Management SE, discussing – in particular – isthe management of Sto SE & Co. KGaA. It acts sues relating to strategy, business development, under its own authority and in the interests of and risk management. the company; this means aiming to achieve The Supervisory Board regularly checks the sustainable added value while keeping the efficiency of his or her work. To increase this needs of shareholders, employees, and other efficiency as much as possible, technically qualstakeholders in mind. The Management Board ified committees are formed where necessary. develops a corporate strategy and ensures its In 2019, a Nomination Committee, an Audit implementation. In addition, it makes arrangeCommittee, and a Finance Committee were ments necessary to ensure compliance with formed at Sto SE & Co. KGaA. In the periods legal requirements and internal corporate leading up to the Supervisory Board meetings, guidelines within the Sto Group. they deal with complex issues and prepare the Furthermore, the responsibilities of the perfindings for the full Supervisory Board meetings. sonally liable partner also include the preparaThe Chairperson of the Audit Committee is tion of the annual financial statement of Sto SE independent and, as a financial expert, has the & Co. KGaA and the consolidated annual finanspecial knowledge required for this position. cial statement of the Sto Group, as well as the This chairperson does not simultaneously serve establishment and further development of the as the Chairperson of the Supervisory Board risk management and control system. Detailed and has not been a member of the Executive information about risk management is provided Board for the past two fiscal years. in the Group management report, which is part The Supervisory Board reviews the consolof this annual report. idated annual financial statement of the Sto In its work, the personally liable partner STO Group and the annual financial statement of Management SE complies with all statutory Sto SE & Co. KGaA on the basis of the findings regulations, and observes the Code, as well of the auditor and Audit Committee. The Execas other recognised external standards, and utive Board discusses the halfyear financial recompany regulations. Information about the port and the interim reports within the first and applicable remuneration system of the STO second half of the year with the Chairperson Management SE Executive Board is summarised of the Supervisory Board and the Chairperson in the Group management report; the remunerof the Audit Committee, who consult with the ation of the Executive Board is summarised in other members of the Supervisory Board. the Notes to the consolidated annual financial A Nomination Committee is formed if there statement of the Sto Group. are upcoming Supervisory Board elections. The 13 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Corporate Governance Report Diversity Key practices of Corporate Governance/ The Executive Board of listed companies sets Compliance target figures for the percentage of women Over and above the statutory amendments and in the two management levels below the the German Corporate Governance Code, Sto Executive Board in accordance with Section 76 SE & Co. KGaA applies internal regulations and Paragraph 4 of the Law on share companies external standards. For example, Sto joined the (AktG). In accordance with Section 278 Para‘UN Global Compact’ initiative in 2009. It is graph 3 of the Law on share companies (AktG), run under the auspices of the United Nations this is the responsibility of the personally and encompasses ten principles in the areas of liable partner. STO Management SE promotes human rights, labour standards, environmental diversity as required by the Code and considers protection, and anti-corruption. Measures that it an important success factor for the future of we have put in place in order to implement the the Group. Furthermore, industry-specific con‘Global Compact’ are outlined in the ‘Sustainditions and the current proportion of women ability and Corporate Social Responsibility’ in the workforce were also taken into account section of the Annual Report. It also represents when setting the target quotas. the annual Communication on Progress (COP) The Executive Board of the personally liable required by the ‘Global Compact’. partner STO Management SE has established Our most important internal regulations the goal of achieving a quota of 0 % for manwithin the company include the ‘Principles for agement positions a level below the personally Cooperation and Management within the Sto liable partner, i.e. the division manager level, Group’, which include a set of Group-wide and of 10.8 % for the department manager practice guidelines for all employees and manlevel by 30 June 2017. As at 31 December agers. In addition to regulations for internal 2019, 0 % of the management positions on work procedures, they also include information the division management level and 9.2 % on the principles stipulated by ‘Global Comof the department manager positions were pact’. held by women. By 31 December 2020, these Procedures and systems for compliance percentages are expected to be at 0 % and are linked to the Group’s risk and opportunity 12.0 % respectively. management. Through consistent compliance Despite the relevant requests having been management, internal regulations and guidesubmitted during the process of searching for lines are made known throughout the Group candidates, it was not possible to find any suitand ensure that all business practices conform able female candidates during the 2019 fiscal to the law. Along with abiding by laws, regulayear. This means that the proportion of women tions, and values of the company, for Sto, comat the second management level still falls short pliance provides the foundation for integrity in of the set quota target. the business arena. It underpins the company’s The obligation applicable to the Supervisory strong commitment to ethical and fair behavBoard in accordance with Section 96 Paragraph iour in our own organisation, and creates the 2 Sentence 1 of the Law on share compaframework for dealing with external partners. nies (AktG) to be comprised of at least 30 % Sto’s Compliance Management System consists men or women respectively is fully satisfied: of several interconnected building blocks. Its Currently three of the six representatives of the aim is to ensure that company rules and laws shareholders on the Supervisory Board and two are complied with at all times. It covers the of the six employee representatives are women. areas of prevention, detection, and reaction, 14 Corporate Governance Report | Sto SE & Co. KGaA aided by the implemented risk management, mation, all financial and sustainability reports guidelines, and extensive training and advice as well as other key information are available for employees worldwide. Ways and means online in the section ‘Unternehmen’ (Company) are provided for reporting suspected or actual on the Sto website (www.sto.de). Much of it is violations of company rules and statutory also available in English. Annual and half-yearly regulations in order to facilitate the detection financial reports are lodged with and published and complete investigation of misconduct. in the German federal government gazette Every instance of misconduct is investigated (Bundesanzeiger) and in the companies register thoroughly. on the day of publication. The Compliance Management System folAll key dates are listed in the financial calenlows the PDCA (Plan-Do-Check-Act) cycle. By dar, which is announced well in advance. The following this logical sequence, the Complifinancial calendar, valid as of the end of March ance Management System can be implemented 2020, can be found both in the 2019 Annual methodically, effectively, and in the optimum Report and on the Group’s website. manner, and can be further developed and improved by remedying weak points. In the Share trading Sto Group, compliance is integrated into our Persons with management functions at STO operational and added-value processes. In this Management SE or Sto SE & Co. KGaA must context, communication is the key to enshrindisclose any private transactions involving ing compliance at Sto. It is reinforced by what Sto limited preference shares to the German we refer to as the ‘tone from the top’ adopted Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (BaFin) by the Executive Board of STO Management and to Sto SE & Co. KGaA in accordance with SE. This method of leading by example embeds Art. 19 of the MAR (Directors’ Dealings). No responsible conduct permanently in the minds notifications of Directors’ Dealings occurred in of all employees in the Sto Group. Moreover, fiscal 2019. legally compliant, risk-aware, opportunity-oriented, and informed action in a dynamic Accounting and auditing of financial statebusiness environment ensure Sto’s competiments tiveness and sustainable corporate success in The accounting of the Sto Group is based on line with Sto’s corporate mission ‘Building with the International Financial Reporting Standconscience.’. ards (IFRS) as applied in the European Union. The annual financial statement of the parent Transparency company Sto SE & Co. KGaA is based on the Sto provides information to its shareholders, reporting standards of the German Commercial financial analysts, the media, and the general Code (HGB). public in an even-handed and timely manner The annual financial statement of Sto SE through regular, open, and up-to-date com& Co. KGaA as well as the statement of the munication. The most important topics include Sto Group, including the respective managethe economic situation and development of the ment reports, are audited by an independent company/Group as well as important business auditing company elected at the Annual changes within the Group. The company uses a General Meeting following a proposal by the variety of media for this purpose. Supervisory Board. The nomination proposal is Annual and interim reports, press releases, preceded by an independence check in order to and voting rights announcements, insider inforensure that any conflicts of interest that might 15 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Corporate Governance Report give rise to doubts concerning the impartiality 1 share), while 432,000 shares are held by Sto of the auditor are ruled out at an early stage. SE & Co. KGaA. The ordinary shares held by The auditing company commissioned by Sto, the family are limited in their transferability Ernst & Young GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsdue to the fact that they are registered shares gesellschaft, Stuttgart/Germany, has issued a and hence require the consent of the company, corresponding statement in this regard. The aurepresented by the personally liable partner ditor responsible takes part in the deliberations (furthermore by family-internal agreements), of the Supervisory Board of Sto SE & Co. KGaA and are not traded on the capital market. concerning the annual financial statement and the consolidated annual financial statement as Direct or indirect shareholdings in capital well as in the corresponding Audit Committee exceeding 10 % of the voting rights meeting where the auditor reports on the key The 432,000 ordinary shares held by Sto SE & findings of their audit. Co. KGaA do not have any voting rights. As described above, the remaining ordinary shares Information in accordance with Sections are held by the Stotmeister family who thus 289a and 315a of the German Commercial holds 90 % of the voting rights. Code (HGB) and explanations by the personally liable partner Holders of shares with special rights The following information reflects the situation At Sto SE & Co. KGaA, there are 2,538,000 as at the balance sheet date. preference shares with a special right in the form of an advance dividend in the amount of Composition of subscribed capital EUR 0.06 as well as a minimum dividend in the The subscribed capital of Sto SE & Co. KGaA amount of EUR 0.13 per preference share in amounts to a total of EUR 17,556,480.00. It is accordance with Section 16 of the articles of divided into 4,320,000 registered limited ordiassociation of Sto SE & Co. KGaA. nary shares (‘ordinary shares’) and 2,538,000 limited preference bearer shares (‘preferType of control of voting rights in case of ence shares’) at a notional nominal value of employee shareholdings EUR 2.56 each. The employees have no autonomous shareholding in Sto SE & Co. KGaA. Nevertheless, Restrictions on voting rights or the transno employee is prevented from acquiring and fer of shares selling preference shares on the capital market. To the knowledge of the personally liable partner STO Management SE, there are no Appointment and dismissal of the restrictions relating to the transfer of preferManagement Board as well as amendence shares. In accordance with Sections 4 ments to the articles of association Paragraph 1, 16 of the articles of association of In the legal form of a ‘Kommanditgesellschaft Sto SE & Co. KGaA, the preference shares do auf Aktien’ (KGaA, partnership limited by not confer any voting rights. Of the 4,320,000 shares), the personally liable partner has the ordinary shares, the Stotmeister family holds legal authority to manage and represent the a total of 3,888,000 shares (Stotmeister company. The personally liable partner of Sto Beteiligungs GmbH 3,887,996 shares, Jochen SE & Co. KGaA is STO Management SE. It acts Stotmeister 1 share, Gerd Stotmeister 1 share, through its Executive Board. The co-determined Helga Stotmeister 1 share, Heidi Heimburger Supervisory Board of Sto SE & Co. KGaA is not 16 Corporate Governance Report | Sto SE & Co. KGaA authorised to appoint or dismiss the personally Beteiligungs GmbH directly or indirectly holds liable partner or its Executive Board. Rather, the more than 50 % of the capital shares and more personally liable partner has joined the comthan 50 % of the voting rights in Sto SE & Co. pany by means of a corresponding declaration. KGaA. The appointment and dismissal of the Executive Board of STO Management SE is carried out by Compensation agreement of the company the Supervisory Board of STO Management SE with the members of the Executive Board in accordance with the provisions of the articles of the personally liable partner or employof association and the law. As stipulated by ees in the event of a takeover bid Sections 278 Paragraph 3, 133, 179 of the The company has not entered into any comLaw on share companies (AktG), amendments pensation agreements with the members of the to the articles of association of Sto SE & Co. Executive Board of the personally liable partner KGaA require a resolution by the Annual or employees in the event of a takeover bid. General Meeting of Sto SE & Co. KGaA. This resolution requires a majority of at least three quarters of the voting share capital represented at the adoption of the resolution. Furthermore, amendments to the articles of association also require the consent of the personally liable partner STO Management SE in accordance with Section 285 Paragraph 2 of the Law on share companies (AktG). Powers of the personally liable partner STO Management SE, in particular with regard to the possibility of issuing or buying back shares At Sto SE & Co. KGaA there is currently neither authorised nor contingent capital; no share buyback programme is in place either. Material agreements of the company under the condition of a change of control following a takeover bid With the exception of a syndicated loan contract, the company has not entered into any significant agreements which would become effective in the case of a change in control. The aforementioned syndicated loan contract stipulates legal consequences in the case that 50 % or more of the capital shares or voting rights in Sto SE & Co. KGaA are to be transferred to one or more persons acting in concert. This does not apply as long at Stotmeister 17 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) The Sto Executive Board (from left to right): Michael Keller, Rainer Hüttenberger, Jan Nissen, and Rolf Wöhrle. Members of the Executive Board of STO Management SE in the fiscal year of 2019 (personally liable partner of Sto SE & Co. KGaA) Rainer Hüttenberger, Jan Nissen, Stein am Rhein/Switzerland | Spokesman of Trossingen/Germany | Chief Technology the Executive Board responsible for Sales Sto Officer responsible for Process Engineering, Brand International, Business Unit OrganisaInnovation, Materials Management, and tion, and Corporate Strategic Development, Logistics and M&A Rolf Wöhrle, Michael Keller, Bad Dürrheim/Germany | Chief Financial Bonndorf/Germany | Chief Sales Officer reOfficer responsible for Finances, Controlling, sponsible for Sales Sto Brand Germany, Legal, Internal Auditing, and Information Distribution, Marketing Communication, Technology and Central Services 18 Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA The 2019 fiscal year at a glance • Turnover in the Sto Group up by 4.9 % to EUR 1,398.2 million in 2019 • Positive currency translation and first-time consolidation effects support operational growth • Turnover outside of Germany increases by 6.9 % to EUR 786.9 million and turnover in Germany by 2.6 % to EUR 611.3 million • Improved earnings: consolidated EBIT improves by 4.9 % to EUR 85.9 million and earnings before tax (EBT) by 3.6 % to EUR 83.1 million • Return on sales virtually stable at 5.9 % (previous year: 6.0 %) • After the first-time application of IFRS 16, cash flow from operating activities amounts to EUR 117.0 million (previous year: EUR 80.7 million) • Group’s workforce increased by 200 to 5,533 employees, in particular due to a rise in companies consolidated • Outlook for 2020: increase in turnover of 6.6 % to around EUR 1,490 million and an EBIT of between EUR 93 million and EUR 103 million expected, without taking the effects of the coronavirus pandemic into account A. Group fundamentals StoTherm Mineral system build-up 1 Bonding: StoLevell Combi plus, full surface Business model 2 Insulation: Sto is a major international manufacturer of Sto-Stone Wool Insulation Board Xtra 2/B/H4 products and systems for building coatings. 3 Base coat: StoLevell Combi plus The product range is divided into four product 4 Reinforcement: groups: the core business of facade systems Sto-Glass Fibre Mesh 5 Intermediate coat: Sto-Primer includes external wall insulation systems (EWIS), 6 Top coat: a segment in which the company occupies a StoSilco/StoSilco blue, paint coat if required leading position, as well as rainscreen cladding systems (RSC). In the fiscal year of 2019, the Thanks to the Sto-Stone Wool share of this product group was 48.4 % of the Insulation Board Xtra 2/B/H4, total group turnover. The area of facade coatthe proven StoTherm Mineral ings, which includes render and paint systems facade insulation system can for external applications, made up 21.8 % of 1 2 3 4 3 5 6 now be used without anchors. the turnover in the year under review. Products for interiors accounted for 14.1 %; these The factors that play a major role in the sucinclude plaster and paint systems for home cess of the Sto Group include its comprehensive and office spaces, decorative coatings, interior pool of knowledge, which it has gained from claddings, and acoustic systems for regulating its efforts to ensure that the products in its sound. Furthermore, Sto produces and sells range complement one another perfectly. Sto high-quality floor coatings and products for boasts extensive expertise not only in our core concrete repair, which are attributed to the business of facade systems, but also in related Other product groups category. areas such as design and consultancy services 19 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) and in alternative coating materials or claddings The Group’s innovative strength is another such as brick slips. As the individual compopillar of the positive image the Sto brand has nents of our range work in perfect harmony cultivated and of our corporate success. To with one another, processing efficiency can be secure the position we are seeking to uphold as boosted and value maintained over the long a technology leader and tap into new growth term. At the same time, Sto is able to afford areas at the same time, we engage in comprebuilding owners maximum freedom to create hensive research and development activities their own designs. within the Group. This is one of the cornerOur business model is built on a foundation stones of our strategy. The actions we take in of expertise, quality, and customer benefits, and this area are also enshrined in our corporate is backed up by a consistent market presence vision: ‘Technology leader in the sustainable in every country where Sto is represented. This design of living space tailored to human needs. has enabled Sto to establish itself successfully Worldwide.’ as an international product brand. Following a survey conducted by the University of St. Gallen Sales markets and German business magazine WirtschaftsThe business activities of the Sto Group are Woche in early 2018, Sto has had the honour divided into the segments of Western Europe of officially being able to call itself the ‘world and Other, with the latter being broken down market leader for external wall insulation sysinto the regions of Northern/Eastern Europe tems’. Our brand strategy, which we are continand America/Asia/Pacific within the internal ually developing and improving, is based on the reporting framework. Our corporate managefour core brand values ‘Close’, ‘Experienced’, ment is primarily focused on these regions. In ‘Performing’, and ‘Advanced’. Western Europe, which includes Germany and S to subsidiaries Sto partners 20 Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA is also the most important market, Sto genown market niche: these include trim paint and erated a share of 76.6 % of the consolidated fillers. In the coming years, we intend to expand turnover in the 2019 fiscal year. Northern and the two-stage distribution concept gradually via Eastern Europe generated 11.2 % of the busiwholesalers and specialist dealers. ness volume, while 12.2 % was attributed to America, Asia, and Pacific. The most significant Group structure individual market is Germany. In the year under The parent company of the Group is Sto SE review, it contributed 43.7 % to the consoli& Co. KGaA, headquartered in Stühlingen in dated turnover of the Sto Group. the German state of Baden-Württemberg. In We continuously work on systematically addition to functioning as the Group’s holding targeting and tapping into selected regions in company, it is also responsible for operational order to exploit additional sales opportunities domestic business involving facade systems and worldwide. By increasingly internationalising coatings as well as interior products. our business activities – something that is In Germany, the main companies of the Sto another of Sto’s key strategic aims – we are also Group are the following: able to spread business risk and compensate •  StoCretec GmbH, located in Kriftel/Germany, for some fluctuations in individual countries. At is responsible for the areas of floor coatings the 2019 year end, the Group was represented and concrete repair. in 38 countries with 50 subsidiaries of its own •  Innolation GmbH, located in Lauingen/ as well as their operating sites, and maintained Germany, produces insulants and develops supply partnerships with sales partners in nuinnovative insulant technologies. merous other regions. •  Verotec GmbH, located in Lauingen/GerSto products are used both in the construcmany, produces carrier boards for acoustic tion of new buildings and in the renovation of systems, rainscreen cladding systems, and existing buildings. The comparative importance architectural elements on behalf of other of these two market segments in individual Group companies. It also sells its products regions depends on the characteristics specific and services to external partners. to each country. Renovation business generates •  Ströher GmbH, located in Dillenburg/Gerthe majority of Group turnover worldwide. many, and its subsidiaries focus on brick surfaces, outdoor ceramics, and interior tiles. Customers and distribution system •  Südwest Lacke + Farben GmbH & Co. KG, The range of the Sto brand is targeted at located in Böhl-Iggelheim/Germany, is the professional applicators such as painters and Group’s specialist for paints and lacquers, building contractors, as well as architects, planand works primarily with trading companies. ning offices, and the real estate sector. These •  Liaver GmbH & Co. KG, located in Ilmenau/ customers are supported on site by means of a Germany, is a manufacturer of expanded direct distribution system which, in Germany, glass granulates made of recycled glass. covers almost the entire country. For some The company also uses these materials to years now, this has been supplemented by a produce acoustic products and shipbuilding multi-stage distribution concept that enables panels. the Group to tap into additional sales potential. This second sales channel covers selected On 31 December 2019, the operation of the products that we have clearly defined as distinct natural stone activities handled within Vero­ from our core business and that have their Stone GmbH in Eichstätt/Germany was sold to 21 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) the long-term managers of the subsidiary as tional targets as well as key financial covenants. part of a management buyout. The sale took These are based on business figures which are the form of an asset deal. uniformly determined throughout the Group and are part of a standardised reporting system. Outside of Germany, Sto’s business is largely The primary key operating ratios employed are handled by national companies operating indenet turnover, earnings before interest and taxes pendently, with the service spectrum offered in (EBIT), earnings before tax (EBT), and return on each case being tailored to suit local conditions. sales. Additionally, ROCE (Return on Capital Production takes place on site in some cases, and Employed) is used as a key figure for monitoring the remaining products are purchased via the return on capital employed. It is based on the Group. A list of all subsidiaries of Sto SE & Co. EBIT divided by the average capital employed. KGaA is reproduced in the Notes for the Group. These key figures also create a foundation for The individual business fields of the Sto the planning and controlling processes. Group are each managed by a team of product The reports compiled within this standardmanagers that is responsible for products and ised reporting are submitted directly to the systems worldwide. The Heads of the Business Executive Board of STO Management SE, which Fields are responsible for the strategic positionthen forwards all relevant information to Sto’s ing of their areas and products, and coordiSupervisory Board. Additionally, management nate marketing and sales objectives with the meetings between the Executive Board and the subsidiaries. This allows Sto to become better executive staff of the subsidiaries or sales reacquainted with the vast range of different gions take place on a regular basis. This system requirements that the individual markets have, strengthens the decentralised entrepreneurial address each of them specifically, and tap into responsibility of our employees at a local level additional sales potential through its specialist while also guaranteeing a high degree of transtechnical expertise. parency within the Group. Central units such as technical service or In addition to the internal indicators, we also strategic marketing complement the business regularly monitor external early indicators as fields. These provide global support to all our part of our planning processes and as a means subsidiaries and product groups when it comes of corporate and risk management. Especially to dealing with issues that are present on an relevant are economic data and detailed inoverarching level. This creates the right condidustry information such as the development of tions for Sto to conduct efficient management the building construction volume and the new on a global scale, and for targeted further construction and renovation segments. development of the service portfolio. Declaration on management of the Business management control system company/Non-financial statement The four-member Executive Board of the perThe specifications relating to the Declaration sonally liable partner STO Management SE is on management of the company, as outlined in responsible for managing Sto SE & Co. KGaA’s Section 315d of the German Commercial Code business. It develops the Group’s strategy and (HGB), as well as the specifications according ensures that it is put into practice. The parent to Sections 289a and 315a of the German company Sto SE & Co. KGaA, its subsidiaries, Commercial Code, and the explanations by the and the other Group units are controlled and personally liable partner, can be found in the managed by reference to strategic and opera‘Corporate Governance Report’ chapter of the 22 Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Annual Report. This information is also provided constant progress, and a financially strong online at www.sto.de/Unternehmen/Investor basis. We pursue the goal of global technology Relations. The non-financial statement in line leadership in the sustainable design of living with Section 315b of the German Commercial space tailored to human needs. Evidence of Code (HGB), provided as a supplement to the this corporate vision is shown in our brand Group management report, is contained in the claim ‘Building with conscience.’ This has been ‘Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsiin place since 1988 and is anchored in the Sto bility’ chapter of the Annual Report, which is Guiding Principles along with the other princialso available to view online at www.sto.de/ ples underpinning our practice, which provide Unternehmen/Investor Relations. It provides all employees and managers with guidance on information about key issues in five areas: enmaking strategic and operational decisions. vironmental matters, employee matters, social Our Sto Guiding Principles define our strategy, matters, respect for human rights, and combatwhich contains the following core components: ing of corruption and bribery. •  Income-oriented growth – We align our decisions with this overarching corporate Fundamentals of the remuneration system objective. The remuneration of the members of the Exec•  Internationalisation – By systematically utive Board consists of a fixed component and a developing and penetrating selected regions, variable component, which can carry significantly we increase our sales opportunities and remore weight, but is capped. The variable eleduce our dependency on individual markets. ment comprises a long-term incentive, based on • Development of alternative distribution the turnover development of the Sto Group, and channels – Sto’s proven direct distribution the ROCE key figure of the past three fiscal years system is being expanded to include a mulin comparison to the target for this reporting peti-stage distribution concept. This will enable riod, as well as an income-dependent short-term us to attract additional groups of customers incentive. No stock options are granted. and widen our base. The members of the Supervisory Board of Sto •  Group expertise – Organic further developSE & Co. KGaA receive a fixed remuneration ment or suitable acquisitions reinforce and and a compensation for costs incurred. The expand the Sto Group’s expertise. chairperson is entitled to four times and his or • Attractive employer – We develop and imher deputy to two and a half times the amount plement measures to recruit new specialists of the basic remuneration. The chairperson of and managers, and to improve our employa Supervisory Board Committee is additionally ees’ levels of qualification, performance, and remunerated with a fixed annual amount. If a satisfaction. committee has only been formed for part of a •  Research and development – We continfiscal year, it is paid on a pro rata basis. ually intensify our activities in the area of The Notes contain additional information on R&D in order to consolidate our position as the remuneration of administrative bodies in an innovative pacesetter in the sector, and the company. underpin our vision as a technology market leader. Additionally, we take an active role in Strategic objectives trade associations and interest groups so that The Sto business model is oriented towards we can contribute to shaping general condilong-term success. In our view, this relies tions within the industry and the technology on sustainable, solid business management, it uses. 23 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) • Corporate Social Responsibility – By connoticeably higher than in 2018 and within the sistently implementing and developing our forecast ranges. In addition to the price level on strategy of sustainability, we take responthe procurement markets, which weakened as a sibility towards customers, the company, net result in the course of 2019, the measemployees, other stakeholders, shareholders, ures initiated in order to compensate for the and the environment. Our business activities increases in the cost of materials in the previous support awareness of the importance of year also had a tangible effect. Furthermore, value-conserving construction and attractive consistent cost management had a noticeabuilding design. ble impact. Consolidated EBIT increased from EUR 81.9 million to EUR 85.9 million comB. Financial report pared to 2018 (forecast: between EUR 81 million and EUR 91 million) and EBT rose from EUR 80.2 million to EUR 83.1 million (forecast: Overview of business between EUR 78 million and EUR 88 million). At performance in 2019 and 5.9 %, return on sales remained slightly below the previous year’s value of 6.0 % (forecast: begeneral statement on tween 5.6 % and 6.3 %). Net profit for the year economic development grew from EUR 53.8 million to EUR 56.3 million. Additionally, the return on capital employed In the 2019 fiscal year, Sto was able to con(ROCE) fell in line with the forecast level by tinue growing throughout the Group thanks reaching 14.0 % (previous year: 15.6 %; foreto a solid foundation of healthy operational cast: between 13.0 % and 14.6 %). development. Momentum slowed slightly in Liaver GmbH & Co. KG, located in Ilmenau/ the second half of the year due primarily to Germany, was consolidated within the Sto the general conditions in the market segments Group for the first time at the beginning of that are relevant to Sto, which had been 2019. The Canadian company Skyrise Prefab more difficult as compared to those affecting Building Solutions Inc., in which Sto has had a the construction sector as a whole. This was majority share since May 2019, also underwent contrasted by first-time consolidation effects, first-time consolidation, as did Unitex Australia positive currency translation effects, and faPty Ltd in Dandenong/Australia on 1 August vourable weather conditions, which contrib2019. Furthermore, Sto SE & Co. KGaA took uted to healthy business results in December in over the remaining 49.9 % share in Ströher particular. GmbH, located in Dillenburg/Germany, on 1 July Overall, turnover in the Sto Group rose by 2019. The company had already been fully 4.9 % year-on-year to EUR 1,398.2 million consolidated since 2016. Sto SE & Co. KGaA (previous year: EUR 1,332.4 million), which also acquired a 50.1 % share in VIACOR Polyexceeded the forecast increase of 4.1 % to mer GmbH in Rottenburg am Neckar/Germany, EUR 1,387 million. When adjusted for currency which will be accounted for in the consolidated effects and first-time consolidation effects, annual financial statement of the Sto Group this would have represented a 3.4 % organic from 1 January 2020. The VeroStone GmbH growth for 2019. operation in Eichstätt/Germany was sold as part Earnings also improved in 2019: both of an asset deal that took effect on 31 Decemearnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) and ber 2019. The company has been trading as Sto earnings before taxes (EBT) for the Group were BTV GmbH since January 2020. Based in Stüh24 Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA lingen/Germany, it now consists of the assets 2020. In such a case, the Annual General that have remained following the sale. Meeting could, in deviation from the proposThe financial and asset situation of the Sto als of the management and at the request of Group continued to deliver a solid performance the shareholders with the required statutory in 2019. Following the first-time application of quorum in place, resolve a dividend payout IFRS 16, the equity ratio fell but still remained that is lower or that is limited to the statutory at the high level of 54.3 % (31 December minimum dividend of preference shareholders, 2018: 60.9 %). IFRS 16 requires recognition or even no dividend payout. of current and non-current lease liabilities and Due to the above-average weather condithus results in an extended balance sheet. Cash tions in January and February, the 2020 fiscal stocks rose from EUR 105.3 million to EUR year started on a favourable footing in most of 128.6 million. Taking borrowings into account, the key markets for Sto. While March initially net financial assets amounted to EUR 119.8 mildemonstrated a positive trend on the whole, lion on the reference date (31 December 2018: the impact of the coronavirus pandemic beEUR 90.5 million). Cash flow from operating came increasingly significant in several of Sto’s activities stood at EUR 117.0 million (previous markets by the middle of the month, and in year: EUR 80.7 million) following the first-time some cases considerably hampered business application of IFRS 16. activities. Through its Executive Board, the personIn March, the Sto companies in France, Italy, ally liable partner STO Management SE will and China in particular were negatively affected propose an unaltered dividend payout of by the coronavirus pandemic. However, this EUR 26,049,060.00 to the Annual General contrasted with the situation at companies Meeting on 10 June 2020. This means that including Sto SE & Co. KGaA, which recently limited preference shareholders will receive an recorded high volumes of incoming orders and ordinary dividend of EUR 0.31 and a bonus were therefore required to introduce special proof EUR 3.78 per share, and limited ordinary duction shifts on Saturdays to accommodate this shareholders will receive an ordinary dividend of – an unusual circumstance for the time of year. EUR 0.25 plus a bonus of EUR 3.78 per share. In total, consolidated turnover in the first The above proposal by the personally liable three months of the year exceeded that of the partner STO Management SE requires the previous year and fell in line with expectations. consent of the Supervisory Board. The decision Without taking into account the effects of of the Supervisory Board is expected to be the coronavirus pandemic, we are forecasting made on 16 April 2020. However, should the consolidated turnover growth of 6.6 % to negative development of the economy as a EUR 1,490 million for 2020 as a whole. The whole worsen until then due to the coronaresulting EBIT figure is expected to fall between virus pandemic, the Supervisory Board might EUR 93 million and EUR 103 million. At the feel compelled to propose a reduced dividend time of compiling the Group management payout in agreement with the personally liable report, the Executive Board of STO Managepartner STO Management SE. The same applies ment SE views the business prospects of the Sto if the overall economic situation further deteriGroup as positive. However, given the sheer unorates, especially in the markets relevant to Sto certainty surrounding the coronavirus pandemic SE & Co. KGaA, between the Supervisory Board and the rapid rate at which it is spreading meeting scheduled for 16 April 2020 and the worldwide, it is difficult to make reliable predicAnnual General Meeting scheduled for 10 June tions about how the business is set to develop. 25 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) Overall economic and The German economy also achieved an increase in 2019. Although this marked its tenth sector-related general successive year of growth, its performance was conditions in 2019 still weaker overall and, once adjusted for price changes, amounted to just 0.6 % according to Global economic development preliminary data of the German Federal StatisThe global economy was impacted by several tical Office (Destatis), following 1.5 % in 2018. factors in 2019. According to the International This moderate upward trend was once again Monetary Fund (IMF), the main reasons for ecoprimarily the result of consumer behaviour, with nomic momentum dropping worldwide included private spending increasing by 1.6 % (previous the ongoing trade disputes between the USA year: 1.3 %) and public-sector spending by and China, and between the USA and the EU. 2.5 % (previous year: 1.4 %) when adjusted Geopolitical tensions were also a key factor. for price changes. Gross capital investments in In general, the persistent sense of uncertainty Germany rose by 2.5 % in 2019 (previous year: affecting international trade policy and transna3.5 %), with a 3.8 % increase in real terms inditional cooperation resulted in global trade percating considerably more investment in building forming extremely poorly. The IMF also believes activities compared to the previous year (previthat certain countries’ hesitation to make investous year: 2.5 %). ments, Germany included, was a pivotal factor in the sluggish growth that the international International trends for the construction gross domestic product (GDP) demonstrated. sector Without the expansionary policy introduced by According to estimates from Germany’s two several reserve banks, this weak performance central construction industry associations, would have been exacerbated further. the Hauptverband der Deutschen BauindusAccording to IMF estimates, global economic trie (HDB) and Zentralverband des Deutschen growth in 2019 amounted to 2.9 %, a figure Baugewerbes (ZDB), the German building that was 0.7 percentage points less than the industry grew by a total of 8.5 % following previous year. While the IMF had originally an increase of some 11 % in the previous year. forecast an increase of 3.5 % at the start of the Once again, all the sectors of the construction year, it then revised this figure down due to the industry contributed to this growth: residentense situation. Trade volumes worldwide only tial construction is estimated to have risen increased by 1.0 % (previous year: 3.7 %), the by 8.5 % in 2019, commercial construction lowest that this figure has been since 2012. by 7.5 %, and public-sector construction by As with previous years, positive momentum 9.0 %. Preliminary figures from Destatis suggest was felt primarily in developing and newly inthat the number of approvals for new buildings dustrialised nations, whose GDP rose by 3.7 % and for construction work on existing buildin total (previous year: 4.5 %). China and India ings increased by 1.3 % between January and both achieved significant increases even though November 2019. This included a 1.5 % rise in the pace at which they occurred was slower. approvals for detached houses and a 0.9 % In industrialised nations, the economy grew growth in the number of semi-detached houses by 1.7 % in 2019 (previous year: 2.2 %). The and multiple dwellings. USA performed particularly well with growth The sub-segment of building coatings, which of +2.3 %, while the eurozone contributed just is relevant to Sto, was unable to benefit from +1.2 %. the ongoing construction boom in Germany. 26 Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Sales in the EWIS market fell slightly in 2019. particular saw a weaker development, increasing The Association of the German Paint and by just 1 % (previous year: 4 %). The sector was Printing Ink Industry (VDL) also expects a 1.4 % primarily supported by public investments, in decline in turnover in the area of building coatcontrast to the reluctant attitude demonstrated ings (paints, varnishes, and paste-form plasters/ by the majority of private contracting authorities. renders/fillers) for the year as a whole. According to experts, results in the US residenThe growth rate of the European contial construction sector were primarily due to a struction sector slowed significantly over the healthy employment situation, low mortgage course of 2019. According to estimates from rates, and an increase in average earnings. the industry network EUROCONSTRUCT, the increase in the volume of construction services across the 19 member states fell from 3.2 % in Business performance and the previous year to 2.3 %. The new-buildings development of turnover sector in particular lost a significant amount of momentum following its strong growth over the previous five years, but the renovation marSto Group Turnover ket recorded a healthy performance. Growth in EUR million in Europe was primarily the result of economic 1,400 1,398.2 factors such as strong buying power in private 1,300 1,332.4 households, favourable financing conditions, 1,277.4 1,200 1,208.7 1,216.6 1,230.7 and higher corporate profits. Demographic 1,100 trends also supported this development, as did 1,000 the ongoing demand for infrastructure measures and the growing interest in environmental 900 conservation matters. 800 In China, the sentiment in the construction 700 sector remained mixed. According to GTAI (Ger600 many Trade & Invest), the sector continues to 500 be one of the pillars of growth in the country, 400 but demand has gradually been weakening. 300 In the first half of 2019, the production value 200 of the Chinese construction industry increased by 7.2 % (year of 2018 as a whole: 9.9 %). In 100 the first seven months of the year, the value of 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 realised property investments rose by 10.6 % as compared to the same period of the previous In the 2019 fiscal year, the Sto Group’s turnyear, primarily as a result of residential conover rose by 4.9 % to EUR 1,398.2 million struction (+15.1 %). By contrast, investments (previous year: EUR 1,332.4 million). A total of showed a decline in office construction (-0.2 %) EUR 15.1 million of this growth was attributable and the retail space sector (-9.0 %). to the first-time consolidations of Liaver GmbH & According to GTAI, the construction industry Co. KG in Ilmenau/Germany, the Canadian comin the USA demonstrated less growth in 2019 pany Skyrise Prefab Building Solution Inc., and than it had in the previous year. Initial estimates Unitex Australia Pty Ltd. Positive currency translasuggest that the building construction sector in tion effects, due in particular to the appreciation 27 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) of the US dollar and Swiss franc, resulted in Turnover in the segment of Western turnover of EUR 5.1 million. When adjusted for Europe (including Germany) grew by 4.5 % first-time consolidation and currency translation to EUR 1,070.9 million (previous year: effects, consolidated turnover grew by 3.4 % EUR 1,024.4 million). Without currency translacompared to the same period of the previous tion and first-time consolidation effects, this repyear. resented growth of 3.7 %. The Sto companies Consolidated turnover in Germany rose by in France, and sales figures in Austria performed 2.6 % to EUR 611.3 million in 2019 (previous particularly well. While demand continued to year: EUR 596.0 million), although demand remain below expectations in Switzerland, the in key market segments for Sto declined over positive effects of exchange rate developments the course of the year. Not including the had an impact on the turnover level. first-time consolidation effects resulting from Liaver GmbH & Co. KG, growth in Germany Sto Group Regional breakdown of amounted to 1.5 %. consolidated turnover An increase of 6.9 % to EUR 786.9 million (previous year: EUR 736.4 million) was achieved Western Europe outside of Germany during the year under (incl. Germany) review. A total of EUR 14.0 million was attrib76.6 % utable to first-time consolidation and currency translation effects, equating to organic growth of 5.0 %. In comparison to the previous year, the share of Group turnover generated outside of Germany increased from 55.3 % to 56.3 %. Northern/Eastern Europe 11.2 % Sto Group Turnover in Germany and outside of Germany America/Asia/Pacific in EUR million 12.2 % 800 The volume in the segment of Northern/ 786.9 Eastern Europe fell slightly by a total of 736.4 700 714.6 0.1 % to EUR 156.5 million (previous year: 681.2 682.0 600 659.5 EUR 156.7 million), with business development 596.0 611.3 varying from one region to another. Healthy 549.2 548.7 562.8 535.4 500 trends in several Eastern European countries came in contrast to results such as losses in 400 certain Northern European companies. The sub-segment of America/Asia/ 300 Pacific recorded an increase of 12.9 % to EUR 170.8 million (previous year: 200 EUR 151.3 million). Adjusted for currency translation and first-time consolidation effects, this 100 resulted in a 3.3 % growth. Turnover volume grew particularly strongly in China, but demand 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 in other Asiatic companies performed below Germany Outside of Germany 28 Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA expectations. The business development of the The first-time application of IFRS 16 in the US subsidiary remained below the target level, 2019 fiscal year means that leases will be recalthough positive currency translation effects ognised in the balance sheet, and this will have largely managed to compensate for this. a significant impact on the Sto Group’s asset, financial and income situation. Performance of product groups In 2019, Sto was once again able to gain marIncome situation ket shares in its core business of facade systems The income situation within the Sto Group and generate growth in turnover. However, improved as a result of healthy operational busiprovisional estimates suggest that the volume ness development and a consistent approach only increased slightly on the challenging to cost management. The cost of material, German EWIS market, and the controversial which had risen considerably in the previous debate concerning the use of external thermal year, increased by 2.6 % to EUR 631.6 million insulation composite systems continued to have in 2019 (previous year: EUR 615.9 million). a negative impact on demand. The growth In addition to the fact that cost pressure on initiatives launched in the previous year, the procurement markets lessened over the course intensification of sales activities, and a more of 2019, the measures initiated in the previous diversified range all played a strong role in year to optimise the gross margin also had an Sto’s expansion. Sto currently offers a range of impact here. In relation to total revenues in the different external wall insulation systems plus a amount of EUR 1,396.7 million (previous year: variety of insulants, including soft wood fibre, EUR 1,332.3 million), the gross margin rate mineral foam, mineral wool, and rigid foams improved by one percentage point from 53.8 % of various kinds. This allows it to provide the to 54.8 %. best possible solutions to meet a whole host In 2019, personnel expenditure rose of different requirements relating to ecological to EUR 372.2 million (previous year: concerns, fire protection, design, efficiency, and EUR 352.3 million). This represents a 5.7 % cost-effectiveness. increase and was due to pay scale effects plus Turnover in the product group of facade systhe expansion of the Group’s workforce, which tems grew by 6.7 % in total to EUR 677.1 milprimarily resulted from first-time consolidations. lion in 2019, hence contributing 48.4 % to Select appointments were also made in certain the overall Group turnover. In the business companies, primarily in growth markets. area of facade coatings, which has high In the reporting period, the balance of other margins, turnover increased slightly by 0.8 % operating expenses and other operating into EUR 304.6 million, with the corresponding come amounted to EUR -250.5 million (previous share in Group turnover amounting to 21.8 %. year: EUR -247.6 million), with income increasRigid facade claddings, such as natural stone ing from EUR 17.7 million to EUR 19.1 million slabs and brick slips for facades, saw a positive and expenses only experiencing slight growth development, as did external wall insulation of 2.0 % to EUR 269.6 million (previous year: systems, which offer a variety of design opEUR 265.3 million) despite considerably higher tions. In 2019, turnover generated by interior freight costs. The result benefited primarily from products increased by 3.7 % to EUR 197.8 milthe first-time application of IFRS 16, although lion (share: 14.1 %). An increase of 7.0 % to this conversely also increased depreciation and EUR 218.8 million (share: 15.7 %) was recorded amortisation, and interest expenses. The impairin the other business fields. ment of financial assets rose to EUR 4.2 million 29 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) (previous year: EUR 3.3 million). Depreciation The application of IFRS 16 was felt parand amortisation increased from EUR 31.3 milticularly keenly in results including the net lion to EUR 52.3 million, with EUR 19.0 million financial income/expense, which amounted to attributable to the IFRS 16 effect. In total, EUR -2.8 million (previous year: EUR -1.7 milconsolidated earnings before interest, taxes, lion). Interest expenses increased as a result of and depreciation/amortisation (EBITDA) leasing obligations being recognised and torose by 22.1 % from EUR 113.2 million to talled EUR -3.4 million in the year under review EUR 138.2 million, and consolidated earnings (previous year: EUR -2.6 million), EUR 0.6 million before interest and taxes (EBIT) increased by of which was attributable to the first-time appli4.9 % to EUR 85.9 million (previous year: cation of IFRS 16. Interest income amounted to EUR 81.9 million). EUR 1.1 million (previous year: EUR 0.7 million), while consolidated earnings before tax Sto Group EBIT in EUR million (EBT) improved by 3.6 % in 2019, reaching EUR 83.1 million (previous year: EUR 80.2 million). At 5.9 %, the return on sales remained 100 virtually identical to the previous year’s level 90 97.0 of 6.0 %. The tax rate fell from 32.9 % in the previous year to 32.2 %, while the net profit for 80 84.0 85.9 81.5 81.9 the year rose by 4.7 % from EUR 53.8 million to 70 EUR 56.3 million. 70.3 60 Sto Group Net profit for the year 50 in EUR million 40 70 30 60 66.0 20 55.7 55.8 56.3 10 50 53.8 40 45.7 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 30 When broken down by segment, EBIT in Western Europe amounted to a significantly 20 improved figure of EUR 84.9 million (previous year: EUR 77.0 million), while Northern/Eastern 10 Europe recorded a decline to EUR 1.5 million (previous year: EUR 1.9 million) due to precautionary measures relating to warranty provisions 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 within sales in Sweden. The sub-segment of America/Asia/Pacific posted a negative EBIT of Diluted and basic earnings were EUR 9.09 EUR -0.4 million (previous year: EUR +3.2 milper limited preference share (previous year: lion), primarily resulting from weak developEUR 8.39) and EUR 9.03 per limited ordinary ment of income in North America. share (previous year: EUR 8.33). 30 Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA As at 31 December 2019, the ROCE (return Meeting could, in deviation from the proposon capital employed) figure had fallen from als of the management and at the request of 15.6 % to 14.0 % as compared to the same the shareholders with the required statutory day of the previous year, mainly due to the firstquorum in place, resolve a dividend payout time application of IFRS 16. that is lower or that is limited to the statutory minimum dividend of preference shareholders, Sto SE & Co. KGaA – Dividend or even no dividend payout. The parent company Sto SE & Co. KGaA experienced growth in earnings before income taxes, Financial situation determined in accordance with the German The most important objectives of financial Commercial Code (HGB), from EUR 59.3 million management at Sto include ensuring liquidto EUR 71.4 million, and in the net profit for ity, optimising financial expenses and income, the year from EUR 40.8 million to EUR 51.8 miland controlling and minimising currency and lion. The financial and asset situation of Sto SE interest risks. Achieving these involves a wide & Co. KGaA remained extremely solid, with an range of instruments in order to ensure as little equity ratio of 69.6 % (previous year: 70.1 %). dependence as possible on individual markets The Executive Board of the personally and methods of financing. When working with liable partner STO Management SE will banks, top priority is given to those that enjoy propose a total unaltered dividend payout of good credit ratings and are able to build longEUR 26,049,060.00 to the Annual General term business relationships characterised by Meeting on 10 June 2020. This means that mutual trust. limited preference shareholders will receive an We aim to establish a balanced relationship ordinary dividend of EUR 0.31 and a bonus of between equity and debt capital in order to EUR 3.78 per share. Limited ordinary shareensure a long-term financing scope. As an exholders are to be paid an ordinary dividend of ample, we primarily cover our current financial EUR 0.25 as well as a bonus of EUR 3.78 per requirements – which can fluctuate signifishare. cantly with the seasons over the course of the The above proposal by the personally liable year – using operating cash flow and available partner STO Management SE requires the liquidity. Where necessary, we also make use of consent of the Supervisory Board. The decision temporary credit facilities based on a syndicated of the Supervisory Board is expected to be loan agreement whose remaining term expires made on 16 April 2020. However, should the in 2022. Furthermore, we made use of leases negative development of the economy as a during the year under review. At the 2019 year whole worsen until then due to the coronaend, the present value of disbursements due virus pandemic, the Supervisory Board might from leasing contracts in the future stood at feel compelled to propose a reduced dividend EUR 65.7 million due to the first-time applicapayout in agreement with the personally liable tion of IFRS 16 (previous year: EUR 0.4 million). partner STO Management SE. The same applies Foreign currency items are netted within the if the overall economic situation further deteriGroup to minimise the effect of exchange rate orates, especially in the markets relevant to Sto fluctuations on consolidated earnings. AdditionSE & Co. KGaA, between the Supervisory Board ally, during the planning phase we determine meeting scheduled for 16 April 2020 and the the foreign currency cash flows within the Annual General Meeting scheduled for 10 June Group for the following year, and devise suita2020. In such a case, the Annual General ble hedging strategies on this basis. Planned 31 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) cash positions are hedged through instruments the amount of EUR 18.9 million (previous year: congruent to the time and economic state from EUR 0 million) were also spent on the acquithe area of derivatives. sition of consolidated companies and other The Sto Group’s liquidity is managed centrally business units in 2019, less acquired cash and through a cash-pooling system, into which cash equivalents. Funds amounting to a total of almost all of the Group subsidiaries operating in EUR 48.7 million (previous year: EUR 33.0 milthe eurozone are integrated. This allows us to lion) were released from financial investments on net cash surpluses and cash requirements, and expiry of the maturity date, and cash and cash minimise the number of external banking transequivalents of EUR 27.9 million were reinvested actions. We invest any surplus liquidity under (previous year: EUR 37.9 million). Cash flow from conditions that are as favourable as possible. investment activities adjusted for these deposits The duties of the treasury department and disbursements amounted to EUR -52.3 milinclude the recognition of financial resources lion (previous year: EUR -31.0 million). for internal and external financing as well as Cash flow from financing activities the control of financial risk management. This amounted to EUR -62.9 million (previous year: approach takes into account the Group’s continEUR -24.2 million), with dividend payouts to the uing internationalisation and the increasing risk shareholders reaching EUR 26.1 million (previmanagement requirements that come with it. ous year: EUR 26.4 million). Payments made for the repayment portion of lease liabilities came Development of liquidity in 2019 to EUR 19.3 million (previous year: EUR 0 milIn 2019, cash flow from operating activity lion) and were recorded in this way for the first of the Sto Group totalled EUR 117.0 million time due to the first-time application of IFRS compared to EUR 80.7 million in the previous 16. Payments for current borrowings increased year. In addition to the improved net profit for to EUR 4.2 million (previous year: EUR 3.0 milthe year, this growth was primarily due to the lion), and the corresponding deposits fell from application of IFRS 16 for the first time, the EUR 3.5 million to EUR 3.0 million. The cash primary effect of which was a considerable increase in depreciation and amortisation. In total, Sto Group Cash flow statement depreciation and amortisation amounted to in EUR K EUR 52.3 million (previous year: EUR 31.3 million). This was accompanied by an increase 2019 2018 in provisions of EUR 8.6 million following a Cash flow EUR 1.0 million reduction in the previous year. from operating activities 116,955 80,684 The cash flow margin improved, rising from from investment activities –31,585 –35,866 6.1 % to 8.4 %. Without IFRS 16 having been from financing activities –62,892 –24,192 applied for the first time, cash flow from operChange in cash and cash equivalents ating activity would have been EUR 97.1 million. from changes in exchange rates and Cash flow from investment activities in the impairments in accordance with year under review amounted to EUR -31.6 milIFRS 9 835 246 lion (previous year: EUR -35.9 million), with Cash and cash equivalents outflows from property, plant, and equipment at beginning of period 105,294 84,422 as well as intangible assets increasing from Change in cash and cash equivalents 23,313 20,872 EUR 32.0 million to EUR 35.3 million in comparCash and cash equivalents ison to the previous year. Additionally, funds in at the end of period 128,607 105,294 32 Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA outflow resulting from payments for non-curremained virtually stable at EUR 32.6 million rent borrowings rose to EUR 8.8 million (previ(previous year: EUR 30.5 million). The areas in ous year: EUR 0.1 million). which these were made included replacement Financial resources at the 2019 year end and expansion measures carried out as part of came to EUR 128.6 million (previous year: the ongoing Retrofit programme. One of the EUR 105.3 million). This takes into account focal points in 2019 was implementing a digital an amount of EUR 0.8 million (previous year: strategy in our production activities. A total EUR 0.2 million) resulting from changes related of EUR 2.7 million was invested in intangible to the exchange rate as well as impairment of assets in 2019 (previous year: EUR 1.6 million). expected losses on cash and cash equivalents As in the previous year, we did not undertake in accordance with IFRS 9. As compared to the any investments in financial assets. same day of the previous year, cash and cash Across the Group as a whole, EUR 27.3 milequivalents increased by EUR 23.3 million (prelion (previous year: EUR 26.8 million) of the vious year: EUR 20.9 million). total amount were invested in the segment of Western Europe, EUR 2.0 million in the segment Investments of Northern/Eastern Europe (an unchanged figure compared to the previous year), and Sto Group Investments and depreciaEUR 6.1 million (previous year: EUR 3.3 million) tion/amortisation (without in America/Asia/Pacific. financial assets and rights of use) in EUR million Asset situation The consolidated balance sheet of Sto SE & 40 Co. KGaA as at 31 December 2019 witnessed 39.1 an increase of 14.2 % to EUR 896.1 million as 37.5 35.8 32.7 35.3 compared to the 2018 year end (31 Decem30 32.7 32.1 33.2 ber 2018: EUR 784.4 million). This was largely 31.0 33.3 29.9 31.3 attributable to the application of IFRS 16 for the first time and the expansion in the companies 20 consolidated. On the assets side, the total non-current assets increased from EUR 336.2 million to 10 EUR 438.1 million, with fixed assets rising from EUR 313.8 million to EUR 401.2 million. Property, plant, and equipment experienced a 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 year-on-year increase from EUR 254.9 million to Investments Depreciation/amortisation EUR 262.4 million, and intangible assets grew from EUR 47.8 million to EUR 64.5 million, In the 2019 fiscal year, the Sto Group invested largely as a result of acquisitions. Following a total of EUR 35.3 million (previous year: the first-time application of IFRS 16, rights EUR 32.1 million). This figure falls significantly of use were also recognised as fixed assets below the budget of EUR 43 million, primarily for the first time. At the 2019 year end, they because various projects had to be postponed amounted to EUR 63.6 million (31 December as a result of delays in approval processes. 2018: EUR 0 million). Other non-current assets This meant that investments in tangible assets rose to EUR 36.9 million (31 December 2018: 33 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) EUR 22.4 million). This growth was primarily longer terms. The item of other current assets, due to the increase in the deferred tax assets which amounted to EUR 30.9 million (31 Deitem from EUR 20.5 million to EUR 29.8 milcember 2018: EUR 24.5 million), primarily lion and in the non-current financial assets consists of refund claims. Cash and cash equivitem from EUR 0.5 million to EUR 5.2 million. alents in the Sto Group increased year-on-year Current financial investments were reallocated from EUR 105.3 million to EUR 128.6 million. to non-current financial investments in 2019 On the liabilities side, equity in the Group as part of efforts to optimise financial manincreased by 1.9 % to EUR 486.5 million as agement and in particular to prevent negative at 31 December 2019 (31 December 2018: interest. EUR 477.5 million). The share of minority Current assets showed an increase from interests, which previously consisted mainly of EUR 448.2 million to EUR 458.0 million, with the share of minority shareholders in Ströher inventories rising from EUR 97.9 million to GmbH, fell from EUR 7.6 million to EUR 0.4 milEUR 101.3 million. In addition to first-time conlion after the remaining 49.9 % of Ströher solidation effects, this was the result of an inwas acquired on 1 July 2019. The equity crease in inventory as at the reference date due ratio dropped to 54.3 % (31 December 2018: to necessary maintenance measures performed 60.9 %) due to the balance sheet extension on production facilities at the Stühlingen headcaused primarily by the first-time application of quarters during the turn of the year. Current IFRS 16. trade receivables totalled EUR 137.7 million In 2019, non-current provisions and lia(31 December 2018: EUR 134.7 million). The bilities increased from EUR 119.7 million to reduction in current financial assets from EUR 195.0 million, mainly as a result of the new EUR 83.3 million to EUR 57.6 million was chiefly item of non-current lease liabilities. This was the result of their reallocation to cash and cash created on account of the first-time application equivalents, and to financial investments with of IFRS 16 and totalled EUR 47.2 million on the reference date (31 December 2018: EUR 0 milSto Group Balance sheet structure as at lion). Post-employment benefit provisions also 31 December 2019 grew by EUR 24.5 million to EUR 123.8 million (31 December 2018: EUR 99.3 million), chiefly Assets Liabilities due to the change in market interest rates. Current provisions and liabilities experienced a net increase from EUR 187.2 million to EUR 214.6 million. In accordance with the Non-current assets Equity capital regulations of IFRS 16, current lease liabilities 48.9 % amounting to EUR 18.5 million (31 December 54.3 % 2018: EUR 0 million) were recognised for the first time. Warranty provisions within sales represent the most significant item among Non-current provisions other current provisions, which grew from Current assets and liabilities 36.8 % 21.8 % EUR 45.5 million to EUR 48.2 million in total. This relates to insurance refund claims that are Current provisions included on the assets side as other current asCash and and liabilities cash equivalents 23.9 % sets. Current borrowings fell from EUR 11.5 mil14.3 % lion to EUR 5.1 million, mainly as a result of 34 Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA bank loans being repaid as part of Group had 53 employees on the reference date. Other financing for subsidiaries. Trade payables at the increases in personnel in Germany were mostly 2019 year end amounted to EUR 48.9 million offset by the sale of the VeroStone GmbH (31 December 2018: EUR 47.2 million). operation and the reductions in staffing levels At the end of December 2019, total boraccompanying this. rowings amounted to EUR 8.8 million after Outside of Germany, the number of employEUR 14.8 million in the previous year. Taking ees grew by a total of 144 to 2,590 (previous into account cash and cash equivalents of year: 2,446). This figure includes 43 employEUR 128.6 million, net financial assets stood ees at Skyrise Prefab Building Solutions Inc. in at EUR 119.8 million, an improvement on the Canada and 67 employees at Unitex Australia previous year (31 December 2018: EUR 90.5 Pty Ltd. Excluding these companies, the Group million). saw a plus of 34 employees as a result of select new appointments in countries with shortterm and medium-term growth prospects. This C. Other performance increase was contrasted by specific restrucindicators turing measures in regions battling difficult general economic conditions. The percentage of the Group’s workforce employed outside of Employees Germany saw a net increase from 45.9 % to 46.8 %. The number of Sto Group employees rose from 5,333 on the same day of the previous year Sto Group Employees by region to 5,533 at the 2019 year end (representing an increase of 200 or 3.8 %). The number of employees at locations in Germany experiWestern Europe (not including enced net growth of 56 to 2,943 (previous Germany) year: 2,887), mainly as a result of the first-time 22.1 % incorporation of Liaver GmbH & Co. KG, which Germany Sto Group Number of 53.2 % employees Northern/Eastern 2,800 Europe 11.7 % 2,895 2,943 2,884 2,887 2,400 2,623 2,652 2,590 2,446 America/Asia/Pacific 2,356 2,380 2,356 2,424 2,000 13.0 % 1,600 In the segment of Western Europe (including 1,200 Germany), the number of employees amounted 800 to 4,164 (previous year: 4,094), including those resulting from the first-time consolidation of 400 Liaver GmbH & Co. KG. At the 2019 year end, the number of employees had risen to 648 in 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Northern/Eastern Europe (previous year: 636) Germany Outside of Germany 35 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) and to 721 in America/Asia/Pacific (previous year: the Sto culture is constantly evolving, we take 603). This significant rise was primarily attributacare to ensure that its core values are upheld. ble to the first-time consolidation of Skyrise PreThe focal points of the 2019 fiscal year included fab Building Solutions Inc. in Canada and Unitex the worldwide employee survey, which was Australia Pty Ltd with a total of 110 employees. conducted in May and then evaluated. This Sto considers diversity to be one of the initiative achieved a participation rate of 83 % keys to the company being successful in the and delivered numerous insights and suggesfuture, and this approach is congruent with tions for improvement, some of which have its corporate culture. In our experience, teams already been translated into concrete actions. with a heterogeneous make-up are better at In addition, the new concept for appraisal solving complex tasks and provide more scope interviews in Germany has been successfully for integrating societal and economic trends. introduced within the sales regions. This is why we seek to ensure that the Sto During the year under review, our profesworkforce is as diverse as possible. In 2019, for sional personnel and managerial developexample, we appointed female candidates to ment – one of the three pillars of our corporate several department manager posts. In total, the culture – focused on the succession planning proportion of female employees in the Group strategy for various Sto companies, which amounted to approximately 25 % in 2019, as it has been implemented on an international had in the previous year. level. This is based on customised qualification programmes that are designed to prepare our HR strategy employees for the demands of the future and In the year under review, we consistently pursystematically develop the Group’s stock of sued the human resources (HR) strategy defined expertise and potential new managers. for the Sto Group. This keeps us steadily on Another key pillar of the Sto culture involves course in the area of HR and takes into account boosting our attractiveness as an employer the environment in which the business is operand securing the next generation of employating. The most significant factors that defined ees. Through this, we are providing a strong 2019 were the pressure that the Group felt foundation for the Sto Group to expand and from rising staff costs, the growing importance we are actively addressing the shortage of of flexibility, and intercultural skills, as well as skilled workers available. Our objectives include the persistent shortage of specialist workers. establishing attractive general conditions for It was also necessary to increase the speed of applicants and employees, as well as offerresponse, take account of the ageing working a solid vocational training programme. In force and the change in values, and respond 2019, we dedicated our efforts primarily to the to changing demands on our specialist and selection process for trainees, something that management staff. we revised and improved. The results of the emWe were able to achieve all the HR objectives ployee survey conducted during the year under that had been defined for 2019 and account review revealed that more than 80 % of our for these factors in the process. These objectives Sto employees throughout the Group would were set with the aim of promoting the Sto culrecommend Sto as an employer – providing imture, which is based on mutual respect, enables pressive evidence of our attractiveness. Our low our workforce to play their part in shaping the employee fluctuation rate, which dropped once company, and encourages our employees to again in 2019, also indicates that employees take responsibility for ambitious targets. While identify strongly with the corporate culture and 36 Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA values that Sto upholds. Moreover, Sto achieved At the 2019 year end, the an excellent score in an analysis conducted by Sto Group had a total of an independent opinion research institute that 5,533 employees. consulted thousands of employees on behalf of German magazine Stern. In January 2020, we received an award for being one of ‘Germany’s Best Employers 2020’. Creating competitive employment conditions is another of the pillars on which the Sto culture rests. Our aim is to give our employees an attractive working environment that affords them a great deal of flexibility, while at the same time ensuring that the Group is taking advantage of efficient cost structures. For example, in the past fiscal year we have refined the remuneration systems for sales representatives and improved the general conditions for mobile working. Other focal points were occupational reintegration management and the use of an internal CRM system within the Group. We are consistently seeking to boost the efficiency and professionalism of our workflows throughout all our HR operations. To this end, in 2019, we conducted an organisational Occupational safety analysis within the HR division and launched Preventing and minimising accidents is a key restructuring measures as a follow-up to this. component of our policy on occupational safety. As a basic principle, we aim to keep the rate of Fluctuation reportable accidents at work or on the way to Our aim is to keep our fluctuation rate within and back from work consistently below ten acthe Sto Group steadily in the lower single-digit cidents per 1,000 employees per year. In 2019, percentage range. In Germany, the figure fell the rate at Sto SE & Co. KGaA reached 13.5 – to an excellent 3.3 % in the year under review an improvement on 16.2 in the previous year. (previous year: 3.8 %). This rate is calculated As in the previous year, the main causes of by looking at the number of exits from the accidents were falling, tripping, and slipping. company (not including natural ones, such In the year under review, no incidents occurred as people entering retirement) in relation to due to defective machinery or installations. With the average number of permanent staff. The a view to achieving long-term improvements percentage of voluntary terminations remained in safety, in 2019, we stepped up the focus on virtually unchanged at approximately 2 %, identifying and preventing trip hazards during demonstrating that Sto continues to be an our site visits, which have proven to be effective. attractive employer. In 2019, the average period These visits and tours were also combined with of employment with the Sto Group was 10.8 instructions and information on the StoInside years, while the average age of the Sto workemployee portal with the objective of reducing force was 43.4 (previous year: 43.5). inappropriate behaviour and increasing levels 37 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) of attention. In the event that serious accidents in the future, the Sto Group offers a compredo occur, they are systematically subjected to an hensive range of opportunities for gaining investigation and the relevant risk assessment is qualifications and further training. A total of adapted or revised in light of the findings. 34 seminars were held on 160 days during The factories of the US subsidiary Sto Corp. 2019. One of the focal points was management in Atlanta (Georgia), Glendale (Arizona), training – among others, trainings on impleand Rutland (Vermont) have been audited menting the measures necessary based on the in accordance with the local Safety & Health results of the global employee survey. OnboardAchievement Recognition Program (SHARP). ing seminars helped the Sto Group intensify its Meanwhile, Sto Scandinavia AB in Sweden, international focus and promote cooperation and Beissier S.A.U. in Spain have been audited on a global level, while language courses and in accordance with OHSAS 18001 (Occupaproject management training opportunities tional Health & Safety Assessment Series). Both were also made available. programmes are designed to maintain high standards of health and safety. Verotec GmbH Vocational training at Sto and Innolation GmbH have received OHRIS In September 2019, a total of 93 young people (Occupational Health and Risk Management started their vocational training at Sto in GerSystem) certification in recognition of their many. The range of available options includes occupational health and safety system, and 26 different industrial and commercial training are thus meeting global standards concerning paths, as well as cooperative study courses health and safety at work, while Sto Sp. z o.o. (classes at university combined with practical in Poland is operating in line with the AQAP training in the company) in various areas. A (Allied Quality Assurance Publications) standard. civil engineering course with a focus on facade technology, leading to a Bachelor of EngineerHealth management ing degree, was launched in autumn 2019. With the aim of improving the wellbeing and viIn Germany, the number of trainees, and stutality of employees, as well as maintaining their dents of cooperative state universities totalled ability to perform, Sto has established a health 233 at the year end (previous year: 214). In relamanagement programme focused on specific tion to the total German workforce, this equates target groups. In the 2019 fiscal year, it conto a share of 7.9 % (previous year: 7.4 %). As centrated on areas including nutrition, sports, a result, Sto far exceeded the approximately and flu vaccinations. With the Sto sports club 4.8 % training rate of all the businesses working at the Stühlingen headquarters closely involved, in the chemical industry in Germany. activities in the areas of exercise and relaxation A special page dedicated to providing extenwere intensified and the corresponding range sive information about vocational training can of offers further was expanded. The 25th annibe found at www.sto.de. In 2019, we also once versary of the club, celebrated in summer 2019, again took part in numerous education fairs provided an occasion to present the full array of and careers days within Germany, made visits to sports activities that are now available. schools, and cultivated education partnerships through applicant training opportunities and Further education and training activities presentations. These events provide prospective With the aim of fostering the skills and interests employees with the opportunity to gain an of our workforce as well as preparing them for in-depth insight into the Sto Group as an emthe specific requirements they will need to fulfil ployer and find out more about the company. 38 Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Research and development Germany. Their activities are geared specifically towards each regional situation concerning We continually undertake in-depth R&D activthe supply of raw materials, product feaities at a consistently high level. The primary tures, and price structures. In 2019, a total of aims of these are to keep enhancing our EUR 13.7 million (previous year: EUR 13.5 milexpertise within the Sto Group, secure the polion) was recorded with an impact on profit and sition we are aiming to achieve as a technology loss in the Sto Group’s research and developleader in our industrial sector, and tap into new ment costs, corresponding to 1.0 % (previous markets and customers. In addition, these activyear: 1.0 %) of consolidated turnover. ities ensure that we are always able to receive sufficient supplies of the materials we need, at Fundamental research the standards of quality we expect and with The Sto Group relies on in-depth fundamenreasonable value for money – regardless of the tal research when devising new or improved changing conditions to which we are subject technologies and engaging in its successful and the impact that regulatory, ecological, and development activities. To ensure that as much economic factors have on them. On both a expertise as possible feeds into our research, European and national level, extensive reclassiour R&D team regularly works with universities fications and revised labelling obligations with and external partners as well. Our activities have regard to raw materials were foremost among included our ongoing participation in a project the challenges faced during the year under that is being funded by the German Federal review. This resulted in Sto incurring considerMinistry of Education and Research and run able additional expense in some areas, such as jointly between us, the Institut für Bauforschung the costs of qualifying alternative raw materials (Institute of Building Materials Research) in and suppliers or preparing additional fallback Aachen/Germany, the Institute of Structural options in order to maintain a consistent level Concrete in Aachen/Germany, and the Federal of supply over the long term and with the Highway Research Institute in Bergisch Gladstandards of quality Sto stands for. bach/Germany. The debate surrounding preservOur Group-wide development activities ative-free and preservative-adapted products take place predominantly at our Stühlingen remained a focal point of our fundamental headquarters. We also operate R&D departresearch. We have conducted extensive work on ments based at various sites in and outside of concepts designed to accommodate the rising demand for preservative-free products without compromising the functionality and shelf life of the products. Through our activities in associations, we have also been involved in establishing appropriate handling practices for preservatives in technically demanding product groups. Production and procurement Developed in 2019, StoLevell SW plus is a multi-purpose product for the plinth area that can be used as The basis for the premium quality standards bonding and reinforcing mortar and as finishing render that Sto products achieve is the company’s to create a fin, float-finished surface texture. strong production expertise. We are continually 39 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) developing applications and methods, as well as Australia Pty Ltd. As in the previous year, all of making ongoing improvements to production Sto’s factories operated mostly at a high capacprocesses, to ensure that our expertise remains ity level and in two-shift or three-shift operation at a consistently high level, and to always acat least some of the time. quire new skills. The Group’s production facilities are conThe most important products/materials tinually being inspected and modernised in produced in-house at the Sto Group are coating line with the latest standards. The Retrofit materials such as renders and paints, as well programme was launched with this purpose in as adhesive and reinforcing compounds. We mind, but its aims go beyond simply upgrading also produce some of our expanded polyand renovating production sites on an ongostyrene-based (EPS) insulants exclusively for ing basis: it also puts in place the conditions supply within the Group at the Innolation sites needed for establishing digitised production in Lauingen/Germany and Amilly/France. This processes, reflecting a trend that is on the rise. allows us to strategically develop our technical During the reporting period, the programme’s expertise in this sensitive area, and reduce the activities focused primarily on replacing process extent to which we are dependent on suppliers. control systems, modernising system controls, Moreover, our Swedish subsidiary produces and renewing sensor technology, actuator special insulants based on EPS. technology, and measuring equipment. 2019 also marked the start of the work involved in International production network upgrading the control technology in the dosing At the 2019 year end, the Sto Group’s global and mixing plants at our headquarters in Stühproduction network comprised 33 locations, of lingen. Once all the control and instrumentation The Retrofit programme aims to which 11 were in Germany and 22 outside of solutions have been brought up to the latest continually modernise the capacities Germany. In the year under review, we added standards, the plan is to replace the individual at the production sites, and to new production sites through Liaver GmbH site solutions with a uniform production manestablish the right conditions for & Co. KG in Ilmenau/Germany, Skyrise Prefab agement system that will provide digital supdigitising production processes. Building Solutions Inc. in Canada, and Unitex port for virtually every process in the production environment and for order processing. Another large-scale project that was involved in establishing automated production processes was the installation of three new silos at the Rüsselsheim/Germany plant for the purpose of dosing raw materials in powder form. The infrastructure at the site in Kriftel/Germany also underwent modernisation. In order to be able to continuously improve the performance of the production facilities within the Sto Group, we constantly check the rate of defective batches. Our aim is to keep this proportion of the total production volume that cannot be delivered due to defects below 0.1 % across the Group. This level of quality is already being achieved almost consistently at the European Sto factories. Potential weaknesses are 40 Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA identified and eliminated as early as possible, insulants. The work that it undertook during and the training we provide ensures that our the year under review included adding another employees worldwide are qualified to do this. production line to its existing processes and Due to the market conditions and the cusintroducing a new data collection system for its tomer structure of the Sto Group, the business production, maintenance, and quality assurof the Sto companies is dominated by orders ance activities. Digitising the related processes with short lead times. For this reason, a high has made it possible to obtain improved data level of goods availability – which is also facilievaluations and introduce appropriate measures tated by flexible production conditions – and a more quickly. Production processes have also fast delivery service are absolutely vital for the been optimised with the aim of ensuring ongocompany. This means that the Sto Group does ing improvements in quality. not consider key figures relating to order receipt Furthermore, Sto has introduced the and backlog to be significant. ISO 50001 energy management system at several of its locations over recent years. As at the Tested quality management end of 2019, Sto SE & Co. KGaA’s headquarters All key production facilities within the Sto in Stühlingen, all the production sites and SalesGroup are registered in the integrated manageCentres in Germany, and six subsidiaries were ment system, which incorporates the existing certified. Sto Ges.m.b.H in Villach/Austria also quality, environmental, safety and energy achieved ISO 50001 certification for the first management systems that apply at each facility. time in 2019: this included its production, logisAdditionally, the majority of the Group’s plants tics, and sales activities plus seven SalesCentres. are certified in accordance with external standards. At the 2019 year end, 26 out of a total Procurement of 33 locations had been assessed and certified The key raw materials sourced by the Sto Group for their environmental management system in include base materials such as sand, cement, accordance with the international quality manand lime, as well as speciality chemicals and agement standard ISO 9001:2015, and 15 in crude oil based raw materials. Examples of accordance with ISO 14001:2015. In the course other items that are procured include insulants, of the year, production sites both in and outside mesh, and containers. of Germany underwent successful surveillance The situation on the procurement markets audits in accordance with ISO 9001:2015 and became significantly less strained in 2019 as ISO 14001:2015. Internal audits were also concompared to the previous year, which had ducted at the Stühlingen site and at all certified been marked by steep price increases. Global production sites in and outside of Germany. demand for several of our key input materials These primarily focused on quality assurdeclined during the year, mainly due to sluggish ance during the production of EPS insulation economic performance worldwide. The measboards. To achieve this, we supplement our ures that Sto had initiated to offset increases existing production system with enhanced in the cost of materials also had a noticeably measures that go beyond the requirements of positive impact. As an example of this, we the applicable standard, ensuring that a high intensified the strategic stockpiling of key input level of product quality is maintained among materials and made improvements in securing all the suppliers involved in the manufacturing supply by putting contracts in place. In addition, process. Innolation GmbH in Lauingen/Germany we built up a pool of alternative suppliers to acts as a Group-wide centre of expertise for further extend our procurement network. 41 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) In 2019, procurement prices in areas of tise, and state-of-the-art procurement methods. relevance to Sto were at a lower level in some We reinforced this indirect purchasing approach cases, and often remained stable, when comin 2019 and were able to combine shared repared to 2018. Prices were still high compared quirements even more effectively in areas such to previous years, however. Significant rises as IT, machinery, and systems. The efforts that were only seen in the areas of basic mineral have been made to work closely with various raw materials and transportation, in which subsidiaries on complex procurement projects the persistently severe lack of HGV drivers have had a remarkably positive impact on both was particularly evident. This trend has led to costs and quality. shipping companies incurring rising staff costs As a means of identifying price fluctuations and passing them further down the chain. and supply bottlenecks early on, we systematHigher expenses also arose from additional toll ically monitor the supply chain at every stage, charges and city-centre bans on vehicles that from the purchase of raw materials to storage have been introduced in a bid to cut down on and all the way through to delivery to the particulate pollution – a move that is requiring customer. We use special software to assist us shipping companies to provide on-demand in this process. By consistently applying and flexibility much more than before. In the energy constantly optimising this increasingly digitised sector, Sto was able to make further savings on process, we are able to continuously improve electricity and gas costs thanks to long-term the supply chain within the Sto Group. In contracts. addition, our comprehensive classification of There were no significant bottlenecks in the marketing structure for individual items supply or longer lead times to deal with on the makes for an efficient and faster planning and whole. The cost of goods sold in the Group fell scheduling process. The planning process has by one percentage point to 45.2 % (previous also been improved for a defined set of product year: 46.2 %). groups by incorporating the forecast from Sales into planning at an early stage. As a result, we Procurement management are able to achieve a high OTIF (on-time and The basis for end-to-end security of supply at in-full delivery) for our customers. all production locations of the Sto Group is Twice a year, we perform a systematic proactive procurement management, which supplier evaluation at our key European Sto relies on close, long-term relationships with companies. This involves assessing the comsuppliers. In 2019, we increased staff capacpanies based on the criteria of price, quality, ity in this area as a result of the significant commercial cooperation, sustainability, and challenges we had faced in the previous year supply conditions. The results are weighted in and sharp rises in costs. We also did so with different ways and are condensed into a single the aim of further optimising our approach to key figure. The maximum score is 100; in the risk management in purchasing. We also made case of Sto SE & Co. KGaA, the target score improvements to our portfolios of the strategic was 90.0, as was the case in the previous year. purchasers. This year’s score saw an improvement from 87.2 Sto SE & Co. KGaA acts as an internal service to 87.7 points in comparison to the previous provider within the Group for the professional year, with the values in virtually every sub-criteprocurement of capital goods, services, and rion rising once again. This was chiefly thanks consumables, and supports the subsidiaries by to procurement markets across the globe being providing tailored consultation services, experexposed to less strain. 42 Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Inventory ratios (average inventory in relaand will be consolidated within the Sto Group tion to annual sales) are agreed with the Sto starting from the current year. subsidiaries as part of Group-wide stock manBetween the end of the 2019 fiscal year and agement. These values depend on whether the point at which this report was signed off, the company concerned is a production and/ there were no other events with a significant or sales company, and ranged between 2.3 % impact on the earnings, financial, and asset and 40.0 % in 2019. The process of defining situation of the Sto Group. the targets also involved analysing the relevant However, it is difficult to predict how the market conditions, such as product launches, coronavirus pandemic is set to continue and strategic stockpiling of raw materials and what impact it will have on the global economy. trading goods, and necessary logistics-related This is a situation that involves considerable changes. Higher stock values were approved risks. We have provided more detail about the in cases where this was necessitated by prorisks posed to Sto as a result of this in the ‘Risks duction-related, logistics-related, or strategic and opportunities report’ and ‘Outlook report’ stockpiling. Thanks to the Sto Group’s consections below. sistent and proactive approach to inventory management and ongoing monitoring of materials with longer stock turnover periods, E. Risks and the targets were largely met during the year opportunities report under review. In 2019, Sto-eProcure was launched in Risks and opportunities further European subsidiaries, for examples in As a company with an international focus Sto Ges.m.b.H in Austria as well as Innolation and business activities, Sto SE & Co. KGaA is SAS and Sto SAS in France. Sto-eProcure is a regularly confronted with opportunities and state-of-the-art procurement platform that risks. This means that managing these opporhandles all indirect material demands using a tunities and risks in a way that focuses on our standardised approval process across the Group. objectives is an integral part of our manageIt is also linked directly to the Group-wide SAP ment of the company, and is crucially important system. This process also went hand in hand to ensuring that the Group follows a positive with further development of local processes in path over the long term. The risk strategy order to achieve additional improvements in the developed by the Executive Board of STO collaboration between the company headquarManagement SE as the personally liable partner ters and its subsidiaries. of Sto SE & Co. KGaA, asks for opportunities that arise to be exploited with rigour, and risks to be undertaken only where a commensurate D. Events after the contribution to earnings can be expected and a reporting period threat to the company’s existence can be largely excluded. Generally speaking, we define risks With effect from 1 January 2020, Sto SE & Co. and opportunities as potential deviations from KGaA has acquired 50.1 % of VIACOR Polymer the planned result. GmbH, Rottenburg am Neckar/Germany. This In the long term, we estimate that opporturenowned manufacturer of industrial flooring nities for Sto will outweigh the risks. The need and coatings for sports flooring expands what to install energy efficiency measures within Sto has to offer under the StoCretec brand buildings in order to reduce CO2 emissions is 43 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) set to rise. Furthermore, decision-makers in the analyse risks in good time, assess the expected area of climate protection are now speaking effects on the finance, income, and asset situwith one voice. One example of this is the Euroation, and have the opportunity to implement pean Commission’s expressed intention to make appropriate countermeasures where necessary. the EU climate-neutral by 2050. A European The most important component of the RMS Climate Law is to make this aim legally binding. is a detailed reporting system, which records all The Commission is currently working on the operational activities in the Group both in terms basis of this being an EU-wide objective. of quantity and quality in accordance with a Government funding has shown to have a specified scheme. Through constant monipositive impact on the sale of facade systems. toring of clearly defined key figures, we can Therefore, Sto can expect opportunities to arise identify undesirable developments at an early when new programmes are launched or existing stage and quickly initiate countermeasures. ones are extended. This does, however, require This system is supplemented by a risk manual these incentive measures to be designed in a defining various risk categories, guidelines for transparent way that is tailored to the relevant assessing risks, and procedural instructions for target groups. Otherwise, the measures may not every Group company. This manual is binding have the corresponding effect and facade prodthroughout the Group. These two instruments uct manufacturers may not be compensated for are complemented by an annual risk inventory, the advance expenses they have incurred. which is used to categorise and document all As we also expect to see prices for key fossil current risks on a timely basis. This has three fuels escalate again in the medium term, we categories of risk, based on a weighted value believe that facade systems will become increasindicating the level of damage that could be ingly appealing from a financial perspective as sustained: ‘low’, ‘medium’, and ‘high’. The well. For Sto, as the leading manufacturer of weighted damage value is calculated on the external wall insulation systems, this means basis of the likelihood of damage occurring and additional sales potential. the potential consequences for earnings. The The general economic conditions that we are likelihood of damage occurring is categorised as currently experiencing in our key markets are follows: lower than 30 %, 30 % to 60 %, and an opportunity to generate additional growth higher than 60 %. The managing director of using our own resources. The fact that we are the respective business unit is required to notify well positioned in terms of technology, have the central investment controlling department once again managed to improve our product immediately of any new risks which are identirange in comparison with the previous year, fied in the course of the year. and our close proximity to customers and high Sto works with internationally renowned customer retention level create favourable coninsurance companies to insure material ditions for developing more strongly than the property and assets against loss caused by market as a whole. unforeseeable events such as fire, explosion, or natural disasters, and business interruption Risk management system resulting from this. Third-party liability damage The active management of risks is pursued at caused by Sto or Sto products is also covered by Sto by means of a comprehensive risk manageinsurance. We bear minor damage ourselves, ment system (RMS), which forms an integral while maintaining a sufficiently high coverage part of our business, planning, and control against major claims. In spite of our meticulous processes. This system allows us to identify and approach, the insurance coverage may turn out 44 Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA to be insufficient in isolated cases. For this reaother business fields are audited by the Group son, we regularly review the insurance coverage Accounting department to verify that they are within the Group and perform risk assessments correct, complete, and in compliance with the in order to reduce the risk of underinsurance. accounting guidelines. In this area, we also seek the advice of an interWith regard to the consolidated accountnationally operating and experienced industry ing process, the most important monitoring insurance broker. measure independent of the business processes concerned is auditing of the consolidated anInternal control system nual financial statement of the Sto Group and As a supplement to the Sto Group’s risks and the incorporated separate financial statements opportunities management system, we have of the Group companies by an external Group also implemented an internal control system auditor. This ensures that inventories are taken (ICS). This covers all the principles, procedures, correctly and that assets and liabilities are asand measures that are intended to ensure the sessed, valued, and reported appropriately. The effectiveness, economic efficiency, and reliability compulsory measures and accounting records of the Group accounting as well as compliance provide reliable and traceable sources of inforwith the relevant legal regulations. Additionally, mation. Correct accounting is also supported at the ICS includes an internal monitoring system Sto SE & Co. KGaA by the involvement of other comprising in-process elements and elements auditing bodies such as the German Financial independent of the process concerned. One Reporting Enforcement Panel in Berlin/Germany example of an important in-process measure and the tax audit authorities. is the dual control principle, which is suppleAs well as this, we ensure the correctness mented by automated IT process controls. and reliability of our accounting processes The digitised accounting process is controlled by applying specific key figure analyses, and using the ERP software SAP, which has been through the processing and control of complex implemented at most Sto companies. It records business transactions by different persons. and processes all issues and data relevant to The separation of administrative, executing, accounting. Sto SE & Co. KGaA has an elecaccounting, and approval functions, and the tronic workflow in place for centralised invoice performance of these functions by multiple processing and archiving, and this has been persons (dual control principle), also reduces the gradually rolled out to the majority of subsidiattendant risks. aries. Access to various types of data is clearly The regular management meetings between regulated and corresponding access restrictions the Group management and the managing are in place. directors of the subsidiaries are a further imAn internal manual containing corporate acportant element of the ICS. A meeting focusing counting guidelines in line with IFRS is regularly on the annual financial statements takes place updated and provides the basis for drawing up for each operationally active company between the annual financial statements, which must be the local Management Board, representatives of included in the consolidated annual financial Group Accounting or central Investment Constatement of the Sto Group. This ensures the trolling, and, in most cases, the Chief Financial uniform implementation of valuation and Officer of STO Management SE as a representreporting rules throughout the Group. All ative of the Group’s parent company. The local balance sheets as well as income and cash flow auditor is also present at this meeting. Additionstatements drawn up by the subsidiaries and ally, a national control committee – such as the 45 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) Board of Directors – or the Group auditor may is controlled externally by our Group auditor, participate in the meeting if necessary. while central Investment Controlling, Group The rules of procedure for managing direcAccounting, and Internal Audit are responsible tors in the Sto Group include mandatory rules for performing internal audits. The Supervisory for correct conduct of business processes, which Board and, in particular, the Audit Committee must be adhered to throughout the Group. receive regular information from the Executive The transparency required for the increasBoard of STO Management SE as well as the ingly complex corporate processes is ensured auditor and Internal Revision. by the Internal Audit department, which also Despite every care being taken to prevent makes allowance for implementing the growing them, it is not possible to completely rule out compliance requirements. As an independent the occurrence of decisions based on personal department, Internal Audit reports directly to judgements, flawed checks, criminal actions the Executive Board of the personally liable by individuals, or other circumstances that partner and to the Chairperson of the Supermay impair the effectiveness and reliability of visory Board. The extensive company complithe deployed ICS. Additionally, even seamless ance system for monitoring adherence to legal application of the deployed systems cannot fully requirements and internal corporate guidelines guarantee the correct, complete, and timely is part of our risk management strategy. The recording and reporting of facts in the Group internal publication of the main features of our accounting. Compliance Management System in accordThe main risks for the Sto Group are preance with the latest recommendations of the sented below in order of decreasing signifiGerman Corporate Governance Code (2017 cance: version) was completed at the beginning of the 2019 fiscal year. Since 2018, the Sto Group Risks arising from the coronavirus pan­ has had a Chief Compliance Officer, and a demic Group-wide Code of Conduct was introduced By constantly internationalising our business worldwide in 2019. activities, which is one of the company’s key A standardised whistle-blower system for strategic aims, Sto is well differentiated in the compliance breaches is publicly accessible via regions in which it is present. We are hence our website, www.sto.de, and not only gives able spread our business risk and compensate whistle-blowers the necessary protection for fluctuations in individual countries to a against sanctions, but also provides a platcertain extent. form on which inappropriate practice can be In the 2020 fiscal year, the coronavirus reported, extensively investigated, and resolved pandemic has gripped the countries in which – around the clock and with anonymity guaranSto operates one by one. This is a constantly teed if desired. The system is open to employchanging situation and one that has had preees, managers, customers, suppliers, and other dominantly negative effects so far. stakeholders. It is administered by an independOne risk resulting from it is that Sto’s supply ent operator and its data is stored on protected could be limited or interrupted by sub-suppliers’ servers located in Germany. The contents of the limited ability or complete inability to deliver. As reports are processed exclusively through Sto. raw materials, purchased goods, and packaging The effectiveness of the RMS and ICS is regare diverted to other priority customers, such as ularly examined in accordance with the relevant those in the medical, hygiene, and food sectors, statutory requirements. Our accounting process supplies may be suspended. To counter this risk 46 Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA as much as we can, we operate on the basis of money-saving behaviour and therefore lead a multiple-supplier principle and international investors to delay planned new buildings or sourcing, as well as using formulations with renovation projects. Even after the coronavialternative raw materials and adopting anticiparus pandemic has ended, investors may still tory stockpiling. be reluctant to part with their money due to Shortages in Sto’s supplies could also result sustained uncertainty and this may lead to a from disruptions in transporting goods to Sto, recession in the construction industry. Sto’s something that in turn may be caused by a broad customer base and low dependency on sickness-related lack of drivers at shipping comindividual customers and projects counteract panies, delays to the necessary border transits these risks, as does the ability of the Sto sales both within the EU and at its outer borders, and team to win new customers. limited fuel supplies. These risks also pertain to A further risk is posed by the disruption to the supply of goods to our customers, both in cash flow caused by liquidity problems of our Germany and outside of Germany. For this reacustomers, which may mean that Sto increasson, at Sto we are focusing on using high-peringly needs to draw on its own liquidity or may formance shipping companies and, in some lead to an increase in defaults on receivables. cases, our own fleet of vehicles for distribution We are in constant dialogue with our customto our customers. ers, who are subject to ongoing credit moniAnother risk arises from the potential reductoring and in some cases are covered by credit tion in production capacity due to increased insurance policies. sickness levels or production ceasing entirely Financial investments with commercial banks if employees are infected with coronavirus. and in corporate bonds will also be at risk if Sto’s production is highly automated in many commercial banks and issuers are no longer in of its factories and relatively few employees the position to honour their repayment obliare required for operation, meaning that a gations at the point of maturity. By and large, sufficient safety distance can usually be mainthe Sto Group’s financial investments are with tained between workers without impacting the banks that have good credit ratings, and in corproduction process. The risks can be reduced by porate bonds with first-class ratings. Financial employing temporary staff to provide additional investments with banks are partially covered by short-term capacity and by introducing shift existing deposit protection. work. As the coronavirus pandemic progresses, it The sale of our products is exposed to risks is possible that temporary closures will be manrelating to several factors, including the availadated in the countries where our companies are bility of healthy workers at our customers’ sites, active. This will pose a risk for the liquidity of a potential exodus of employees from other Sto SE & Co. KGaA, even if Sto SE & Co. KGaA countries leaving our customers to return to can continue its normal operation, since subtheir home countries, our customers’ ability to sidiaries will have to be provided with sufficient access their building sites without restriction, liquidity. We are counteracting this risk through our trade customers’ ability to carry out their ongoing liquidity monitoring, profit-securing work unimpeded, and our customers’ orders measures, cutbacks and postponements of potentially being cancelled by their own clients pending investment measures, and investigadue to the crisis. The coronavirus pandemic tions of government financial aid. has caused widespread uncertainty across the The syndicated loan agreement between population, which may cause an increase in Sto SE & Co. KGaA and a banking consortium 47 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) includes financial covenants that are in line with As at the reference date of 31 December standard market terms and are subject to target 2019, Sto is in a strong financial position and figures. If these target figures are not met, the has a significantly positive net debt as well as banks ultimately have the option of terminating an agreed syndicated loan in the amount of the credit agreement. This poses the risk that EUR 100 million. Sto is also investigating the credit drawn will be declared due within the requirements for the utilisation of government terms of the syndicated loan agreement. This liquidity assistance to secure its own liquidity as risk is being mediated through ongoing key far as necessary. figure monitoring and simulation based on the The situation would need to be regarded as current earnings projection, and through earncritical if, over the longer term, legal measures ings-securing measures resulting from this. put a stop to production and sales in the key Another risk is posed by a significant change markets, if raw material supply and logistics in currency parities with the euro and the US chains collapsed, or if health authorities mandollar. The manufacturing Sto companies generdated a shutdown. ally sell their products on their domestic market. Our comprehensive measures aimed at In addition, a proportion of the products are reducing individual risks are also described in exported to countries outside the eurozone and subsequent sections of the risks and opportuniUS dollar zone. A material change in the releties report. vant currency parities with the euro or US dollar could mean that supplying goods to other Dependence on weather conditions countries becomes more expensive, negatively A major proportion of Sto’s products is used on impacting the turnover generated from export the exterior. This means that their application is business. A large part of the currency risks from dependent on weather conditions, something planned export transactions for the year 2020 that Sto is unable to influence. In particular, was already hedged at the end of 2019 by harsh and long winters at the beginning and/ currency forwards. or end of a calendar year may result in turnover The plans for securing earnings, which had losses which may not be fully recovered due to already been developed as part of the annual limited processing capacity. The same applies planning for 2020, have been put into action to sustained periods of rainfall and hot spells. in order to counteract potential losses from Conversely, favourable weather conditions can declining earnings. In light of the ever-evolving, have a positive effect on business development. negative general conditions, the measures deIn most cases, weather-related fluctuations in fined for Sto SE & Co. KGaA and the companies turnover also have a significant impact on earnof the Sto Group with regards to lowering costs ings. Measured in relation to the profit obtained and securing liquidity are being implemented in a year with average weather conditions, they and further strengthened across the Group. may, in extreme cases, cause the EBIT operating We have established a specific taskforce that is result to increase or decrease by as much as dedicated to assessing the situation and taking EUR 30 million. measures to minimise risks. Nevertheless, according to our current estimation, it is possible Risks in procuring raw materials and exterthat the EBIT operating result may see losses nal products of up to EUR 60 million when compared to the To manufacture its products, the Sto Group uses lower end of our forecast range of EUR 93 milraw materials such as lime, marble and quartz lion. sands, cement, pigments, silicates, silicones, and 48 Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA water-based dispersion agents. Risks could arise In view of the number of items we handle from the concentration tendencies on procureand our procurement volume, external products ment markets, as well as from political unrest, are becoming increasingly important to Sto. For additional trade barriers, or natural disasters. this reason, we have established an independThere is a price dependency in products that ent group focusing on quality assurance for we produce ourselves and external products these products, and plan to expand it gradually. that are made of raw materials based on crude In addition to actually monitoring the quality oil. These include paints, renders, polystyrene of external products, we are also ramping up insulation boards, and even plastic containers our efforts to conclude quality agreements with such as our Sto pails. In the past, trends relating specific terms and carry out supplier audits. to these basic raw materials were generally strongly correlated with the price of crude Sales risks oil. In recent years, however, it has become As things currently stand, we do not expect increasingly clear that an independent, highly future sales of Sto products to present any volatile trend is emerging – often influenced significant risks over the long term, as the sales by global supply and demand. In our view, the potential of facade systems should in principle demand for numerous speciality chemicals, for remain high thanks to a healthy stock of older which there is a dwindling number of availabuildings. Nevertheless, the public debate being ble suppliers around the world, is also set to held in Germany on the general advantages of increase further in the long run – particularly in facade insulation systems and their ecological emerging and developing countries. In the meimpact has caused investors and, in particudium to long term, the price trend is expected lar, private building owners to adopt a very to continue climbing sharply. cautious attitude. These feelings of uncertainty In the Sto Group, strong increases in prohave been fuelled further by conflicting and, in curement prices could trigger a significant rise some cases, highly exaggerated media reports. in material costs. As it is not usually possible The fact that energy prices are currently still relto pass price increases on to customers in the atively low is not very conducive to generating short term, this results in a rise in the cost of demand, particularly when it comes to the price sales percentage. Based on our experience, of crude oil and the impact that this has on the costs of sales can increase by up to 2 percenttime it takes for energy investments to pay off. age points, which in turn can result in a decline Hence, the entire industrial sector faces the risk in earnings of as much as EUR 28 million. of failing to fully exploit sales potential. As the As well as this, a rise in demand for certain market leader, Sto may feel an above-average raw materials and goods could trigger supply impact, which in turn may be reflected in correshortages. We confront the resulting risks sponding levels of turnover and income losses. through advance procurement as well as early The Munich-based Qualitätsgedämmt e.V., contracts with our partners and suppliers. Adan association which was founded by German ditionally, the Sto divisions involved in procurefamily-owned businesses and of which Sto is ment, R&D, and production continually work to also a member, holds the belief that it is posoptimise the use of materials and make it more sible to bolster the confidence of users and inflexible in order to ensure a sustainable supply vestors in the long term by providing them with of the raw materials that are needed. To this objective information and clear explanations end, alternative materials and suppliers are also of the product properties that facade systems taken into consideration. offer. Additionally, this sales risk is mitigated 49 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) by Sto’s success in regional diversification and of existing customers. In addition, the analysis the probable long-term upward trend in energy of product life cycles contributes to a higher risk prices, which has made facade insulation an transparency. appealing prospect from a financial perspecAt the same time, however, innovations can tive. Political decision-makers have committed involve risks. While new Sto products or product themselves to pursuing aims relating to energy versions are only ever launched on the market savings and CO2 reductions more vigorously, once they have undergone extensive testing, it and this, coupled with tax incentives for eneris not possible to completely rule out the posgy-related building refurbishments, is increasing sibility of warranty claims being made against the likelihood of favourable general conditions Group companies. We reserve the right to react being achieved. appropriately to recognised risks through adeSto responds to the conflicting and, in some quate innovations, modification of mature prodcases, highly exaggerated media reports with ucts, or the adjustment of relevant processes. objective, fact-based communication, additional Where past media reports on systems that quality measures, plus a quality management use EPS insulation boards are concerned, at system that is tailored to the specific requirepresent the Sto Group does not believe that ments of the insulants that are supplied. there are any significant risks of liability arising Delays in political decision-making processes from past or future activities. Sto’s comprehenwith regard to state subsidy measures can pose sive quality assurance measures ensure that a risk if potential developers are reluctant to our facade insulation boards made from EPS invest, which would result in a temporary drop and other insulants meet our stringent quality in demand. Sto is addressing this risk through standards, and will continue to do so in the steps such as an objective line of reasoning future, and that requirements stipulated in intended to raise awareness among bodies and the approvals for our external wall insulation decision-makers involved in the process. systems are met reliably. We counter the risk of external wall insulaThe European Commission decided to clastion systems being substituted with competing sify the raw material titanium dioxide – a white products by continually developing the quality, pigment contained in various Sto products – as safety, environmental compatibility, and effihazardous, despite the fact that there is no case ciency of our solutions. Inherent system weakworldwide of any health damage due to inhanesses can be recognised through the analysis lation of titanium dioxide. We, along with the of product life cycles, allowing deficiencies that affected industry associations and recognised arise over time to be detected and eliminated. experts, have severe doubts about whether this General technical progress offers Sto the decision is reasonable. Nevertheless, affected opportunity to derive knowledge and use this products will have to be labelled with addito further develop and improve products and tional warnings in future, which may lead to systems. questions and concerns for all involved in the supply chain, and ultimately result in declines Warranty-related and legal risks in demand. For this reason, Sto is testing posOngoing research and development activities, sible substitutes for titanium dioxide. As legal and the introduction of innovations, are of strameasures have not yet been exhausted, it is tegic importance for the Sto Group. These open expected that the final classification of titanium up opportunities to develop additional markets dioxide will be decided by the European Court and buyer groups, and to reinforce the loyalty of Justice. 50 Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA The US insurance industry currently does nies, and are in close, regular contact with the not offer any sufficiently comprehensive and Sto Group’s data protection officer. economically viable insurance coverage for Risks can arise due to changes in general product risks of facade systems and coatings. legal conditions, such as new classification and The effects of potential damages or liability labelling obligations. One of the ways in which claims in the USA on the financial and income we counter these risks is by qualifying alternasituation of the Sto Group cannot be assessed tive raw materials. reliably on account of the country’s legal system. In order to further limit the risks of Overall economic and industry-specific liability in our activities outside of Germany, risks we engage the services of external consultants The Sto Group with its facade systems and during decision-making procedures where coatings is dependent on the underlying trends necessary, including in relation to technical in the construction industry to a substantial aspects. degree. Demand in Germany – which remains As the range of products we provide is Sto’s largest individual market – plays an imrounded off by supplementary services, Sto is portant role in this. Here, the sale of building exposed to legal risk in the form of liability asproducts responds directly to the general level sociated with consultancy services. For example, of economic activity as well as to general ecoemployees of Sto SE & Co. KGaA provide our nomic and tax-related conditions. A continued customers with support in relation to tenders, downswing in the main German construction quotations, technical issues, and building sector may lead to high levels of surplus capacdesign details. Sto’s in-house Liability Directive ity and intense competition accompanied by instructs all employees on how to handle such strongly declining prices. On the other hand, issues both internally and in their dealings with a significant rise in demand would be accomcustomers. This clear set of guidelines has led to panied by the risk that it may not be possible a marked and transparent reduction in risks. to exploit sales potential to its full extent, at For the Sto Group, protecting the personal least over the short term, due to factors such as rights of customers, employees, shareholders, limited capacity in traditional trade enterprises. business partners, and suppliers is an important We counter this economy-based risk mainly and self-evident objective. When the General through internationalisation of our business Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) came into activities, which ensures regional diversification force on 25 May 2018, data protection became and makes us more independent of fluctuations a much more pressing topic. All Sto companies in specific countries. This also puts us in a posisubject to the scope of the GDPR have adapted tion to reduce subsidiary risks for the Sto Group to the new requirements and implemented resulting from market interest rate changes: governance structures and processes accordsignificant rises in interest can result in a decline ingly. The data protection organisation has been in building investments. strengthened: for example, data protection On top of that, difficulties in the recruitofficers have been nominated by the respective ment of craftsmen could potentially restrict managing directors in order to identify and the capacity of trade enterprises. We are manage potential risks arising from the indoing everything we can to counter these risks creased requirements. In addition, these officers through the varied activities of the Sto Foundaare responsible for implementing the Group tion and the Group, which are aimed at arming directive on data protection within their compaSto customers with the qualifications they need. 51 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) Financial risks with our banks and operate an active financial In times of recession, there is an increased risk management system. This includes the use of of default on receivables. To limit the finanderivatives in the form of interest swaps as a cial consequences potentially arising from means of reducing the risk of changes in interthis, a credit management system has been est rates in the case of long-term, interest-bearimplemented in the Sto Group. This takes into ing liabilities to banks. account the specific conditions prevailing in Sto’s treasury activities have been pooled individual countries. and are handled in an independent departIn Germany, the most important component ment. This measure secures the recognition of the system in place is a set of rules containand control of financial resources for internal ing guidelines for granting and monitoring merand external financing, and supports financial chandise credits. Consistent application of these risk management. Consistent hedging straterules will allow us to keep the default quota at gies and clear rules for financial investments, a low level even during difficult economic times. foreign exchange transactions, and internal As a result of the internationalisation of its and external financing are in place across the business activities, Sto is exposed to currency Group worldwide. In the year under review, risks. We control these risks by means of curthe structures and processes underwent further rency hedges. Relevant risks from foreign curimprovement and the financing costs were rency cash flows are analysed, recorded, and reoptimised. The Group-wide implementation duced by applying suitable hedging measures at of a central treasury management system and the budget creation stage; these processes take a payment transaction system integrated into place throughout the Group. Our main focus is SAP was continued in the course of a rollout on the currencies of countries where we do not project spanning several years. The aim here is have production equipment, i.e. where regular to further improve transparency and security. supply and cash flows are necessary to maintain The key features of a treasury guideline with a business operations. In 2019, this applied to modular structure have been sketched out, with countries such as Switzerland, Canada, and the step-by-step expansion and implementation of United Kingdom. In specific cases and where the guideline set to take place. necessary, we perform additional hedging. As a result of seasonal variability, the deIT risks mand for liquidity to finance current business A substantial proportion of all business proat Sto is subject to significant fluctuations. cesses and interactions with customers and There is a particular need for cash in the first business partners at Sto relies on IT systems few months of a calendar year, whereas cash and components. SAP is the central system inflows dominate during the second half of used within the Sto Group. Malfunctions like the year. Risks arising from these fluctuations system failures, attacks on networks, and loss in payment flows are limited at Sto by the or manipulation of data have the potential available liquid funds. In addition, Sto has at to endanger Sto’s supply readiness and result its disposal an adequate and contractually in declines in turnover. The resulting risks are guaranteed variable credit facility as part of identified and controlled through an active ina syndicated loan agreement, amounting to formation security management system (ISMS), EUR 100 million. which is also used to develop and monitor new In order to reduce our exposure to liquidity measures. These are implemented by a team risks, we also maintain intensive communication of IT security experts and are subject to regular 52 Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA internal audits. In 2019, several measures were is based on the principle of least privilege. The identified, initiated, and implemented. Some cloud-first strategy ensures that company-reaspects of the implementation are continuing lated data is stored, processed, and secured in 2020. in compliance with GDPR rules. Users of IT Sto has adopted a consistent ‘cloud-first’ systems are authenticated via a centralised and strategy. This means that IT systems will be purstandardised identity and access service, which chased from cloud service providers in future, provides security functions such as multi-factor provided it makes economic and technological authentication, plausibility checks, application sense to do so. These systems must be able to level protection, and monitoring. The significant demonstrate GDPR compliance and have an inincrease in threats from phishing, ransomware, formation security certificate that is recognised and trojans has made it necessary to intensify by the German Federal Office for Information our training measures for employees. Therefore, Security (BSI). This means that Sto will benefit warnings and recommended courses of action from the very high IT security standards in place are published on a regular basis within Sto’s at the cloud service providers. internal communication channels. The implemented and planned measures address the following main priorities: Availability: The redundant configuration of all core systems Continuity: and network connections ensures maximum The core systems necessary to the company’s availability for all key business processes. operating business, such as SAP, are deployed An automated monitoring system serves to in redundant and fully virtualised form. This continuously monitor system availability. Risks ensures maximum continuity of the systems and from hardware failures or an inability to update the appurtenant services. In 2016, a new, statesoftware components are being minimised of-the-art, in-house data centre was put into by a gradual modernisation of all the relevant operation. Operationally relevant IT services are components. As part of the Retrofit project in thus available in two independent and spatially our production environment, we are ensuring separated data centres. Data critical to the comthat IT systems are adequate for the current pany is backed up daily and stored separately. In requirements of Industry 4.0. In particular, prothe subsidiaries, only country-specific IT systems tected networks are being operated, procured, are operated for strategic reasons. Terminal and deployed in a way that is technologically fit devices such as laptops, desktops, tablets, and for the future. smartphones are continually updated as part of a lifecycle approach. Human resources risks The expertise and enormous dedication of Sto Integrity: employees are amongst the key building blocks To prevent unauthorised access to the informaof our corporate success. If, in the light of tion systems of Sto SE & Co. KGaA and its fully competition for skilled specialists and managintegrated subsidiaries, we use state-of-the-art ers, we do not succeed in recruiting appropriate IT security solutions that are available on the personnel, this may have a negative impact on market. They serve to protect data, terminal deour future corporate development. This risk vices, local networks, wide-area networks and may become even more serious in the medium data centres. The IT policy defines our restrictive to long term due to demographic trends, parapproach to issuing access authorisation, which ticularly in western industrialised countries. This 53 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) makes it more difficult to find talented young addition, changes to laws and regulations can professionals, and the number of people leaving have a significant impact on tax demands and the company for reasons of age will increase, liabilities, as well as on deferred tax assets and resulting in loss of knowledge. liabilities of the company. Moreover, uncertainty Sto SE & Co. KGaA implements numerous in terms of tax in some regions can restrict the measures to eliminate these risks and position company’s ability to exercise its own rights. itself as an attractive employer. For example, we Sto also operates in countries with complex provide extensive career development opportutax regulations which could be interpreted in nities as well as excellent further and advanced various different ways. Any future interpretatraining, and we take steps to make achieving a tion or development of the tax system could good work-life balance easier. This is to enable impact tax liabilities, profitability, and business us to win over new professionals and managactivities. ers, as well as foster the sense of loyalty felt by Sto is subject to regular audits by financial employees already working for the Sto Group. authorities in relation to taxes and levies. Tax and duty-related risks are identified and evaluEnvironmental risks ated on an ongoing basis with the support of Production at Sto takes place in modern, largely local, external tax specialists. automated plants. This means that manufacturing processes pose only minor environmental Opportunities and risks for business develrisks. We have also implemented an environopment in 2020 mental management system in various Group Predictions on future business development companies, with certification in line with interare generally subject to major uncertainty. At national standards. More information about Sto, one of the major factors to account for is our environmental protection measures can be the set of highly volatile general conditions to found in the section entitled ‘Production and which the international construction industry procurement’. is exposed. Furthermore, our planning is based both on our own forecasts concerning trends in Risks concerning processes and added currencies that are relevant to Sto, which may value also be subject to significant fluctuations, and Events outside of our control, such as natuon the assumption that a largely stable political ral disasters or fire, can heavily compromise environment will prevail. Should these premises production or operating processes in particular. prove incorrect, however, then expectations for This could in turn lead to bottlenecks or even 2020 may deviate from the actual situation. stoppages resulting in a deviation from planned Additionally, the risks presented may bring production volumes. We counteract such risks about some short-term influencing factors that by introducing fire precautions, for example, may have a positive and/or negative effect on and – when financially viable – by taking out Sto’s development. With this in mind, it is not insurance coverage. possible to make a reliable prediction of how EWIS sales in particular will develop. If there are Tax-related risks further declines, Sto will be particularly heavily As a company operating worldwide, Sto is affected given its position as a market-leading subject to different tax legislations and regulacompany. tions in various countries. Any changes to these The issue of sovereign debt continues to tax rules may lead to higher tax expenses. In have risks associated with it, particularly within 54 Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA the eurozone. Fundamental challenges such Targeted internationalisation of our activities as huge debt levels and a loss of trust in some will also open up opportunities for growth, countries have yet to reach a satisfactory conarising from exploiting new markets as well as clusion, or any conclusion at all, meaning that from more intensive development in countries the possibility of a resurgence in the financial in which we are already represented. and economic crisis cannot be ruled out altoThe climate package unveiled by the German gether. government at the end of 2019 has made Other uncertain factors are the effects of the energy efficiency measures in buildings within austerity measures that local authorities are takGermany tax-deductible since 1 January 2020. ing in various European nations (in some cases, According to our estimates, this stimulation on a significant scale) as part of fiscal consolidashould begin to have a positive impact on the tion efforts. In the affected countries, this could EWIS market from the second half of 2020. result in a decline in construction investments in the public sector. Overall risk exposure If the global economy fares better in 2020 The risks are listed below in descending order than research institutes have predicted, the according to their potential impact on earnings demand for raw materials may rise at a disproand have been categorised on the basis of their portionate rate and lead to sharp non-schedweighted damage value: uled price increases. These higher costs could be offset by turnover effects resulting from Risk type Risk higher demand for construction services and by category passing on the costs in the form of higher sales Risks arising from the prices. Additionally, opportunities could arise if coronavirus pandemic high raw materials prices develop more favourably Dependence on weather than assumed in our forecasts. conditions high The dependency of the construction industry on the weather remains a significant element Risks in procuring raw materials of uncertainty. Despite technological progress, and external products high extreme weather conditions can still prove a Sales risks average hindrance for construction activities. Conversely, Warranty-related and legal risks average favourable conditions in the winter months, in Overall economic and which work on the construction site is often not industry-specific risks average possible, can have a positive impact on turnover Financial risks average and income. IT risks average The rapid rate at which the coronavirus panHuman resources risks low demic is spreading has given rise to significant Environmental risks low uncertainty about the future development of the business. The risks and opportunities report Risks concerning processes provides an in-depth look at the risks associated and added value low with this. Tax-related risks low Provided that the economy performs better than expected in regions where we only make The assessment of the overall risk for the Sto plans with a great degree of caution, 2020 will Group is carried out using our risk management see opportunities for business development. system. Following the assessment of current and 55 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) potential future individual risks, and taking into to the previous year. However, the impact of account the countermeasures already initiated, the coronavirus pandemic poses the risk of the the Executive Board of the personally liable partglobal economy entering a period of recession ner STO Management SE, in consultation with and thus reporting figures that are considerably the Supervisory Board, has come to the conclulower than the growth rates originally forecast. sion that no assessable risks are discernible at Prior to the pandemic’s outbreak, the Gerpresent that could have enduring and significant man government had expected to see GDP adverse consequences for the asset, income, once again rise slightly by 1.1 % in 2020. On and financial situation of the Sto Group. 30 March 2020, the German Council of Economic Experts published a special report that F. Outlook report was presented to the government and includes the potential consequences of COVID-19. This Global economy states that it will be impossible for Germany The prospects for the global economy have to avoid entering a recession in the first half of worsened considerably since March 2020 2020 and presents three scenarios that depict due to the coronavirus pandemic, which has different ways in which the economy could overshadowed all other influences. A reliable develop in 2020 and 2021. The key differences forecast of the economic consequences of the between the scenarios relate to how long pandemic could not be made at the time the restrictions that have been put in place for Group management report was created, as health reasons are set to last, how severe these there is a high level of uncertainty regarding the restrictions are, and how quickly the country further spread of the virus, the measures being will be able to recover once they are lifted. The taken by governments to contain the disease, baseline scenario, which current information and the macroeconomic magnitude of the suggests will be the most likely scenario, states consequences. that German GDP will see a reduction of -2.8 % Before the outbreak of the pandemic, the in the current year and an increase of 3.7 % International Monetary Fund (IMF) was of the in 2021. In this case, the Council believes that view that the global economy had somewhat the economic situation would normalise over stabilised. In its outlook published in January the summer. The second scenario is based on 2020, however, the economists stated that they a drop of -5.4 % in 2020 and then an increase were not anticipating a return to the growth of 4.9 % in the following year, while the third rates of previous years. Without taking into acscenario sees GDP falling by -4.5 % in 2020 count the impact of the coronavirus pandemic, and demonstrating sluggish growth of just the IMF had forecast an overall 3.3 % rise in 1.0 % in 2021. global GDP for 2020 following 2.9 % in 2019. Its January outlook for 2020 predicted an Trends for the international construction increase of 4.4 % in developing and emerging industry countries, and an overall expansion of 1.6 % The outlooks that associations in the construcin industrialised nations – once again, without tion sector have presented for each regional the consequences of the coronavirus panmarket do not include the potential impact of demic taken into consideration. These figures the coronavirus pandemic. As things stand, it included a slightly smaller rise in the USA’s is believed that the actual figures will perform growth (+2.0 %) but a more dynamic perforsignificantly below the expected growth rates, mance in the eurozone (+1.3 %) as compared particularly in 2020. 56 Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Before the outbreak of the coronavirus overall situation, even before the onset of the pandemic, the EUROCONSTRUCT network had coronavirus pandemic. In total, it had expected stated in December 2019 that the European slight growth in turnover amounting to 0.4 % construction industry would continue to in 2020, with the architectural coatings and expand, albeit at decreasing rates of growth. paints sector experiencing stagnation. Estimates from experts state that the volume of Without the impact of the coronavirus construction in the territory covered by EUROpandemic taken into account, the construction CONSTRUCT is set to increase by approximately industry in the USA was expected to see a 1 % in 2020. This includes the expectation that continued decline in growth during 2020. GTAI the new-building construction sector in particu(Germany Trade & Invest) had expected that the lar will lose significant momentum, while the number of detached home and multiple-dwellrenovation market will put in a stronger perforing construction projects started would grow mance. These estimates also hold that annual by approximately 1 % and that the residential growth is likely to drop to 0.5 % in residential construction sector would experience stagnaconstruction, 1.0 % in non-residential construction. An ongoing reduction had been expected tion, and 2.2 % in civil engineering by 2022. In in every sector of non-residential construction, previous years, positive stimuli for construction with hotel construction declining by a forecast activity in Europe primarily stemmed from the 3 %, office building construction by 1 %, and positive economic environment, favourable commercial property by 2 %. By contrast, 2020 financing conditions, and a pronounced need was expected to bring positive opportunities for to respond to the requirements of transport and business in the civil engineering sector. energy infrastructure. In China, it is likely that the coronavirus In Germany, the HDB (General association pandemic will result in the pace of economic for the German construction industry) and the growth slowing significantly overall. The conZDB (German Construction Confederation) anstruction sector is once again set to provide nounced in January 2020 that they anticipated support for economic performance in 2020, but a nominal 5.5 % growth in turnover in the is also expected to be the victim of major fallout main construction sector. Without the potential from the pandemic. However, GTAI has stated consequences of the coronavirus pandemic that the internal market is not yet saturated taken into account, this forecast was presented due to a shortage of investment alternatives on the basis of the residential construction and inelastic demand prevailing as a result of sector – expected to see a 7 % increase – benthis, and that the trend towards urbanisation is efiting primarily from the employment situation continuing unabated. continuing to perform well, incomes demonstrating growth, and favourable financing Projected performance of the Sto Group conditions persisting. A scarcity of building land Assuming normal weather conditions and in urban centres is the main restriction on conwithout the impact of the coronavirus panstruction activity. An increase of 5.5 % was exdemic taken into account, Sto expects business pected in commercial construction, with turnodevelopment to remain positive in the 2020 ver in public-sector construction likely to rise by fiscal year. Group turnover is expected to rise 4 % in 2020. The Verband der deutschen Lackby 6.6 % to approximately EUR 1,490 million. und Druckfarbenindustrie e.V. (Association of Within this, it is anticipated that the segments the German Paint and Printing Ink Industry) had of Western Europe and Northern/Eastern not anticipated a significant improvement in the Europe will each contribute growth rates in the 57 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) mid-single digit percentage range, while the Sto Group throughout the world. However, it America/Asia/Pacific region will see growth in does not incorporate any potential effects of turnover in the upper single-digit percentage the coronavirus pandemic. We are also working range. on the basis that the euro will remain largely Thanks to above-average weather conditions stable. From our perspective, there are various in January and February, the 2020 fiscal year uncertainties as a result of the many economic began favourably for the majority of markets risk factors, particularly in the USA, China, and that are important to Sto. While March initially specific European countries. It is not currently demonstrated a positive trend on the whole, possible to predict what impact the coronavirus the impact of the coronavirus pandemic had pandemic will have on the business developgrown increasingly significant in several of Sto’s ment of the Sto Group. At the time of compiling markets by the middle of the month, and in the management report, the extent of the consome cases had considerably hampered busisequences for the company was still expected to ness activities. be relatively small. However, there is no reliable The Sto companies in France, Italy, and way of predicting how things are set to conChina were especially badly hit by the effects tinue or what the longer-term effects will be. of the pandemic during March. However, this The United Kingdom’s exit from the EU may contrasted with the situation at companies have a negative impact on sales figures in the including Sto SE & Co. KGaA, which recently country. However, we believe that Brexit will not recorded high volumes of incoming orders and have a significant impact on Sto for reasons inwere therefore required to introduce special cluding the relatively low business volume that production shifts on Saturdays to accommodate the United Kingdom accounts for. As things this – an unusual circumstance for the time of stand, we believe that the impact of Brexit on year. the economic development of the EU in 2020 In total, consolidated turnover in the first will also be low. three months of the year exceeded that of the We expect the business volume to continue previous year and fell in line with expectations. growing in the area of facade systems. The Prior to the outbreak of the coronavirus panobjective advantages offered by energy-related demic, the consolidated earnings before interest facade insulation hold significant potential for and taxes (EBIT) for 2020 had been forecast to sales of Sto’s external wall insulation systems fall between EUR 93 million and EUR 103 milacross the globe. This range of products meets lion, and earnings before taxes (EBT) between the very highest quality standards in terms of EUR 90 million and EUR 100 million. Where the insulating performance, ecology, cost-effecresulting return on sales is concerned, we had tiveness, fire protection, durability, and design anticipated a value between 6.0 % and 6.7 %. freedom. At the end of 2019, the German After allowing for the application of IFRS 16, Bundesrat also agreed on a climate package it was expected that the return on capital emcontaining steps that include making energy ployed (ROCE) would be between 14.0 % and efficiency measures in buildings within Germany 15.5 %. tax-deductible. This will boost the financial This forecast is based on the expectation incentive to introduce insulation measures and that the global economy will grow and that the is likely to cause a rise in renovation rates as a volume of construction will increase globally as result. By contrast, the ongoing debate on the originally suggested, thereby providing a solid use of external wall insulation systems in Gerfoundation for positive development of the many may restrict development in Germany. 58 Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA We remain in a very competitive position in pliers outside China to obtain supplies of raw our other product areas too, and believe that materials and bought-in products containing we will see a growth in business volume in raw materials or primary products from China. 2020. In our view, the greatest potential for Sto is working closely with its suppliers in the growth lies in interior coatings within the inteface of this challenge and is also looking at the rior products range. impact of disruptions in goods transportation There is currently still a great deal of due to border closures outside China. Among uncertainty surrounding the impact that the other things, foresighted stockpiling is intended coronavirus pandemic is set to have on Sto’s to reduce the resulting risks. future business development. At the time of We have planned a budget of around compiling the management report, the extent EUR 52 million for investments in property, of the consequences for the company was still plant, and equipment, and intangible assets in expected to be relatively small. As things stand, 2020. Our investments will once again focus we believe that there will be coronavirus-related on the long-term measures that have been shutdowns, considerable disruptions to supply developed as part of our Retrofit programme chains, and a significant number of infected for modernising and replacing the producemployees throughout the company in several tion equipment within the Group. As well as of our key markets, albeit not simultaneously, this, we are planning to invest in expanding resulting in sales of our products being curtailed production capacity at our site in Villach/Ausfor an extended period. However, it is nowhere tria and in the construction of a new logistics near possible to reliably predict how business building for Südwest Lacke + Farben GmbH will continue beyond this or what the longer& Co. KG in Böhl-Iggelheim/Germany, which term effects will be. is set to create more efficient conditions for Without taking into account the effects of logistics processes and the storage of finished the coronavirus pandemic, we believe that goods and raw materials. Due to the impact of the area of procurement will continue to the coronavirus pandemic, we believe that it experience more relaxed conditions and steady will be necessary to either cancel or postpone demand in 2020 due to reduced economic investment measures that have not yet been growth worldwide. As a net effect, price levels launched. of key raw materials and other materials are According to our planning for 2020 – which set to remain largely unchanged when viewed was developed before we were aware of together with increases in other costs relating the coronavirus pandemic – the number of to freight, which in some cases will be signifiemployees is likely to rise in countries that cant. have medium-term growth prospects, whereas The procurement volume that the Sto Group specific adjustments are set to be made in reobtains directly from China is very low, which gions battling difficult economic conditions. Sto means that the coronavirus pandemic is unlikely intends to abide by its agreed HR strategy as to lead to the Group being affected by direct a general rule, but may be forced to introduce supply disruptions relating to raw materials measures for curbing staff costs over the short and bought-in products from China over the term. short to medium term. At present, it is difficult Turning to the area of financing, we do to assess the potential impact of the coronavinot currently have any extraordinary measures rus pandemic on raw material supplies to our planned for 2020. plants in China and on the ability of our sup59 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) Strategic direction consolidate this position. The factors that reinIn 2019, we began reviewing our strategic diforce the success we have had in our corporate rection and aligning it with the challenges and development include our extensive sales base, opportunities that Sto currently faces. The Sto our customer-focused approach to logistics, our Group has enjoyed long-term success throughwell-qualified, dedicated workforce, and the out its corporate history, and this next step aims strategic reform measures we have launched. to sustain this success in the years to come and, In 2020, we expect to see a growth in turnover importantly, improve profitability. Hence, we of 6.6 % and EBIT of between EUR 93 milwant to ensure that we are in the best possible lion and EUR 103 million, without taking into position both internally and in how we perform account the potential effects of the coronavirus externally. pandemic – as described in the risks and opporOur strategic direction is based on an intunities report. As things stand, however, it is depth analysis that we began conducting in not possible to make a reliable prediction of the 2019. We will then derive specific measures overall impact that the pandemic will have on from the results of this analysis. Our primary the 2020 fiscal year. aims include defining promising growth areas for Sto in which we can make targeted investStühlingen/Germany, April 2020 ments, divide up our global sales activities in a way that is more sharply focused on specific Sto SE & Co. KGaA target groups, and improve our process organrepresented by STO Management SE isation. Executive Board Our growth-focused plans will be accompanied by measures for increasing gross profit margins in the Group. We intend to tap optimisation potential in every area of the company – from adjusting the sales prices based on efficiency-enhancing measures in procurement and development right through to optimising the product mix. As well as this, we intend to focus our efforts more keenly on product ranges and markets that offer higher margins. To this end, we are freeing up more capital and making long-term improvements to the quality of our results. General statement on future development Sto is one of the leading providers of high-quality facade systems and coatings with an outstanding brand in the industry, an extensive, top-quality product range that takes account of every requirement, an excellent position on the international stage, and a strong capacity for innovation. We set the pace of technology in the industrial sector and want to further 60 Management Report for the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA 61 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | The Sto share The Sto share Sto limited preference share data 2019 on the stock markets Most of the international share markets Ticker symbol STO3 demonstrated an upward trend in 2019. DeISIN DE0007274136 spite numerous uncertainties, such as debt levWKN 727413 els rising worldwide and political unrest in varShare category Non-voting ious countries, key American and Asian indices preference share showed growth – as did the European EURO STOXX index, which increased by 25.7 % over Market segment Regulated market the course of the year. European share markets Level of transparency General Standard primarily benefited from the reversal in global Sector according to Deutsche monetary policy as directed by the US Federal Börse AG (German Securities Reserve, the trade dispute between the USA Exchange) Consumer and China dying down, and political risks Subsector according to Deutsche becoming less severe due to factors such as the Börse AG (German Securities Home Construction disorderly nature of Brexit. Exchange) & Furnishings Driven by this international upturn, the German DAX index also ended the year on a Number of limited positive note rising by 25.5 % year-on-year folpreference shares 2,538,000 lowing a disappointing previous year in which Number of non-listed limited it had experienced losses of around 18 %. Gerordinary shares 4,320,000 many’s second-line stock market indices perShare price trend for 2019 (indexed on 28 December 2018 = 100) 150 S to limited preference shares DAX 140 D AXsector Construction 130 120 110 100 90 80 Jan. Feb. Mar. Apr. May June July Aug. Sept. Oct. Nov. Dec. 62 The Sto share | Sto SE & Co. KGaA formed even more strongly in 2019, with the Sto limited preference share MDAX and SDAX achieving record levels and key figures closing with increases of 31.2 % and 31.6 %. Values per share in EUR The construction values in Germany also expe2019 2018 rienced strong growth: the Construction sector index on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange closed Earnings per preference share 9.09 8.39 trading in 2019 with an increase of 21.4 %. Cash flow from current operating activities 18.21 12.56 Sto share increases significantly Equity capital 75.71 74.31 The Sto share’s development was also boosted Dividend payout per limited prefby this positive environment in 2019, with its erence share value increasing by 42.3 % to EUR 114.00 at Dividend 0.31 0.31 the year end compared to its opening price Bonus +3.78 +3.78 of EUR 80.10. After a hesitant start, the share Share price at year end* 114.00 82.00 reached its lowest price for 2019 – EUR 78.20 – in January, before achieving a stable rise Year high* 115.00 128.00 following the publication of the 2018 annual Year low* 78.20 79.20 financial statement. The Sto share rose sigPER (31 Dec) 12.54 9.77 nificantly in the fourth quarter in particular PER (high) 12.65 15.26 and reached its highest price of EUR 115.00 PER (low) 8.60 9.44 on 13 December. The value then achieved EUR 114.00 at the year end. Capitalisation of preference shares The market capitalisation of around on 31 Dec (in EUR millions) 289.3 208.1 2.538 million Sto limited preference * XETRA closing price shares hence significantly increased from EUR 208.1 million on 28 December 2018 to for the year of EUR 51.8 million. Through EUR 289.3 million at the end of the year under its Executive Board, the personally liable review. partner STO Management SE will propose a dividend payout, which is unaltered comImproved earnings pared to the previous year, of a total of Sto SE & Co. KGaA not only achieved an inEUR 26,049,060.00 to the Annual General crease in its consolidated turnover in the 2019 Meeting on 10 June 2020. This means that fiscal year, but also improved its consolidated limited preference shareholders will receive an earnings. Turnover increased by 4.9 % overall ordinary dividend of EUR 0.31 and a bonus to EUR 1,398.2 million and consolidated EBIT of EUR 3.78 per share. Limited ordinary rose by 4.9 % to EUR 85.9 million as compared shareholders will be paid an ordinary dividend to the previous year. Consolidated net profit for of EUR 0.25 as well as a bonus of EUR 3.78 the year improved by 4.7 % to EUR 56.3 milper share. If the negative development of lion. Diluted and basic earnings were EUR 9.09 the overall economic situation due to the per limited preference share and EUR 9.03 per coronavirus pandemic further deteriorates limited ordinary share. until the Annual General Meeting scheduled In 2019, the parent company Sto SE & Co. for 10 June 2020, especially in the markets KGaA reported earnings before income taxes relevant to Sto, the Annual General Meeting (HGB) of EUR 71.4 million and a net profit could, in deviation from the proposals of 63 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | The Sto share the management and at the request of the shareholders with the required quorum in place, resolve a dividend payout that is lower or that is limited to the statutory minimum dividend of preference shareholders, or even no dividend payout. Based on the 2019 closing price of EUR 114.00, the proposal would result in a dividend yield of 3.6 % per preference share. Based on the closing price for 2018 of EUR 82.00, this means a yield of 5.0 %. Trading volume in 2019 During the 2019 fiscal year, a total of 961,541 Sto SE & Co. KGaA limited preference shares were traded in the XETRA electronic system of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange, compared with 541,693 shares in the previous year. Shareholder structure As at 31 December 2019, it is estimated that more than 50 % of the 2.538 million Sto limited preference shares were in the hands of institutional investors. The remaining shares were free float. The number of non-listed limited ordinary shares remained unaltered at 4.32 million. 90 % of these were held by the Stotmeister family via Stotmeister Beteiligungs GmbH. As at the reference date, the remaining 10 % were held by Sto SE & Co. KGaA. 64 The Sto share | Sto SE & Co. KGaA 65 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility This report presents the combined non-financial interiors encompass plaster and paint systems declaration of the Sto Group and Sto SE & Co. optimised for home and office interiors, decoKGaA in accordance with Sections 289b and rative coatings, interior claddings, and acoustic 315b of the HGB (German Commercial Code). systems for regulating sound. Furthermore, Sto It complements the Group management report produces and sells high-quality floor coatings and the management report of Sto SE & Co. and products for concrete repair which are KGaA for 2019, which is part of this Annual attributed to Other product groups. Report and is available on the website In terms of regions, business activities of www.sto.de. the Sto Group are divided into the segments The non-financial declaration provides inforof Western Europe and Other, with the latter mation on the major factors in the five areas being broken down into the regions of Northof environmental matters, employee matters, ern/Eastern Europe and America/Asia/Pacific social matters, respect for human rights as well within the internal reporting framework. Our the combating of corruption and bribery. The corporate management is primarily focused on declaration is based on the ten principles of the these regions. UN Global Compact and describes the correThe Sto business model is oriented towards sponding measures, results, and potential risks. long-term success. The essential foundations for this are sustainable, solid business management, constant progress, and a financially Part A strong basis. The corporate vision is to be the worldwide technology leader in the sustainable Business model and design of living space tailored to human needs. sustainability management Detailed information on the structure, strategy, and the competitive situation of the at Sto Sto Group and the segments is available in the Group management report. The Sto Group Sto SE & Co. KGaA specialises in products and Assuming responsibility systems for building coatings and is one of the Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsimost important global manufacturers in this bility (CSR) have been important topics for Sto industrial sector. In the 2019 fiscal year, the ever since the company was founded, and they Group, which is listed on the regulated market are anchored in our Guiding Principles and are of the German stock exchange, had 5,533 empart of our corporate mission ‘Building with ployees in 50 operating companies as well as its conscience.’ in a condensed form. places of operation worldwide and achieved a A major part of Sto’s business model is the consolidated turnover of EUR 1,398.2 million. contribution that our products make to sustainThe product range of the Sto Group is ability in the construction sector, especially to divided into four product groups: the core climate protection. We have been developing business of facade systems combines external and selling facade insulation systems for more wall insulation systems (EWIS), a segment in than 50 years now, and thanks to their efficient which our company occupies a leading position, building insulation capacity, we have been able and rainscreen cladding facade systems (RSC). to help achieve significant savings in energy The product group of facade coatings includes through both the refurbishment of existing external render and paint systems. Products for buildings and the construction of new build66 Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Thermal insulation helps to protect the environment The energy savings from the use of Sto facade insulation systems correspond to around 110 billion litres of heating oil. = 28,000 l 4,000 l 250,000,000 l x 27.5 million oil tanks x 3.93 million tanker lorries x 440 oil tankers Between 1965 and 2019, facade insulation systems from Sto played a direct role in saving the barely conceivable volume of 110 billion litres of heating oil. With this, Sto has made a notable contribution to global climate protection: the facade insulation systems from the southern Black Forest have managed to avoid around 350 million tonnes of CO2 emissions. In 2019 alone, Sto products reduced emissions of this combustion gas by around 20 million tonnes. ings. Since 1965, Sto insulation systems have Sustainability strategy been installed on around 640 million m² of In order to strengthen the topic of sustainability buildings worldwide, saving an estimated 110 in the strategic orientation, to professionalise billion litres of heating oil up to and including activities and bundle measures, we established 2019, with the year under review accounting the Sustainability department at Group level in for around 7 billion litres of this figure alone. 2012. This department reports directly to the The resulting reduction in CO2 emissions toChief Technology Officer. In addition to our talled more than 350 million tonnes, including self-imposed claim, which is anchored in our approx. 20 million tonnes in 2019. In this way, Guiding Principles, we are thus meeting the Sto makes a significant continuous contribution increased demands of our stakeholders, espeto climate and environmental protection. This cially shareholders, the state as the legislator, also improves the living comfort and quality of our customers, the interested public, and our the relevant buildings. employees. The measures include consultations, Furthermore, our high-quality facade and concepts and instruments to take account of coating systems protect the building fabric and sustainability aspects at product level and in the thus ensure the conservation of value, longevity organisation. These are implemented in all areas and resource efficiency of buildings. In the of the company: from product development, interior, our positive contribution lies above all procurement, production, sales and marketing, in health protection and well-being through to communication. The aim is to identify and a wide range of low-emission products and address demands and needs in order to create products that are free from harmful substances. a stable basis for continuous, income-oriented Apart from that, we are also addressing new growth and also to make a positive, social conproduct requirements that arise due to sustaintribution which is important for environmental able building concepts and, for example, are protection. intensively working on the subject of a recycling To ensure that we are ready to face future economy as a strategic focal point of our prodchallenges, we are following the development uct-related sustainability activities. of megatrends, changes in the market, as well 67 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility as regulations and laws that are relevant to Sto. well as specific activities to promote sustainable In 2019, we focused our efforts primarily on construction may vary locally. They are geared areas including: to the respective local needs and circumstances. • The climate protection package of the FedSince 2010 we have been conducting annual eral Republic of Germany with a Climate Prosurveys among all Sto companies on selected tection Act and Climate Action Programme CSR topics. This survey covers the relevant 2030 to achieve the climate targets by 2050 training and responsibilities for the individual • Topics on compliance with climate action issues within a company, compliance with social targets which were discussed at the 25th Clistandards, such as the prohibition of child and mate Change Conference in Madrid in 2019 forced labour, equal treatment of men and • Global weather events in 2019 women, measures for occupational safety, envi• Energy efficiency as a cornerstone of the ronmental and resource protection, corruption move towards renewable sources of energy and violations of the law, donation activities, as and climate protection plans well as social commitment. If standards are not • The recycling economy and resource efficomplied with and deviations are reported, the ciency as elements of resource, climate, and measures to be taken are to be described. The environmental protection information is recorded centrally at Sto and then • Operational and product-related environevaluated. In conjunction with the new CSR dismental protection as a means of conserving closure rules and the different levels of maturity ecosystems regarding sustainability in the various regions • Compliance with strict requirements regardand companies, our questionnaire is regularly ing the use of ingredients which are susrevised and an extended reporting system for pected of being damaging to human health sustainability and CSR in the Sto Group is being and the environment implemented. To this end, we identified relevant • The National Action Plan for Business and topic areas and key figures in the reporting peHuman Rights (NAP) of the Federal Govriod and then evaluated options for data to be ernment of Germany for the observance of recorded centrally using IT-based systems. The human rights along global supply and value introduction of software-aided global registrachains tion and evaluation of non-financial key figures • The health and well-being of employees, is planned for 2020. applicators, and users • Qualification and training in order to combat Structures and regulations for sustain­ a shortage in young talent, and skills ability • Commitment to social issues, signalling soliSto has been reporting voluntarily on its CSR darity and individual support activities for many years, based on the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, which In terms of the introduction and implewe joined in 2009. The UN Global Compact mentation of voluntary CSR measures we act is a global strategic initiative for responsible in accordance with the motto ‘think global corporate governance and global justice under – act local’. Hence our principles, especially the auspices of the United Nations. Signatories the compliance with the ten principles of the of the Global Compact commit to aligning UN Global Compact, apply to all regions and their business activities and strategies with ten companies worldwide. The specific measures universally acknowledged principles taken from to comply with and promote these principles as the areas of human rights, labour standards, 68 Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility | Sto SE & Co. KGaA environmental protection, and the fight against international community. But industrial compacorruption. They are also committed to supportnies are also expected to adopt them in their ing the objectives that go hand in hand with corporate strategy. In this way we want to show this. our contribution to sustainable development for Since the 2017 fiscal year, capital market-orisociety as a whole and prioritise our own fields ented companies with more than 500 employof action. ees and total assets of more than EUR 20 milWe believe we can make the largest contribulion or a turnover of more than EUR 40 million tions to the following of the 17 Sustainable in Germany are required to disclose non-fiDevelopment Goals: nancial information. Due to this so-called CSR Goal 3: Ensure healthy lives and promote disclosure rule, we modified our disclosure well-being for all at all ages. structure in 2017 and provide more direct and Goal 8: Promote sustained, inclusive and detailed information on the specific aspects we sustainable economic growth, full and are to cover as part of non-financial reporting productive employment and decent (see Part B). We use the UN Global Compact as work for all. the basis, which is named in the European CSR Goal 9: Build resilient infrastructure, promote Directive and the explanatory memorandum to inclusive and sustainable industrializathe German CSR Directive Implementation Act tion and foster innovation. as one of the international frameworks on the Goal 11: Make cities and human settlements inbasis of which a CSR report can be prepared. clusive, safe, resilient and sustainable. Furthermore, we align our sustainability acGoal 12: Ensure sustainable consumption and tivities with the United Nations’ 17 Sustainable production patterns. Development Goals (SDGs) adopted in 2015. Goal 13: Take urgent action to combat climate These are primarily aimed at the states in the change and its impacts. 69 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility As part of their sustainability initiative sustainable development’, the leading business ‘StoClimate’, our Austrian company Sto platform for Corporate Social Responsibility Ges.m.b.H. also published a comprehensive (CSR) and sustainable development in Austria. sustainability report about their CSR activities in 2018. This was generated in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative guidelines (GRI-4 core and extended requirements) and particularly refers to fiscal years 2016 and At Sto SE & Co. KGaA, the specifications 2017 in the Austrian market. An updated of external frameworks are complemented by report for the fiscal years of 2018 and 2019 company-internal guidelines. In particular, will be published in 2020. In addition, our these include the ‘Principles of Cooperation Scandinavian subsidiary Sto Scandinavia AB and Management within the Sto Group’, which has, for the first time, prepared a sustainability we use to translate the general ideas outlined report for the 2019 fiscal year (‘Hållbarhetsin our Guiding Principles into concrete actions. rapport 2019’), which provides information Furthermore, the following guidelines and on the main sustainability activities in Norway, principles form an integral part of our thirteen Sweden, Finland and Denmark. strategic Group goals: ‘Corporate Social In view of this comprehensive documenResponsibility and Sustainability’, ‘Technology tation, we have chosen to focus on a few leader through a sustainable product range examples of activities in this area in this report tailored to human needs’, ‘Living the corporate and refer to the sustainability reports of Sto culture through management and employees’ Ges.m.b.H and Sto Scandinavia AB for more and ‘Promoting a constructive collaboration detailed information. with employee representatives’. These form the Since 2014, Sto has participated in the basis for our Group-wide strategic planning tool sustainability initiative Chemie³ in Germany, and are assigned appropriate measures. which was initiated jointly by the German Chemical Industry Association (VCI), the MinKey sustainability factors ing, Chemical and Energy Industrial Union (IG In addition to the Chemie³ sustainability check BCE), and the German Federation of Chemical we use our Sustainability Compass in order to Employers’ Associations (BAVC). It encomperform a concrete evaluation of single sustainpasses important guidelines for sustainable ability activities at company and product level. development in Germany’s chemical industry Not only does this tool ensure that all aspects and provides various tools for implementing of sustainability are taken into consideration, these in practice. In 2019, we participated in it also provides a source of support during the events and activities of the initiative impledecision-making processes in accordance with menting the 17 SDGs in companies. We also our corporate mission of ‘Building with conattended various webinars, and made use of science.’. As different criteria often have to be the support offered on the topic of sustainabilweighed up, the Sustainability Compass helps ity in the supply chain. us create a four-dimensional mindset encomThe individual companies of the Sto Group passing ecology, economy, social aspects, and also participate in various regional sustainabilwell-being in order to arrive at the best possible ity initiatives in their respective countries. For solution. This approach gives a pivotal role to example, in Austria, Sto Ges.m.b.H. is a memnot only the values that define the main areas ber of ‘respACT – austrian business council for of focus and the direction in which decisions 70 Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility | Sto SE & Co. KGaA are made, but also the information that enables magazine, in 2019. The study assesses which analysis and evaluation to remain as objective companies in Germany are committed to the as possible. topic of sustainability and thus make a valuable contribution to the future. Valuable in this context means assuming ecological, economic and social responsibility and living up to this responsibility in day-to-day business. The StoColor Dryonic facade paint was rated the best facade paint in the readers’ choice of the professional building portal ‘haustec.de’. StoColor Dryonic received the second highest number of votes in the ‘Insulation and Facade’ category, coming in just behind the winners and beating the remaining eight nominees. This was the second time ‘haustec.de’ organised the product voting which yielded around 2,800 survey results. The evaluation shows that the biomimetic active principle, which ensures dry facades and thus protects them against algae and fungi, is highly appreciated by building Dialogue with stakeholders experts. Maintaining dialogue with our stakeholders is The managing director of the French an exceptionally important part of our sustainasubsidiary, Sto SAS, signed the charter of the bility efforts. We do this in a variety of formats European Energiesprong consortium at the in order to accommodate the many different HLM conference in Marseille. The refurbishment subjects that are raised, often in specialist and/ concept developed in the Netherlands is about or product-specific areas. These include our energy-saving renovation concepts for social own colloquiums involving architects, planners, housing, focusing on high living comfort, short tradesmen, and energy consultants, as well renovation times, and an innovative financing as events held by and with market partners, model. The Energiesprong principle is based on and a range of trade fairs – another area in high-quality, standardised solutions with prefabwhich sustainability is becoming an increasingly ricated elements and a long-term performance pressing issue. In 2019, key areas of focus were, guarantee and has already been implemented for example, dismantling and recycling building in more than 4,500 buildings. 2019 saw the materials, the safe use of specific ingredients completion of a first spectacular renovation proor avoiding their use, healthy living spaces, and ject in France, in which the Sto facade system sustainable construction with suitable building StoTherm Classic was used. products. Based on an analysis we conducted in 2017, Among other things, we consider the we identified the following as relevant stakeawards that Sto wins every year to be acholder groups for Sto: shareholders, authoriknowledgement of this commitment. Among ties/state, customers/consumers, service providother things, Sto was included in the list of ers/suppliers, society/the public, representatives, ‘Germany’s most valuable companies’ by employees, press/media, and the competition. DEUTSCHLAND TEST, a brand of Focus Money Their respective requirements and the resulting 71 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility derivation of obligations are determined and Putz und Mörtel e.V. (Association for Insulation documented in the ‘Stakeholder Analysis – SusSystems, Renders, and Mortars, VDPM), as well tainability Check’ process. At the same time, we as the respective European umbrella associaare meeting the new requirements relating to tions in each area (such as FEICA, CEPE, EMO, the recertification of our quality management in and EAE). Furthermore, Sto has been an active accordance with ISO 9001:2015, our environmember of the Bundesverband energieeffiment management system in accordance with ziente Gebäudehülle (Federal Association for ISO 14001:2015, and our energy management Energy-efficient Building Envelopes, BuVEG) system in accordance with ISO 50001:2018. In since 2017. This association promotes the accordance with the revised standards, organpotentials that building envelopes have for the isations need to develop an understanding for urban culture, good living and workspaces, and their own context, must evaluate opportunities the economical use of energy. In Austria, Sto is and risks, while paying special attention to a partner of the Austrian Sustainable Building including everyone involved in the planning of Council (ASBC). the management systems. The frequency with Sto also maintains a direct dialogue with which the requirements of interested parties are non-governmental organisations (NGOs), stated is incorporated into the evaluation of the experts, media representatives, and research environmental aspects. In 2020, the stakeholder institutions. We exchange views on the latest analysis will be carried out again in order to upsustainability issues in the construction industry date the groups of persons particularly relevant and the specific desires and demands being to Sto and to adapt corresponding measexpressed by society, politics, and our marures, for example with regard to analysts and ket partners. The Österreichisches Institut für financial institutions that request non-financial Baubiologie und Bauökologie (Austrian Institute information and key figures in accordance with for Building Biology and Building Ecology, IBO) internationally applicable standards as part of in Vienna and the IG Passivhaus Tirol (Tyrolean their company valuations. Passive House Union), which connects experts We participate in both national and internafrom the building industry and would like to tional trade associations to discuss important establish the passive house concept as a standissues that affect different companies, such as ard, are doing important scientific and practical new legislation and sustainability criteria for work. Additional key sources of momentum building products, the harmonisation of product and opinions are provided at and by events held directives, or the grading of hazardous materias part of the Chemie³ sustainability initiative as als. For example, Sto has been a member of the well as those held by the initiating associations German Sustainable Building Council (DGNB VCI, IG BCE, and BAVC, the national networks e.V.) since 2008 and has served on its advisory of the Global Compact, and the regional meetboard for building products since 2016. At asings of the Wirtschaftsinitiative Nachhaltigkeit sociation level, Sto takes part in the ‘Sustainable (Economic initiative for sustainability) in the Building’ working group of Deutsche BaucheGerman state of Baden-Württemberg. mie e.V. (German Association for ManufacExchange with Sto employees and intenturers of Construction-chemical Products), the sive internal communication are also of great ‘Sustainability’ working group of the Verband importance and are specifically promoted at all der deutschen Lackund Druckfarbenindustrie levels. Among other things, the event series ‘In e.V. (German Paint and Printing Ink Industry Asa dialogue with the Executive Board’ has been sociation, VdL), the Verband für Dämmsysteme, offered at the headquarters in Stühlingen and 72 Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility | Sto SE & Co. KGaA other decentralised locations in Germany since Sto has been using external monitoring by mid-2018. Every three months, the Sto Execurecognised testing institutes for more than 30 tive Board invites a group of employees from all years, and has had a large number of products areas of the company to take part in discussions certified in the areas of thermal insulation, and ask questions in a relaxed atmosphere. facade coating, and interiors; recertification is The Executive Board is there to answer these carried out where a certification has expired. questions and gather valuable suggestions from The natureplus® eco-label for EWIS confirms not the participants. only that the products efficiently save energy, but also that stricter energy efficiency requireProduct Information ments are fulfilled in the product’s production, We consider it vital to engage with these envienvironmental properties, and substances in the ronmentally relevant and health-related topics system components. The Blue Angel (Der Blaue in an open and honest manner, as it is not just Engel) for EWIS certifies the use of materials down to us to determine how the sustainability which result in less of an impact on the enviof our products is interpreted and evaluated – ronment compared with other products within the opinion and decisions of the public, experts, their product group, and which contain no market partners, and customers also play a role. harmful substances requiring disposal, demonComprehensive information and transparency, strate excellent durability, and are installed in especially with regard to environmental and accordance with statutory regulations. health aspects of our products, aim to provide A large part of our interior product range assistance in this regard. carries the TÜV seal of quality awarded by TÜV We provide numerous services that are SÜD – ‘low-emission, physiologically harmless, designed to support customers and market and production monitored’ – or has been tested partners in their quest for sustainable solutions. for harmful substances in accordance with The expert service provided by Sto employees Oeko-Tex® standard 100. Several of our interior represents the most important element in this. products are also natureplus®-certified, meaning For this reason, we also communicate susthat they adhere to the very strictest criteria tainability to our staff in detail and give them in respect to their composition, substance intensive training in handling it. This personal prohibitions, emissions, raw material extraction, approach to delivering information is accompre-product manufacturing, production, and panied by eco-labels, product declarations, and application. product data sheets. For the Swiss market, we additionally label our interior products with the Swiss eco-label Labels & certificates from the Stiftung Farbe (Paints Foundation). Environmental labels and certificates such as Meanwhile, Sto interior products in France are Der Blaue Engel, TÜV, and natureplus® are consistently labelled with the French VOC label primarily aimed at end consumers, private ‘Émissions dans l’air intérieur’. consumers, and public procurers. For building certification systems such as the one provided by the DGNB, environmental certificates are often used as proof of a particularly high ecological standard. Products are evaluated based on various criteria defined by the relevant issuing authority. 73 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility In 2019 we have added our own seal of upon request. Sustainability Data Sheets in 20 quality for the labelling of preservative-free different languages were available for around products. In this way, we meet the growing 500 Sto products as at the end of 2019. A need for building products that do not have comprehensive revision of the data sheets is any health risks, and offer quick orientation, planned for 2020, as numerous criteria and especially for people who are sensitive even to standards to which our data refer have been small amounts of preservatives and who could changed or supplemented. have an allergic reaction. If we protect products with preservatives from premature deterioraEnvironmental Product Declarations (EPDs) tion, we only use them to the extent that is Environmental Product Declarations (EPD) in technically necessary, provide transparency on accordance with EN 15804 represent a third the substances used in data sheets, and label building block in our efforts to provide inforthem with a seal of quality indicating that these mation about the sustainability of Sto products. products are also low in emissions, solventand Central to these declarations is a Life Cycle plasticiser-free and have been tested for harmAssessment (LCA) as well as additional informaful substances by an accredited institute. tion, e.g. about aspects such as the production The numerous eco-labels available in the process, service life, and provisions for recycling form of private and public product labels are of a product over its entire life cycle. EPDs are posing an increasing challenge. In most cases, purely informative and do not assess a product they are only recognised at national level and but require verification from an independent can therefore only offer added value in a single third party. This internationally valid document market. As a result, products that have already explains numerous building product properties been labelled would then have to be given from an environmental perspective and proeco-labels from a range of different regions vides useful data for determining a building’s or their certificates would require additional sustainability, a factor that primarily depends on declarations. This is one of the reasons why we the building material used. There is a particular have been providing Sustainability Data Sheets demand for EPDs for building certifications on since 2014. the Scandinavian market as well as for building projects certified in accordance with BREAM, Sustainability Data Sheets LEED, and DGNB. The voluntary self-declaration in the form of a We use so-called model EPDs for the majority Sustainability Data Sheets, which we specifof our products. These are developed in collabically developed ourselves, plugs gaps that oration with various associations on the basis of may be left by existing product information or framework formulations, with each representeco-labels, and meets the increasing demand ing a product group. This removes the need for for concrete, product-specific data on ecothe time-consuming process of calculating and logical and health-related criteria. Spanning producing individual, product-specific EPDs for around four pages, Sustainability Data Sheets every single manufacturer. Due to the standprovide all the key information on the DGNB ardised validity period of five years, numerous and LEED building certification systems, as well EPDs of the national associations expired in as substances, emissions, and other environ2019. For the most part, these will be succesmental aspects. Like our Technical Data Sheets sively replaced by model EPDs of the European and Safety Data Sheets, they are available to umbrella organisations to ensure pan-European download free of charge or can be sent directly deployment. This means that in 2020 the allo74 Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility | Sto SE & Co. KGaA cation of our products to currently valid EPDs comparison of building products at the building will be overhauled and a gap analysis will be level in relation with a specific building project, carried out to determine the coverage rate of since building products are intermediate prodour products with EPDs. From this we will derive ucts whose performance and environmental the need for further measures to prepare EPDs impacts can only be assessed concretely and and life cycle assessments. holistically on the building. Furthermore, a high As part of its consumer protection efforts, data quality and uniformity of databases must the European Union wishes to promote the probe guaranteed in order to exclude uncertainvision of individual, product-specific, ecological ties in the calculation and to not distort the parameters and launch a standardised eco-label direct comparison of construction products. on the European market that is based on a life The provision of life cycle assessments on the cycle assessment. To this end, the European basis of individual products – model EPDs Commission initiated the Product Environmental would no longer be usable according to the Footprint (PEF) project and various pilot projects philosophy of direct comparison of individual from 2013 to 2017, including some on paints construction products – involves a great deal and insulation materials that Sto was informed of effort, which we would have to take into about and some of which Sto was involved account and plan for accordingly in a timely in. The EU started a consultation process in manner in terms of personnel and within our 2018 to obtain feedback on the use of existing organisation. A workshop was conducted on environmental labels and methods of ecological the application of a newly developed PEF tool. evaluation of products to allow them to make Selected product-specific LCA calculations a decision on the further development of PEF were used as the basis for the evaluation. The after the pilot phase. At the same time, the results showed that the key figures (e.g. ‘Global European Commission revised the criteria for Warming Potential’) of existing model EPDs and life cycle assessments in accordance with the calculations differ only marginally from the PEF European standard EN 15804 and verified their tool. They are not significantly influenced by compliance with the PEF methodology. ecological or raw material factors, but mainly by This development is relevant with regard to technical parameters, such as the classification the comparison of the environmental perforof the durability of a product. Together with the mance of individual construction products, in associations, we therefore continue to lobby for particular the so-called ‘grey energy’ and the the creation and general acceptance of model CO2 balance, as envisaged, for example, by EPDs which, in our view, show a good balance the European Commission or the DGNB. In between life cycle assessment accuracy and future, planners, architects and consumers are economic expenditure. to select building products not only according to technical, economic, and aesthetic parameters, but also on the basis of concrete environmental information that reflects the complete life cycle of a building product. Sto caters to this development by providing EPDs and by keeping a close eye on and participating in the PEF programme. At the same time, we believe this poses methodical risks and additional costs for our company. In principle, we prefer the 75 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility Part B Information on the principles 1 to 6: Human rights and labour standards Report on the material At the end of 2016, the Federal Cabinet non-financial aspects based adopted the National Action Plan for Business and Human Rights 2016-2020 (NAP), on the ten principles of the thus implementing the corresponding guiding UN Global Compact principles of the United Nations. The aim is to enforce compliance with human rights in global supply chains. In addition to the state’s duty to The 10 principles of the UN Global protect, the responsibility of companies is also Compact addressed. The Federal Government expects all companies to integrate the following five core Human rights elements of due diligence in the field of human 01 Businesses should support and respect the rights in the supply chain into their business protection of internationally proclaimed processes in a manner appropriate to their size, human rights. industrial sector, and position: 02 Businesses should make sure that they are 1. A human rights policy statement not complicit in human rights abuses. 2. Procedures for the identification of actual or potential adverse impact on human rights Labour 3. Measures to ward off potentially adverse 03 Businesses should uphold the freedom of impacts and review of the effectiveness of association and the effective recognition of these measures the right to collective bargaining. 4. Reporting 04 Businesses should uphold the elimination of 5. A grievance mechanism all forms of forced and compulsory labour. 05 Businesses should uphold the effective aboAs a concrete goal, the NAP stipulates lition of child labour. that by 2020 at least half of all companies in 06 Businesses should uphold the elimination of Germany with more than 500 employees will discrimination in respect of employment and have verifiably integrated the core elements occupation. of due diligence in the field of human rights (defined in the NAP in Chapter III) appropriately Environment into their business processes. To this end, the 07 Businesses should support a precautionary German government has developed a moniapproach to environmental challenges. toring procedure that monitors the progress of 08 Businesses should undertake initiatives to companies according to scientific standards. promote greater environmental responsi­bility. Legal regulations have already been an09 Businesses should encourage the develnounced should this goal not be achieved. A opment and diffusion of environmentally draft for a ‘Law on compliance with standards friendly technologies. in global production’ has been in preparation since the end of 2019. Anti-Corruption This trend towards legal regulations can 10 Businesses should work against corruption also be seen in other countries. For example, in all its forms, including extortion and a Dutch act on the duty of care against child bribery. labour has been adopted and will come into 76 Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility | Sto SE & Co. KGaA force in 2022. This act will require all companies to identify and avoid human rights violations, doing business with the Netherlands to identify appropriate data and information are required. child labour in their supply chains and impleWith the introduction of a whistle-blower ment remediation plans. system for compliance infringements, we have It is important to us that all actors along been offering such a standardised complaints the value chain are guided by the principle of mechanism since 2017. The system is easily sustainability, including in particular the obseraccessible to those potentially affected. It is vance of international human rights, and labour described in more detail under Principle 10 standards. ‘Anti-Corruption’. We obtain information on In the Sto Group, we combine economic sucdeviations and corresponding countermeasures cess with social responsibility and environmental regarding the ten principles of the UN Global protection. The group is oriented towards qualCompact via our annual ‘CSR inquiry’. ity and operates internationally. This is why our Discrimination based on origin, gender, relistandards of conduct are the same worldwide. gion or belief, disability, age, or sexual identity Compliance with legal and ethical standwill not be tolerated. Detailed information ards is integral to our understanding of good on the topic of diversity can be found in the corporate governance. The principles laid Corporate Governance Report in this Annual down in our mission statement and in the UN Report. Global Compact, our ‘Principles of Cooperation We also require our suppliers to accept the and Management within the Sto Group’, the Global Compact principles and thus assume strategic Group goals as well as the general certain minimum obligations. We procure the obligation to comply with the law apply to our majority of our raw materials from countries own sites and companies. that have implemented high social standards Ensuring compliance is an essential part of which they also monitor. Through our ‘Supplier our daily work. We foster a culture of honesty Code of Conduct’ we generally demand volunand personal responsibility, which is supported tary self-commitment to the above standards by the legally compliant conduct of all employand principles, and use a questionnaire to obees. Since 2018, the Sto Group has had a Chief tain information on the compliance with them. Compliance Officer. Due to the complexity of today’s supply chains, A Code of Conduct was introduced for the we are evaluating the participation in a suitable Sto Group in 2019, which serves as a binding industry-specific initiative, such as the chemical guideline for acting with integrity. It is binding industry’s ‘Together for Sustainability’ initiative, for all employees, available in 17 languages, to further promote ‘Sustainability in the supply and valid worldwide. The Code of Conduct chain’. summarises important laws and internal comWith regard to our products, we see an pany rules governing conduct in business dealimportant contribution to the observance and ings with third parties, in dealings with the pubconsideration of human rights in providing lic, and also for day-to-day interaction within professional and transparent information. We the Group. It is intended to assist in making the provide information on the correct use of our right decision but cannot conclusively describe products as well as their ingredients and harmthe wide variety of business activities of the ful substances in our Technical Data Sheets, employees of the Sto Group. We therefore offer Safety Data Sheets, and Sustainability Data further information and topic-specific support, Sheets which we provide internationally in the for example in the form of trainings. In order language(s) of the respective country. 77 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility In a broader sense, socially relevant issues sphere of responsibility and influence. We also such as health and well-being can also be seen go beyond legal standards and commit ourfrom the perspective of human rights and laselves to voluntary environmental and energy bour standards. Where buildings are concerned, management standards such as ISO 14001 and this particularly touches on areas such as ther50001. mal and acoustic comfort, indoor air hygiene, and health protection. Sto building products, Climate protection such as soundabsorbing acoustic panels and The Fridays for Future movement, the UN paints with a photocatalytic effect that break Climate Conference in Madrid, the climate down harmful substances, have the potential to package of the German government and the make a direct, positive impact on these subjects EU Green New Deal demonstrate that the issue of concern At the same time, the ongoing of climate protection, which has always been a analysis and external monitoring to which we focal point of Sto’s activities, has become a censubject our products ensure that applicators tral concern of society in 2019 and a dominant and users receive safe goods of excellent qualtopic in national and international politics. ity. Any potentially harmful substances are indiThe German government’s climate package cated transparently in Safety and Sustainability is a bundle of various measures, which for Data Sheets as well as Environmental Product the first time, sets binding climate protection Declarations. Many of our products are certified targets and a mechanism for annual review. It in accordance with natureplus®, TÜV SÜD, and underlines the Federal Government’s efforts to other eco-labels. This confirms that the impact achieve climate neutrality for Germany by 2050. of raw materials or emissions on health and the In addition to the introduction of a CO2 pricing environment is either ruled out altogether or system, it also includes the agreement to pass reduced to a minimum. a separate climate protection law, which was adopted by the Bundestag [Federal Parliament] Information on the Principles 7 to 9: on 15 November 2019. Buildings play a central Environment role in achieving Germany’s energy and climate Environmental protection is an essential aspect targets, as they are responsible for about 35 % of our sustainability activities. Our products of final energy consumption and for about a contribute to minimising the environmental quarter of CO2 emissions in Germany across impact of buildings, e.g. through energy-savvarious sectors. The tax incentives for enering insulation measures, the protection of the gy-efficient building refurbishment introduced building envelope, and measures to maintain at the end of 2019 are expected to increase the building fabric. We are also actively workdemand for energy-efficient refurbishment to ing to minimise the environmental impact of put the building stock on a sustainable path our products, our production and our corporate and achieve climate targets. activities, for example by using renewable The European Commission presented the EU energy, using resources sparingly and avoidGreen New Deal on 11 December 2019. With ing waste. We strive for the responsible use this package of measures for ecological change, and procurement of natural resources (water, Europe is to become climate-neutral by 2050. It energy, materials, and land) in the manufacture includes initiatives in the political areas of clean and sale of our products and services. Each energy, buildings and renovation, sustainable individual employee is to contribute to the industry and mobility, biodiversity, de-pollution protection of the environment within his or her and sustainable food chain. The entire industry 78 Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility | Sto SE & Co. KGaA is to be mobilised to create a climate-neutral The manifold national and international and cycle-oriented economy, with a particular climate protection efforts motivate us to confocus on the construction sector. Among other tinue to treat climate protection as a key focus things, this is reflected in the new action plan of our sustainability activities and to intensify ‘Circular Economy’, which will be presented our measures in five strategic fields of action: in 2020 and which will include a strategy for 1. Climate protection in the buildings sector sustainable products. In addition, the EU Comthrough the use of Sto products mission wants to initiate a surge in renovation 2. Increase in energy efficiency in our own together with the member states. This is to be operations (especially via ISO 50001) achieved by enforcing legislation on the overall 3. Generation of regenerative energy at our energy efficiency of buildings. A new initiative own locations on renovations in cooperation with stakehold4. Sourcing of certified green electricity ers is planned for 2020. In addition, an open 5. Compensation measures through the purplatform is to be created to remove any obstachase of climate protection certificates cles to renovation. At the 25th UN Climate Change ConferIn 2016, we introduced an energy manageence on 15 December 2019, the almost 200 ment system in line with the global ISO 50001 countries agreed on a joint political final decstandard in order to provide a methodical tool laration and pledged to intensify their climate for recording, implementing, and tracking all protection targets for 2030 wherever possible. the climate protection activities taking place in However, it was not possible to adopt rules for the Sto Group. In doing so, we have laid the the international trade in carbon credits. These foundations for a continuous improvement are intended to offer industrialised countries an process relating to energy efficiency. At the opportunity to also support climate protection same we are meeting the legal requirements in other countries by generating climate protecfor performing energy audits in accordance tion certificates through green projects in dewith EN 16247-1. As at the end of 2019, the veloping countries. Sto welcomes this approach headquarters of Sto SE & Co. KGaA in Stühand joined the ‘Development and Climate lingen/Germany, all production locations and Alliance’ in 2019. This alliance, founded by the SalesCentres in Germany as well as six subsidi­ German Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperaries had a certification. In 2019, the Austrian ation and Development (BMZ) in autumn 2018, company Sto Ges.m.b.H in Villach, including its aims to simultaneously promote development production, logistics, and distribution as well and climate protection. It explicitly encourages as seven sales centres, was also certified to non-governmental commitment, especially ISO 50001 for the first time. from the private sector. The activities of all The systems that have been implemented supporters are always voluntary, go beyond ensure that the use and purchase of renewable existing legal CO2 reduction obligations and are sources of energy are constantly monitored, carried out through participation in high-quality and that energy consumption and the CO2 development and climate protection projects. emissions of our fleet of vehicles are permaIn the future, the projects supported within the nently reduced. Energy efficiency measures imframework of the alliance – as well as avoidplemented in buildings and investments are also ance and reduction measures – will contribute monitored, and we encourage employees to to achieving climate neutrality or even positive play an active role in all our initiatives for saving climate effects. energy. In the context of replacement and new 79 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility investments in operating resources, machinery such as at the Kriftel location, where a new and equipment, an examination of energy efSales Centre that meets the KfW55 standard ficiency in accordance with the state of the art was inaugurated in 2019. This building is charas well as technical and economic aspects are acterised, among other things, by a coordinated also taken into account. Our medium-term goal and complex energy concept including a gas is to identify verifiable changes via our energy condensing boiler with central hot water prepamanagement system. ration, photovoltaics for electricity generation We have defined the optimisation of enerand a ventilation system. Step by step, we are gy-related services as an important goal in the working on an energy efficiency strategy on Sto Group. To achieve these values, individual the part of the management, which is designed projects were defined and action plans were for ten years. In addition to technical measures drawn up. Yearly consumption values that are in operational business (e.g. replacement of recorded and analysed monthly, form the basis appliances and light sources), we are increasfor the determined key figures. Measured by ingly looking at efficiency and savings measures the units audited, we have been able to achieve through changes to the building stock and total energy savings of around one percent per optimisation of processes and production seyear since 2014. Fuel consumption accounts for quences. This will also form a focal point in the around one third of the total energy consumpnext energy audit. tion of the business units in the realm of the An important element of our energy mancertification. This is why we attach particular agement system is the network ‘Energieeffizient importance to the appropriate selection of combei Sto’ (Energy Efficiency at Sto). This network pany cars, efficient travel and route planning was founded in 2016 and, via the Verband der as well as training for sales representatives on Chemischen Industrie e.V. (German Chemical fuel-efficient driving. Industry Association), is registered as the official Due to a very high level of efficiency of energy efficiency network of the German around 95 % in the assessed production fafederal government and of representatives of cilities, it is difficult to identify and implement the German economy. If offers a systematic further measures to increase energy efficiency and open exchange of experience and ideas in the immediate business operations. Neverbetween company units and locations in order theless, further progress was achieved in 2019. to increase energy efficiency. The network For example, this includes the increase in permembers meet twice a year. Measures that formance of around 10 % achieved during the have been implemented are presented and renewal of the stacker cranes in the high-bay discussed as to whether they can be transferred warehouse at the Stühlingen-Weizen location to other locations as well. During the meetings while at the same time saving energy of around in 2019, it became especially clear that the 16,000 kWh/a. technical measures have already been almost By extending the scope of consideration to entirely exploited in many areas, and the focus our energy procurement, our building stock, must shift to process optimisation in order to etc., we expect to increase the optimisation realise more energy savings. potential by a further approx. 7 % (Scope A deliberate extension of our climate 2). However, these cost-saving measures are protection measures is the compensation of associated with longer-term investments, for unavoidable greenhouse gas emissions through example in the form of energy-efficient building the purchase of certificates. The Austrian Sto renovations or energy-efficient new buildings Ges.m.b.H. has taken this path in the imple80 Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility | Sto SE & Co. KGaA mentation of climate protection measures is increased, and wash-offs are reduced. As a already since 2018. It records its CO2 emissions result, up to 36 tonnes of CO2 per hectare of which cannot be avoided through procurearable land are bound in the form of humus ment, production, administration and logistics, every year and stored in the soil in the long throughout the entire company, and compenterm. Our StoTherm Wood insulation system is sates for them by purchasing CO2 certificates. not only climate-neutral, but also climate-imBy acquiring certificates for the emission of proving: Photosynthesis and storage of carbon 10,000 tonnes of CO2, Sto Ges.m.b.H. has during the growth phase of a tree means that become climate-neutral from 2018 to 2021. insulation boards made of wood as a raw maThis means that its unavoidable greenhouse terial compensate significantly more CO2 than is gas emissions are fully offset by supporting a emitted during its manufacture. hydroelectric project in Uganda and a solar and wind energy project in India. Mobility, logistics, and procurement Since 2019, the Scandinavian subsidiary Sto Mobility represents a key area of climate proScandinavia AB has also made its operational tection in terms of reducing kilometres, fuel activities climate-neutral. Here, the CO2 emisand CO2. With the help of modern monitorsions generated in Denmark, Norway, Sweden, ing systems, we optimise truck and transport and Finland in 2018 have been balanced and routes, ensure a solid degree of utilisation, use offset. Certificates for the emission of 4,191 DHL GoGreen, and promote economical and tons of CO2 support selected projects according environmentally conscious driving. By producing to the international ‘Gold Standard’. building products regionally, we avoid many Furthermore, the preparation of a CO2 baltransport kilometres. In Villach/Austria, for ance sheet for the ISO-50001-certified locations example, local production compared with imin Germany was started in 2019. These emisports from Germany means that 315,000 truck sions will be offset by the purchase of further kilometres are avoided at an annual production climate protection certificates in 2020. volume of 8,000 tonnes of material, which corresponds to savings of over 94,000 litres of dieClimate protection on product level sel and a reduction in CO2 emissions of around We also compensate for CO2 emissions at 550 tonnes per year. Norway has also started product level by purchasing certificates and to reduce the environmental effects within the thus make them climate-neutral. In 2019, this logistics area. Part of the transport has been applied to the products StoCryl BF 700 and shifted from the road to ships, which leads to StoCryl V 700 from the portfolio of StoCretec considerable CO2 savings and reduces costs. GmbH. Among other things, the relevant Another way to reduce emissions in the certificates are used to support a hydropower Sto Group is the composition of the car fleet. project in Madagascar, which contributes to The average value of CO2 emissions of cars avoiding around 450 tonnes of CO2. In Austria, available for new orders fell by around 8.7 % we made our products StoColor Sil In and from 127 g/km in 2014 to 116 g/km in 2019, StoColor Climasan for interiors as well as Stowhile fuel consumption for the passenger car Color Lotusan and StoSilco® blue for the facade fleet was reduced by 8.7 % from an average climate-neutral via certificates of the ecoregion of 6.9 l/100 km to approx. 6.3 l/100 km over of Kaindorf. Through the targeted build-up of the same period. In addition, we are investhumus in Kaindorf, depleted soils are made ing in e-vehicles to test new, environmentally fertile again, the water absorption capacity friendly forms of individual mobility – not least 81 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility to secure locations in rural areas where there we consider the resulting risks to be relatively are hardly any alternatives to individual means small and well manageable. Major environmenof transport. tal damage, for example due to unintentional In order to further promote electric mobility leakage of chemicals, is avoided through high at Sto, the number of charging points for cars safety standards. Internal environmental officers at the Stühlingen-Weizen site was increased in at the production sites ensure that hazards are 2019. In addition to the charging station with identified at an early stage and measures are two charging points at the Weizen employee initiated promptly. car park, which has been in existence since We see a general, non-insurable business risk 2014, two charging stations with a total of four in that natural events can influence the supply charging points were added on the company of raw materials and production. Identifiable premises during the year under review, as well risks in our companies due to the effects of as two charging stations with four charging weather are recorded via our risk management points at the visitor car park. system. In principle, our sales are subject to For business trips by train, Sto employees use weather-related fluctuations in many markets. the BahnCard Business which guarantees mobilThis risk is explained in the management report. ity in long-distance trains within Germany using 100 % green electricity. To avoid travel-related Environmental management systems emissions and costs, we also use video conferAn important element of corporate environence rooms in our locations worldwide as well mental protection are our established envias software solutions for location-independent ronmental management systems. As at the online meetings. end of 2019, almost half (15 out of 33) of our With respect to procurement within the Sto production sites worldwide had been exterGroup, regional products – wherever this is nally certified in accordance with international possible and economically feasible – are given standard ISO 14001. The implemented systems preference in order to keep the transport routes ensure a methodical and verifiable group-wide short and the resource consumption low. In approach and allow the continuous identifiGermany, around 72 % of the purchasing volcation of improvement measures, which is an ume of the main raw materials, such as mineral essential requirement for optimum control of extenders, and packaging are procured within business operations. a maximum radius of 350 km and insulation Environmental aspects at ISO 14001-certified boards usually within a maximum radius of sites are identified and assessed once a year and 250-300 km. cover the entire product life cycle, i.e. from reOur climate protection activities are also search and development through procurement attributable to procurement through the and production to sales and disposal. Concrete consistent sourcing of certified green electricity environmental goals are derived from this, from 100 % hydropower. This made it possible e.g. the reduction of waste through optimised to save 6,145 tonnes of CO2 in 2019 when processes. The result is validated as part of an compared to the German electricity mix. internal audit. The process owner is responsible As a manufacturing company that uses raw for implementation. materials from mining and the chemical indusWithin the scope of the certificates try and that markets its products worldwide, it 9001:2015 and 14001:2015, which cover is unavoidable to have an influence on the envia total of 26 (ISO 9001:2015) and 15 (ISO ronment. However, through conscious handling, 14001:2015) production sites, no deviations 82 Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility | Sto SE & Co. KGaA from legal requirements were identified by ciple to ensure dry facades that are protected internal audits in 2019. The operators have not against algae and fungi. The avoidance of reported any deviations at present. Compliance biocides is also the topic of ‘preservative-free with the contents of the quality and environproducts’. In 2019, this played a major role mental management systems at the relevant in the area of in-can preservation of indoor locations, that include occupational health and products. With the use of in-can preservatives, safety, infrastructure and buildings, security, the industry has succeeded in ensuring that the environmental protection and obligations, majority of paints, varnishes, and other organic has been substantiated through safety-related coatings are now water-based and solvent-free supervision. as these products are not attacked by bacteria and fungi. In-can preservatives are covered by Environmental and resource protection on the Biocidal Products Ordinance and are subject product level to the two-stage authorisation procedure deAspects of environmental and resource protecscribed therein. At the same time, the demand tion also pay an important role in our products. has risen for preservative-free products without The majority of Sto products are coatings which compromising the functionality and shelf life of are used to protect buildings. This is, in itself, the products. In order to meet these demands, one of the most important contributions we we have adapted the product property ‘premake towards sustainability as far as durability, servative-free’ for dispersion silicate products. weather protection, building preservation, and, Through our activities in associations, we are at therefore, resource protection are concerned. the same time committed to reaching a standWithout a protection layer, buildings would age ardised definition of the term ‘free of preservamuch more quickly and then require refurbishtives’, and appropriate handling of preservatives ment years earlier than anticipated. Additionin technically demanding product groups. ally, our especially hard-wearing coatings help The political discussion on the potential protect the rain screen of insulated buildings health risks posed by the white pigment from external influences – an increasingly imtitanium dioxide continued in depth in 2019. portant factor to consider given the rising numDespite considerable resistance, on 4 October ber of storms and occurrences of heavy rainfall 2019, the European Commission decided to with accompanying hailstorms worldwide. classify and label titanium dioxide in powder Furthermore, we continuously optimise our form as ‘probably carcinogenic by inhalation’ products with regard to a better environmen(category 2). This classification also applies tal compatibility and health protection. These to titanium dioxide that forms part of a include the reduction and avoidance of the use powder-form mix. The Commission has also of solvents and plasticisers that began in the adopted mandatory warning messages for 1980s, the consistent encapsulation of biocides liquid and solid mixtures containing titanium as film protection agents since 2010, and the dioxide. This means that almost all liquid paints early switch-over from the now banned flame and varnishes must be labelled, regardless of retardant HBCD to polymer FR in EPS insulation whether they are suitable for spray applications boards in 2015. at all. To avoid biocides as film protection agent, In our view, this decision neither seems to Sto offers various solutions, in particular our make sense nor does it seem to be justified, as facade paints StoColor Dryonic and StoColor titanium dioxide is not released in powder or Lotusan, which use a biomimetic active prindust form by Sto products. While recognised 83 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility experts say that there is no case worldwide Our activities to make our products easier of any health hazard from inhaling titanium and better to dismantle and recycle have again dioxide, the EU Commission saw an urgent formed a focal point in 2019. We regard this need for action, giving the impression that the as a major strategic development task in the industry is using titanium dioxide unnecessarily construction industry. or irresponsibly. Since the potential hazard of Approaches for increased resource protection inhaling large quantities of titanium dioxide is and recycling are the use of recyclates, such as a pure particle effect and has nothing to do waste glass in StoVentec Carrier Boards and PET with the properties of titanium dioxide as a in Sto acoustic panels, as well as the selection substance, the German government also advoof raw materials and components that can be cated addressing possible health hazards from recycled as easily as possible and fed back into dusts on occupational health and safety within existing circuits. These include, for example, the framework of European regulations instead stainless steel and aluminium in RSC sub-conof the classification of titanium dioxide as a structions. In addition, packaging materials hazardous substance. Exposure of consumers and uncontaminated, HBCD-free EPS insulation to dust-form titanium dioxide is practically exboards are recycled via certified return systems. cluded and we continue to consider the use of At the Austrian location in Villach, unused titanium dioxide in our products to be safe. paints, plasters, renders, and adhesives from Nevertheless, labelling causes uncertainty Austria and other countries are returned to the for users and consumers, the exclusion of cycle for recycling production and processed eco-labels for products containing titanium into our own highly recyclable products – at dioxide and open questions on the classificaa consistently high quality and to the benefit tion of waste and the treatment of dust-form of the environment. Calculations have shown construction waste containing more than one that a reuse in Villach is more profitable than percent powdered titanium dioxide (e.g. builddisposal at the place of origin despite longer ing rubble) under waste regulations. However, transport routes. there are doubts about the legality of the ComIn 2019, the European Union adopted a mission’s decision due to various infringements directive that, among other things, will ban cerof existing EU law, so that the dispute over the tain disposable plastic products by 2021. Waste classification of titanium dioxide 2020 is likely avoidance, recycling and circular economy to continue at the European Court. are also the focus of political discussions at a For exteriors, Sto has also been offering Stonational level: The Federal Ministry for the EnviColor Photosan for many years. This innovative ronment wants to introduce a duty of care for facade coating actively counteracts environgoods in the Circular Economy Act. This means mental pollution and significantly reduces the that in the future, returned goods or goods that formation of fine dust. In numerous cities, are still usable should only be destroyed if this is the statutory limits for fine respirable dust are necessary for safety or health reasons. In 2019, being exceeded more and more often. This we set up a group working on ‘Sustainable impairs people’s quality of life and health. Our Packaging Management’. The group devotes a surface-active facade paint automatically and considerable amount of effort to these issues effectively breaks down nitrogen oxides and and looks for solutions to reduce, recycle or reozone pollution, and can thus make an imporplace packaging with more ecological materials. tant contribution to improving the air quality in We attach special importance to developcities and municipalities. ments in dismantling and recycling methods in 84 Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility | Sto SE & Co. KGaA the area of external wall insulation systems with technology for separating EWIS components, polystyrene. In 2019, the implementation of also includes optimised logistics and reliable the solvent-based Solvolyse process (CreaSolv® separation of EPS qualities (HBCD-free / HBprocess) for the recycling of EPS insulation CD-contaminated). materials and other polystyrene products was continued. As part of the ‘PolyStyreneLoop Information on Principle 10: AntiCooperative’, a first plant with a capacity for Corruption 3,000 tonnes of EPS waste per year is being All forms of bribery and corruption are unbuilt in the Netherlands. This means that, in adacceptable for us and will not be tolerated. dition to thermal recycling in waste incineration Further details relating to corporate governance plants, there will also be a material recycling at Sto can be found in the Corporate Governoption for EPS waste with HBCD available from ance Report in the current Annual Report. We 2021. also require our suppliers to observe the Global Two research projects were continued in Compact principles. 2019 that focus intensively on the recycling of The transparency required for the increasbuilding products and are actively accompanied ingly complex corporate processes is ensured and supported by Sto. In cooperation with by the Internal Audit department, which also DECHEMA Gesellschaft für Chemische Technik makes allowance for the growing compliance und Biotechnologie e.V. (DECHEMA Association requirements. for Chemical Technology and Biotechnology), In 2017, Sto introduced a reporting channel the pilot project ‘KUBA – Nachhaltige Kunst­ in case of compliance infringements. This stoffwertschöpfungskette: Pilotfall Kunst­stoffe reporting channel is publicly accessible via in Bauwirtschaft und Gebäuden’ (KUBA – our website. Reliable reporting of compliance Sustainable plastics value chain: Pilot case – infringements and the protection of whisPlastics in the building industry and buildings) tle-blowers against sanctions are indispensable was initiated in 2018. The aim of the project for effective compliance, as they contribute to is to develop a concept for the sustainable use the reporting, comprehensive investigation and of plastics from the building sector and for the clarification of possible misconduct. The online recycling of a considerable part of the carbon in compliance reporting system is a secure way building plastics. The pilot project is funded by of reporting possible infringements. This way, the Federal Ministry of Education and Research infringements can be recorded at any time any (BMBF) and will publish its results in 2020. day. The whistle-blower system is open to emThe research project ‘RESSOURCE.WDVS ployees, managers, customers, suppliers, and – Ressourceneffiziente Nutzung von qualitätsother stakeholders alike. It is administered by an gesichertem Sekundär-EPS sowie der minerindependent, external operator and its data is alischen Fraktionen aus WDVS’ (RESSOURCE. stored on protected servers located in Germany. WDVS – Resource-efficient use of quality-asThe contents of the reports are processed exclusured secondary EPS and mineral fractions from sively through Sto. More information is available EWIS) is being carried out in cooperation with on the landing page of the reporting system on the Institute for Water, Resources and Environour website www.sto.de. ment at Münster University of Applied Sciences. The aim of this project is to develop a collection and recycling concept for EWIS waste which, in addition to developing a suitable processing 85 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility Part C ditions for teachers and to increase the burglar resistance of the facility. Assumption of responsibility As part of a project in northeastern Morocco, through voluntary commitwhich we have been supporting since 2012, a clinic building was inaugurated in spring 2019. ment The non-profit clinic in Oujda is specialised in the treatment of children with a cleft lip, jaw Social commitment, and donations or palate. The construction of the new building Sto attaches great importance to voluntary was made possible thanks to the dedication of initiatives and measures that serve the good of the London-based humanitarian architecture society. They form part of our basic understandcharity Article 25 and the extensive support ing of Corporate Social Responsibility and have provided by the Sto Group which had taken on a long tradition in the company. In 2019, again planning as well as delivery of a large number many activities took place. We will report on a of building materials. few of them. Since 2017, we have been in a special The Bright Hill Pre-School in Windhoek/Nasocio-ecological commitment with the nonmibia is one of the international projects that profit integration company AfB gGmbH, Sto has supported for many years. With our which specialises in reprocessing discarded IT financial support, training as well as construchardware and returning it into the use cycle. tion measures have been successfully impleIn 2019, over 272 of Sto’s decommissioned IT mented in the past. Around 120 children are and mobile devices, mainly PCs, notebooks, cared for in the pre-school in the mornings and and flat screens, made a contribution to learn English in particular in order to be able to environmental protection and inclusion. The As an ecological project, the trainattend a state school later. The institute also ascooperation between Sto and AfB prevented a ees at the Weizen location designed sists old people and those who need help who total of 1.4 tons of material, 22,136 kg of iron the area around the Sto pond and live in the slums of Windhoek. The currents equivalents, 15,719 kg of CO2 equivalents as created a barefoot path with Sto grants are to be used primarily for extension well as 48,787 kWh of energy. More than 90 % products. buildings in order to improve the working conof the hardware handed over was re-marketed, defective devices were dismantled and recycled. By returning the equipment to the economic cycle, electronic scrap is avoided, and natural resources are conserved. In addition, a job for a person with a disability was secured through the equipment donation, as AfB (Work for People with a Disability) is an inclusion company. As at the end of 2019, the IT company employed more than 420 people at 19 locations across Europe, around 43 % of whom had a disability. The partnership with Sto brings the inclusion company one step closer to its vision of creating 500 long-term jobs for people with disabilities. The annual trainee project took place at the Sto location in Weizen in 2019. The 60 trainees carried out an ecological project benefitting the 86 Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility | Sto SE & Co. KGaA employees and took over the redesign of the pond on the factory premises. Among other things, an educational barefoot path was built where Sto products can be experienced in a completely different way. Furthermore, the area The Sto Foundation – future through eduwas designed with bee-friendly plants, flowers cation and trees. ‘Wissen hilft’ (Knowledge helps): This is the Other Sto companies also place great emcredo of the Sto Foundation that has been phasis on social commitment and embrace it supporting charitable projects on a national in many different ways. Every year, numerous and international level for 15 years. The focus smaller fundraising events take place to support is on young professionals in the industries that non-profit associations, social institutions, peoare particularly important to Sto: the painting ple in need, or environmental protection. and plastering trades, architecture and civil enIn Austria, for example, the helpinghands@ gineering. The prerequisites for funding are top sto team launched an initiative three years ago performance and talent of the young people to support individuals, families or institutions on the one hand, and the need for economic in emergency situations and provide financial support during the training on the other. Since assistance. the establishment of the Foundation in 2005, Of particular importance to Sto is the promofive and a half million euros have been provided tion of young talent. The interactive travelling for a total of 491 projects. exhibition ‘Green up your future’, which is The funding amount was upped again with dedicated to ‘green jobs’ for young people, is effect from 1 January 2018, as the need and funded by the Federal Ministry for the Envidemand for support have increased sharply in ronment, Nature Conservation, Construction recent years. The families of the ordinary shareand Nuclear Safety, and the European Social holders, who contribute to the Foundation’s Fund. It made stops in several German cities funding pot every year, have each increased between 2017 and 2019. In this context, four the sum they dedicate in equal shares to a total young Sto colleagues describe how their work amount of EUR 300,000 per year. This demonis connected to the topics of biomimetics and strates how connected and committed they sustainability. Many short and clever videos, are to the company and the Foundation. The for example, demonstrate the Lotus effect, responsible parties had a total annual budget the StoColor Dryonic product and document of EUR 900,000 at their disposal for 2019 to the monitoring of the energy consumption of finance national and international funding our new office building using state-of-the-art measures; 59 projects received funding – six technology. In this way, the colleagues aim to more than in the previous year. motivate others to take up a profession ‘in the These included established formats such as green sector’ and learn from nature. the education pyramid for young journeymen and -women in the painting and varnishing trades, the promotion of technical training and further study courses. An image film by the seven German vocational schools shows how attractive and varied a career in the skilled trades can be. Since 2012, the Sto Foundation has been supporting talented, hard-working 87 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility trainees with equipment and specialist literature impressions of Israel’s past and present and to under the motto ‘You’ve got what it takes – engage in an exchange with their peers. The now show us!’ More than 1,000 young men objectives of the project were the transfer of and women in Germany and Austria have knowledge and education as well as the gain in already been equipped with the coveted green intercultural experience of the participants. toolbox. Since 2018, the toolbox has also been Students of architecture, interior design, and awarded in South Tyrol. construction are also confronted with very unOn the other hand, new projects are conknown realities at international summer schools stantly being added. In 2019, the foundation’s which are also supported by the Sto Founcurrently most important funding project had a dation. As part of self-build projects around special radiance with more than 100 media outthe world, students develop an awareness of lets in Germany and other countries reporting different cultural and social matters as well as on it: a German-Israeli team of trainees particof aspects of sustainable planning and buildipated in the renovation of the Max Liebling ing. For example, in a township east of Cape House. The building is part of the ‘White City’ Town in South Africa, a new nursery was built in Tel Aviv and was rebuilt and reconstructed in together with architecture students from the 2019 on the occasion of the 100th BAUHAUS University of Stuttgart/Germany. Other summer anniversary under the motto ‘Open for Renovaschools, for example in Germany, create space tion’. Three teams of five trainee plasterers from for encounters, interaction and consultation. the vocational college and the vocational trainThe ‘Dorfladen+’ was created by architecture ing centre in Leonberg/Germany each worked students from Darmstadt/Germany. It is located on the facade of the Max-Liebling House for in Golzow, Brandenburg/Germany, and shows one week, repairing cracks and touching up the how well a seemingly simple idea can support render. Seven trainee painters from a number social and economic cooperation in structurally of German vocational colleges then gave the weak regions. building a fresh coat of paint. Each team was Four teams of German trainees completed by five young Israeli craftsmen from worked together with Israeli trainthe ‘Israel Antiquities Authority’ and a class of ees and students on the renovation architecture students from Bezalel University of the Bauhaus monument ‘Max in Jerusalem. Following the workshop, the Liebling House’ in Tel Aviv. German trainees took the opportunity to gather International summer schools help understand the different cultural, social, and energy-related interests when designing and constructing a building. Architecture students of the Technical University of Darmstadt showed how this works with their ‘Dorfladen+’ in the structurally weak town of Golzow in Brandenburg. 88 Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility | Sto SE & Co. KGaA In addition, the Sto Foundation has been As a doctoral student, Gudrun sponsoring professorships at universities and Rauwolf (right) has been conducting colleges for many years, thus providing valuresearch in the field of architectural able impetus for the contemporary academic psychology at the Technical Univertraining of future architects. In 2019, a new sity of Berlin since September 2019. doctoral position was created for architectural Prof. Dr.-Ing. Jörg H. Gleiter, Head psychology at the Technical University of Berlin/ of the Department of Architectural Germany, which will be subsidised by the Sto Theory (left), and Prof. Peter Cheret, Foundation for three years. Member of the Board of Trustees for Architecture at the Sto Foundation (centre) provide support. The ‘November Series’ brings together internationally successful, renowned architects every year. In their lectures they deal with relevant questions and problems of architecture in the present and the future. The 14th edition took place in Venice for the first time, the venue of the Architecture Biennale since 1980. During the Green Building Solution 2019 in Vienna, young architecture students from 28 countries learned how to handle an EWI system under the expert guidance of a team of German craftsmen. 89 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility 90 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Sto SE & Co. KGaA, Stühlingen/Germany Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) · Statement of profit and loss · Statement of comprehensive income · Statement of financial situation · Statement of changes in equity · Cash flow statement · Notes 91 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) Sto SE & Co. KGaA, Stühlingen/Germany Consolidated statement of profit and loss for 2019 Notes 2019 2018 EUR EUR K 1. Revenue (1) 1,398,227,335.52 1,332,370 2. Changes in product inventories –1,618,413.44 –199 3. Other internally generated assets capitalised (2) 125,475.36 146 Total revenues 1,396,734,397.44 1,332,316 4. Other operating income* (3) 19,063,442.13 17,697 5. Cost of material (4) –631,645,932.89 –615,931 6. Personnel expenditure (5) –372,211,469.85 –352,262 7. Other operating expenses* (6) –269,572,404.77 –265,336 8. Impairment (net) of financial assets (7) –4,158,888.16 –3,288 EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation) 138,209,143.90 113,196 9. Depreciation and amortisation of Intangible assets as well as Property, plant and equipment (8) –52,325,234.77 –31,299 EBIT (earnings before interest and taxes) 85,883,909.13 81,898 10. Earnings from financial assets accounted for using the equity method (9) –512,590.36 118 11. Interest and similar income (10) 1,131,463.92 726 12. Interest and similar expenditure (10) –3,405,139.02 –2,575 EBT (earnings before taxes) 83,097,643.67 80,166 13. Taxes on income and earnings (11) –26,755,573.84 –26,356 EAT (earnings after taxes) 56,342,069.83 53,810 of which: Share of minority interests –1,845,001.36 144 Share of earnings attributable to the shareholders of Sto SE & Co. KGaA 58,187,071.19 53,666 Earnings per share basic/diluted in EUR Limited ordinary share (12) 9.03 8.33 Limited preference share (12) 9.09 8.39 * Adjustment of previous year due to the separate presentation of the netted impairment of financial assets in accordance with IAS 1.82 (ba). 92 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Sto SE & Co. KGaA, Stühlingen/Germany Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for 2019 2019 2018 EUR EUR K EAT (earnings after taxes) 56,342,069.83 53,810 Currency translation: Currency translation differences 1,190,315.13 –799 Earnings to be reclassified in the statement of profit and loss in future periods 1,190,315.13 –799 Revaluation of post-employment benefit obligations Gains/losses from the revaluation of defined benefit plans –21,393,781.71 2,271 Deferred taxes 5,930,266.59 –492 Earnings not to be reclassified in the statement of profit and loss in future periods* –15,463,515.12 1,779 Other earnings after taxes –14,273,199.99 980 Total comprehensive earnings after taxes 42,068,869.84 54,790 of which: Share of minority interests –1,800,586.95 187 Share of earnings attributable to the shareholders of Sto SE & Co. KGaA 43,869,456.79 54,603 *For further explanations concerning equity, see Note (22). For further explanations on the revaluation of post-employment benefit obligations, see Note (24). 93 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) Sto SE & Co. KGaA, Stühlingen/Germany Consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2019 Assets Notes 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 EUR EUR K A. Non-current assets I. Intangible assets (13) 64,489,007.99 47,768 II. Property, plant, and equipment (14) 262,444,529.14 254,848 III. Rights of use (15) 63,628,567.17 – IV. Financial assets accounted for using the equity method (16) 10,625,620.27 11,138 Fixed assets 401,187,724.57 313,754 V. Non-current trade receivables (18) 1,236,256.64 1,069 VI. Non-current financial assets (19) 5,183,757.89 500 VII. Other non-current assets (20) 715,749.83 335 VIII. Deferred tax assets (11) 29,807,227.01 20,541 Other non-current assets 36,942,991.37 22,445 Total non-current assets 438,130,715.94 336,199 B. Current assets I. Inventories (17) 101,252,669.12 97,863 II. Current trade receivables (18) 137,740,165.16 134,702 III. Current income tax receivables 1,886,726.64 2,577 IV. Current financial assets (19) 57,579,889.96 83,257 V. Other current assets (20) 30,894,705.90 24,531 VI. Cash and cash equivalents (21) 128,606,693.16 105,295 Total current assets 457,960,849.94 448,225 Total assets 896,091,565.88 784,424 94 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Equity and Liabilities Notes 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 EUR EUR K A. Equity I. Subscribed capital (22) 17,556,480.00 17,556 II. Capital reserves (22) 57,803,590.41 57,804 III. Revenue reserves and other reserves (22) 410,779,289.09 394,547 Share attributable to the shareholders of Sto SE & Co. KGaA 486,139,359.50 469,907 IV. Share of minority interests (23) 392,826.43 7,638 Total equity 486,532,185.93 477,545 B. Non-current provisions and liabilities I. Provisions for post-employment benefits and similar liabilities (24) 123,816,035.99 99,267 II. Other non-current provisions (25) 17,940,737.98 14,555 III. Non-current borrowings (26) 3,681,633.83 3,344 IV. Non-current lease liabilities (27) 47,216,966.34 – V. Non-current trade payables (28) 151,000.00 151 VI. Non-current financial liabilities (29) 269,000.00 283 VII. Other non-current liabilities (30) 10,059.02 10 VIII. Deferred tax liabilities (11) 1,892,651.91 2,099 Total non-current provisions and liabilities 194,978,085.07 119,709 C. Current provisions and liabilities I. Other current provisions (25) 48,164,957.52 45,469 II. Current borrowings (26) 5,142,272.60 11,459 III. Current lease liabilities (27) 18,513,902.59 – IV. Current trade payables (28) 48,891,744.00 47,155 V. Current income tax liabilities 10,417,122.62 6,135 VI. Current financial liabilities (29) 34,436,611.51 32,582 VII. Other current liabilities (30) 49,014,684.04 44,370 Total current provisions and liabilities 214,581,294.88 187,170 Total debt capital 409,559,379.95 306,879 Total equity and liabilities 896,091,565.88 784,424 95 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) Sto SE & Co. KGaA, Stühlingen/Germany Statement of changes in equity as at 31 December 2019 in TEUR Equity attributable to the shares Subscribed Capital Revenue Currency Reserve capital reserve reserves translation for pensions reserve Notes (22) (22) (22) (22) (22/24) As at 31 December 2017 17,556 57,804 414,896 4,679 –29,513 Effects from the first-time application of IFRS 9 as at 1 January 2018 0 0 –1,015 0 0 Equity as at 1 January 2018 after first-time application effect 17,556 57,804 413,882 4,679 –29,513 As at 1 January 2018 17,556 57,804 413,882 4,679 –29,513 EAT (earnings after taxes) 0 0 53,666 0 0 Other earnings (after taxes) 0 0 0 –799 1,736 Total comprehensive earnings 0 0 53,666 –799 1,736 Dividend payout 0 0 –26,049 0 0 Transactions with owners 0 0 0 0 0 Minority shares from corporate acquisition 0 0 0 0 0 As at 31 December 2018 17,556 57,804 441,499 3,880 –27,777 As at 31 December 2018 17,556 57,804 441,499 3,880 –27,777 Effects from the first-time application of IFRS 16 as at 1 January 2019 0 0 –1,770 0 0 Equity as at 1 January 2019 after first-time application effect 17,556 57,804 439,728 3,880 –27,777 As at 1 January 2019 17,556 57,804 439,728 3,880 –27,777 EAT (earnings after taxes) 0 0 58,187 0 0 Other earnings (after taxes) 0 0 0 1,103 –15,421 Total comprehensive earnings 0 0 58,187 1,103 –15,421 Dividend payout 0 0 –26,049 0 0 Transactions with owners 0 0 182 0 0 Minority shares from corporate acquisition 0 0 0 0 0 As at 31 December 2019 17,556 57,804 472,048 4,983 –43,198 For further details on equity, see Note (22) et seq. 96 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA of the parent company Share of Total minority Equity Treasury stock Total interests (22) (23) –23,055 442,367 7,778 450,144 0 –1,015 11 –1,004 –23,055 441,353 7,789 449,140 –23,055 441,353 7,789 449,140 0 53,666 144 53,810 0 937 43 980 0 54,603 187 54,790 0 –26,049 –337 –26,386 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 –23,055 469,907 7,639 477,545 –23,055 469,907 7,639 477,545 0 –1,770 –21 –1,791 –23,055 468,136 7,618 475,754 –23,055 468,136 7,618 475,754 0 58,187 –1,845 56,342 0 –14,318 45 –14,273 0 43,869 –1,800 42,069 0 –26,049 –41 –26,090 0 182 –6,483 –6,300 0 0 1,099 1,099 –23,055 486,140 393 486,532 97 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) Sto SE & Co. KGaA, Stühlingen/Germany Consolidated cash flow statement for 2019 in EUR K Notes 2019 2018 Cash flow from operating activities EAT (earnings after taxes) 56,342 53,810 Reconciliation of EAT (earnings after taxes) and cash flow from operating activities Taxes on income and earnings (11) 26,756 26,356 Net financial income/expense (9/10) 2,786 1,731 EBIT (earnings before interest and taxes) 85,883 81,897 Depreciation of fixed assets (8) 53,325 31,299 Earnings from disposal of fixed assets 1,824 458 Income taxes paid –24,537 –24,642 Change in provisions 8,564 –1,046 Change in net current assets –7,105 –7,282 Cash flow from operating activities 116,955 80,684 Cash flow from investment activities Investments in Property, plant and equipment, and Intangible assets (13/14) –35,349 –31,966 Payments for the acquisition of consolidated companies and other business units (less acquired cash and cash equivalents) –18,880 0 Payments received from other disposal of intangible assets and plant, property and equipment 1,280 540 Interest payments received 601 522 Disbursements for financial investments –27,916 –37,926 Deposits from financial investments 48,679 32,964 Cash flow from investment activities –31,585 –35,866 Cash flow from financing activities Payments to minority shareholders –6,300 0 Disbursements for the repayment portion of the lease liabilities (27) –19,289 0 Deposits of non-current borrowings (26/32) 0 2,500 Payments for non-current borrowings (26/32) –8,798 –61 Payments received for current borrowings (26/32) 3,016 3,512 Payments for current borrowings (26/32) –4,233 –3,043 Dividend payout (12) –26,090 –26,386 Payments of interest –1,199 –714 Cash flow from financing activities –62,892 –24,192 Changes in cash and cash equivalents due to changes in exchange rates and in impairments due to expected losses on cash and cash equivalents in accordance with IFRS 9 835 246 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period (21) 105,294 84,422 Change in cash and cash equivalents 23,313 20,872 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period* (21) 128,607 105,294 The cash flow statement is explained in Note (32). * Cash and cash equivalents at the end of period equal the item Cash and cash equivalents shown in the balance sheet. 98 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Sto SE & Co. KGaA, Stühlingen/Germany Notes to the consolidated financial statements as at 31 December 2019 General information SE & Co. KGaA on 8 April 2020 for approval at the Supervisory Board meeting on 16 April 1. Information on the company 2020. Sto SE & Co. KGaA and its connected, dependent Group companies manufacture and 2. Basis of preparation market products, components, and functional Sto SE & Co. KGaA has prepared its consolsystems – energetic and other – which are used idated annual financial statement of the Sto in and on buildings and consist of material Group for the year 2019 in accordance with components and/or coatings. Services aimed the International Financial Reporting Standards at maintaining the value of buildings also form (IFRS) as applicable in the European Union and an integral part of the company’s scope of the interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpreproduct. tations Committee (IFRIC). The supplemental commercial regulations in accordance with The only shareholder of the personally liable Section 315e of the HGB were also applied. partner STO Management SE, Stühlingen/ Germany, is Stotmeister Beteiligungs GmbH, All standards and interpretations subject to Stühlingen/Germany, in which the Stotmeister compulsory application in fiscal 2019 were families have bundled their assigned Sto SE & observed. Co. KGaA limited ordinary shares. Effects of new accounting standards Stotmeister Beteiligungs GmbH is the majorThe accounting principles applied remained ity shareholder and ultimate parent company largely unchanged from the previous year. The of Sto SE & Co. KGaA. The address of the following standards and interpretations, which registered offices of Sto SE & Co. KGaA is were applied for the first time in 2019, are an Ehrenbachstraße 1, 79780 Stühlingen/Gerexception. many. It has been entered in the trade register Standards/ Title Applicable Effects of the district court of Freiburg under number Interpretations HRB 711236. Sto SE & Co. KGaA is a listed Amendments to Change, curtailment or 1 January 2019 Insignificant company. Its limited preference shares are listed IAS 19 settlement of plan in the ‘Regulated Market’ segment for official trading on the stock exchange operated by Amendments to Non-current interests in 1 January 2019 Insignificant Deutsche Börse AG, Frankfurt am Main/GerIAS 28 associates and joint ventures many as well as Börse Stuttgart AG, Stuttgart/ Amendments to Early repayment options with 1 January 2019 Insignificant Germany. The other Group companies are IFRS 9 negative early repayment engaged in the same business sector as Sto penalty SE & Co. KGaA. IFRS 16 Leases 1 January 2019 Significant Improvements to Amendments to various IFRS 1 January 2019 Insignificant The consolidated annual financial statement IFRS 2015 – 2017 (IFRS 1, IFRS 11, IAS 12, and and management report of Sto SE & Co. KGaA IAS 23) was drawn up on 6 April 2020 by the personIFRIC 23 Tax risk items from income 1 January 2019 Insignificant ally liable partner STO Management SE and will taxes be forwarded to the Supervisory Board of Sto 99 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) The Group has applied IFRS 16 Leases in the First-time application effects of IFRS 16 on 2019 fiscal year, as its application is mandatory equity for fiscal years beginning on or after 1 January 2019. in EUR K 1 January 2019 IFRS 16 introduces new or modified requireEquity as at 31 December 2018 ments regarding accounting and leases. Signif(before the introduction of icant accounting changes have been made for IFRS 16) 477,545 lessees by no longer distinguishing between Changes in rights of use 66,432 operating and finance leases and by requiring Changes in non-current lease liabilities –52,004 the recognition of a right of use and a lease Changes in current lease liabilities –16,820 liability at the inception of all leases except Deferred taxes on first-time short-term leases and small-ticket leases. Details application effects 601 on these new requirements are described under Equity as at 1 January 2019 Note 6. Presentation of the major accounting (after the introduction of IFRS 16) 475,754 and valuation policies. The reconciliation of the operating lease obligaThe impact of the first-time application of tions as of 31 December 2018 to the opening IFRS 16 on the consolidated annual financial balance of the lease obligations as of 1 January statement is as follows: 2019 is as follows: The first-time application of IFRS 16 followed the transitional regulations based on the modReconciliation of the lease liabilities in ified retrospective approach. The comparative accordance with IFRS 16 information regarding the corresponding periin EUR K 1 January 2019 ods of previous years was not adjusted. Liabilities from operating leases At the date of transition, the Group makes use as at 31 December 2018 59,143 of the exemption option to apply IFRS 16 only Appropriate extension and to leases that were already classified as leases termination options 14,986 under IAS 17 and IFRIC 4. During the transition Short-term leases –987 to IFRS 16, assets for rights of use to leased Small-ticket leases –191 items amounting to EUR 66,4432 K and lease liabilities of EUR 68,824 K were recorded on Obligations from non-leasing components –3,558 1 January 2019. The difference in the amounts Discounting –569 results from the fact that the standard was applied in a modified retrospective manner. This Lease liabilities accounted for in accordance with IFRS 16 68,824 difference was recognised in equity with no impact on profit and loss on the date of first-time Finance lease liabilities as at 31 December 2018 415 application. Total lease liabilities 69,239 100 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA The lease liabilities were discounted as of 1 JanThe implementation of IFRIC 23 has no substanuary 2019 using the incremental borrowing rate tial effects on the assets, financial and income of interest. The incremental borrowing rates of situation of the Group. interest were determined centrally by the Group. The weighted average interest rate was 0.8 %. The amendments to IAS 19 relate to the accounting of plan adjustments, curtailments or It was possible to determine the terms of leases settlements made during a reporting period, with extension or call options retrospectively. and stipulate that current service costs and net interests be recalculated for the remaining The direct costs underlying the leases were not period if there is a modification, curtailment or included in the initial evaluation of the rights of settlement of a pension plan during the year. use. This calculation must be based on the actuarial assumptions valid at the time of the event. The rights of use are reported in the separate The amendments to IAS 19 must be applied to balance sheet item ‘Rights of use’. The rights events that occur at or after the beginning of of use from finance leases in accordance with the first fiscal year beginning on or after 1 JanuIAS 17 in the amount of EUR 407 K, which ary 2019. Early adoption is permitted. had still been reported under Property, plant and equipment until 31 December 2018, were The implementation of IFRIC 19 has no substanreclassified to the balance sheet item ‘Rights of tial effects on the assets, financial and income use’. situation of the Group. Lease liabilities are reported in the separate In addition, there were no material changes balance sheet items ‘Current lease liabilities’ to the Group’s income, financial and assets and ‘Non-current lease liabilities’. Lease liabilsituation at the time of first-time application ities from finance leases in accordance with on 1 January 2019. IAS 17 in the amount of EUR 415 K had still been reported under current or non-current A more detailed explanation of the effects on financial liabilities until 31 December 2018. Of the consolidated annual financial statement due this amount, EUR 187 K were reclassified to the amendments to the standards can be found the balance sheet item ‘Current lease liabiliunder 6. Presentation of the major accounting ties’ and EUR 228 K to the balance sheet item and valuation policies. ‘Non-current lease liabilities’ according to their maturities. 3. International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and Interpretations (IFRIC) IFRIC 23 Uncertainties over Income Tax Treatissued and not yet mandatory ments was issued by the IASB in May 2017. The interpretation clarifies the requirements for the Accounting standards not applied early recognition and valuation of uncertain income The IASB and IFRIC have issued additional tax items. In assessing the uncertainty, a comstandards and interpretations. These regulations pany has to evaluate whether it is likely that were not applied in the reporting period bethe tax jurisdiction will accept the income tax cause either recognition by the EU is still pendtreatment. The new regulations must be applied ing or the application was not yet mandatory. for fiscal years beginning from 1 January 2019. 101 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) The time of application in the Group is always output is exhausted in reduced costs or other the time when a regulation first becomes maneconomic advantages. An output as defined by datory. IFRS 3 is the result of the use of resources and processes by which goods or services are proStandards/ Title Applicable Effects vided, or investment income (such as interest Interpretations and dividends), or other income from ordinary Amendments to the referenc1 January 2020 Insignificant activities is generated. es to the framework concept in IFRS standards The amendments must be applied for fiscal Amendments to Classification of liabilities NA Insignificant years beginning from 1 January 2020. The IAS 1 as current and non-current effects on the assets, financial and income situChanges to IFRS 3 Definition of a business 1 January 2020 Insignificant ation the Group are insignificant. Amendments to Definition of materiality 1 January 2020 Insignificant IAS 1 and IAS 8 In October 2018, the IASB issued the amendIFRS 17 Insurance contracts 1 January 2021 Insignificant ment standard ‘Definition of Significant Amendments to IAS 1 and IAS 8’ in order to On 22 October 2018, the IASB published the sharpen the definition of materiality in the IFRS amendments to IFRS 3: Definition of a business. and to harmonise the various definitions in the The amendments introduce an optional concenframework and in the standards. Accordingly, tration test, which allows a simplified assessinformation is material when it can reasonably ment of whether a business or only a group of be expected that its omission, misstatement or assets is acquired. The amendments also come concealment affects the decisions of primary with a revised definition of a business. users of general-purpose financial statements. The concentration test is to simplify the assessThe amendments must be applied for fiscal ment of whether a transaction is a business years beginning from 1 January 2020. The operation. It is not a business operation if the effects on the assets, financial and income situtest result is positive, i.e. if the entire fair value ation the Group are insignificant. largely concentrates on a single, identifiable asset or a group of similarly identifiable assets. On 18 May 2017, the IASB published IFRS 17 While no further assessment is necessary if the which will replace the regulations previously result is positive, if the result is negative or if a stipulated in IFRS 4. In particular, it addresses iscompany chooses not to apply the concentrasues relating to the insurance risk resulting from tion test, the assessment must be based on the a damage that has occurred, the determination definition of a business operation. The decision of discount rates using a top-down approach, whether to apply the concentration test can be commissions and reinstatement premiums for made separately for each transaction. reinsurance contracts issued, experience-based adjustments to premiums relating to current or As a result of the amendments to IFRS 3, the past services, cash flows that are outside the acquired entity must no longer be able to contract limit at initial recognition, recovery generate services, but it is sufficient if it has the of acquisition costs, premium waivers, group ability to contribute to the generation of outinsurance, and industry pools managed by an put. The definition of output was also adjusted. association. For example, it is no longer sufficient if the 102 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA The amendments must be applied for fiscal as of 1 January 2019 which means that control years beginning from 1 January 2021. The was obtained in the sense of inclusion in the effects on the assets, financial and income situconsolidated financial statements. All conditions ation the Group are insignificant. precedent of the sales contract were met at that time. The Group has not yet started with the implementation. These changes are not expected to Liaver is one of the few German manufacturhave substantial effects on the assets, financial ers of expanded glass granulate made from and income situation. recycled glass. Furthermore, the company has specialised in the use of this material in various 4. Companies consolidated areas of application. Highly sound-absorbThe consolidated annual financial statement ing and non-combustible fibre-free acoustic includes Sto SE & Co. KGaA, the subsidiaries products are marketed under the product in and outside of Germany, joint ventures, and name Reapor. Since 2018, the company has associated companies. also been manufacturing shipbuilding boards. These boards are offered under the product Due to the clear allocation, no significant name ‘Liatec’. With this acquisition, the Group assessments or assumptions were necessary secures access to expanded glass granulate as a when assessing the companies consolidated. raw material and supplements its own product range with innovative products. In the case of subsidiaries, Sto SE & Co. KGaA is able to exercise a controlling influence The fair values of identifiable assets and liabilias defined in IFRS 10. Control as defined in ties at the time of acquisition are as follows: IFRS 10 exists when an investor has exposure or rights to variable returns from its involvein EUR K Fair value as at the time ment with the investee and has the ability to of acquisition use its power over the investee to affect the Intangible assets 424 amount of the investee’s returns. In the present Property, plant, and equipment 7,916 consolidated annual financial statement, this Inventories 1,189 is the case for shareholdings of more than Trade receivables 414 50 % without exception. In the case of fully Other receivables and financial assets 436 consolidated companies where less than 50 % Cash and cash equivalents 88 of capital shares are held, control was assured via further contractual agreements. This only Total assets 10,467 applied to Sto Gulf Building Material LLC., Provisions 275 Dubai/UAE. Trade payables 1,097 Borrowings 4,410 Via a subsidiary of Sto SE & Co. KGaA, 100 % Other liabilities 234 of the limited partnership shares of Liaver Deferred tax liabilities 0 GmbH & Co. KG, Ilmenau/Germany were acquired. 100 % of the shares and voting rights Total liabilities 6,016 of Liaver Beteiligungen GmbH, Ilmenau/Germany, were acquired via a transfer of shares Total identifiable net assets by the seller. Both came into economic effect at fair value 4,451 103 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) in EUR K Fair value Via a subsidiary, Sto SE & Co. KGaA acquired as at the time 50.15 % of equity shares and voting rights of of acquisition Skyrise Prefab Building Solutions Inc., Pickering/ Minority shares evaluated Canada on 10 May 2019, thereby gaining conat the value of the net assets 0 trol in the sense of inclusion in the consolidated Acquired shares evaluated annual financial statements. at the value of the identifiable net assets 4,451 Skyrise is a member of the independent Sto Goodwill from corporate acquisition 1,437 Panel Network, which has partners in North and South America. The members of this network Transferred consideration 5,888 produce and deliver industrially prefabricated, large-size facade panels that are based on the in EUR K Cash outflow Sto Panel Technology. As the initiator of the due to corporate acquisition network, Sto recognised the need for industrially prefabricated facade components at an Transaction costs of corporate acquisition (contained in the cash flow from early stage. In particular, the steel skeleton conoperating activity) –166 struction of industrial and multi-storey buildings Cash and cash equivalents acquired in North America is predestined to be equipped with the subsidiary (contained in the with such components. Through this acquisicash flows from investment activity) 88 tion, the Group acquires extensive expertise in Outflow of cash and cash equivalents panel construction, particularly in its produc(contained in the cash flows from tion, marketing, and installation, complements investment activity) –5,888 its surface and coating expertise and increases Actual cash outflow due to its competence as a solution provider. corporate acquisition –5,966 The fair values of identifiable assets and liabiliThe goodwill from the company acquisition is ties at the time of acquisition are as follows: based on expected synergies, growth opportunities and the expertise of the employees. in EUR K Fair value as at the time of acquisition In terms of taxes, goodwill also arose in the amount of EUR 1,437 K which will lead to Intangible assets 53 deferred taxes in future periods due to tax Property, plant, and equipment 744 depreciation. Inventories 197 Trade receivables 824 The net amount of the receivables corresponds Other receivables and financial assets 87 to the fair value thereof. This includes value Deferred tax assets 0 adjustments amounting to EUR 206 K, which Cash and cash equivalents 2,675 represent the total expected irrecoverable cash flow. Total assets 4,580 Provisions 0 Turnover in the fiscal year, respectively since acquisition, amounted to EUR 7,411 K with Trade payables 1,057 earnings after taxes of EUR -587 K. Borrowings 125 104 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA in EUR K Fair value In the fiscal year beginning on 1 January 2019, as at the time a turnover of EUR 3,577 K with earnings after of acquisition taxes of EUR -3,722 K was achieved. Since Other liabilities 1,193 the acquisition, a turnover of EUR 2,620 K Deferred tax liabilities 0 with earnings after taxes of EUR -2,820 K was achieved. Total liabilities 2,375 On 1 August 2019, 100 % of the equity shares Total identifiable net assets and voting rights of Unitex Australia Pty Ltd, at fair value 2,205 Dandenong South/Australia were acquired, Minority shares evaluated thereby gaining control in the sense of inclusion at the value of the net assets 1,099 in the consolidated annual financial statements. Acquired shares evaluated Via a subsidiary, Sto SE & Co. KGaA first acat the value of the identifiable quired 100 % of the business shares of Unitex net assets 1,106 Australia Pty Ltd, and, by means of an asset Goodwill from corporate acquisition 5,553 deal, the entire business operation of Unitex Granular Marble Pty Ltd, Dandenong South/ Transferred consideration 6,659 Australia. All Unitex activities were then merged into the company Unitex Australia Pty Ltd. in EUR K Cash outflow due to corporate acquisition The Unitex group of companies was founded in 1982 near Melbourne as an independent Transaction costs of corporate acquisicompany and is still owner-managed today. The tion (contained in the cash flow from operating activity) –121 product portfolio essentially comprises plasters, renders, reinforcing compounds and decorative Cash and cash equivalents acquired with the subsidiary (contained in the profiles for interior and exterior applications cash flows from investment activity) 2,920 in and on buildings. Production was mainly Outflow of cash and cash equivalents carried out at the Dandenong South site. The (contained in the cash flows from acquisition gives the Group direct access to the investment activity) –6,659 Australian market, especially the conurbations of Melbourne, Sydney and Adelaide. The existActual cash outflow due to corporate acquisition –3,860 ing product range is to be successively supplemented and expanded in line with demand. The goodwill from the company acquisition is based on expected synergies, growth opporThe fair values of identifiable assets and liabilitunities on the American market as well as the ties at the time of acquisition are as follows: expertise, experience and skills of the employees. It is not deductible for tax purposes. in EUR K Fair value as at the time of acquisition The net amount of the receivables corresponds Intangible assets 7,480 to the fair value thereof. This includes value Property, plant, and equipment 295 adjustments amounting to EUR 66 K, which represent the total expected irrecoverable cash Inventories 658 flow. Trade receivables 1,405 105 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) in EUR K Fair value The goodwill from the company acquisition is as at the time based on expected synergies, growth opportuof acquisition nities on the Australian market as well as the Other receivables and financial assets 42 expertise, experience and skills of the employDeferred tax assets 112 ees. It is not deductible for tax purposes. Cash and cash equivalents 77 The net amount of the receivables corresponds to the fair value thereof. This includes value adTotal assets 10,069 justments amounting to EUR 29 K, which cover Provisions 0 the entire expected irrecoverable cash flow. Trade payables 1,367 Borrowings 1,890 In the fiscal year beginning on 1 July 2019, a Other liabilities 879 turnover of EUR 6,445 K with earnings after taxes of EUR 102 K was achieved. Since acquiDeferred tax liabilities 0 sition, a turnover of EUR 6,292 K with earnings after taxes of EUR 80 K was achieved in the Total liabilities 4,136 past fiscal year. Total identifiable net assets at fair value 5,933 On 1 January 2020, Sto SE & Co. KGaA acMinority shares evaluated quired 50.1 % of the equity shares and voting at the value of the net assets 0 rights of VIACOR Polymer GmbH, Rottenburg/ Germany, thereby gaining control in the sense Acquired shares evaluated at the value of the identifiable of inclusion in the consolidated annual financial net assets 5,933 statements. The total purchase price includes a Goodwill from corporate acquisition 3,240 capital increase accruing to the company, a payment to the seller, and a component dependent Transferred consideration 9,173 on the future development of earnings, which will lead to a cash outflow in 2023 if the corresponding earnings are achieved. in EUR K Cash outflow due to corporate acquisition Viacor is a manufacturer in the field of industrial floors and sports floor coatings under the Transaction costs of corporate acquisiPorplastic brand. The company impresses with tion (contained in the cash flow from operating activity) –320 its high level of development expertise and a varied portfolio of polyurethane-based prodCash and cash equivalents acquired with the subsidiary (contained in the ucts. The acquisition will expand the Group’s cash flows from investment activity) 77 product portfolio in the area of high-quality Outflow of cash and cash equivalents products for floor coatings, and will generate (contained in the cash flows from synergies through cooperation in the areas investment activity) –9,173 of development and production. The Sto and Viacor product brands will continue to operate Actual cash outflow due to corporate acquisition –9,416 independently of each other in the market, covering different areas of application. 106 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA The fair values of identifiable assets and liabiliin EUR K Cash outflow ties at the time of acquisition are as follows: due to corporate acquisition in EUR K Fair value as at the time Outflow of cash and cash equivalents of acquisition (contained in the cash flows from investment activity 2020) –3,500 Intangible assets 367 Expected outflow of cash and cash Property, plant, and equipment 2,177 equivalents (contained in the cash Inventories 2,014 flows from investment activity 2023) –488 Trade receivables 2,634 Actual cash outflow due to Other receivables and financial assets 379 corporate acquisition –1,558 Deferred tax assets 0 Cash and cash equivalents 2,556 The goodwill from the company acquisition is based on expected synergies as well as growth Total assets 10,127 opportunities through the expansion of the Provisions 136 product portfolio. It is not deductible for tax purposes. Trade payables 1,924 Borrowings 4,744 The net amount of the receivables corresponds Other liabilities 543 to the fair value thereof. This includes value Deferred tax liabilities 0 adjustments amounting to EUR 928 K, which cover the entire expected irrecoverable cash Total liabilities 7,347 flow. Total identifiable net assets at fair value 2,780 In the case of joint ventures, Sto can exercise Minority shares evaluated joint control over another company together at the value of the net assets 1,387 with at least one other party via contractual Acquired shares evaluated agreements. Joint control is the case when deat the value of the identifiable cisions on the relevant activities of the company net assets 1,393 must be taken unanimously. Depending on Goodwill from corporate acquisition 2,595 the rights and obligations of the parties, joint agreements are either joint operations or joint Transferred consideration 3,988 ventures. In joint operations, the controlling parties have direct rights to the assets and in EUR K Cash outflow obligations to the liabilities. In the case of joint due to corporate acquisition ventures, the parties with joint control have a share in the net assets of the company by virtue Transaction costs of corporate acquisiof their status as partners. tion (contained in the cash flow from operating activity) –126 In the case of associated companies, Sto SE & Cash and cash equivalents acquired Co. KGaA has a material influence on the busiwith the subsidiary (contained in the cash flows from investment activity ness and finance policy. This is usually the case 2020) 2,556 when between 20 % to 50 % of the voting rights in a company are held. 107 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) The companies in which the capital share was Receivables and liabilities as well as expenses less than 50 % and which were not controlled, and income between consolidated companies are consolidated using the equity method. This are netted. Inventories and transactions are adapplies to Inotec GmbH, JONAS GmbH, and justed for interim results. The income tax conseJONAS Farbenwerke GmbH & Co. KG. JONAS quences of consolidation are taken into account GmbH and JONAS Farbenwerke GmbH & Co. through the recognition of deferred taxes. KG are held as an indirect investment via Sto BT GmbH, Stühlingen/Germany. The shares in joint ventures or associated companies accounted for using the equity method The German VeroStone GmbH was renamed are valuated in accordance with the same acSto BTV GmbH in January 2020. counting and valuation policies which are also applied to the determination of the share of The companies consolidated are disclosed in equity of fully-consolidated companies. Note (41) List of subsidiaries and investments. 6. Presentation of the major accounting The following fully-consolidated German comand valuation policies panies organised as limited-liability entities or The current/non-current distinction was obas partnerships according to Section 264a of served in the recognition of assets and liabilities. the HGB have fulfilled the conditions of Section The statement of profit and loss was prepared 264 (3) and/or Section 264b of the German using the total cost method. The fiscal year is Commercial Code (HGB) in terms of preparation identical to the calendar year. The consolidated facilitation options and disclosure and make use financial statements were prepared in euros. of the exemption rules: Unless otherwise indicated, the values were rounded up or down in line with commer• StoCretec GmbH, Kriftel/Germany cial rounding to the nearest thousand euros • Innolation GmbH, Lauingen/Germany (EUR K). The consolidated financial statements • Sto BT GmbH, Stühlingen/Germany were generally prepared according to the • Sto BTN GmbH, Stühlingen/Germany cost-of-acquisition principle, except for deriva• Verotec GmbH, Lauingen/Germany tives and assets measured at fair value. • Sto BTV GmbH, Stühlingen/Germany • Gefro Verwaltungs-GmbH & Co. KG, The major accounting and valuation policies Stühlingen/Germany applied in preparing the consolidated financial • Südwest Lacke + Farben GmbH & Co. KG, statements are as follows. Böhl-Iggelheim/Germany • Ströher Produktions GmbH & Co. KG, Currency translation Dillenburg/Germany Monetary items (cash and cash equivalents, re• Liaver GmbH & Co. KG, Ilmenau/Germany ceivables and liabilities, etc.) are first translated at the rate prevailing on the transaction date 5. Consolidation principles and then measured at fair value through profit The assets and liabilities of the companies in and loss as at the reference date. Non-monetary and outside of Germany included in the conitems recognised at historical cost of acquisition solidated financial statements are recognised or production are translated using the rate at and measured in accordance with the uniform the time of the transaction. accounting methods. 108 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA The financial statements of the consolidated and mainly in the currency of the respective companies prepared in a foreign currency were country. translated in accordance with the functional currency principle using the modified closing Assets and liabilities were translated at the closrate method in accordance with IAS 21. ing rate, and expenses and income at annual average rates. Equity is translated at historic rates. The functional currency is defined as the Any resultant currency translation differences national currency in question as the compaare recognised separately under equity and with nies perform their business independently in no effect on profit and loss until such time as financial, economic and organisational terms, the subsidiary in question is deconsolidated. The exchange rates used for currency translation are set out in the following table: Closing rate on Average annual rate EUR 1 = 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 2019 2018 AED United Arab Emirates 4.1209 4.2039 4.1085 4.3270 AUD Australia 1.5995 – 1.6109 – BRL Brazil 4.5157 4.4440 4.4134 4.3085 CAD Canada 1.4598 1.5605 1.4855 1.5294 CHF Switzerland 1.0854 1.1269 1.1124 1.1550 CLP Chile 843.6127 794.3524 792.4677 758.3645 CNY People’s Republic of China 7.8205 7.8751 7.7355 7.8081 COP Columbia 3,681.5147 3,717.0885 3,686.6285 3,502.5432 CZK Czech Republic 25.4100 25.7250 25.6700 25.6470 DKK Denmark 7.4715 7.4673 7.4661 7.4532 GBP Great Britain 0.8508 0.8945 0.8778 0.8847 HUF Hungary 330.5300 320.9800 325.3000 318.8900 MXN Mexico 21.2202 22.4921 21.5565 22.7054 MYR Malaysia 4.5953 4.7317 4.6374 4.7634 NOK Norway 9.8638 9.9483 9.8511 9.5975 PAB Panama 1.1219 1.1446 1.1186 1.1780 PLN Poland 4.2585 4.3000 4.2976 4.2615 RUB Russia 69.3406 79.4605 72.4553 74.0416 SEK Sweden 10.4468 10.2548 10.5891 10.2583 SGD Singapore 1.5111 1.5591 1.5273 1.5926 TRY Turkey 6.6843 6.0588 6.3578 5.7077 USD USA 1.1234 1.1450 1.1195 1.1810 109 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) Business combinations In the case of successive corporate acquisitions, Business combinations are accounted for using the previously acquired equity share is remeasthe acquisition method. The cost of acquisition ured at fair value at the time of acquisition and of a company comprises the sum total of the the result is recognised through profit and loss. consideration transferred, measured at fair value at the time of acquisition, and of the Leases shares without a controlling influence (minority A lease is a contract that grants the right to use interests) on the company acquired. The puran asset for an agreed period of time in return chaser valuates the shares of minority interests for payment. in accordance with IAS 17, a lease of the acquired company, either at fair value or is defined as an agreement in which the lessor at the corresponding share of the identifiable transfers to the lessee the right to use an asset net assets of the company acquired. for a specified period of time in return for one or more payments. Costs incurred within the scope of a business combination are recognised as expenses and In accordance with IAS 17, economic ownership reported as administrative costs. An agreed of leased assets was attributed to the lessee contingent consideration is recognised at fair if the lessee carried the material opportunities value at the time of acquisition. Any subseand risks incidental to ownership of the leased quent changes to the fair value representing asset. In this case, they were capitalised at an asset or a liability are either recognised in the time of the start of use either at fair value the statement of profit and loss or in other or at the present value of the minimum lease earnings. A contingent consideration classified payments if this was lower than the fair value. as equity is not remeasured, and its settlement A lease liability was carried in the same amount. at a later date is accounted for in equity. Subsequent assessment was carried out at amortised costs of acquisition using the effective When the Group acquires a company, the interest method. classification and designation of financial assets and liabilities in accordance with the contracWith the introduction of IFRS 16, since 1 Janutual terms and conditions, and the economic ary 2019, the Group has generally recognised circumstances and conditions are assessed. assets for rights of use of leased assets and liabilities for all leases at present values for Goodwill is measured at cost of acquisition on payment obligations entered into. The lease first-time recognition, calculated at the surplus liabilities include the following lease payments: of the consideration transferred and the shares without a controlling influence on the assets • Fixed payments, less lease incentives payable acquired and liabilities assumed. Such goodwill is by the lessor, submitted to testing once a year or as needed to • Variable payments that are connected to an determine any impairment in its value (impairindex or interest rate ment-only approach). If any impairment in the • Expected residual value payments from value of the goodwill is established, the correresidual value guarantees, sponding impairment is recognised accordingly. • The exercise price of a call option if the If the consideration transferred is below the fair exercise was deemed sufficiently certain. value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, then the difference is recognised in equity. 110 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Lease payments are discounted at the interest Intangible assets rate implicit in the lease if this can be deterGoodwill is only amortised on a non-scheduled mined. Otherwise, they are discounted at basis as a result of a lack of recoverability based the incremental borrowing rate of interest. In on an impairment test. For this, the carrying determining the incremental borrowing rates of amount of the cash-generating unit (CGU), interest, reference interest rates for a period of including the allocated goodwill, is compared up to 30 years from the yields of German and with the recoverable amount of the CGU. A US government bonds were used. Countries CGU is the smallest identifiable group of assets that belong to neither the European nor the US that generates cash inflows that are independcurrency area were allocated to the two curent of the cash inflows from other assets or rency zones approximately on the basis of the groups of assets. The recoverable amount of a country-specific yields of government bonds. CGU is the higher value of fair value less cost of The reference interest rates were supplemented sale and the value in use. At the balance sheet by a risk premium. date, the recoverable amount was determined on the basis of the value in use. The interest expense is recognised through profit and loss in net financial income/expense If the impairment is greater than the value of over the term of the lease. the goodwill, the excess amount is distributed across the remaining assets of the CGU proThe rights of use are valued at acquisition costs vided that the respective fair value or an asset is and are composed as follows: lower than the carrying amount. • lease liability, A 5-year plan as at 31 December 2019 for the • lease payments made on or before provision fiscal years of 2020 to 2024 of the respective less lease incentives received, and CGUs taking into account the expectation of • initial direct costs. a positive development in demand for thermal insulation and the planning of maintenance inSubsequent measurement is at amortised costs. vestments is the starting point for the valuation, The right of use is depreciated on a straight-line based on the best possible consideration of all basis over the term of the lease or – if shorter – information available internally and externally. over the economic life of the leased asset. For the CGUs, growth rates between 1.0 % In the case of leases with a term of no more and 2.0 % (previous year: 1.0%) were assumed than twelve months or leases with low-value for the period beyond the planning horizon, assets up to EUR 5 K, the Group applies the exas these rates adequately reflect the increasing emptions of IFRS 16.6 and recognises the lease uncertainty over time. payments of these contracts as expenses under other operating expenses. For the CGUs Sto, Skyrise, Beissier S.A.S, Ströher, and Unitex, significant due to their In the case of contracts which include both existing goodwill, forecasts were made on the lease and non-lease components, the Group basis of external factors with regard to the ecohas decided not to apply the practical expedient nomic situation in order to determine turnover of IFRS 16.15 and separates the lease compoand gross income. The main forecasts based nents from the non-lease components. on internal factors were related to empirical 111 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) values regarding the 5-year plan, in particular department are the identification of alternative with regard to steady turnover growth in the materials, products, and processes. single-digit percentage range, or double-digit percentage growth in the case of Skyrise, a conProperty, plant, and equipment stant gross profit, and a 1-2 % growth rate for Property, plant, and equipment are recognised the period beyond the planning horizon. at acquisition or production cost less cumulative depreciation and cumulative impairment losses. For discounting the cash flows, the weighted average cost of capital after taxes (WACC after The acquisition costs comprise the purchase taxes) is used as the discount factor, which price including import duties and non-refundadiffers by country-specific variations. Based on ble purchase taxes as well as any costs directly the respective WACC after taxes, the implicit attributable to bringing the asset to the location WACC before taxes is determined by iteration. and condition necessary for it to be capable of The WACC takes into account equity costs, operating. which include a risk-free basic interest rate, the respective country risk, and the entrepreneurThe production costs comprise the expenditure ial risk (market risk premium multiplied by a incurred in utilising goods and services for such specific beta factor), as well as borrowing costs. a production or manufacture. This includes The WACC before taxes was between 5.5 % the directly attributable costs and a reasonable and 9.1 % (previous year: 7.8 % to 12.1 %). share of the necessary overheads. The following pre-tax interest rates were used Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line for CGUs which are key CGUs in the sense of basis using the following useful lives. goodwill: Sto 7.1 % (previous year: 9.3 %), Skyrise 6.4 % (previous year: NA), Beissier Useful lives S.A.S. 8.0 % (previous year: 10.9 %), Ströher Buildings 20 to 30 years 7.1 % (previous year: 9.3 %), Unitex 7.5 % (previous year: NA). Fixtures to land 8 to 12 years Technical equipment and machinery 8 to 10 years Management believes that no expected change Other plant, operating and business in key assumptions will cause the carrying equipment 3 to 10 years amount of the CGU to exceed the respective recoverable amount. The useful lives and residual carrying amounts are audited regularly. The essential goodwill items are listed in Note (13). Maintenance and small repairs are recognised through profit and loss. Research and development costs Research and development costs were recogPlants under construction are assigned to propnised with an impact on profit and loss since erty, plant, and equipment and are recognised capitalisation of the development costs in the at their procurement and production costs. form of Intangible assets is not possible under Depreciation only takes place from the time of IAS 38 as the requirements are not met. The readiness for operation. main tasks of the research and development 112 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Borrowing costs If an impairment no longer exists or has deBorrowing costs are interest and other costs increased, a reversal of the impairment loss is curred by a company in connection with taking recognised as income. No reversal is made to on debt capital. an impairment of goodwill. Borrowing costs which are to be directly Financial assets accounted for using the assigned to the acquisition, construction or equity method manufacture of an asset for which a subThe financial assets accounted for using the eqstantial period of time is required in order to uity method relate to a joint venture for which a render the asset ready for its intended use contractual agreement exists regarding the joint or sale are capitalised as part of the cost of control of the company, and to two associated acquisition or production of the relevant asset. companies. All other borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the period in which they were The shares are accounted for at the beginincurred. ning at their cost of acquisition. Then the carrying amount of the shares is increased or The Group did not hold any assets to which decreased annually to recognise the share of borrowing costs were directly allocated. The after-tax profits or losses, distributed dividends, unallocated portion of borrowing costs was impairment ,and other changes to equity. An insignificant. impairment is recognised in profit and loss as the difference between the recoverable amount Impairment of property, plant, and and the carrying amount of the share. equipment, and intangible assets Property, plant, and equipment, and intangible Trade receivables and other financial assets assets are tested for impairment if there is any Trade receivables and other financial assets are evidence that their carrying amount may no accounted for at amortised acquisition costs. longer be recoverable. If the carrying amount Furthermore, individual impairments, and of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, an general impairments are made in accordance impairment loss is recorded with an impact on with IFRS 9 to take sufficient account of default profit and loss. The recoverable amount is the risks. higher value of the net realisable amount and the value in use. The impairment model under IFRS 9 requires the recognition of expected losses and replaces the The net realisable amount is the amount which impairment model under IAS 39, which is based can be recovered from the sale of the asset on losses incurred. When valuating impairments less the incurred costs, whereas the value in in accordance with IFRS 9, the simplified apuse is the present value of the estimated future proach was chosen, which allows for taking the cash flows expected from the use plus the expected impairment over the entire term into remaining value at the end of its useful life. account. The method can be applied to financial The recoverable amount is either determined assets that are valuated at amortised costs or at for an individual asset, if it generates cash and fair value with no impact on profit and loss. cash equivalents independently from other assets, or for the cash-generating unit in total. The probabilities of default of trade receivables were determined using historical default rates 113 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) for defined periods of overdue payments and • Finished assets and assets under construction subsequently recognised as an impairment –D irect labour and material costs as well as of the portfolio, depending on the period of a reasonable share of the production overoverdue payments, with an effect on expenses. heads based on the normal capacity of the The default risk for trade receivables increases production equipment net of borrowing significantly if they are more than one year costs. overdue. The default risks are subject to a yearly test and are adjusted as needed. Furthermore, Cash and cash equivalents individual impairments were made if there were Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in indications pointing to a specific impairment of hand and credit balance with banks including single trade receivables. Defaults on receivables liquid deposits available at short notice, which led to a direct derecognition of the receivables can be converted into cash and cash equivain question. lents at any time, with original settlement periods of a maximum of three months and which Furthermore, credit assessment of customers are not subject to any significant fluctuations in was carried out by obtaining information from value. credit agencies and various companies using credit management software, which was also The impairment of securities as well as cash and used to determine the credit limit. If the individcash equivalents was determined using the cost ual credit limit was exceeded, an approval was of hedging by means of credit default swaps usually only given after an examination of the with a maturity of twelve months. specific case. Financial instruments The credit rating by Creditreform was used in accordance with IFRS 9, a financial instruto determine the default probability and the ment is a contract that gives rise to a financial impairment of other financial assets. asset for one company and a financial liability or equity instrument for another, and that does All receivables and other financial assets were not necessarily have to be in writing. tested for existing impairment and default risks. IFRS 9 defines the following different Inventories categories for financial assets: Inventories were recorded at the lower of • Financial instruments measured at fair value acquisition or production cost and the net realthrough profit and loss isable amount. The net realisable amount is the (Fair Value Through Profit and Loss = FVTPL) recoverable selling price in the ordinary course • Financial instruments measured at fair value of business less the costs of completion and the with no impact on profit and loss costs necessary to make the sale. (Fair Value through Other Comprehensive Income = FVOCI) Inventories were assessed as follows. • Financial assets at amortised costs of acquisition • Raw materials, processing aids, operating (Financial Assets at Amortised Cost = FAAC) materials, and trading goods – Weighted average price 114 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Financial liabilities are classified as follows are first recognised in reserves with no impact in accordance with IFRS 9: on profit and loss. When a debt capital instru• Financial liabilities at fair value through profit ment is derecognised, the accumulated gains and loss (= FLTPL) or losses are reclassified to the statement of • Financial liabilities measured at amortised profit and loss (‘recycling’). When an equity cost (= FLAC) instrument is derecognised, any accrued gains or losses remain in reserves without reclassifiFinancial instruments measured at fair cation. value through profit and loss Financial instruments at fair value through Financial assets at amortised costs of profit and loss include financial assets held for acquisition trading, derivatives as well as financial assets for Financial assets measured at amortised acquiwhich the fair value option was selected upon sition costs are debt capital instruments for initial recognition. which the business model is designed to hold assets to generate cash flows and for which the Financial assets are classified as held for trading cash flows consist exclusively of interest and if the business model concerned is designed principal payments and the fair value option is to sell the financial assets in the near future. not exercised. Subsequently, these financial instruments are examined to determine whether the intention After initial recognition, these financial assets to sell still exists. Gains or losses in this category are measured at amortised costs of acquisition are recognised through profit and loss. using the effective interest method. Gains and losses are recognised in the profit the period in Reclassification to financial instruments measwhich a financial asset is derecognised or imured at amortised costs depends on the nature paired, and through the amortisation process. of the asset and does not affect financial instruments designated at fair value through profit Financial assets are assigned to this valuation and loss under the fair value option. category upon initial recognition. Where permissible and necessary, they are reclassified at Primary financial instruments are recognised at the end of the accounting period. the settlement date. The Group expects a significant increase in the Financial instruments measured at fair default risk for a financial asset if contractual value with no impact on profit and loss payments are more than 365 days overdue. In Financial instruments measured at fair value addition, an increased probability of default is with no effect on profit and loss comprise assumed in certain cases if internal or external financial assets for which the business model information indicates that it is unlikely that is designed to hold and sell them to generate the contractually outstanding amounts will be cash flows and for which the cash flows of debt paid in full after taking all loan collateral into capital instruments consist exclusively of interest account. In this case, the financial asset will be and principal payments. impaired. Financial instruments in this category are Receivables and liabilities relating to the same measured at fair value and changes in value counterparty are netted. 115 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) Financial liabilities at fair value through Derivative financial instruments are recogprofit and loss nised at fair value at the time the contract is Financial liabilities at fair value through profit concluded and measured at fair value through and loss comprise financial liabilities held for profit and loss in subsequent periods, with trading as well as financial liabilities which are reference to current forward exchange rates for initially recognised as financial liabilities at fair contracts with similar maturity structures. Devalue through profit and loss. pending on the development of the fair value, an asset or a liability is recognised in connection The Group has not yet made use of the with an expense or income. designation of financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss. In the fiscal year of 2019, there were no hedges satisfying the strict hedge accounting criteria. Financial liabilities at amortised cost Financial liabilities measured at amortised costs Treasury stock are recognised at fair value taking into conSto SE & Co. KGaA’s treasury stock were desideration transaction costs and subsequently ducted from equity. The purchase, sale, issue measured using the effective interest method and redemption of treasury stock is not recogless impairments, repayments and taking into nised in profit and loss. account discounts, premiums, and transaction costs. Post-employment benefit provisions Actuarial measurement of the post-employment Gains or losses are recognised through profit benefit provisions is based on the projected-­ and loss upon derecognition or disposal. A fiunit-credit method for defined benefit plans nancial liability is derecognised if the obligation for pension schemes as defined in IAS 19. underlying the liability no longer exists. Under this method, the pension obligations and acquired entitlements existing at the balance If an existing financial liability is exchanged by sheet date are determined on the basis of aversome other financial liability of the same lender age life expectancy, future salary and pension subject to substantially different contractual increases, the expected retirement age, and the terms and conditions, or if the terms and conexpected fluctuation. ditions of an existing liability are significantly changed, then such an exchange or modificaAverage life expectancy is estimated on the tion will be treated as derecognition of the origbasis of acknowledged biometric models. inal liability and recognition of a new liability. Actuarial gains and losses from the changes of The difference between the respective carrying assumptions are recognised after the consideraamounts is recognised through profit and loss. tion of deferred taxes in other earnings with no impact on profit and loss. Derivative financial instruments In the Group, derivative financial instruments The defined benefit asset or liability comprises in the form of currency forwards for hedging the present value of the defined benefit obligacurrency risks in order to hedge the risk arising tion less existing plan assets which are used to from fluctuations in the cash flow of a recogdirectly settle obligations. The plan assets are nised asset, a recognised liability, or a highly qualified insurance policies that are protected probable future transaction. against access by creditors and cannot be paid 116 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA out to the Group. Valuation is based on the fair from goodwill or from the initial recognition of value that corresponds to the present value of other assets and liabilities which affects neither the covered liability. tax earnings nor commercial earnings. Other provisions Deferred tax assets which are not expected to In accordance with IAS 37, provisions are be recognised in a defined period of time are formed for present liabilities towards third value-adjusted. At each balance sheet date, an parties from a past event which is likely to result assessment is made as to whether the asset can in a future outflow of economic resources, the be capitalised. amount of which can be estimated. Deferred tax liabilities are formed for temporary Provisions in which the interest effect exercises differences arising from shares in subsidiara significant effect in connection with the seties, associated companies, and joint ventures tlement of the obligation are recognised at the unless the parent company is able to control present value of the expected expenses, which the reversal of the temporary difference and also includes expected cost increases. The disthe temporary difference is unlikely to reverse count is based on risk-free interest rates. within a defined time period. If the conditions for setting up a provision are Deferred tax assets and liabilities are netted if not met but the likelihood of an outflow of the deferred taxes relate to one and the same resources embodying an economic benefit is taxpayer and the same taxation authority and if not unlikely, the corresponding liabilities are there is a legally enforceable right to set off the reported under contingent liabilities. tax reimbursement claims against tax liabilities. Provisions are reviewed and adjusted at each Deferred taxes are measured in accordance with balance sheet date. the applicable national income tax rates as at the date of realisation as well as on the basis of Trade payables and other financial applicable at the that point in time. liabilities Trade payables and other financial liabilities are Deferred taxes are recorded as income or measured at amortised cost of acquisition. Any expense in the statement of profit and loss differences between historical acquisition costs unless they relate to items recognised in equity and the settlement amount are reported in with no impact on profit and loss. In this case accordance with the effective interest method. the deferred taxes are also recognised in equity with no impact on profit and loss. Deferred taxes As a matter of principle, deferred taxes are recRecognition of income and expenses ognised for all temporary differences between Revenues from contracts with customers are the taxable amounts and the consolidated recognised when control of the goods or serbalance sheet. vices is transferred to the customer. Deferred tax assets on tax loss carryforwards are In the manufacture of products and systems to be recognised if use can be expected. They for thermal insulation and building coatings, are not set up if a temporary difference arises revenues from contracts with customers mainly 117 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) result from deliveries of goods, which are In determining transaction prices, expected generally recognised at the time of delivery. rebates and discounts are separated from the Payment is usually 30 to 90 days after delivery. agreed price, both in the case of the separate In addition, services are provided on a small sale of goods or services and in the case of scale for which the sales revenues are recorded the combined sale, according to the principle in the time period in which the services are of individual valuation, without revenue being rendered. Payment is usually 30 to 60 days after recognised for them. the service has been rendered. Payments to be received from customers are Some contracts are designed in such a way short-term, i.e. at the inception of the contract that both an original delivery of goods and an it is expected that the period between the associated craftsman’s service are provided. transfer of the good or service and payment These are service obligations to be accounted will not exceed one year. Therefore, the Group for as a whole, as the delivery and processing of makes use of the simplification regulation of the materials are related in accordance with the IFRS 15 and does not adjust the amount of the underlying agreement. Revenue is recognised promised consideration by the effects of financwhen the service has been rendered in full. ing component. The Group is responsible for providing the In addition, the Group makes use of the simstatutory warranty for remedying defects. plification regulation of IFRS 15.121 and does Provisions are made for expenses expected to not disclose any remaining service obligations be incurred as a result. Furthermore, in rare whose underlying contracts have an expected cases, the Group grants warranties that extend original term of one year or less. beyond the statutory period. This is a separate performance obligation of the Group for which Revenue other than from contracts with customthe sales revenues were not recognised as coners is recognised if it is probable that economic tract liabilities due to insignificance and were benefits will flow and if the revenue amount can recognised with an impact on profit and loss be determined reliably, irrespective of the time over the contract term. of payment. Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or to be reThe amount of revenue recognised corresponds ceived, taking into account contractually agreed to the consideration expected to be received payment terms, excluding taxes or other levies. by the Group in exchange for the goods or services. If a contractual consideration includes Interest income and interest expenses are reca variable component, the Group determines ognised for all financial instruments measured the amount of the consideration to be received at amortised cost using the effective interest in exchange for the transfer of the goods or rate. This is the discount rate used to discount services to the customer. The variable considestimated future cash receipts and payments eration is estimated at the inception of the over the expected term of the financial instrucontract and may be included in the transaction ment or, if applicable, a shorter period, to the price only if it is probable that there will be no net carrying amount of the financial asset or significant change in the revenues and if the financial liability. Interest income is reported uncertainty associated with the variable considin the statement of profit and loss as part of eration is low. financial income. 118 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Operating expenses are reported upon utilisaof financial position. Events occurring after tion of the service or on the date on which they the balance sheet date that impact value are are caused. disclosed in the notes. For some projects, income and expenses are Discretionary decisions by Management recognised according to the degree of compleThe preparation of the consolidated financial tion (percentage-of-completion method). The statements requires discretionary decisions by income and expenses are recognised on a pro Management, which affect the recognition and rata basis according to the costs incurred up to valuation of the reported assets, and liabilities, the balance sheet date in relation to the total income, and expenses in the period under incurred costs for the project. review. Funding from the public sector This affected segment reporting in accordance Funding from the public sector is recognised in with IFRS 8, in which the operating business accordance with IAS 20 if there is certainty that segments were divided into Western Europe the conditions for the funding will be met in and Other in line with internal corporate govthe form of conditions and that the funding will ernance and the internal reporting that follows be granted. this governance. Expense-related funding is collected through The non-current and current financial assets profit and loss in the period in which the included financial instruments that met the expenses to be defrayed are incurred. The conbusiness model and cash flow conditions. These ditions to be fulfilled will be reviewed when the assets were classified as financial instruments at grant is called in in order to prevent repayments amortised costs. later on. Estimates and assumptions by Financial guarantees Management Financial guarantees obligate the making of The preparation of the consolidated financial payments, and indemnify the guarantee holder statements requires Management to make estifor a loss arising from a debtor who did not mates and assumptions on the basis of available meet his payment obligations in accordance information, which affect the recognition and with the conditions of a financial instrument. valuation of reported assets, debt, income and expenses as well as contingent liabilities. Financial guarantees are treated as insurance contracts pursuant to IFRS 4 as contingent In particular, the expected future business liabilities until a claim becomes probable. Only development, the circumstances prevailing at then is an obligation recognised in the balance the time of preparation of the consolidated sheet. financial statements, and the development of the global and industry-related environment Events after the balance sheet date deemed probable were taken as a basis. Value-enhancing events occurring after the balance sheet date which provide significant In applying the accounting methods, Maninformation on the Group’s situation at the balagement has made the following estimates ance sheet date are included in the statement or assumptions that have a material impact 119 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) on the valuation in the consolidated financial and the duration of the proceedings. In genstatements: eral, we expect the provision to be utilised only after damage recovery. • Impairment of non-financial assets If the carrying amount exceeds the fair • Pension benefits value, the fair value is compared with the The expense of defined benefit plans on value in use as a further impairment test. termination of employment and the present The calculation of fair value less cost of value of pension obligations are determined sale is based on data from binding sales by actuarial calculations. These parameters transactions between independent business include future discount rates, the mortality partners concerning similar assets or observrate, the expected age of retirement, and able market prices less directly attributable future pension increases. Due to the comcosts of selling the asset in question. The plexity of the valuation and its long-term discounted cash flow method is used to nature, a defined benefit obligation reacts calculate the value in use. The cash flows are sensitively to deviations from these assumpderived from the finance plan for the next tions. five years, but without expansion investments. The value in use is also dependent In determining the discount rate, Manageon the underlying discount as well as on the ment relies for guidance on the interest rates growth rate. of corporate bonds in the respective currency with at least an AA rating; these interest • Taxes rates are adjusted to the expected term of Uncertainties exist concerning the interprethe defined benefit obligation by extrapolatation of complex tax-related regulations, tion. amendments to taxation law as well as the extent and time of origin of earnings taxable The mortality rate is based on publicly accesat a future date. sible mortality tables for the country in question. Future increases in wages and salaries Deferred tax liabilities amounted to EUR as well as pensions are based on expected 1,893 K (previous year: EUR 2,099 K) future inflation rates for each country. The and ­deferred tax assets amounted to EUR expected age of retirement is determined on 29,807 K (previous year: EUR 20,541 K). the basis of the experience specific to the Income tax liabilities amounted to EUR company as well as future expectations. 10,417 K (previous year: EUR 6,135 K) and income tax receivables amounted to EUR The present value of the performance-­ 1,887 K (previous year: EUR 2,577 K). oriented liabilities in the amount of EUR 162,582 K (previous year: EUR 134,377 K) • Non-current and current provisions were netted against the fair value of The calculation of warranty provisions is the plan asset in the amount of EUR based on empirical values for complaints and 38,766 K (previous year: EUR 35,110 K). the latest information available. Furthermore, Post-employment benefit provisions hence uncertainties arise with regard to pending amounted to EUR 123,816 K (previous year: court cases regarding compensatory damEUR 99,267 K). ages in terms of compensation payments 120 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA • Fair value of financial instruments At the time of preparing the consolidated finanTo the extent that the fair value of financial cial statements the assumptions and estimates assets and financial liabilities recognised in did not include any significant risks that would the statement of financial position cannot have required significant adjustments of the be measured by means of data sourced assets and liabilities recognised in the consolion an active market, it will be determined dated balance sheet in the following fiscal year. using measurement methods, including the discounted cash flow method. The input parameters included in the model are based on observable market data as far as possible. A net liability of EUR 804 K (previous year: receivable of EUR 235 K) resulted from the financial instruments measured at fair value. • Receivables Individual impairments, and impairments in accordance with IFRS 9 for receivables are made in order to take account of expected losses. Impairments of receivables are assessed on a case-to-case basis and are also based on maturity in connection with the experience regarding defaults in the past, as well as changes in payment behaviour. Trade receivables totalled EUR 138,976 K (previous year: EUR 135,770 K). • Provisions Provisions for warranties are set up if the occurrence of a liability is probable. For instance, the assessment of the degree of probability and the extent is based on experience, external experts, and current information available. The carrying amounts of the current and non-current warranty provisions amounted to EUR 41,668 K and EUR 12,083 K respectively (previous year: EUR 38,758 K and EUR 9,056 K respectively). 121 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) Consolidated segment reporting as at 31 December 2019 Information on geographic Western Europe Other segments by sales markets Northern/Eastern Europe America/Asia/Pacific in EUR K 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 External revenues 1,070,924 1,024,410 156,510 156,671 170,794 151,289 Inter-segment revenues 42,334 40,880 1,660 1,738 23 41 Segment turnover 1,113,258 1,065,290 158,170 158,409 170,817 151,330 EBITDA 124,695 102,139 8,341 4,554 5,269 6,677 Depreciation/amortisation* 39,826 25,132 6,797 2,687 5,702 3,479 EBIT (earnings before interest and taxes) 84,869 77,007 1,544 1,867 –433 3,198 Interest income 1,168 902 130 232 560 381 Interest expenses 3,608 2,978 296 322 228 64 EBT (earnings before taxes) 82,429 74,930 1,378 1,777 –101 3,515 Segment assets 651,751 597,444 100,493 84,222 112,153 79,640 Investments 27,291 26,800 1,954 1,973 6,103 3,299 Employees as at the balance sheet date 4,164 4,094 648 636 721 603 Notes on product groups in EUR K Facade systems Facade coatings Interiors 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 External revenues 677,083 634,866 304,588 302,307 197,772 190,728 Segment reporting is explained in Note (33). * Depreciation/amortisation in 2019 includes EUR 27 K (previous year: EUR 14 K) of impairment expenses. Of that amount, EUR 20 K (previous year: EUR 7 K) are attributable to Western Europe, EUR 7 K (previous year: EUR 7 K) to North/Eastern Europe. 122 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Reconciliation/ Group consolidation booking entries 2019 2018 2019 2018 0 0 1,398,227 1,332,370 –44,018 –42,659 0 0 –44,018 –42,659 1,398,227 1,332,370 –95 –174 138,210 113,196 0 0 52,325 31,299 –95 –174 85,885 81,898 –726 –788 1,131 726 –726 –788 3,405 2,575 –608 –56 83,097 80,166 31,694 23,118 896,092 784,424 0 0 35,349 32,072 0 0 5,533 5,333 Other product groups Group 2019 2018 2019 2018 218,785 204,469 1,398,227 1,332,370 123 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) Notes on the statement of profit and loss (1) Revenues For the purposes of segment reporting, revenues are broken down by geographic sales market and business segment. (2) Other internally generated assets capitalised As in the previous year, other capitalised, internally generated assets mainly comprise the internally generated asset for constructed Technical equipment and machinery as well as Buildings. (3) Other operating income in EUR K 2019 2018 Income from the reversal of provisions and accured liabilities 7,784 6,912 Income from changes in exchange rates 3,403 3,913 Proceeds from derecognised receivables 770 416 Income from the disposal of assets 339 423 Income from recharged expenses to third parties 261 115 Funding from the public sector 98 76 Other operating income 6,408 5,842 Total other operating income* 19,063 17,697 * Adjustment of previous year due to the separate presentation of the netted impairment of financial assets in accordance with IAS 1.82 (ba), see Note (7). Funding from the public sector essentially consists of research grants. To some extent, this funding is subject to certain conditions. We assume that we can meet the conditions imposed. 124 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA (4) Cost of material in EUR K 2019 2018 Raw materials, processing aids, and operating materials 291,113 280,745 Goods purchased 327,077 322,323 Total expenses for raw materials, processing aids, operating materials, and goods purchased 618,190 603,068 Temporary staff 4,583 3,375 Commission production 8,873 9,488 Total expenses for services purchased 13,456 12,863 Total expenses for materials 631,646 615,931 Expenses for commission production were mainly attributable to StoCretec Flooring AS in the amount of EUR 5,150 K (previous year: EUR 5,337 K) and to Sto Epitöanyag Kft. in the amount of EUR 1,442 K (previous year: EUR 1,761 K). (5) Personnel expenditure in EUR K 2019 2018 Wages and salaries 304,419 286,685 Social security contributions 40,606 38,852 Expenses for social security contributions, and for support 27,186 26,725 Total personnel expenses 372,211 352,262 Expenditure on post-employment benefits priIn the year under review, research and demarily comprises additions to the post-employvelopment costs of approx. EUR 13.7 million ment benefit provisions as stated in Note (24). (previous year: approx. EUR 13.5 million) were recognised with an impact on profit and loss. Annual average headcount Amount 2019 2018 Employees 5,303 5,164 Trainees 218 197 Total no. of employees 5,521 5,361 125 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) (6) Other operating expenses (7) Impairment (net) of financial assets in EUR K 2019 2018 in EUR K 2019 2018 Selling and marketing costs 138,446 129,923 Expenses for impairments Administration costs 53,646 49,552 of financial assets –7,784 –8,517 Income from the reversal Rental and lease payments of impairments of financial including overheads 11,789 29,591 assets 3,625 5,229 Operating costs 34,002 29,574 Losses from the derecognition Impairment (net) of financial assets* 2,115 1,082 of financial assets –4,159 –3,288 Other staff costs 7,429 7,151 Expenses due to changes in exchange rates 5,091 4,630 (8) Depreciation/amortisation Losses from the disposal of The amortisation of Intangible assets, Property, non-current assets 2,163 881 plant, and equipment, and rights of use are Other expenses 14,891 12,952 analysed in the respective parts of these Notes. (9) Earnings from financial assets Other operating accounted for using the equity method expenses* 269,572 265,336 Earnings from financial investments accounted * Adjustment of previous year due to the separate presfor using the equity method amounts to entation of the netted impairment of financial assets in EUR -513 K (previous year: EUR 118 K) in the accordance with IAS 1.82 (ba), see Note (7). year under review. The item Selling and marketing costs mainly includes outbound freight, warranty services as well as advertising and travel expenses. Expenses from currency translation changes primarily comprise exchange rate losses arising between the date of the transaction and date of payment as well as currency translation losses using closing rates. 126 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA (10) Net interest income in EUR K 2019 2018 Other interest and similar income 1,131 726 Interest and similar expenses –789 –760 Interest expense for post-employment benefit obligations –1,819 –1,590 Compounding interest of other non-current provisions and liabilities –193 –214 Interest expense for leases –604 –11 Total net interest income –2,274 –1,849 (11) Taxes on income and earnings Breakdown of tax expense in EUR K 2019 2018 Actual tax expense in Germany 19,885 19,310 Actual tax expense outside of Germany 9,794 8,280 Actual tax expense 29,679 27,590 of which off-period tax expense 323 984 Expense/income from reversal of tax liabilities (off-period) –140 –5 Actual taxes on income and earnings 29,539 27,585 Deferred tax income/expense in Germany –1,777 –1,133 Deferred tax income/expense outside of Germany –1,006 –96 Deferred tax income/expense –2,783 –1,229 Income tax expense reported 26,756 26,356 In the 2019 assessment period, the statutory corporate tax in Germany was levied at a rate of 15.0 %, which is the same as in the previous year. Including trade tax and the solidarity surcharge, this resulted in an aggregate tax rate of 28.9 % (previous year: 28.6 %). 127 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) The local income tax rates for companies No deferred taxes were recognised for temoutside of Germany ranged between 0 % porary differences of EUR 5,528 K on the and 34.0 % (previous year: 0 % to 34.0 %). profits retained by subsidiaries (previous year: Deferred taxes were measured using the tax EUR 5,709 K) as, historically, these profits have rates valid or enacted as of the balance sheet always been used to extend business activities date. at the individual locations and will continue to be used for this purpose in the future. Tax loss carryforwards were valued at EUR 40,532 K (previous year: EUR 25,210 K). Tax loss carryforwards of EUR 24,248 K (previous year: EUR 18,317 K) are available for an indefinite period, while EUR 5,368 K (previous year: EUR 4,321 K) may only be utilised within five years, as well as EUR 3,100 K (previous year: EUR 2,572 K) only within ten years, and EUR 7,816 K (previous year: EUR 0 K) only within 20 years. Of the tax loss carryforwards, a sum of EUR 24,623 K (previous year: EUR 14,751 K) is assumed to not be available for the time being. Of these, EUR 8,338 K (previous year: EUR 7,858 K) are available for an indefinite period, while EUR 5,369 K (previous year: EUR 4,321 K) may only be utilised within five years, as well as EUR 3,100 K (previous year: EUR 2,572 K) only within ten years, and EUR 7,816 K (previous year: EUR 0 K) only within 20 years. Of the tax loss carryforwards rated available, EUR 10,785 K (previous year: EUR 7,470 K) were attributable to companies whose earnings for the year of 2019 was negative. As the affected companies are mainly those companies with a profit history and as the earnings plans of the affected companies for the following years are positive, the tax loss carryforwards in the corresponding amount were classified as available. 128 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA The following deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised to allow for recognition and valuation differences in the individual items of the balance sheet and the tax loss carryforwards: Balance sheet item in EUR K Deferred tax assets Deferred tax liabilities 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Intangible assets 397 206 1,452 1,568 Property, plant, and equipment 894 1,631 4,497 4,919 Rights of use 607 0 14,590 0 Financial assets accounted for using the equity method 45 0 0 0 Non-current trade receivables 120 0 120 0 Non-current financial assets 145 515 408 209 Other non-current assets 0 0 173 0 Inventories 2,101 1,818 168 204 Current trade receivables 1,657 1,532 472 1,011 Current financial assets 49 81 124 1 Other current assets 175 4 11 352 Cash and cash equivalents 78 167 4 491 Special tax items 0 0 217 0 Provisions for post-employment benefits and similar liabilities 22,904 16,175 40 71 Other non-current provisions 258 346 0 15 Non-current borrowings 130 31 84 0 Non-current lease liabilities 10,683 0 0 0 Other non-current liabilities 0 54 0 0 Other current provisions 1,212 1,450 419 633 Current borrowings 189 53 1 0 Current lease liabilities 3,947 0 0 0 Trade payables 3 69 10 28 Other current liabilities 1,720 1,419 51 0 Loss carryforwards 3,441 2,393 0 0 Gross amount 50,755 27,944 22,841 9,502 Balancing 20,948 7,403 20,948 7,403 Balance sheet recognition 29,807 20,541 1,893 2,099 Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities the deferred tax assets and the deferred tax are netted if the Group has a legally enforcealiabilities related to income taxes levied by one ble right to set off the actual tax reimbursement and the same taxation authority from the same claims against the actual tax liabilities, and taxpayer. 129 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) Change in deferred taxes in EUR K Consideration in Statement of profit and loss Equity Total Deferred taxes as at 1 January 2018 8,250 9,041 17,291 Intangible assets 116 0 116 Property, plant, and equipment 1,241 0 1,241 Rights of use 0 0 0 Financial assets accounted for using the equity method 0 0 0 Non-current trade receivables 0 0 0 Non-current financial assets –305 115 –190 Other non-current assets 0 0 0 Inventories 2 0 2 Current trade receivables –875 211 –664 Current financial assets 270 41 311 Other current assets –215 0 –215 Cash and cash equivalents –444 34 –410 Special tax items 0 0 0 Provisions for post-employment benefits and similar liabilities 525 –492 33 Other non-current provisions –160 0 –160 Non-current borrowings 11 0 11 Non-current lease liabilities 0 0 0 Other non-current liabilities –17 0 –17 Other current provisions 493 0 493 Current borrowings –111 0 –111 Current lease liabilities 0 0 0 Trade payables –40 0 –40 Other current liabilities 308 0 308 Loss carryforwards 543 0 543 Tax reimbursements not yet utilised –113 0 –113 Effects from first-time consolidation and deconsolidation 0 0 0 Currency translation effects –154 167 13 Deferred taxes as at 31 December 2018 9,325 9,117 18,442 130 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Change in deferred taxes in EUR K Consideration in Statement of profit and loss Equity Total Deferred taxes as at 1 January 2019 9,325 9,117 18,442 Intangible assets 308 0 308 Property, plant, and equipment –302 0 –302 Rights of use 5,147 –19,079 –13,932 Financial assets accounted for using the equity method 45 0 45 Non-current trade receivables –8 0 –8 Non-current financial assets –568 0 –568 Other non-current assets –151 0 –151 Inventories 321 0 321 Current trade receivables 674 0 674 Current financial assets –156 0 –156 Other current assets 494 0 494 Cash and cash equivalents 400 0 400 Special tax items –217 0 –217 Provisions for post-employment benefits and similar liabilities 751 5,953 6,704 Other non-current provisions –74 0 –74 Non-current borrowings 15 0 15 Non-current lease liabilities –4,344 14,873 10,529 Other non-current liabilities –54 0 –54 Other current provisions –24 0 –24 Current borrowings 134 0 134 Current lease liabilities –872 4,810 3,938 Trade payables –44 0 –44 Other current liabilities 239 0 239 Loss carryforwards 1,070 0 1,070 Tax reimbursements not yet utilised 0 0 0 Effects from first-time consolidation and deconsolidation 0 0 0 Currency translation effects 1 130 131 Deferred taxes as at 31 December 2019 12,110 15,804 27,914 131 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) Reconciliation of expected and reported income tax expense in EUR K 2019 2018 Earnings before income taxes 83,098 80,166 Expected income tax expense (tax rate: 28.9 %; previous year: 28.6 %) 24,015 22,927 Reconciliation: Tax-free income and permanent differences 3,064 3,005 Changes in tax rate –69 35 Deviations of local tax rates from Group tax rate –1,523 –807 Deferred tax income on tax loss carryforwards capitalised for the first time –302 –251 Tax reduction for tax loss carryforwards not yet capitalised –21 –183 Effects of non-recognition of tax loss carryforwards 1,396 664 Off-period taxes 168 978 Other effects 28 –12 Income tax expense reported 26,756 26,356 Effective tax rate (%) 32.2 32.9 (12) Earnings per share Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing the proportion of earnings attributable to Sto SE & Co. KGaA’s shareholders by the weighted average number of limited ordinary and limited preference shares outstanding in the year under review. In addition to the issued shares, diluted earnings per share also include potential shares (e.g. from options). Both at 31 December 2019 and 31 December 2018, there were no potential shares. Hence, undiluted earnings per share correspond to diluted earnings per share. Amount Ordinary shares Preference shares 2019 2018 2019 2018 Weighted average number of shares outstanding – basic/diluted 3,888,000 3,888,000 2,538,000 2,538,000 132 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA in EUR 2019 2018 Share of earnings attributable to the shareholders of Sto SE & Co. KGaA 58,187,071 53,666,013 basic/diluted earnings – of which: Limited ordinary shares 35,113,487 32,378,057 Limited preference shares 23,073,584 21,287,956 in EUR 2019 2018 Earnings per share – basic/diluted Limited ordinary share 9.03 8.33 Limited preference share 9.09 8.39 In the fiscal year of 2019, the following dividend was paid out from the earnings of 2018: EUR 4.03 (previous year: EUR 4.03) per ordinary share, consisting of a basic dividend of EUR 0.25 (previous year: EUR 0.25) and a bonus of EUR 3.78 (previous year: EUR 3.78), as well as EUR 4.09 (previous year: EUR 4.09) per preference share, consisting of a basic dividend of EUR 0.31 (previous year: EUR 0.31) and a bonus of EUR 3.78 (previous year: EUR 3.78). In the fiscal year of 2019, the payout to the ordinary shareholders hence amounted to EUR 15,669 K (previous year: EUR 15,669 K) and the payout to the preference shareholders amounted to EUR 10,380 K (previous year: EUR 10,380 K). The total payout amount was EUR 26,049 K (previous year: EUR 26,049 K). 133 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) Further notes on the statement of profit and loss in accordance with IFRS 7 The Sto Group categorises financial instruments as follows: • Financial instruments at fair value through profit and loss • Financial assets at amortised costs of acquisition • Financial instruments with a value recognition in accordance with IFRS 16 (previous year: IAS 17) • Financial instruments that are subject to hedge accounting • Financial instruments outside the scope of application of IFRS 7 (equity investments) Net earnings from financial assets categorised in accordance with IFRS 9 in EUR K 2019 2018 Assets Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss (FVTPL) 108 132 Financial assets at amortised cost (FAAC) –5,283 –4,154 Liabilities Financial liabilities at amortised cost (FLAC) –357 –489 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss (FLTPL) –1,719 35 Net earnings from financial assets and liabilities recognised at fair value through profit and loss include changes in market value as well as exchange-rate related income and expenses from these financial instruments. Interest expenses and interest income are not part of net earnings. 134 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Total interest income and expense from financial instruments not recognised at fair value through profit and loss in EUR K 2019 2018 Interest income 1,099 534 Interest expenses 1,269 654 Net interest income –170 –120 135 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) Notes on the consolidated statement of financial position (13) Intangible assets Changes in intangible assets from 1 January until 31 December 2018 in EUR K Industrial property rights and licences including Payments software Goodwill made on account Total Cost of acquisition/production 1 January 2018 40,058 42,575 887 83,520 Additions 1,198 0 425 1,623 Change to companies consolidated 0 0 0 0 Disposals 1,160 0 649 1,809 Transfers 157 0 0 157 Exchange rate differences –214 –6 0 –220 31 December 2018 40,039 42,569 663 83,271 Cumulative depreciation and impairment losses 1 January 2018 30,186 4,247 0 34,433 Depreciation for the year 2,426 0 0 2,426 Disposals 1,159 0 0 1,159 Transfers 2 0 0 2 Exchange rate differences –199 0 0 –199 31 December 2018 31,256 4,247 0 35,503 Net carrying amount as at 31 December 2017 9,872 38,328 887 49,087 Net carrying amount as at 31 December 2018 8,783 38,322 663 47,768 136 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Development of intangible assets from 1 January until 31 December 2019 in EUR K Industrial property rights and licences including Payments software Goodwill made on account Total Cost of acquisition/production 1 January 2019 40,039 42,569 663 83,271 Additions 1,335 0 1,343 2,678 Change to companies consolidated 5,850 10,230 0 16,080 Disposals 399 0 27 426 Transfers 523 0 –449 74 Exchange rate differences 209 234 0 443 31 December 2019 47,557 53,033 1,530 102,120 Cumulative depreciation and impairment losses 1 January 2019 31,256 4,247 0 35,503 Depreciation for the year 2,559 0 0 2,559 Disposals 387 0 0 387 Transfers –19 0 0 –19 Exchange rate differences –25 0 0 –25 31 December 2019 33,384 4,247 0 37,631 Net carrying amount as at 31 December 2018 8,783 38,322 663 47,768 Net carrying amount as at 31 December 2019 14,173 48,786 1,530 64,489 As in the previous year, the useful lives for patents are generally 20 years, provided there is no lower statutory period of protection, 3 to 8 years for software, and 3 to 20 years for other intangible assets. These assets are depreciated exclusively on a straight-line basis. Goodwill is not subject to scheduled amortisation and is only adjusted if it is not recoverable. 137 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) Goodwill Goodwill reported, amounting to EUR 48,786 K (previous year: EUR 38,322 K), breaks down as follows: Cash Generating Units in EUR K 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Sto SE & Co. KGaA 15,760 15,760 Skyrise Prefab Building Solutions Inc., Pickering/Canada 5,754 – Beissier S.A.S., La Chapelle La Reine/France 3,635 3,635 Ströher GmbH, Dillenburg/Germany 3,570 3,570 Unitex Australia Pty Ltd, Dandenong South/Australia 3,269 – Südwest Lacke + Farben GmbH & Co. KG, Böhl-Iggelheim/Germany 2,780 2,780 Beissier S.A.U., Errenteria/Spain 2,679 2,679 Sto Sp. z o.o., Warsaw/Poland 2,402 2,402 Sto Epitöanyag Kft., Dunaharaszti/Hungary 1,764 1,764 Liaver GmbH & Co. KG, Ilmenau/Germany 1,437 – Sto Isoned B.V., Tiel/Netherlands 1,189 1,189 Sto Norge AS, Oslo/Norway 1,005 1,001 Miscellaneous under EUR 1,000 K 3,542 3,542 Total goodwill 48,786 38,322 With the exception of Sto SE & Co. KGaA and Ströher GmbH, the cash-generating units identified for purposes of calculating goodwill are identical to the legal entities. The Sto CGU comprises Sto SE & Co. KGaA, Stühlingen/Germany, Verotec GmbH, Lauingen/Germany, and StoCretec GmbH, Kriftel/Germany. The CGU Ströher consists of Ströher GmbH, Dillenburg/ Germany, Ströher Fliesen GmbH, Dillenburg/ Germany, Ströher Produktions GmbH & Co. KG, Dillenburg/Germany, as well as GEPADI Fliesen GmbH, Dillenburg/Germany. 138 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA 139 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) (14) Property, plant, and equipment Changes in property, plant, and equipment from 1 January to 31 December 2018 in EUR K Land, land rights Payments and buildings Other plant, made on including plant Technical operating and account and buildings on land equipment business equipment under owned by others and machinery equipment construction Total Cost of acquisition/production 1 January 2018 353,201 212,694 192,085 5,517 763,497 Additions 4,275 4,482 12,759 8,933 30,449 Change to companies consolidated 0 0 0 0 0 Disposals 325 1,589 7,562 135 9,611 Transfers 182 1,442 1,229 –3,010 –157 Exchange rate differences –175 124 57 10 16 31 December 2018 357,158 217,153 198,568 11,315 784,194 Cumulative depreciation and impairment losses 1 January 2018 188,140 163,445 157,314 301 509,200 Depreciation for the year 9,134 9,245 10,480 0 28,859 Impairment losses 0 0 0 14 14 Disposals 303 1,592 7,331 0 9,226 Transfers –21 –33 52 0 –2 Exchange rate differences 247 149 107 –2 501 31 December 2018 197,197 171,214 160,622 313 529,346 Net carrying amount as at 31 December 2017 165,061 49,249 34,771 5,216 254,297 Net carrying amount as at 31 December 2018 159,961 45,939 37,946 11,002 254,848 of which leased assets classified as financial leases, carrying amount as at 31 December 2018 0 0 407 0 407 140 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Development of property, plant, and equipment from 1 January to 31 December 2019 in EUR K Land, land rights Payments and buildings Other plant, made on including plant Technical operating and account and buildings on land equipment business equipment under owned by others and machinery equipment construction Total Cost of acquisition/production 1 January 2019 357,158 217,153 198,568 11,315 784,194 Additions 2,889 6,444 14,619 8,719 32,671 Change to companies consolidated 3,635 4,901 419 0 8,955 Disposals 1,953 5,378 8,523 40 15,894 Transfers 5,005 3,535 739 –10,461 –1,182 Exchange rate differences 678 378 532 10 1,598 31 December 2019 367,412 227,033 206,354 9,543 810,342 Cumulative depreciation and impairment losses 1 January 2019 197,197 171,214 160,622 313 529,346 Depreciation for the year 9,221 10,202 11,235 0 30,658 Impairment losses 0 0 0 27 27 Disposals 810 4,191 7,718 0 12,719 Transfers –19 –269 –394 0 –682 Exchange rate differences 547 311 406 3 1,267 31 December 2019 206,136 177,267 164,151 343 547,897 Net carrying amount as at 31 December 2018 159,961 45,939 37,946 11,002 254,848 Net carrying amount as at 31 December 2019 161,276 49,766 42,203 9,200 262,445 Property, plant and equipment in the amount of Impairment of property, plant, and equipment EUR 29,357 K (previous year: EUR 27,088 K) are amounted to EUR 27 K (previous year: EUR encumbered with land charges which serve to 14 K) and related to a building under construcsecure payables to banks. The value amounted tion and a machine under construction whose to EUR 1,530 K (previous year: EUR 89 K). market prices had dropped. 141 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) (15) Rights of use Development of rights of use from 1 January to 31 December 2019 in EUR K Land, Industrial land rights property rights and buildings Other plant, and licences including plant Technical operating and including buildings on land equipment business software owned by others and machinery equipment Total Cost of acquisition/production 31 December 2018 0 0 0 0 0 First-time application effects from IFRS 16 as at 1 January 2019 411 53,387 0 12,634 66,432 As at 1 January 2019 411 53,387 0 12,634 66,432 1 January 2019 411 53,387 0 12,634 66,432 Additions 0 7,744 692 5,813 14,249 Change to companies consolidated 0 1,915 0 192 2,107 Disposals 0 198 81 1,405 1,684 Transfers 0 0 741 367 1,108 Exchange rate differences 0 429 0 56 485 31 December 2019 411 63,277 1,352 17,657 82,697 Cumulative depreciation and impairment losses 1 January 2019 0 0 0 0 0 Depreciation for the year 82 12,201 188 6,610 19,081 Impairment losses 0 0 0 0 0 Disposals 0 42 81 651 774 Transfers 0 0 513 188 701 Exchange rate differences 0 43 0 17 60 31 December 2019 82 12,202 620 6,164 19,068 Net carrying amount as at 31 December 2018 0 0 0 0 0 Net carrying amount as at 31 December 2019 329 51,075 732 11,493 63,629 The Group primarily leases properties and veInformation on the corresponding lease liabilhicles. In terms of properties, the Group mainly ities and further explanations can be found in rents Sales Centres and office buildings. Notes (10) and (27). 142 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA (16) Financial assets accounted for using the equity method As at 31 December 2019, the carrying amount of shares accounted for using the equity method stands at EUR 10,626 K (previous year: in EUR 11,138 K). The investments accounted for using the equity method generated a negative result amounting to EUR 513 K (previous year: EUR +118 K), as well as cumulative losses amounting to EUR 160 K (previous year: EUR 320 K). Companies accounted for using the equity method require the joint approval of all shareholders to pay dividends or repay loans. The Group had no contingent liabilities or contingent receivables as of the balance sheet date. (17) Inventories Inventories are measured at the lower of acquisition/production cost and the net realisable amount. The impairment included therein amounted to EUR 9,865 K (previous year: EUR 8,667 K). The impairments are mainly based on overstocking. in EUR K 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Raw materials, processing aids, and operating materials 22,983 23,170 Work in progress 6,764 8,242 Finished products and goods 70,586 65,019 Payments made on account 920 1,432 Total inventories 101,253 97,863 Inventory with a carrying amount of EUR 2,376 K (previous year: EUR 2,120 K) serve to secure liabilities to banks. The value amounted to EUR 347 K (previous year: EUR 505 K). 143 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) (18) Non-current and current trade receivables The fair values of trade receivables equal Trade receivables with a carrying amount of their carrying amounts. Impairments of EUR 1,736 K (previous year: EUR 1,771 K) EUR 23,283 K (previous year: EUR 20,572 K) serve to secure liabilities to banks. The value were taken into account. amounted to EUR 216 K (previous year: EUR 264 K). in EUR K Carrying Carrying amount as at amount as at current non-current 31 Dec 2019 current non-current 31 Dec 2018 from Third parties 137,738 1,236 138,974 134,700 1,068 135,768 Companies accounted for using the equity method 2 0 2 2 0 2 Total trade receivables 137,740 1,236 138,976 134,702 1,068 135,770 (19) Non-current and current financial assets Financial assets due from third parties included As in the previous year, the positive fair value financial investments due for settlement in of derivative financial instruments resulted more than three months as well as impairments from currency hedging transactions that are amounting to EUR 127 K (previous year: EUR explained in more detail under Note (34). 370 K). Receivables from suppliers also included in the financial assets amounted to EUR 4,538 K (previous year: EUR 3,935 K). in EUR K Carrying Carrying amount as at amount as at current non-current 31 Dec 2019 current non-current 31 Dec 2018 Financial assets from third parties 57,345 4,535 61,880 82,163 501 82,664 Other receivables and financial assets from companies accounted for using the equity method 234 649 883 652 0 652 Positive fair value of derivative financial instruments 1 0 1 442 0 442 Total financial assets 57,580 5,184 62,764 83,257 501 83,758 144 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA (20) Other non-current and current assets Other receivables due from third parties include No adjustments were made to Other assets in current insurance refund claims from sales risks the period under review and in the previous in the amount of EUR 18,491 K (previous year: year. EUR 12,758 K). Other tax reimbursement claims include VAT reimbursement claims of EUR 3,404 K (previous year: EUR 3,157 K). in EUR K Carrying Carrying amount as at amount as at current non-current 31 Dec 2019 current non-current 31 Dec 2018 Other receivables from third parties 19,929 19 19,948 14,415 11 14,426 Other tax reimbursement claims 3,718 0 3,718 3,326 0 3,326 Prepaid expenses 6,696 697 7,392 6,203 324 6,527 Other payments made on account 552 0 552 587 0 587 Total other assets 30,895 716 31,610 24,531 335 24,866 (21) Cash and cash equivalents in EUR K 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Credit balances with banks 127,942 104,473 Cheques, cash in hand 665 821 Total cash and cash equivalents 128,607 105,294 Cash and cash equivalents include impairments due to IFRS 9 in the amount of EUR 235 K (previous year: EUR 455 K). 145 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) (22) Equity Capital reserves Changes in equity and minority interests are Capital reserves essentially comprise additions analysed in the statement of changes in equity. from premiums. Subscribed capital Revenue reserves and other reserves On 31 December 2019 the share capital of Sto Revenue reserves and other reserves comprise SE & Co. KGaA amounted to EUR 17,556 K. the following items: It was divided into 4,320,000 registered limited ordinary shares and 2,538,000 limited • Reserves for accrued profits: preference shares with no voting rights with a Reserves for accrued profits include the notional nominal value of EUR 2.56 per share. profits earned by Sto SE & Co. KGaA and its The figures for the 2019 fiscal year correspond subsidiaries that were not distributed. to the previous year. • Currency translation reserve: The limited preference shares include a guaranThe currency translation reserve is used teed minimum dividend of EUR 0.13 and bore a to record any differences arising from the dividend that was EUR 0.06 higher than that of translation of the financial statements of the limited ordinary shares. If the net income of subsidiaries in a foreign currency. one or more fiscal years is not sufficient for an advance dividend payout of at least EUR 0.13, • Reserve for pensions: the missing amounts will be paid in arrears The post-employment benefit reserve conwithout interest from the net income of the foltains actuarial gains or actuarial losses from lowing fiscal years before payout of a dividend. the post-employment benefit provisions arising from differences between the actual The limited preference shares of Sto SE & Co. development and the assumed trends as well KGaA are listed at the stock exchanges in as changes in the assumptions underlying Frankfurt/Main and Stuttgart/Germany in the calculations. ‘Regulated market’ segment. The limited ordinary shares are not listed on the stock market. • Treasury stock: As at 31 December 2019, Sto SE & Co. Stotmeister Beteiligungs GmbH, Stühlingen/ KGaA, Stühlingen/Germany, held treasury Germany, holds all but four of the limited stock in the form of 432,000 registered ordinary shares of Sto SE & Co. KGaA not in limited ordinary shares with a notional value the ownership of Sto SE & Co. KGaA as well as of EUR 1,105,920. This is equivalent to 10 % 100 % of the shares of STO Management SE, of all ordinary shares, or 6.3 % of the share Stühlingen/Germany. The personally liable partcapital of Sto SE & Co. KGaA. Treasury stock ner, STO Management SE, Stühlingen/Germany, is not entitled to dividends. The figures for does not have a share in the capital of Sto SE & the 2019 fiscal year correspond to the previCo. KGaA. ous year. 146 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Proposed dividend in EUR K 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018* Change In accordance with Sections 278, 58 (4) of in % the Law on share companies (Aktiengesetz, Equity attributable to the shareAktG), the dividend distributed is based on the holders of Sto SE & Co. KGaA 486,139 469,907 3.5 % unappropriated surplus recorded in the finanCurrent borrowings 5,142 11,459 –55.1 % cial statements prepared in accordance with Non-current borrowings 3,682 3,345 10.1 % German commercial law. Hence, a net income Less cash and cash equivalents 128,607 105,294 22.1 % of EUR 52,236 K (previous year: EUR 41,486 K) Net assets 119,783 90,490 32.4 % was recorded. % of equity 24.6 % 19.3 % Equity ratio 54.3 % 60.9 % The personally liable partner of Sto SE & Co. Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) 14.0 % 15.6 % KGaA, STO Management SE, Stühlingen/Germany, proposes via its Executive Board at the * before effects from IFRS 16 Annual General Meeting of Sto SE & Co. KGaA a dividend payout per limited ordinary share of In the fiscal year of 2019, the equity attributaEUR 0.25 (previous year: EUR 0.25) plus a bonus ble to the shareholders of Sto SE & Co. KGaA of EUR 3.78 (previous year: EUR 3.78) to form a rose by 3.5 % as compared to the previous total of EUR 4.03 (previous year: EUR 4.03), and year. This was essentially the result of the inEUR 0.31 (previous year: EUR 0.31) plus a bonus crease in revenue reserves. of EUR 3.78 (previous year: EUR 3.78) to form a total of EUR 4.09 (previous year: EUR 4.09) As in the previous year, no net debt has been per limited preference share, and hence a total incurred in the current fiscal year. payout amount of EUR 26,049 K (previous year: EUR 26,049 K). Due to the credit line agreed with a banking consortium in December 2012, most recently It is also proposed to retain EUR 26,000 K extended in 2017, the Group is subject to (previous year: EUR 15,000 K) as revenue complying with financial covenants. In case reserves and to carry the remaining amount of of non-compliance the lenders are entitled to EUR 187 K (previous year: EUR 437 K) forward terminate the loan for good cause. The agreedto a new account. upon covenants were complied with in the year under review as well as in the previous year. Notes on capital management The purpose of capital management is to en(23) Share of minority interests sure that the Group effectively achieves its goals The shares of equity on the part of minority and pursues its strategies in the interests of the interests in the past fiscal year were attributable shareholders, employees, and other stakeholdto shareholders of UAB TECH-COAT, Klaipèda/ ers and that it successfully implements the Lithuania, Sto Italia Srl, Empoli/Italy as well as defined strategies. In particular, management Skyrise Prefab Building Solution Inc., Pickering/ focuses on achieving the minimum return on Canada. In the previous year, this was attributinvested assets sought by the capital market as able to shareholders of the Ströher Group, Dilwell as on maintaining a solid return on equity. lenburg/Germany, UAB TECH-COAT, Klaipèda/ In selecting financial instruments, the Group Lithuania as well as Sto Italia Srl, Empoli/Italy. attaches importance to matching-maturities All non-controlling interests are insignificant for finance. the Group. 147 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) (24) Post-employment benefits and similar 10 years after the age of 25, or had been in an liabilities employment relationship with Sto or had had Provisions for post-employment benefits are a non-lapsable entitlement. Old-age pension recognised in accordance with entitlement arisis granted with receiving state pension. The ing under the company pension scheme. The monthly old-age or invalidity pension amounts provided benefits vary according to the legal, to between EUR 5.11 and EUR 9.20 per year tax and economic situation in the individual of service and depending on the employee’s country and are based on the length of service status. The widow’s pension amounts to 60 % and the salary of the entitled employees. of the old-age and invalidity pension. The Group pension scheme primarily comIn addition, the Group had defined contribution prises defined benefit obligation plans which plans, whose current contribution payments reflect discounted future payments based on (excluding contributions to the statutory penprovisions and for which the post-employment sion funds) were reported as post-employment benefit provisions are calculated using the benefit expenses. For these plans, the Comprojected unit credit method in accordance with pany paid contributions into public or private IAS 19. For defined benefit obligation plans, pension funds in accordance with statutory or future obligations are measured on the basis contractual obligations. Upon payment of the of the benefit entitlements acquired as at the contributions, the company had no further balance sheet date. In making this assessment, benefit obligations. assumed relevant trends are taken into account, and actuarial calculations are applied. Expenses from defined contribution plans amounted to EUR 1,100 K (previous year: EUR Actuarial gains or losses arise from deviations 1,070 K). Contributions to statutory pension in the actual development (e.g. income and funds came to EUR 21,438 K (previous year: pension increases, changes in interest rates) EUR 20,974 K). from the assumptions, and from changes in the assumptions. All actuarial gains and losses are In Switzerland, the current benefits agreements recognised in equity with no impact on profit for employees are effected by plans which are and loss. Actuarial gains and losses reported regulated by Federal Law on Occupational Oldwithin equity are presented in the table on age, Survivor’s and Disability Insurance (BVG). post-employment benefits provisions. The sensiPension plans in Switzerland are administered tivity analysis shows the impact of deviations in by collective foundations which are financed the assumptions. by regular employee and employer contributions. The final pension benefits are contribuBenefit obligations assumed by the German tion-based with specific minimum guarantees. companies primarily existed for old-age, Due to these minimum guarantees, pension invalidity, widow’s and orphan’s pensions. A plans in Switzerland are allocated as being prerequisite for receiving benefits was that defined benefit plans, although they possess upon occurrence of the event the employee many properties of defined contribution plans. either had had a minimum period of service of The deficient cover can be remedied by various 148 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA methods, such as increasing employee and employer contributions, lowering the interest rate for retirement assets, or reducing future benefit claims. Summary of the post-employment benefit provisions in EUR K 2019 2018 Pension plan of the Euro companies –113,588 –89,409 Pension plan of Sto AG, Switzerland –10,228 –9,858 Total –123,816 –99,267 149 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) Changes in post-employment benefit provisions Pension plan of the Euro companies in EUR K Present Fair value Liability value of the of the from the defined-benefit plan assets defined-benefit obligation obligation As at 1 January 2018 –96,112 8,876 –87,236 Current service cost –3,200 0 –3,200 Interest expense/income –1,665 154 –1,511 Expenses for post-employment benefit obligations recognised through profit and loss –4,865 154 –4,711 Pension benefits paid 3,181 –227 2,954 Actuarial gains and losses from changes in demographic assumptions –659 0 –659 Actuarial gains and losses from changes in financial assumptions –457 421 –36 Experience-based adjustments 155 0 155 Profit/loss from reassessment recognised in other earnings –961 421 –540 Employer contributions 0 124 124 As at 31 December 2018 –98,757 9,348 –89,409 150 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Pension plan of the Euro companies in EUR K Present Fair value Liability value of the of the from the defined-benefit plan assets defined-benefit obligation obligation As at 1 January 2019 –98,757 9,348 –89,409 Current service cost –3,207 0 –3,207 Interest expense/income –1,905 181 –1,724 Expenses for post-employment benefit obligations recognised through profit and loss –5,112 181 –4,931 Pension benefits paid 2,231 0 2,231 Actuarial gains and losses from changes in demographic assumptions –834 0 –834 Actuarial gains and losses from changes in financial assumptions –22,002 1,416 –20,586 Experience-based adjustments –298 0 –298 Profit/loss from reassessment recognised in other earnings –23,134 1,416 –21,718 Employer contributions 0 239 239 As at 31 December 2019 –124,772 11,184 –113,588 Current service costs are included in staff costs; interest expenses on the obligation is reported under interest expenses, Note (10). The plan assets of the Euro companies are qualifying insurance contracts in the form of almost risk-free direct insurances. The contributions to the plan assets for the following fiscal year are expected to amount to EUR 130 K (previous year: EUR 124 K). 151 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) The calculation of post-employment benefit provisions was based on the following assumptions. Germany Outside of Germany 2019 2018 2019 2018 Discount rate as at 31 December in % 0.95 1.95 0.95 1.95 Future pension increases in % 1.56 1.50 2.40 2.40 Age of retirement in years 65 65 62-65 62-65 Since 31 December 2018, the ‘Richttafel 2018 The running period of the performance-­ G’ (Reference Table 2018 G) by Prof. Dr Klaus oriented obligation of the Euro companies Heubeck has been used as the biometric basis averaged at 20.58 years (previous year: for calculations for German companies. 18.85 years). Pension plan of Sto AG, Switzerland in EUR K Present Fair value Liability value of the of the from the defined-benefit plan assets defined-benefit obligation obligation As at 1 January 2018 –37,633 25,775 –11,858 Currency differences –1,363 966 –397 Current service cost –1,290 0 –1,290 Interest expense/income –248 170 –78 Expenses for post-employment benefit obligations recognised through profit and loss –1,468 170 –1,298 Pension benefits paid 5,321 –5,321 0 Actuarial gains and losses from changes in demographic assumptions 0 0 0 Actuarial gains and losses from changes in financial assumptions 2,369 241 2,610 Experience-based adjustments 134 0 134 Profit/loss from reassessment recognised in other earnings 2,503 241 2,744 Employer contributions 0 951 951 Employee contributions –2,980 2,980 0 As at 31 December 2018 –35,620 25,762 –9,858 152 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Pension plan of Sto AG, Switzerland in EUR K Present Fair value Liability value of the of the from the defined-benefit plan assets defined-benefit obligation obligation As at 1 January 2019 –35,620 25,762 –9,858 Currency differences –1,382 1,005 –377 Current service cost –1,204 0 –1,204 Interest expense/income –343 248 –95 Expenses for post-employment benefit obligations recognised through profit and loss –1,547 248 –1,299 Pension benefits paid 3,444 –3,444 0 Actuarial gains and losses from changes in demographic assumptions 3,022 0 3,022 Actuarial gains and losses from changes in financial assumptions –2,944 116 –2,828 Experience-based adjustments 116 0 116 Profit/loss from reassessment recognised in other earnings 194 116 310 Employer contributions 0 996 996 Employee contributions –2,899 2,899 0 As at 31 December 2019 –41,254 31,026 –10,228 The plan assets of Sto AG, Switzerland, take The calculation of post-employment benefit the form of qualifying insurance contracts. All provisions of Sto AG, Switzerland, was based regulatory benefits such as disability, death and on the following assumptions: longevity are integrally covered in the insurance contract. Switzerland 2019 2018 The contributions to the plan assets for the Discount rate as at 31 December in % 0.10 0.95 following fiscal year are expected to amount Future salary increases in % 1.00 1.00 to EUR 1,036 K (previous year: EUR 970 K). Age of retirement in years 65 65 The BVG 2010 Generation Life Table was used as the biometric base for calculation. The running period of the performance-­ oriented liability averages at 14.80 years at the end of the reporting period (previous year: 16.90 years). 153 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) The following shows a quantitative sensitivity analysis of the most important assumptions as at 31 December 2019: in EUR K Effects on the performance-based obligation of the Euro countries 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Discount rate Decline by 0.5 % 13,585 10,357 Increase by 0.5 % –12,765 –8,208 Pensions Decline by 1.0 % –17,718 –12,331 Increase by 1.0 % 14,051 10,794 Life expectancy Decrease by 1 year –5,483 –2,594 Increase by 1 year 4,300 3,391 Retirement age Decrease by 1 year 1,765 1,924 Increase by 1 year –3,289 –1,522 in EUR K Effects on the performance-based obligation of Sto AG Switzerland 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Discount rate Decline by 0.5 % 3,030 3,303 Increase by 0.5 % –2,658 –2,876 Salary adjustments Decline by 0.5 % –248 –290 Increase by 0.5 % 244 286 Life expectancy Decrease by 1 year –575 –620 Increase by 1 year 554 594 To determine the above sensitivity analysis, parameters while keeping the other parameters the provisions were determined based on the steady. These provisions were then compared internationally applicable projected unit credit to the provision as at 31 December 2019. method taking into consideration the changed 154 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA The following amounts are expected to be paid over the next few years as part of defined-benefit liabilities: in EUR K Expected Expected disbursements disbursements as at 31 Dec 2019 as at 31 Dec 2018 Within the next 12 months 4,376 4,088 Between 1 and 5 years 21,957 18,151 Between 5 and 10 years 31,670 29,331 Expected disbursements within the next 10 years 58,003 51,570 (25) Non-current and current provisions in EUR K Human resources Production Sales Other division division division provisions Total As at 1 January 2018 11,619 1,267 48,248 2,378 63,512 Currency differences –9 0 –670 –7 –686 Consumption –5,417 –196 –15,858 –517 –21,988 Additions/formation 2,755 101 20,316 1,220 24,392 Change to companies consolidated 0 0 0 0 0 Compounding of interest 68 15 155 0 238 Reversal –851 0 –4,232 –361 –5,444 As at 31 December 2018 8,165 1,187 47,959 2,713 60,024 Currency differences 7 0 –243 –4 –240 Consumption –1,547 –46 –19,080 –1,342 –22,015 Additions/formation 2,462 108 30,355 1,869 35,296 Change to companies consolidated 0 0 90 185 275 Compounding of interest 87 13 93 0 193 Reversal –1,469 0 –5,265 –191 –6,925 As at 31 December 2019 7,705 1,262 53,909 3,230 66,106 of which current 3,296 410 41,826 2,633 48,165 of which non-current 4,409 852 12,083 597 17,941 155 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) Provisions in the staff area were set aside for anniversary expenses, termination settlements and similar obligations, among other things. Provisions of the production division comprise, inter alia, asset retirement obligations and disposal costs. Provisions in the sales area essentially comprise provisions for warranties, that were set up for individual cases, compensation claims of commercial representatives as well as provisions for litigation risks. In addition to provisions for acceptance obligations and safe-keeping obligations, the remaining other provisions comprise additional factual circumstances subordinate in nature in terms of their recognition. (26) Non-current and current borrowings in EUR K Carrying amount as at current non-current 31 Dec 2019 Liabilities to banks 4,142 3,682 7,824 Other borrowings 1,000 0 1,000 Total borrowings 5,142 3,682 8,824 in EUR K Carrying amount as at current non-current 31 Dec 2018 Liabilities to banks 10,270 3,117 13,387 Liabilities under finance leases 187 228 415 Other borrowings 1,002 0 1,002 Total borrowings 11,459 3,345 14,804 156 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA (27) Non-current and current lease liabilities With the first-time application of IFRS 16 as of 1 January 2019, additional liabilities from leases were recognised, whereas in the previous year only liabilities from financial leases were recognised in accordance with IAS 17. in EUR K Carrying Carrying amount as at amount as at current non-current 31 Dec 2019 current non-current 31 Dec 2018 Liabilities from leases 18,514 47,217 65,731 – – – The current and future payments from lease liabilities can be seen in the following tables: in EUR K up to 1 year 1–5 years 5–10 years 31 Dec 2018 Lease payments 192 234 0 426 Interest portions 5 6 0 11 Carrying amount/present value of lease liabilities 187 228 0 415 in EUR K 2019 up to 1 year 1–5 years 5–10 years 31 Dec 2019 Lease payments 19,893 19,058 42,111 6,267 67,436 Interest portions 604 544 996 165 1,705 Carrying amount/present value of lease liabilities 19,289 18,514 41,116 6,102 65,731 Payments for short-term leases 1,649 1,016 0 0 1,016 Payments for small-ticket leases 772 238 12 0 250 Total lease payments in the current year amounted to EUR 22,314 K. Potential future cash outflows from leases were not included in the lease liability as it was not sufficiently certain that the leasing contracts would be renewed. 157 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) Cash outflows from leases possible in the future are shown in the following table: in EUR K Total cash outflows From extension and termination options 6,832 From contracts with residual value guarantees 111 From contracts not yet active 1,873 Current earnings include the following additional expenses relating to leases: in EUR K 2019 2018 Expense for short-term leases 1,649 – Expense for small-ticket leases 772 – Expenses for variable lease payments 83 – Amortisation of rights of use 19,081 – Information on the rights of use and further explanations can be found in Notes (10) and (15). (28) Non-current and current trade payables in EUR K Carrying Carrying nonamount as at nonamount as at current current 31 Dec 2019 current current 31 Dec 2018 from Third parties 48,787 151 48,938 47,013 151 47,164 Companies accounted for using the equity method 105 0 105 142 0 142 Total trade payables 48,892 151 49,043 47,155 151 47,306 The fair values of trade payables correspond to the carrying amounts. 158 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA (29) Non-current and current financial liabilities in EUR K Carrying Carrying amount as at amount as at current non-current 31 Dec 2019 current non-current 31 Dec 2018 Negative fair values of derivative financial instruments 800 9 809 256 0 256 Other liabilities towards customers 17,849 0 17,849 15,114 0 15,114 towards employees 1,034 0 1,034 1,099 0 1,099 Other 14,753 260 15,013 16,112 283 16,395 Total financial liabilities 34,436 269 34,705 32,581 283 32,864 As in the previous year, the negative fair value of derivative financial instruments resulted from currency hedging transactions explained in Note (34) in more detail. (30) Non-current and current other liabilities in EUR K Carrying Carrying amount as at amount as at current non-current 31 Dec 2019 current non-current 31 Dec 2018 Advance payment received on orders 2,358 0 2,358 1,045 0 1,045 Other liabilities from other taxes 9,938 0 9,938 9,397 0 9,397 social security liabilities 3,424 0 3,424 2,833 0 2,833 towards employees 27,075 0 27,075 25,191 0 25,191 Other 6,220 10 6,230 5,904 10 5,914 Total other liabilities 49,015 10 49,025 44,370 10 44,380 159 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) (31) Further notes on financial instruments in accordance with IFRS 7 Reconciliation of balance sheet items with financial instrument categories in EUR K Valuation Carrying Financial instruments category in amount Amortised Fair Value Not accordance costs of acquisition value recognition within the with IFRS 9 in the balscope of ance sheet IFRS 7/Hedge Carrying Fair in accordance accounting 31 Dec 2018 amount value with IAS 17 Assets Trade receivables FAAC 135,770 135,770 135,770 0 0 0 Financial assets Other investments FVTPL 49 0 0 49 0 0 Derivative assets without hedge relationship FVTPL 442 0 0 442 0 0 Other financial assets FAAC 6,301 6,301 6,301 0 0 0 Financial assets – Associated companies FAAC 652 652 652 0 0 0 Financial investments FAAC 76,314 76,314 76,368 0 0 0 Total financial assets 83,758 83,267 83,321 491 0 0 Cash and cash equivalents FAAC 105,294 105,294 105,294 0 0 0 Liabilities Borrowings Other borrowings FLAC 13,974 13,974 13,974 0 0 0 Liabilities from leases NA 415 0 0 0 415 0 Total borrowings 14,389 13,974 13,974 0 415 0 Trade payables FLAC 47,306 47,306 47,306 0 0 0 Financial liabilities Derivative liabilities without hedge relationship FLTPL 256 0 0 256 0 0 Other financial liabilities FLAC 32,608 32,608 32,608 0 0 0 Total financial liabilities 32,864 32,608 32,608 256 0 0 160 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA in EUR K Valuation Carrying Financial instruments category in amount Amortised Fair Value Not accordance costs of acquisition value recognition within the with IFRS 9 in the balscope of ance sheet IFRS 7/Hedge Carrying Fair in accordance accounting 31 Dec 2019 amount value with IAS 16 Assets Trade receivables FAAC 138,976 138,976 138,976 0 0 0 Financial assets Other investments FVTPL 4 0 0 4 0 0 Derivative assets without hedge relationship FVTPL 1 0 0 1 0 0 Other financial assets FAAC 10,178 10,178 10,178 0 0 0 Other Financial assets – Associated companies FAAC 883 883 883 0 0 0 Financial investments FAAC 51,697 51,697 51,405 0 0 0 Total financial assets 62,763 62,758 62,466 5 0 0 Cash and cash equivalents FAAC 128,607 128,607 128,607 0 0 0 Liabilities Borrowings FLAC 8,824 8,824 8,981 0 0 0 Lease liabilities NA 65,731 0 0 0 65,731 0 Trade payables FLAC 49,043 49,043 49,043 0 0 0 Financial liabilities Derivative liabilities without hedge relationship FLTPL 809 0 0 809 0 0 Other financial liabilities FLAC 33,896 33,896 33,896 0 0 0 Total financial liabilities 34,705 33,896 33,896 809 0 0 161 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) The carrying amounts of the financial instruments are aggregated as follows in accordance with the categories stipulated in IFRS 9: in EUR K 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Financial assets measured at fair value through profit and loss (FVTPL) 5 491 Financial assets measured at amortised cost (FAAC) 330,342 324,332 Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI) 0 0 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost (FLAC) 91,763 94,303 Financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit and loss (FLTPL) 809 256 Balance sheet items measured at fair value in EUR K 31 Dec Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 2018 Financial assets measured at fair value through profit and loss Derivatives with no hedge relationship 442 0 442 0 Available-for-sale financial assets Derivatives with a hedge relationship 0 0 0 0 Financial assets measured at fair value 442 0 442 0 Financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit and loss Derivatives with no hedge relationship 256 0 256 0 Financial liabilities recorded in other earnings with no impact on profit and loss Derivatives with a hedge relationship 0 0 0 0 Financial liabilities measured at fair value 256 0 256 0 in EUR K 31 Dec Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 2019 Financial assets measured at fair value through profit and loss Derivatives with no hedge relationship 1 0 1 0 Available-for-sale financial assets Derivatives with a hedge relationship 0 0 0 0 Financial assets measured at fair value 1 0 1 0 Financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit and loss Derivatives with no hedge relationship 809 0 809 0 Financial liabilities recorded in other earnings with no impact on profit and loss Derivatives with a hedge relationship 0 0 0 0 Financial liabilities measured at fair value 809 0 809 0 162 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA The following financial assets and liabilities Development of impairments of financial accounted for at fair value are structured acinstruments measured at amortised acquisition cording to the following levels: costs (trade receivables, other receivables and financial assets): Level 1 Financial instruments traded in active markets, in EUR K Trade Financial assets receivables FAAC the listed prices of which were adopted unchanged for measurement purposes. As at 1 January 2018 21,896 374 Level 2 Exchange rate differences –185 0 The measurement is made on the basis of valAdditions 8,062 455 uation methods in which the influential factors Consumption –3,950 0 are derived either directly or indirectly from obReversals –5,224 –4 servable market data. They are measured based Change to companies consolidated 0 0 on the observable exchange rates, the interest As at 31 December 2018 20,572 825 structure curves of the respective currencies as well as the currency-related basic spreads bein EUR K Trade Financial assets receivables FAAC tween the respective currencies. The derivatives are currency hedges only. As at 1 January 2019 20,572 825 Level 3 Exchange rate differences 23 3 The measurement is effected using valuation Additions 7,763 21 methods where the influential factors are not Consumption –2,188 –26 based exclusively on observable market data. Reversals –3,154 –470 Change to companies consolidated 267 9 Neither any reclassifications between the levels As at 31 December 2019 23,283 362 and nor any additions or disposals were carried out during the reporting period. The measurement of the portfolio of financial instruments at fair value as at 31 December 2019 resulted in net expenses of EUR 808 K (previous year: income of EUR 185 K). The valuation result from fair value measurement is a component of Other operating income (Note 3) and Other operating expenses (Note 6). No netting takes place. 163 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) Impairments in the reporting period IFRS 9 Provisions on trade receivables as at 31 December 2018: in EUR K Not 1 – 30 31 – 60 61– 90 91– 120 121– 180 181– 364 365 – 730 > 730 Total due: days days days days days days days days Trade receivables 68,726 13,103 4,762 1,702 1,356 1,589 1,132 802 2,038 95,210 Risk coefficient 2% 3% 6% 12% 15% 20% 26% 85% 95% Provisions for risk 1,375 393 286 204 203 318 294 682 1,936 5,691 IFRS 9 Provisions on trade receivables as at 31 December 2019: in EUR K Not 1 – 30 31 – 60 61– 90 91– 120 121– 180 181– 364 365 – 730 > 730 Total due: days days days days days days days days Trade receivables 66,926 14,839 5,364 2,172 1,551 1,489 1,587 783 1,506 96,217 Risk coefficient 2% 3% 6% 12% 15% 20% 26% 85% 95% Provisions for risk 1,339 445 322 261 233 298 413 666 1,431 5,408 IFRS 9 Provisions on financial assets as at 31 December 2018: in EUR K Basis for Discount Provisions valuation in % for risk Financial investments, and cash and cash equivalents (FAAC) 182,393 0.43 % 784 Other financial assets – associated companies (FAAC) 653 0.16 % 1 Other financial assets – Third parties (FAAC) 6,315 0.26 % 14 164 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA IFRS 9 Provisions on financial assets as at 31 December 2019: in EUR K Basis for Discount Provisions valuation in % for risk Financial investments, and cash and cash equivalents (FAAC) 180,629 0.18 % 325 Other financial assets – associated companies (FAAC) 884 0.16 % 1 Other financial assets – Third parties (FAAC) 10,205 0.26 % 27 Total impairment loss, including individual impairments, as at 31 December 2018: in EUR K Impairments of which of the period recovery measures Trade receivables 8,062 8,062 Financial assets (FAAC) 455 455 Total impairment loss, including individual impairments, as at 31 December 2019: in EUR K Impairments of which of the period recovery measures Trade receivables 7,763 7,763 Financial assets (FAAC) 21 21 In the case of trade receivables, items that are overdue are the key indicator of impairment or the assumption of non-realisability. If trade receivables become increasingly overdue, it is assumed that there will also be an increasing lack of realisability in accordance with IFRS 9. Written-off trade receivables subject to enforcement measures continue to be regularly reviewed for the possibility of recovery. 165 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) The following table shows the carrying amounts struments which typically barely differ between and fair values of the financial instruments as carrying amount and fair values. at 31 December 2019, excluding financial inin EUR K Carrying Fair value Fair-value amount as at as at level 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2019 Financial assets Non-current Investments 4 4 Level 2 Loans 656 656 Level 2 Other financial assets 4,524 4,524 Level 2 Total non-current financial assets 5,184 5,184 Current Financial investments 51,697 51,405 Level 2 Loans 63 63 Level 2 Forward exchange contracts 1 1 Level 2 Other financial assets 5,818 5,818 Level 2 Total current financial assets 57,579 57,287 Total financial assets 62,763 62,471 Financial liabilities Non-current Borrowings 3,682 3,668 Level 2 Other financial liabilities 260 260 Level 2 Forward exchange contracts 9 9 Level 2 Total non-current financial liabilities 3,951 3,937 Current Borrowings 5,142 5,142 Level 2 Forward exchange contracts 800 800 Level 2 Other financial liabilities 33,636 33,636 Level 2 Total current financial liabilities 39,578 39,578 Total financial liabilities 43,529 43,515 The carrying amounts of cash and cash equivaMarket Funds, fixed-term deposits, loans and lents, trade receivables and liabilities as well as current account credits to banks. The fair valcurrent borrowings and other liabilities nearly ues were determined using the present-value correspond to the fair values due to their short method based on interest rates appropriate to terms. The financial investments and borrowmaturities and creditworthiness. ings are mainly borrower’s note loans, Money 166 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Other disclosures (32) Cash flow statement be directly derived from the balance sheet on The cash flow statement shows how the account of non-cash currency translation effects Group’s liquidity position has changed in the and other non-cash transactions. course of the year under review as a result of cash inflows and outflows. For this purpose, it (33) Segment reporting distinguishes cash flow from operating activiFor the purpose of corporate management by ties, cash flow from investing activities and cash the responsible corporate entity – the personflow from financing activities (IAS 7 Statement ally liable partner STO Management SE – the of cash flows). Group is divided up into geographical business units. These were divided into the operating The cash flow statement solely comprises the segments of Western Europe and Other, with cash and cash equivalents reported in the statethe segment Other including business in the rement of financial position that include financial gions of Northern/Eastern Europe and America/ investments with an original term of up to three Asia/­Pacific in line with internal reporting. The months. business segment of Western Europe comprises business in the regions of the Euro zone (withBased on earnings after taxes (EAT), the cash out Finland. Lithuania, and Slovakia), Switzerflow is indirectly derived from operating activiland, as well as the United Kingdom. ties. Earnings after taxes (EAT) are adjusted for taxes on income and earnings as well as for The activities of all segments included the non-cash expenses (essentially depreciation) and production and distribution of facade systems, non-cash income. Cash flow from operating facade coatings, interior products and Other activities reflects changes in working capital. product groups. Cash inflows and outflows from investing and The netting prices between segments conform financing activities are calculated using the to arms-length conditions. Transfers between direct method. Investment activities comprise business segments are eliminated on consolidadisbursements for additions to intangible assets tion. and tangible fixed assets as well as disbursements for the acquisition of consolidated Internal reporting is carried out in accordance companies and other business units, interest with IFRS. received, deposits arising from the disposal of intangible assets and property, plant and equipThe segment results were reported in the levels ment, as well as disbursements and payments EBITDA, EBIT and EBT. The elimination of earnfor financial investments. ings between the segments as well as earnings from investments of companies accounted Financing activities comprise cash outflows from for using the equity method in the amount of payments to shareholders, payments to minorEUR -513 K (previous year: EUR 118 K) were ity shareholders, interest payments, payments recorded in EBT in the consolidation column. for the repayment portion of the lease liabilities, and the taking-out and repayment of loans, as Depreciation/amortisation relate to Property, well as changes to other borrowings. Changes plant and equipment, Intangible assets, and in items of the statement of financial position Rights of use. Investments relate to Property, analysed for the cash flow statement cannot plant and equipment, and Intangible assets. 167 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) Segment assets mainly comprise Property, plant and equipment, Intangible assets, Rights of use, Inventories, Trade receivables from third parties as well as Other receivable and Financial assets from third parties. Income tax receivables in the amount of EUR 1,887 K (previous year: EUR 2,577 K), and Deferred tax receivables in the amount of EUR 29,807 K (previous year: EUR 20,541 K) are listed in the ‘Reconciliation/consolidation booking entries’ column under ‘Segment assets’. No material adjustments were made to earnings. Owing to the broad customer structure, there is no customer with whom 10 % or more of sales revenues are generated. The breakdown of sales revenues is made according to the customer’s head office. in EUR K 2018 Germany France Others Total External revenues 596,003 124,897 611,470 1,332,370 Intangible assets, Property, plant, and equipment 189,220 27,379 86,017 302,616 in EUR K 2019 Germany France Others Total External revenues 611,306 141,264 645,657 1,398,227 Intangible assets, Property, plant and equipment, and Rights of use 212,483 32,650 145,430 390,563 168 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA (34) Financial risk management and finanof principle, the type and scope of hedging cial instruments operations are determined by the underlying transaction. Hedging policy The Sto Group’s international activities expose Liquidity risk it to interest and currency risks in particular. Detailed liquidity planning is the basis of liquidThe goal of risk management is to adequately ity management. On balance sheet date, cash hedge currency risks that can arise during and cash equivalents as well as existing, unused planning. Forward exchange transactions with a credit lines were available. These credit lines are term of up to one year are generally concluded mainly a syndicated loan, which was taken out for this purpose. in 2012 and which was extended until 2022 in 2017. Guidelines have been adopted to govern the scope for hedging and internal monitoring. The following overview sets out the contracWithin the framework of these guidelines, only tually agreed cash outflows from financial inhedging transactions with approved counstruments including interest, not including cash terparties may be concluded only to hedge outflows from leases shown in Note (27). existing or planned transactions. As a matter in EUR K Cash outflows 31 Dec 2018 up to 1 year 1–5 years 5–10 years Borrowings 11,487 2,831 379 14,696 Trade payables 47,405 151 0 47,556 Other financial liabilities 32,356 283 0 32,639 Derivatives 38,656 0 0 38,656 Total cash outflows 129,904 3,265 379 133,547 in EUR K Cash outflows 31 Dec 2019 up to 1 year 1–5 years 5–10 years Borrowings 5,238 3,809 0 9,047 Trade payables 48,892 151 0 49,043 Other financial liabilities 33,636 260 0 33,896 Derivatives 47,394 2,349 0 49,743 Total cash outflows 135,160 6,569 0 141,729 There are contingencies in the amount of EUR 663 K (previous year: EUR 795 K) for which no liability is currently expected to arise (Note 35). 169 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) The amounts of the derivatives shown correspond to the un-discounted cash flows. These payments can be processed on a gross or net basis. In the following table, the cash outflows are compared to the corresponding cash inflows: in EUR K Cash inflows/outflows as at 31 Dec 2018 Total up to 1 year 1–5 years 5–10 years Inflow 38,841 0 0 38,841 Outflow 38,656 0 0 38,656 Balance 185 0 0 185 in EUR K Cash inflows/outflows as at 31 Dec 2019 Total up to 1 year 1–5 years 5–10 years Inflow 46,595 2,340 0 48,935 Outflow 47,394 2,349 0 49,743 Balance –799 –9 0 –808 The following overview shows the changes in the liabilities from financing activities. in EUR K 1 January New 31 December 2018 Cash flows leases Other 2018 Current interest-bearing loans 9,486 757 0 1,029 11,272 Non-current interest-bearing loans 1,707 2,439 0 –1,030 3,116 Total interest-bearing loans 11,193 3,196 0 –1 14,388 Current lease liabilities 271 –288 27 177 187 Non-current lease liabilities 325 0 80 –177 228 Total lease liabilities 596 –288 107 0 415 Total liabilities from financing activities 11,789 2,908 107 –1 14,803 170 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA in EUR K First-time Change to Reclassifi1 January application companies New cation of Currency 31 December 2019 effect consolidated Cash flows leases maturity effects 2019 Current interest-bearing loans 11,272 0 2,670 –9,429 0 630 –1 5,142 Non-current interest-bearing loans 3,116 0 1,740 –585 0 –630 41 3,682 Total interest-bearing loans 14,388 0 4,410 –10,014 0 0 40 8,824 Current lease liabilities 187 16,820 125 –19,289 2,086 18,512 73 18,514 Non-current lease liabilities 228 52,004 1,890 0 11,253 –18,512 354 47,217 Total lease liabilities 415 68,824 2,015 –19,289 13,339 0 427 65,731 Total liabilities from financing activities 14,803 68,824 6,425 –29,303 13,339 0 467 74,555 Default risk arising from financial assets The default risk of financial assets in the form The credit and default risk arising from financial of trade receivables was taken into account assets entails the risk of a counterparty defaultby means of impairments. There was no ing and is limited to the maximum net carrying concentration of default risks, which were amount of the receivable due from the defaultmainly measured by cluster risks, i.e. risk ing counterparty. concentrations with regard to borrower rating classes, customer structure and proportion of In connection with the investment of cash and receivables from a customer in relation to total the portfolio of derivative financial assets, there receivables. are generally default risks due to the risks of financial institutions failing to honour their obligations. The resulting risk was controlled by means of diversification and the careful selection of counterparties. At the moment, no cash investments or derivative financial assets are overdue or individually impaired on account of default risks. 171 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) Presentation of net carrying amounts of financial instruments measured at amortised costs of acquisition: in EUR K Carrying of which not due, of which overdue amount of which and impaired and impaired individually in accordance in accordance impaired with IFRS 9 with IFRS 9 31 Dec 2018 Financial assets 25 77,906 5,337 83,268 Trade receivables 5,761 95,741 34,268 135,770 Cash 0 105,294 0 105,294 Total financial instruments measured at amortised cost of acquisition 5,786 278,941 39,605 324,332 in EUR K Carrying of which not due, of which overdue amount of which and impaired and impaired individually in accordance in accordance impaired with IFRS 9 with IFRS 9 31 Dec 2019 Financial assets 0 62,759 0 62,759 Trade receivables 7,159 97,801 34,016 138,976 Cash 0 128,607 0 128,607 Total financial instruments measured at amortised cost of acquisition 7,159 289,167 34,016 330,342 Trade receivables are assessed on the basis of Collateral amounting to EUR 5,312 K (previous the creditworthiness of the respective customer. year: EUR 6,754 K) was held in the financial Information is obtained and regularly updated year for overdue and impaired trade receivables. to assess the credit quality of financial assets which are neither overdue nor adjusted. On the This mainly relates to pledged land and bank basis of this and other information, the financial guarantees received, which can only be used in assets are classified and credit limits defined. case of late payments. 172 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA The gross carrying amount of receivables The financial assets measured at fair value are which were individually impaired stood at neither overdue nor impaired. EUR 21,977 K (previous year: EUR 20,642 K) in the reporting period. The gross carrying In the case of financial instruments that are not amount of receivables which are subject to due and that are impaired in accordance with impairment in accordance with IFRS 9 stood at IFRS 9, there were no signs of possible default EUR 140,297 K (previous year: EUR 135,701 K). as at the 2019 balance sheet date. The gross carrying amount of the financial assets measured at amortised cost (FAAC) with individual impairments stood at EUR 9 K (previous year: EUR 50 K). Maturity analysis of overdue financial instruments impaired in accordance with IFRS 9: in EUR K overdue up to 30 days 60 days more than 30 days to 60 days to 90 days 90 days 31 Dec 2018 Financial assets 3 1,741 1,351 2,242 5,337 Trade receivables 17,704 5,837 2,245 8,482 34,268 Total overdue and impaired financial instruments in accordance with IFRS 9 17,707 7,578 3,596 10,723 39,605 Maturity analysis of overdue financial instruments impaired in accordance with IFRS 9: in EUR K overdue up to 30 days 60 days more than 30 days to 60 days to 90 days 90 days 31 Dec 2019 Financial assets 0 0 0 0 0 Trade receivables 18,247 7,336 2,374 6,060 34,016 Total overdue and impaired financial instruments in accordance with IFRS 9 18,247 7,336 2,374 6,060 34,016 173 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) Currency risk Interest rate risk Payments in foreign currency are determined in Interest rate risks in accordance with IFRS 7 the budget phase for the following year. On the arise due to possible changes in the market inbasis of the planned payment flows, suitable terest rates for cash investments and due to the hedging strategies are created, agreed upon variable interest rates for current and non-curwith the relevant bodies, and implemented. rent liabilities. The planned cash positions are hedged without exception through hedging instruments congruThe volume of non-current, variable-rate ent with the time and economic state from the borrowings was so low that a change of the area of derivatives. The currency hedge mainly market interest level by 100 basis points on affected CZK/EUR, HUF/EUR, RUB/EUR, SGD/ 31 December 2019 would have had no signifEUR, USD/EUR, NOK/EUR, SEK/EUR, PLN/EUR, icant impact on earnings, like in the previous CAD/EUR, CHF/EUR, GBP/EUR, DKK/EUR, AUD/ year. EUR as well as CAD/USD. The changes in fair value were recognised in the statement of profit Due to the maturity of the financial investments and loss with an impact on profit and loss. with a running period of up to one year, there is no interest rate risk for the as at 31 December The main operative currency risks are due to the 2019. manufacture of products in Germany and their subsequent selling and delivery to subsidiaries outside of Germany in Euro. Currency risks occurred due to business completed in euros with subsidiaries outside the Euro zone, mainly in Switzerland, Sweden, Poland, Hungary, Great Britain, Norway, and the Czech Republic. All non-functional currencies in which the Group holds financial instruments are used as relevant risk variables in the sensitivity analysis stipulated by IFRS 7. The essential currency risk results from the change in the assets and liabilities in the non-functional currency pair CNY/EUR. If the Chinese renminbi had been 10 % lower/higher against the euro, pre-tax earnings would have been up by EUR 95 K (previous year: EUR 90 K higher), or down by EUR 78 K (previous year: EUR 74 K lower). 174 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Valuation of derivative financial instruments The market values of the derivative financial instruments are determined on the basis of the tradability based on reference prices and valuation models and is presented as follows: in EUR K 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Nominal Total Nominal Market volume market value volume value total Forward exchange transactions/options 49,862 –808 38,872 185 Total derivative financial instruments 49,862 –808 38,872 185 The nominal volume of a derivative hedge The increase in the nominal volume in a functransaction is the reference amount for which tional currency in case of foreign currency forthe payments are derived. The hedged contract wards is based on an increased hedging volume and the risk are not the same as the nominal of payments outside the functional currency. volume but only reflect rate changes to which they refer. The market value corresponds to the As a rule, the residual maturity of the currency amount that would have to be paid at the balderivatives lies within a year. ance sheet date if the hedge had been settled. (35) Contingencies in EUR K 2019 2018 Guarantees from the Sto Group to third parties 662 794 Reserve liability to cooperatives 1 1 Total contingencies 663 795 In the case of default guarantees, no liability is currently expected to arise. 175 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) (36) Litigation Neither Sto SE & Co. KGaA nor its Group companies are involved in any court litigation or arbitration proceedings which are liable to exert a significant influence on the Group’s economic situation or have done so in the past two years. There is no evidence that any such litigation or proceedings will arise in the future. Provisions in an appropriate amount have been set aside by the individual Group companies to allow for any expenses arising from court litigation or arbitration proceedings. (37) Other financial obligations in EUR K 31 Dec 2018 Maturity within between after one year 1-5 years 5 years Liabilities from operating leases 59,143 20,801 35,960 2,382 Liabilities from maintenance contracts 8,167 3,490 4,193 484 Acceptance obligations 13,770 11,157 2,591 22 Other obligations 7,357 6,985 372 0 Total other financial obligations 88,437 42,433 43,116 2,888 in EUR K 31 Dec 2019 Maturity within between after one year 1-5 years 5 years Liabilities from maintenance contracts 8,227 3,428 4,309 490 Acceptance obligations 29,573 23,605 5,942 26 Other obligations 7,119 4,881 2,238 0 Total other financial obligations 44,919 31,914 12,489 516 Of the acceptance obligations, an amount of EUR 9,252 K (previous year: EUR 6,639 K) relates to items of tangible fixed assets. Furthermore, acceptance obligations relating to inventories as well as other acceptance obligations exist. 176 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA (38) Auditors’ fees The following fees paid to the auditors of the consolidated annual financial statement of the Sto Group, Ernst & Young GmbH, Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, Stuttgart/Germany, for services provided are recorded as expenses in 2019: in EUR K 2019 2018 Audits of financial statements 390 370 Other certification or valuation activities 5 4 Other services 82 0 Auditors’ fees in total 478 374 (39) Events after the balance sheet date With effect from 1 January 2020, Sto SE & Co. KGaA has acquired 50.1 % of VIACOR Polymer GmbH, Rottenburg am Neckar/Germany. This renowned manufacturer of industrial flooring and coatings for sports flooring expands what Sto has to offer under the StoCretec brand and will be consolidated within the Sto Group starting from the current year. Between the end of the 2019 fiscal year and the point at which this report was signed off, there were no other events with a significant impact on the income, financial, and asset situation of the Sto Group. However, it is difficult to predict how the coronavirus pandemic is set to continue and what impact it will have on the global economy. This is a situation that involves considerable risks. As things stand, however, it is not possible to make a reliable prediction of the overall impact that the pandemic will have on the 2020 fiscal year. 177 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) (40) Related party disclosures IAS 24 defines related parties as persons or entities liable to be influenced by the reporting entity or are capable of influencing the reporting entity in question. All business relations with related parties were conducted on arms-length terms. As at 31 December 2019, members of the Executive Board of STO Management SE and the Supervisory Board of Sto SE & Co. KGaA are members of the executive boards and supervisory boards of other companies with which Sto SE & Co. KGaA maintains relations as part of its ordinary business activities. All transactions with such companies are conducted on arms-length terms. The volume of deliveries and services, including net interest income, between companies in the Sto Group and related parties and persons are set out in the following table: in EUR K Rendered Received deliveries and deliveries and Receivables Liabilities Share services services from to 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Inotec GmbH, Waldshut-Tiengen/Germany 47.5 % 55 48 3,876 2,987 658 655 105 71 JONAS Farbenwerke GmbH & Co. KG 49.8 % 344 343 0 0 701 343 0 0 STO Management SE 742 859 4,310 4,080 82 90 2,155 1,965 Stotmeister Beteiligungs GmbH 43 0 0 0 50 0 0 0 Other 0 0 28 10 0 0 0 10 178 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA (41) List of subsidiaries and investments as at 31 December 2019 Fully consolidated companies in Germany Capital share in % Name, registered office StoCretec GmbH, Kriftel/Germany 100 Verotec GmbH, Lauingen/Germany 100 Gefro Verwaltungs-GmbH & Co. KG, Stühlingen/Germany 100 Südwest Lacke + Farben GmbH & Co. KG, Böhl-Iggelheim/Germany 100 Südwest Lacke + Farben Verwaltungs-GmbH, Böhl-Iggelheim/Germany 100 Sto BTV GmbH, Stühlingen/Germany (formerly VeroStone GmbH, Eichstätt/Germany) 100 Innolation GmbH, Lauingen/Germany 100 Sto SMEE Beteiligungs GmbH, Stühlingen/Germany 100 Ströher GmbH, Dillenburg/Germany 100 Ströher Fliesen GmbH, Dillenburg/Germany 100 Ströher Produktions GmbH & Co. KG, Dillenburg/Germany 100 GEPADI Fliesen GmbH, Dillenburg/Germany 100 Sto BT GmbH, Stühlingen/Germany 100 Sto BTN GmbH, Stühlingen/Germany 100 Sto Building Solutions GmbH, Stühlingen/Germany 100 Liaver GmbH & Co. KG, Ilmenau/Germany 100 Liaver Beteiligungen GmbH, Spardorf/Germany 100 Sto BTR GmbH, Stühlingen/Germany 100 For changes in the current year, Sto Panel Holding GmbH, Stühlingen/Germany 100 please refer to ‘General disclosures’ Sto BTK GmbH, Stühlingen/Germany 100 Note 4 ‘Companies consolidated’. 179 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) Fully consolidated companies outside of Germany Capital share in % Name, registered office Sto Ges.m.b.H., Villach/Austria 100 Sto S.A.S., Bezons/France 100 Beissier S.A.S., La Chapelle La Reine/France 100 Innolation S.A.S., Amilly/France 100 Beissier S.A.U., Errenteria/Spain 100 Sto SDF Ibérica S.L.U., Mataró/Spain 100 Sto Isoned B.V., Tiel/Netherlands 100 Sto N.V., Asse/Belgium 100 Sto Italia Srl, Empoli/Italy 52 Sto Finexter OY, Vantaa/Finland 100 Sto Scandinavia AB, Linköping/Sweden 100 Sto Danmark A/S, Hvidovre/Denmark 100 Sto Norge AS, Oslo/Norway 100 StoCretec Flooring AS, Moss/Norway 100 UAB TECH-COAT, Klaipėda/Lithuania 95 Hesselberg Sverige AB, Helsingborg/Sweden 100 Sto AG, Niederglatt/Switzerland 100 Sto Ltd, Paisley/Great Britain 100 Sto Sp. z o.o., Warsaw/Poland 100 Sto Epitöanyag Kft., Dunaharaszti/Hungary 100 Sto s.r.o., Dobřejovice/Czech Republic 100 STOMIX spol. s.r.o., Skorosice/Czech Republic 100 Sto Slovensko s.r.o., Bratislava/Slovakia 100 OOO Sto, Moscow/Russia 100 Sto Yapı Sistemleri Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş., Istanbul/Turkey 100 Sto Gulf Building Material LLC., Dubai/UAE 49 Sto Corp., Atlanta/USA 100 Sto Canada Ltd., Etobicoke/Canada 100 Skyrise Prefab Building Solutions Inc., Pickering/Canada 59.8 Industrial y Comercial Sto Chile Ltda., Santiago de Chile/Chile 100 Sto Colombia S.A.S., Bogota D.C./Colombia 100 Sto Mexico S. de R.L. de C.V., Monterrey/Mexico 100 Sto Brasil Revestimentos e Fachadas Ltda., Itaquaquecetuba/Brazil 100 Sto Corp. Latin America Inc., Panama/Panama 100 Shanghai Sto Ltd, Shanghai/China 100 Langfang Sto Building Material Co. Ltd, Hebei/China 100 Wuhan Sto Building Material Co. Ltd, Wuhan/China 100 Sto SEA Pte. Ltd, Singapore/Singapore 100 For changes in the current year, Sto SEA Sdn. Bhd., Masai/Malaysia 100 please refer to ‘General disclosures’ Unitex Australia Pty Ltd, Dandenong South/Australia 100 Note 4 ‘Companies consolidated’. 180 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Companies accounted for using the equity method Capital share No restrictions apply with in % regard to the liquidation of Name, registered office assets or the payment of debts Inotec GmbH, Waldshut-Tiengen/Germany 47.5 for a fully consolidated comJONAS Farbenwerke GmbH & Co. KG, Wülfrath/Germany 49.8 pany within the Sto Group. JONAS GmbH, Wülfrath/Germany 49.8 (42) German Corporate Governance Code As at 31 December 2019, the non-current fiOn 19 December 2019, the Executive Board nancial liabilities for the current members of the of the personally liable partner of Sto SE & Co. Executive Board amounted to EUR 105 K (previKGaA, STO Management SE, and the Superous year: EUR 128 K). As at 31 December 2019, visory Board of Sto SE & Co. KGaA issued the post-employment benefit provisions for former declaration of compliance with the recommenmembers of the Executive Board were valued at dations of the Government Commission on EUR 2,231 K (previous year: EUR 2,062 K) due German Corporate Governance Code in the to offsetting against plan assets. Remuneration version of February 2017 in accordance with paid to former members of the Executive Board Section 161 of the Law on share companies and the Supervisory Board came to EUR 571 K (AktG) and, on 20 December 2019, made it (previous year: EUR 443 K). available to shareholders on the Internet page of Sto SE & Co. KGaA in the category ‘UnThe remunerations of the Supervisory Board of ternehmen’ (Company), in the section ‘Investor Sto SE & Co. KGaA and the compensation of Relations’ under ‘Entsprechenserklärung nach expenditure in this regard, which must be paid § 161 AktG’ (Declaration of compliance in acto the Supervisory Board of STO Management cordance with Section 161 of the Law on share SE as stipulated in Section 6 Paragraph 3 of the companies). regulations of Sto SE & Co. KGaA, amounted to EUR 663 K (previous year: EUR 636 K) for the (43) Remuneration of the Executive Board 2019 fiscal year. and the Supervisory Board The remuneration paid to the members of the The members of the Supervisory Board will only Executive Board in the fiscal year of 2019 comreceive currently due payments for their activplies with the statutory provisions contained in ities on the committee. Excluded from this are the Law on share companies (AktG). Current compensation and other payments to operadue payments to the Executive Board totalled tions employee representatives pursuant to their EUR 2,896 K (previous year: EUR 2,689 K). employment contracts. No compensation has The long-term-incentive payments, which been granted for personally rendered services are also due in the short term, amounted to outside of committee activities by the members EUR 206 K (previous year: EUR 88 K). Current of the Supervisory Board. and non-current payments amounted to a total of EUR 3,102 K* (previous year: EUR 2,777 K). Following the decision at the Annual General * Total remuneration for the ExecuExpenses for future payments after terminaMeeting on 16 June 2015, the need for distive Board pursuant to § 314 (1) tion of the employment relationship (current closure in accordance with Section 314 No. 6a No. 6a of the German Commercial service cost) amounted to EUR 329 K (previous sentence 5-9 of the German Commercial Code Code (HGB) year: EUR 330 K). Executive Board remuner(HGB) and Section 314 Paragraph 2 sentence 2 ations thus total EUR 3,431 K (previous year: HGB in conjunction with Section 286 ParaEUR 3,107 K). graph 5 HGB has been dispensed with. 181 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) Members of the Executive Board of STO Management SE in the fiscal year of 2019 (personally liable partner of Sto SE & Co. KGaA): Rainer Hüttenberger Rolf Wöhrle Spokesman of the Executive Board responsible Chief Financial Officer, responsible for Finance, for Sales Sto Brand International, Business Unit Controlling, IT, Legal, Internal Audit, and InforOrganisation, Corporate Strategic Developmation Technology ment, and M&A Bad Dürrheim/Germany, Dipl.-Betriebswirt (BA) Stein a. Rhein/Switzerland, Dipl.-Betriebswirt (FH) Member of the BOD of StoCretec Flooring AS, Member of the BOD of Sto Corp., Atlanta/USA Moss/Norway Chairperson of the BOD of Shanghai Sto Ltd, Member of the BOD of Sto Scandinavia AB, Shanghai/China Linköping/Sweden (until 18 June 2019) Chairperson of the BOD of Sto Scandinavia AB, Member of the BOD of Sto Norge AS, Linköping/Sweden Oslo/Norway (until 31 October 2019) Chairperson of the BOD of Sto Danmark A/S, Member of the BOD of Sto Finexter OY, Hvidovre/Denmark Vantaa/Finland (until 10 June 2019) Chairperson of the BOD of Sto Yapı Sistemleri Member of the BOD of Sto Danmark A/S, Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş, Istanbul/Turkey Hvidovre/Denmark (until 29 May 2019) Member of the BOD of Sto Norge AS, Member of the BOD of Sto Ltd, Paisley/ Oslo/Norway Great Britain (until 6 August 2019) Member of the BOD of Sto Finexter OY, Vantaa/Finland Member of the BOD of Sto SEA Pte Ltd, Singapore/Singapore Michael Keller Chief Sales Officer, responsible for Sales Sto Brand Germany, Distribution, Marketing Communication and Central Services Bonndorf/Germany, Ing.-Päd. (TU) Member of the Supervisory Board of JONAS Farbenwerke GmbH & Co.KG, Wülfrath/Germany Member of the Administrative Board of Beissier S.A.U., Errenteria/Spain Jan Nissen Chief Technical Officer, responsible for Process Engineering, Innovation, Materials Management and Logistics Trossingen/Germany, Bachelor of Science Chairperson of the Advisory Board of Inotec GmbH, Waldshut-Tiengen/Germany Member of the BOD of Shanghai Sto Ltd, Shanghai/China Member of the BOD of Sto SEA Pte Ltd, Singapore/Singapore 182 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Members of the Supervisory Board of Sto SE & Co. KGaA in the fiscal year of 2019: Dr Max-Burkhard Zwosta Managing director of GIWA Verwaltungs GmbH, Chairperson of the Supervisory Board Munich/Germany Wittnau/Germany, Chartered Accountant and Managing director of GIWA Immobilien GmbH, Tax Consultant Munich/Germany Member of the Supervisory Board of STO Member of the Supervisory Board of STO Management SE, Stühlingen/Germany Management SE, Stühlingen/Germany Chairperson of the Supervisory Board of Brauerei Member of the Advisory Board of Matador Ganter GmbH & Co. KG, Freiburg i.Br./Germany Partners Group AG, Sarnen/Switzerland Chairperson of the Supervisory Board of Ganter Grundstücks GmbH, Freiburg i.Br./Germany Dr Renate Neumann-Schäfer Chairperson of the Advisory Board of Brauerei Überlingen/Germany, Corporate consultant, Ganter Real Estate Nr. 1 GmbH & Co KG, economist Freiburg i.Br./Germany Member of the Supervisory Board of STO Chairperson of the Supervisory Board of Freicon Management SE, Stühlingen/Germany Holding AG, Freiburg i.Br./Germany Member of the Supervisory Board of R. Stahl Chairperson of the Advisory Board of alfer aluminAktiengesellschaft, Waldenburg/Germany ium Gesellschaft mbH, Wutöschingen/Germany Member of the Administrative Council of Chairperson of the Advisory Board of Walter Samariter GmbH, Nürtingen/Germany Maisch Familien Holding GmbH & Co. KG, Member of the Foundation Council of Samariter Gaggenau/Germany Stiftung, Nürtingen/Germany Member of the Supervisory Board of Testo SE & Member of the Foundation Council of Stiftung Co. KGaA, Titisee-Neustadt/Germany Zeit für Menschen, Nürtingen/Germany Member of the Supervisory Board of Testo Member of the Supervisory Board of Goldhofer Management SE, Titisee-Neustadt/Germany Aktiengesellschaft, Memmingen/Germany Member of the Advisory Board of EGT AG, (since 1 April 2019) Triberg/Germany Cornelia Reinecke Lothar Hinz Emmendingen/Germany Deputy Chairperson of the Supervisory Board, and Head of Human Resources and Member of the Employee representative (suspended from office Management Board of Sick AG, Waldkirch/ since 1 October 2019) Germany Reutlingen/Germany Chairperson of the Group Works Council and Prof Dr Klaus Peter Sedlbauer Chairperson of the Works Council for the Rottach-Egern/Germany Baden-Württemberg sales region, Sto SE & Co. Chairholder at the Institute of Building Physics of KGaA, and StoCretec GmbH (until 30 September the Technical University Munich/Germany 2019) Head of the Fraunhofer Institute for Building Physics, Stuttgart, Holzkirchen, and Nuremberg/ Maria H. Andersson Germany, Deputy Chairperson of the Supervisory Munich/Germany Board of Calcon Deutschland AG, Munich/ Family Officer/Single Family Office, Germany (until 18 February 2020) Munich/Germany Member of the Advisory Board of agn NiederPartner at Mackewicz & Partner Investment berghausen + Partner, Ibbenbühren/Germany Advisers, Munich/Germany (since 28 November 2019) 183 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) Peter Zürn Frank Heßler Bretzfeld-Weißlensburg/Germany Employee representative, Mannheim/Germany Member of the Management of the Würth Political Trade Union Secretary Group, Künzelsau/Germany (until 31 December Deputy regional manager IG BCE of the 2019) regional district of Baden-Württemberg Member of the Supervisory Board of STO Management SE, Stühlingen/Germany Barbara Meister Chairperson of the Administrative Board Employee representative, Blumberg/Germany of InovaChem Engineering AG, Wetzikon/ Deputy Chairperson of the Group Employee Switzerland Representative Council and Chairperson of Chairperson of the Administrative Board of the Weizen Employee Representative Council, Würth á Islandi ehf., Garðabær/Iceland Sto SE & Co. KGaA Chairperson of the Administrative Board of Würth Norge AS, Hagan/Norway Roland Schey Member of the Administrative Board of Tunap Employee representative, Tengen/Germany International Trading Co., Ltd, Shanghai/China Head of Finance and Accounting Sto Group Member of the Administrative Board of Würth AG, Arlesheim/Switzerland Martina Seth Member of the Administrative Board of Employee representative, Bad Münder/Germany Würth International AG, Chur/Switzerland Head of the Wilhelm-Gefeller Education and Member of the Administrative Board of Conference Centre of the IG BCE, Bad Münder/ Würth Logistics, Rorschach/Switzerland Germany Member of the Administrative Board of Würth Australia Pty Ltd, Dandenong South/Australia Member of the Supervisory Board of Wuerth China Co. Ltd, Shanghai/China Member of the Supervisory Board of Wuerth Indonesia P.T., Jakarta/Indonesia Member of the Supervisory Board of Würth Szereléstechnika KFT, Budaörs/Hungary Member of the Supervisory Board Würth France SA, Erstein/France Member of the Advisory Board of Würth Técnica de Montagem Lda., Sintra/Portugal Wolfgang Dell Employee representative, Hattersheim/Germany Administrator Maintenance Plant Technology, Sto SE & Co. KGaA 184 Consolidated annual financial statements of the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Members of the Supervisory Board of STO Management SE in the fiscal year 2019 (personally liable partner of Sto SE & Co. KGaA): Jochen Stotmeister Chairperson of the Supervisory Board Grafenhausen/Germany Dr Max-Burkhard Zwosta Deputy Chairperson of the Supervisory Board Wittnau/Germany Maria H. Andersson Munich/Germany Dr Renate Neumann-Schäfer Überlingen/Germany Gerd Stotmeister Allensbach/Germany Peter Zürn Bretzfeld-Weißlensburg/Germany Stühlingen/Germany, 6 April 2020 Sto SE & Co. KGaA represented by STO Management SE Executive Board Rainer Hüttenberger Michael Keller (Spokesman) Jan Nissen Rolf Wöhrle 185 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Audit certificate of the independent auditor Audit certificate of the independent auditor To STO SE & Co. KGaA and gives a true and fair view of the assets and financial situation of the Group as at Report on the audit of the consolidated 31 December 2019 as well as of its income financial statements and the Group situation for the fiscal year from 1 January management report until 31 December 2019, and • the accompanying Group management reAudit assessments port provides a suitable view of the Group’s We have audited the consolidated annual position. In all material respects, this Group financial statement prepared by STO SE & Co. management report is consistent with the KGaA, Stühlingen/Germany and its subsidiaries consolidated annual financial statement of (the Group), comprising the consolidated statethe Group, complies with German legal regment of profit and loss and the consolidated ulations and accurately presents the opporstatement of comprehensive income for the tunities and risks of future development. Our fiscal year from 1 January until 31 December audit opinion on the Group management 2019, the consolidated statement of financial report does not extend to the contents of position as at 31 December 2019, the consolthe above-mentioned combined declaration idated statement of changes in equity and the on management of the company. consolidated cash flow statement for the fiscal In accordance with Section 322 Paragraph 3 year from 1 January until 31 December 2019, Sentence 1 of the HGB (German Commercial as well as the notes to the financial statements, Code), we declare that our audit has not given together with a summary of important accountrise to any objections to the correctness of the ing methods. Furthermore, we have audited consolidated annual financial statement of the the Group management report of STO SE & Co. Group and the Group management report. KGaA, Stühlingen/Germany for the fiscal year from 1 January until 31 December 2019. In acBasis for the audit opinions cordance with German legal requirements, we We conducted our audit of the consolidated have not audited the content of the combined annual financial statements of the Group and declaration on management of the company in the Group management report in accordance accordance with Sections 289f and 315d of the with Section 317 HGB and the EU regulation on German Commercial Code (HGB), which is part statutory audits (no. 537/2014) while observing of the Group management report, published on the generally accepted German standards for the website indicated in the section ‘Declarathe audit of financial statements promulgated tion on management of the company/Non-­ by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (IDW). Our financial statement’ of the Group management responsibility in accordance with these regulareport. tions and principles is mostly described under In our opinion based on the findings of our ‘Responsibility of the auditor for the audit of audit, the consolidated annual financial statement of • the accompanying consolidated annual the Group and the Group management report’. financial statement of the Group complies We are independent of the Group companies in all material respects with the IFRSs as they in accordance with European and German are to be applied in the EU, and additionally commercial and professional legal regulations with German legal regulations to be applied and have fulfilled our German professional in accordance with Section 315e Paragraph 1 duties in accordance with these requirements. of the German Commercial Code (HGB), Furthermore, in accordance with Article 10 186 financial Consolidated annual Audit statements certificate of the of independent the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA auditor Paragraph 2 Letter (f) of the EU regulation on Auditing procedure statutory audits we declare that we have not As part of our audit we have examined the provided any prohibited non-audit services processes established by the Sto Group for pursuant to Article 5 Paragraph 1 of the EU the identification, assessment, and reporting regulation of statutory audits. We are of the of provisions for warranty risks. Our auditing opinion that the audit evidence we have obprocedures included inquiries of legal representtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a atives and other persons entrusted with these basis for our audit opinion on the consolidated matters within the Group, obtaining written annual financial statement of the Group and on statements from internal legal advisors regardthe Group management report. ing the evaluation of the estimated outflow of funds and the likelihood of occurrence, obtainParticularly important audit matters in the ing confirmation from external legal advisors, audit of the consolidated annual financial and assessing internal opinions on the reporting statement of the Group in the consolidated annual financial statement. Particularly important audit matters are those In addition, we have assessed the accuracy of matters which, according to our dutiful judgethe estimates made by the legal representament, were most significant in our audit of the tives with regard to the costs incurred and the consolidated annual financial statement for the probabilities of occurrence on the basis of the fiscal year from 1 January until 31 December development of the amounts of provisions set 2019. These matters have been considered in aside in previous years. connection with our audit of the consolidated Our auditing procedure has not given rise to annual financial statement as a whole and in any objections to the reporting of provisions for forming our opinion thereon; we do not express warranty risks. a separate opinion on these matters. In the following, we describe what we consider Reference to related information to be particularly important audit issues: The Sto Group has provided information on the accounting and valuation methods applied to 1. Recognition and valuation of provisions the provisions for warranty risks, and on the for warranty risks amount of contingent liabilities resulting from warranty risks under ‘6. Presentation of the Reasons for determining this as a major accounting and valuation policies’, in particularly important audit matter the subsection ‘Estimates and assumptions by The Group is exposed to considerable warranty Management’ as well as under ‘Notes on the risks. For our audit, provisions for warranty consolidated statement of financial position’, risks are of particular importance as their Note (25). recognition and valuation are fraught with uncertainties and are highly dependent on the 2. Recoverability of goodwill evaluations and assumptions of the statutory representatives. The assessment of the probaReasons for determining this as a bility of damage occurring and estimates of the particularly important audit matter costs which would be incurred have a signifiGoodwill is subjected to an impairment test at cant impact on the assets and income situation least once per fiscal year as at 31 December of the Group. and additionally during the year if there are indications of an unscheduled depreciation 187 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Audit certificate of the independent auditor requirement in order to determine a possible calculation. We have also looked at the growth depreciation requirement. These evaluations are rate assumptions on the basis of long-term inregularly based on the present value of future flation expectations for the respective countries. cash flows of the respective cash-generating Our auditing procedure has not given rise to units to which goodwill has been allocated. The any objections to the measurement of goodwill result of these evaluations depends to a large of cash-generating units. extent on the assessment of the future development of the respective parts of the company by Reference to related information the legal representatives and on the determinaThe Sto Group reports on the procedure retion of the discount rate. garding the impairment test of cash-generating Due to the complexity of this evaluation and units as well as their earnings in the Notes to the discretionary scope available in the context the consolidated annual financial statement of the evaluation, this impairment test was one under ‘6. Presentation of the major accounting of the most significant matters in the context of and valuation policies’ in the subsection ‘Intanour audit. gible assets’. Auditing procedure Other information Within the framework of our audit, we have The Supervisory Board is responsible for the followed the methodical procedure of the legal report of the Supervisory Board. In all other rerepresentatives for carrying out the impairment spects, the legal representatives are responsible test in accordance with IAS 36 with the assisfor the other information. Other information tance of internal evaluation experts. Among comprises the combined declaration on manother things, we compared the definition of agement of the company and the combined the cash-generating units with the control non-financial consolidated statements, as well levels used in the Group at which goodwill is as the components provided for the Annual monitored. We have verified whether the legal Report, of which we had received the final representatives have determined the carrying version by the time this audit certificate was isamount and the recoverable amount of the sued, in particular the sections ‘Sto at a glance’, cash-generating units in an equivalent manner. ‘Foreword’, ‘Report of the Supervisory Board’, The corporate planning underlying the impair‘Corporate Governance Report / Declaration on ment tests of goodwill, especially regarding the management of the company’, ‘The Sto share’, future development of turnover and the EBIT ‘Sustainability and Corporate Social Responmargin, have been compared with the planning sibility’, ‘Responsibility statement by the legal of the future development of the company set representatives’, as well as the ‘Financial calenup by the legal representatives and approved by dar with publisher’s details’. It does not contain the Supervisory Board. We have discussed the the consolidated annual financial statement major premises of the planning with the legal of the Sto Group, the information from the representatives and compared it to the earnings Group management report that is included in and the inflow of cash and cash equivalents the content-related audit, and the related audit in the past. The derivation of the discount certificate. rate and its individual components has been Our audit opinions on the consolidated annual assessed by questioning the peer group, comfinancial statement of the Group and the Group paring the market data with external evidence management report do not extend to other and verifying the arithmetical accuracy of the information, and accordingly we express neither 188 financial Consolidated annual Audit statements certificate of the of independent the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA auditor an audit opinion nor any other form of audit The legal representatives are also responsible conclusion. for preparing the Group management report In connection with our audit, we have the which gives a suitable view of the Group’s responsibility to read the other information and position and which is consistent with the to assess whether the other information consolidated annual financial statement in all • is materially inconsistent with the consolimaterial aspects, complies with the German dated annual financial statement, the Group legal regulations, and suitably presents the opmanagement report or our audit findings or portunities and risks of the development in the • otherwise appears materially misrepresented. future. Moreover, the legal representatives are responsible for the precautions and measures Responsibility of the legal representatives (systems) which they have deemed necessary and the Supervisory Board for the consolto enable the preparation of a Group manageidated annual financial statement and the ment report in accordance with the applicable Group management report German legal regulations and to provide suffiThe legal representatives are responsible for cient suitable evidence for the statements in the drawing up the consolidated annual financial Group management report. statement, which complies with the IFRSs, as The Supervisory Board is responsible for monthey are to be applied in the EU, and additionitoring the accounting process of the Group ally with the German legal regulations in acfor preparing the consolidated annual financial cordance with Section 315e Paragraph 1 of the statement and the Group management report. HGB (German Commercial Code) in all material aspects. They are also responsible for ensuring Responsibility of the auditor for the auditthat the consolidated annual financial stateing of the consolidated annual financial ment gives a true and fair view of the assets, statement and the Group management financial and income situation of the Group. In report addition, the legal representatives are responsiOur objective is to obtain sufficient certainty as ble for the internal controls they have deterto whether the consolidated annual financial mined necessary to enable the preparation of statement as a whole is free from material a consolidated annual financial statement that misstatements, whether intended or not, and is free from material misstatements, whether whether the Group management report as a intentional or not. whole provides a suitable view of the Group’s When preparing the consolidated annual position and, in all material aspects, is in financial statement of the Group, the legal accordance with the consolidated annual finanrepresentatives are responsible for assessing the cial statement and the findings of our audit, capability of the Group to continue corporate complies with German legal regulations and activity. Furthermore, it is their responsibility to suitably presents the opportunities and risks disclose matters in connection with the continof the development in the future, as well as to uation of corporate activity where relevant. In issue an audit certificate which contains our addition, they are responsible for preparing the audit opinions on the corporate annual financial balance sheet on the basis of the accounting statement and the Group management report. principle of continuing corporate activity, unless Sufficient certainty is a high degree of certainty there is the intention to liquidate the Group or but no guarantee that an audit conducted to discontinue operations or there is no realistic in accordance with Section 317 of the HGB alternative. (German Commercial Code) and the EU 189 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Audit certificate of the independent auditor regulation on statutory audits while observing • we draw conclusions about the approthe generally accepted German principles of priateness of the accounting principle of proper audits promulgated by the Institut der continuing corporate activity applied by Wirtschaftsprüfer (IDW) will always reveal a the legal representatives and, based on the materially false statement. False statements can audit evidence obtained, whether there is result from infringements or inaccuracies and any material uncertainty in connection with are considered to be material if the reasonable events or circumstances that could raise sigassumption can be made that they, individually nificant doubts about the Group’s capability or collectively, could influence decisions taken to continue corporate activity. If we come by addressees on the basis of this consolidated to the conclusion that there is a material annual financial statement and the Group manuncertainty, we are obliged to point out the agement report. related disclosures in the consolidated annual During the audit we exercise due discretion and financial statement and the Group manmaintain a critical attitude. Furthermore, agement report in our audit certificate or, if • we identify and evaluate risks resulting these disclosures are inappropriate, to modify from materially false statements, whether our respective audit certificate. We draw intentional or not, in the consolidated our conclusions based on audit evidence annual financial statement and in the Group obtained by the date of our audit certificate. management report, we plan and conduct However, future events or circumstances audit procedures as a reaction to these risks, may prevent the Group from continuing its and obtain audit evidence which is sufficorporate activity; cient and suitable to serve as the basis for • we assess the overall presentation, the our audit opinions. The risk that material structure and the content of the consolimisstatements are not detected is higher in dated annual financial statement, including the case of infringements than in the case of disclosures, and whether the consolidated inaccuracies, since infringements may involve annual financial statement presents the fraudulent interaction, forgery, intentional underlying business transactions and events incompleteness, misleading statements, or in such a way that the consolidated annual the repeal of internal controls; financial statement gives a true and fair • we gain an understanding of the internal view of the assets, financial and income control system relevant for the auditing of situation of the Group in accordance with the consolidated annual financial statement the IFRSs, as they are to be applied in the and the precautions and measures relevant EU, and additionally with the German legal for the auditing of the Group management regulations in accordance with Section 315e report in order to plan auditing procedures Paragraph 1 of the HGB (German Commerwhich are appropriate for the given circumcial Code); stances but without the objective of issuing • we obtain sufficient and appropriate audit an audit opinion of the effectiveness of these evidence for the accounting information systems; of the companies or business activities • we assess the appropriateness of the within the Group in order to issue an audit accounting methods used by the legal opinion on the consolidated annual financial representatives, and the reasonableness of statement and the Group management estimates and related disclosures made by report. We are responsible for instructing, the legal representatives; monitoring and conducting the audit of the 190 financial Consolidated annual Audit statements certificate of the of independent the Sto Group (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA auditor consolidated annual financial statement. We Other statutory and other legal are solely responsible for our audit opinions; requirements • we assess whether the Group management report is in accordance with the consolidated Other information in accordance with annual financial statement, its compliance Article 10 of the EU regulation on with the law and the view it gives of the statutory audits position of the Group. We were elected as Group auditors at the • we conduct audit procedures relating to the Annual General Meeting on 19 June 2019. We future-oriented statements made by the legal were commissioned by the Supervisory Board representatives in the Group management on 28 June 2019. We have been the Group report. On the basis of sufficient suitable auditors of STO SE & Co. KGaA, Stühlingen/ audit evidence, we particularly retrace the Germany, without interruption since the 1989 significant assumptions underlying the fiscal year. future-oriented statements made by the legal We declare that the audit opinions contained representatives and assess the appropriate in this audit certificate are consistent with the derivation of the future-oriented statements additional report to the Audit Committee in from these assumptions. We do not issue an accordance with Article 11 of the EU regulation independent audit opinion on the future-­ of statutory audits (Audit report). oriented statements and the underlying In addition to the audit, we performed the statements. There is a significant unavoidable following services, which were not disclosed in risk that future events could differ materially the consolidated annual financial statements or from the forward-looking statements. the Group management report, for the group We discuss with those responsible for monitorcompanies: ing, amongst other things, the planned scope • Advice on accounting issues and general and time schedule of the audit and significant governance issues audit findings, including any deficiencies in • Non-legally required audits for specific the internal control system, which we identify industries during our audit. • Non-legally required agreed investigative We issue a statement to those responsible for actions with respect to financial information monitoring that we have complied with the relevant independence requirements and discuss Responsible chartered accountant with them all relationships and other matters The chartered accountant responsible for the that can reasonably be expected to affect our audit is Dr Eckart Wetzel. independence and the protective measures taken to that end. From the matters that we have discussed with those responsible for monitoring, we determine Villingen-Schwenningen/Germany, 7 April 2020 those matters that were most significant in the audit of the consolidated annual financial Ernst & Young GmbH statement for the current reporting period and Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft which are therefore particularly important audit matters. We describe these matters in the audit certificate, unless laws or other legal regulations Dr Wetzel Busser exclude public disclosure of the matter. Chartered accountant Chartered accountant 191 Sto SE & Co. KGaA | Audit certificate of the independent auditor 192 Consolidated annual Responsibility statement by the financial legal representatives of the Sto Group statements (IFRS) | Sto SE & Co. KGaA Sto Group Responsibility statement by the legal representatives To the best of our knowledge, and in accordance with the applicable reporting principles, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, financial and income situation of the Group, and the Group management report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal opportunities and risks associated with the expected development of the Group. Stühlingen/Germany, 6 April 2020 Sto SE & Co. KGaA represented by STO Management SE Executive Board Rainer Hüttenberger (Spokesman) Michael Keller Jan Nissen Rolf Wöhrle 193 Financial calendar 2020 Electronic publication of the 2019 annual financial statements.............. 27 April 2020 Interim report on the first half of 2020..................................................... 14 May 2020 Annual General Meeting in 2020............................................................... 10 June 2020 Report on the first half of 2020................................................................. 28 August 2020 Interim report on the second half of 2020................................................ 19 November 2020 Electronic publication of the 2020 annual financial statements.............. 29 April 2021 The annual financial statements of Sto SE & Co. KGaA (HGB) are available in electronic form at www.unternehmensregister.de. In addition, they are published on the website www.sto.de or may be requested in writing by post: Sto SE & Co. KGaA F-S department Ehrenbachstraße 1 D-79780 Stühlingen This report contains forward-looking statements which are based on Management’s current assumptions and estimates concerning future developments. Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties which Sto cannot control or estimate precisely. If any uncertainty arises or the assumptions on which these statements are based prove to be incorrect, actual results may differ significantly from these statements. Sto is under no obligation to update forward-looking statements to incorporate any events which come to light after the publication of this report. Publisher’s details Published by Sto SE & Co. KGaA, Stühlingen/Germany Concept and design BoschDruck Solutions GmbH Text Redaktionsbüro tik GmbH Printing BoschDruck Solutions GmbH Photographic credits Cover image: Guido Erbring, Cologne/Germany Page 2, 18, 37: Martin Baitinger, Böblingen/Germany Page 6: Bernd Schumacher, Freiburg/Germany Page 19, 20, 39, 40, 67, 87: Sto SE & Co. KGaA Page 69: UN Global Compact Page 88: Yael Schmidt / Sto Foundation Page 89, left: Claudius Pflug, Berlin/Germany / Sto Foundation Page 89, right, page 90: Christoph Große Berlin/Germany / Sto Foundation 194 Headquarters Subsidiaries – international Sto SE & Co. KGaA Australia Italy Austria Czech Republic Ehrenbachstraße 1 Unitex Australia Pty Ltd Sto Italia Srl Sto Ges.m.b.H. Sto s.r.o. DE-79780 Stühlingen 22 Park Drive Via G. di Vittorio, 1/3 Richtstr. 47 Čestlice 271 Telephone +49 7744 57-0 AUS-3164 Dandenong South Zona Ind. le Terrafino AT-9500 Villach CZ-251 70 Dobřejovice infoservice@sto.com Telephone +61 03 97684920 IT-50053 Empoli (Fl) Telephone +43 4242 33133-0 Telephone +420 225 996 311 www.sto.com sales@unitex.com.au Telephone +39 0571 94701 info@sto.at info.cz@sto.com www.unitex.com.au info.it@sto.com www.sto.at www.sto.cz Branches/Sales Centres/ www.stoitalia.it Belgium Poland Czech Republic distribution partners Sto NV/SA Canada Sto Sp. z o.o. STOMIX spol. s r.o. The addresses and information Z.5 Mollem 43 Sto Canada Ltd. ul. Zabraniecka 15 Skorošice 197 available at: BE-1730 Asse 1821 Albion Rd. #1 PL-03-872 Warszawa CZ-790 65 Skorošice Telephone +49 7744 57-1010 Telephone +32 2 4530110 Etobicoke Telephone +48 22 5116102 Telephone +420 584 484 111 info.be@sto.com CA-ON M9W 5w8 info.pl@sto.com info@stomix.cz Subsidiaries – national www.sto.be Telephone +1 800 221-2397 www.sto.pl www.stomix.cz marketingsupport@stocorp.com StoCretec GmbH Brazil www.stocorp.ca Russia Turkey Gutenbergstr. 6 Sto Brasil Revestimentos e OOO Sto Sto Yapı Sistemleri San. ve DE-65830 Kriftel Fachadas Ltda. Canada ul. Bolshaya Yakimanka 31 Ticaret A.Ş. Telephone +49 6192 401104 Rua Flor de Noiva, 886 Quinta da Skyrise Prefab Building RU-119180 Moscow Atatürk Cad. Yakut Sok. No:8 info.stocretec.de@sto.com Boa Vista Solutions Inc. Telephone +7 495 974-1584 TR-34815 Beykoz, Istanbul www.stocretec.de BR-08597 630 Itaquaquecetuba, 896 Brock Rd. #1 info.ru@sto.com Telephone +90 216 330 51 00 Sao Paulo Pickering www.sto.ru info.tr@sto.com Verotec GmbH Telephone +55 11 2145 0011 CA-ON L1W 1Z9 www.sto.com.tr Hanns-Martin-Schleyer-Straße 1 sto@stobrasil.com.br Telephone +1 289 275 4419 Switzerland DE-89415 Lauingen/Donau www.argamont.com.br info@skyriseprefab.com Sto AG U.K. and Ireland Telephone +49 9072 990-0 www.skyriseprefab.com Südstrasse 14 Sto Ltd. infoservice.verotec@sto.com Chile CH-8172 Niederglatt/ZH 2 Gordon Avenue www.verotec.de Industrial y Comercial Columbia Telephone +41 44 8515-353 Hillington Park Sto Chile Ltda. Sto Colombia S.A.S. sto.ch@sto.com GB-Glasgow G52 4TG SÜDWEST Lacke + Farben Volcán Lascar Oriente 781 Calle 79 # 68H-17 www.stoag.ch Telephone +44 141 892 8000 GmbH & Co. KG Parque Industrial Lo Boza CO-Bogota D.C. info.uk@sto.com Iggelheimer Str. 13 CL-Pudahuel-Santiago Telephone +57 1 7451280 Singapore www.sto.co.uk DE-67459 Böhl-Iggelheim Telephone +56 2 949 35 93 info@stocolombia.com Sto SEA Pte. Ltd. Telephone +49 6324 709-0 info@stochile.com www.stocolombia.com 159 Sin Ming Road, #06-02 Hungary info@suedwest.de www.stochile.com Amtech Building Sto Épitöanyag Kft. www.suedwest.de Malaysia SG-Singapore 575625 Jedlik Ányos u. 17 China Sto SEA Sdn. Bhd. Telephone +65 64 533080 HU-2330 Dunaharaszti Ströher GmbH Shanghai Sto Ltd. No. 15, Jalan Teknologi 3/3A, info.sg@sto.com Telephone +36 24 510210 Ströherstraße 2-10 288 Qingda Road Surian Industrian Park, www.sto-sea.com info.hu@sto.com DE-35683 Dillenburg Pudong Kota Damansara, www.sto.hu Telephone +49 2771 3 91-0 CN-201201 Shanghai MY-47810 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Sweden info@stroeher.de Telephone +86 2158972295 Telephone +603 8070 8133 Sto Scandinavia AB USA www.stroeher.de www.sto.com.cn www.sto-sea.com Gesällgatan 6 Sto Corp. SE-582 77 Linköping 3800 Camp Creek Parkway GEPADI Fliesen GmbH Denmark Mexico Telephone +46 13 377100 Building 1400, Suite 120 Kasseler Straße 41 Sto Danmark A/S Sto Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. kundkontakt@sto.com Atlanta, Georgia 30331 DE-35683 Dillenburg Avedøreholmen 48 Prol. Reforma #51-803 www.sto.se Telephone +1 800 221-2397 Telephone +49 2771 3 91-0 DK-2650 Hvidovre Paseo de las Lomas. Santa Fe, marketingsupport@stocorp.com home+style@gepadi.de Telephone +45 70270143 Álvaro Obregón. Mexico, D.F. 01330 Slovak Republic www.stocorp.com www.gepadi.de kundekontakt@sto.com Telephone +52 55 6384099 Sto Slovensko s.r.o. www.stodanmark.dk info@stomexico.com Pribylinská 2 UAE Liaver GmbH & Co. KG SK-831 04 Bratislava Sto Gulf Building Material LLC. Gewerbepark am Wald 17 Finland Netherlands Telephone +421 905 770 774 Citadel Tower DE-98693 Ilmenau Sto Finexter OY Sto Isoned BV info.sk@sto.com PO Box 393488 Telephone +49 3677 8629 0 Mestarintie 9 Lingewei 107 www.sto.sk AE-Dubai info@liaver.com FI-01730 Vantaa NL-4004 LH Tiel Telephone +971 45 51 55 61 www.liaver.com Telephone +358 207659 191 Telephone +31 344 620666 Spain www.sto.com asiakaspalvelu@sto.com info.nl@sto.com Beissier S.A.U. VIACOR Polymer GmbH Txirrita Maleo 14 www.sto.fi www.sto.nl Distribution partners – Graf-Bentzel-Straße 78 ES-20100 Errenteria 72108 Rottenburg am Neckar international France Norway Telephone +34 902 100 250 Telephone +49 7472 949990 Beissier S.A.S. Sto Norge AS beissier@beissier.es Addresses and information info@viacor.de Quartier de la Gare Waldemar Thranes gate 98 A www.beissier.es available at: www.viacor.de FR-77760 La Chapelle la Reine NO-0175 Oslo Telephone +49 7744 57-1131 Telephone +33 1 60396110 Telephone +47 6681 3500 Spain Holding companies – formation@beissier.fr info.no@sto.com Sto SDF Ibérica S.L.U. national www.beissier.fr www.stonorge.no Riera del Fonollar 13 ES-08830 Sant Boi de Llobregat Inotec GmbH France Norway (Barcelona) Daimler Straße 9-11 Sto S.A.S. StoCretec Flooring AS Telephone +34 93 7415 972 DE-79761 Waldshut-Tiengen 224, rue Michel Carré Postboks 1023 info.es@sto.com Telephone +49 7741 6805-0 FR-95872 Bezons Cedex NO-1510 Moss www.sto.es infoservice@inotec-gmbh.com Telephone +33 1 34345700 Telephone + 47 6927 3000 www.inotec-gmbh.com mailsto.fr@sto.com stocretec.no@sto.com www.sto.fr www.stocretec.no Building with conscience. Headquarters Sto SE & Co. KGaA Ehrenbachstraße 1 D-79780 Stühlingen Head office Telephone +49 7744 57-0 Fax +49 7744 57-2178 Info service Telephone +49 7744 57-1010 Fax +49 7744 57-2010 infoservice@sto.com www.sto.com Printed in Germany Rev. no. 01/05.20 Art. no. 09673-119
