2019-2020 TABLE OF CONTENTS Welcome to the Introduction 2 Sectors We Serve 24 Elif Sustainability Report Our Approach 4 Our Commitments which covers our efforts, For Sustainability 26 performance and significant Content & Navigation 6 Environment 28 events on our focus areas Topic Selection 8 of environment, society, Society 36 Materiality Matrix 10 economy, workplace and Economy 42 marketplace for the period Executive Summary 14 2017-2018. Workplace 48 Our Business Model 16 Marketplace 54 Change Management 18 Sustainability 58 Corporate Presence 20 Our Products 22 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 2020 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace INTRODUCTION FROM CEO Introduction from CEO, Selçuk Yarangümelioğlu *This year’s Sustainability Review The well-being of the earth and people As Elif, we aim to become a pioneer packaging being such a visual touches upon the ever-growing is at the core of Elif’s commitments to in the packaging sector for strategic and tactile touch-point between OUR VALUES ambitions and the achievements of a sustainable future. Millions of people trends and the next generation of consumer and brand, innovations Elif Packaging in creating “greener” all over the world use our packaging packaging. Creating projects and have come thick and fast. • Leadership solutions for packaging, our joint for a healthy and happier life. We are in activities focusing on the pillars of • Responsibility Introduction from CEO efforts, and promises regarding every step of life for the people and we society, women and children, we Neo-Eco is the next evolutionary step Elif Holding CEO, a waste-free environment and are “Packaging for Life” as a business. also plan and launch projects for in how sustainability is addressed • Passion to Create Value Selçuk Yarangümelioğlu, the revision of our operational supporting women and children’s in packaging, with new innovations introducing our sustainability report. • Diversity performance with an environmental Our work on sustainable business rights. empowering consumers with the understanding. Our commitment to practices helps to strengthen the ability to lead their lives in a more • Integrity making all our packaging recyclable connections between our brand and Safety is a key focus area for Elif. We environmentally positive way. DEAR FRIENDS, COLLEAGUES AND PARTNERS or reusable by 2025 has paid off in the people who touch our products are working relentlessly to reach our billions of times every year in more goal of “No Injuries”. Investing in ElifGreen, ElifNatty, ElifPCR and ElifPIR Purpose & Approach terms of increasing recycled material Elif is committed to creating sustainable value than 50 countries. new systems, tools and programs, are our latest neo-eco innovations. Yo can visit elif.com to read for wellbeing of the earth and the society. use unquestionably and encouraged Our packaging reaches millions of people all the world to do more recycling of we target to continue improving our Thanks to these new printing and more about our purpose and around the world every day, helping to create a Knowing that our business will grow performance in the coming years. color technologies, our customers approach that shapes Elif. packaging. happier and healthy life. We exist for People in and succeed sustainably together can now serve their customers every sphere of life. Our business is “Packaging with the quality of life in society, this We have completed 6 years as a with a wider range of products and **We are at a thrilling part of our for Life”. is fundamentally important to us. supporter of United Nations Global campaigns. You can access more journey to a sustainable future and are determined to keep our earnest For this purpose, we have prioritized Compact and 8 years as a member information about Elif’s neo-eco certain steps in our business that are of SEDEX. We will keep being innovations in the past 6 years in PACKAGING FOR LIFE promises of the protection of the environment in a better way and at the closely related to creating high-quality supporter of UNCG in following year. the Marketplace section of this • Environment same time expanding as a company packaging for happy and healthy We will continue to participate in sustainability update. and pleasing those for whom we work. moments of life. In that, we have new organizations and programs to • Society reconstructed our brand with a unique exchange and develop our approach Industry 4.0, the new industrial B2B2C approach in the packaging revolution, is advancing its way • Economy Elif is thankful for your thoughts and of sustainability management. feedback and a regular report will industry that puts consumers and life to our business transformation as • Workplace continue to be presented to you at the heart of packaging called the For more than a decade, packaging the sustainability and efficiency regarding our progress. “Packaging for Life” concept. has become a key focus area for contributions of technological • Marketplace the brands to communicate their innovations increase day by day. sustainability credentials. With Focus Areas Sustainability activities of Elif are focused on our sustainability foces areas. 4 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 -2020 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 -2020 5 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 2020 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace ABOUT THIS REPORT APPROACH Our live sustainable Elif Sustainability Reports reporting approach 2017-2018 2015-2016 2014-2015 2012-2013 Elif’s Sustainability Report is prepared COVERAGE OUR APPROACH and presented in line with the Global In this review, ‘Elif’ refers to Elif Holding In the 2015-2016 Sustainability Review, Reporting Inc.Co. and its subsidiaries; Elif announced its new reporting approach along the sustainability Initiative’s (GRI) Sustainability Reporting • Elif Plastik Packaging Industry and journey. G4 Guidelines (2013). Commerce Inc.Co. Based in Istanbul, Turkey The projects and existing project rollSustainability Report 2019-2020 is considered as a summary of • Elif Global Packaging Industry and outs as well as project updates does Prior Reviews not always fit in a single document. You can visit us on elif.com to view our prior sustainability reports our management approach and Commerce Inc.Co. Based in Istanbul, That is why we have, in last reporting performance of operation within the Turkey period, shared links in our sustainability given period of time and is also Elif’s • Elif Global SA based in Lausanne, report which will help reader reach Elif’s fourth review in terms of sustainability. Switzerland updates and news online. You can access details on the information provided in the review • Elif Global Packaging S.A.E. Based in With its dynamic and proactive culture, online at Elif’s corporate website and at Cairo, Egypt Elif pursues developing this approach in the section dedicated to our actions for the Sustainability Report 2018-2019. sustainability. The sustainability activities in this report consist of Elif’s operations entirely in an Questions The online content provides further 18-month period between 01 January Contact us from elif.com for your information about Elif’s management 2018 and 30 June 2019, and unless questions and feedback about this report. systems and processes as well as otherwise stated the statistics and additional and update information financials represent the annual data about the issues covered. from 1 January to 31 December of the relevant year. Responsible Packaging Read More You can visit us on elif.com to read more on how we innovate for Access to our sustainability activities can be found here in this Sustainability sustainability. Report and on Elif website elif.com 6 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 -2020 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 -2020 7 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 2020 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace ABOUT THIS REPORT CONTENT & NAVIGATION Our topic selection structure to identify content of this report The primary challenges in sustainability TOPIC SELECTION AND This report lists the topics that were and how Elif meets them is the main CONTENT a priority to our company in period focus of this report. Elif’s social, safety 2019-2020. A full list of the topics and environmental performance in 2018 The topic selection process identifies the that consistently ranked of higher are provided in details. sustainability subjects that were most importance are provided in the table relevant to Elif and our stakeholders or on page 9-10 in subsequent pages. The Sustainability Report 2019-2020 prominent globally in period covered in focuses on the key sustainability this report. challenges, responses and outputs of Elif It details Elif’s sustainability activities Sustainability Report 2019-2020 is the under 5 key areas: first report we used materiality matrix, which is a systematic approach to • Environment determine the content of the report and • Society confirm its validity, to select the topics. • Economy Elif continuously tries to communicate • Marketplace with different groups and people to • Workplace find out the impact of our business throughout the world and points of In each chapter of this report, you can concern about the 5 key areas stated in find key progress from the past year, key this report. partnerships and highlighted activities. These include co-workers, shareholders, Important cooperation, highlighted stakeholders, customers, suppliers, actions, and key progress from the contractors, community representatives, last year can be found in this review. business partners, customers, nonReaders will also be able to reach governmental organizations, investors, our highlighted stories in different media, academics and consultants. languages such as German, Arabic and Turkish, thanks to our online live We also talk to teams within Elif across Be Online reporting. You can click on the link to all parts of our business. We gather Access to our sustainability activities can be found in this Sustainability Report and find out more and/or update or to read opinions and advice in various ways on Elif website. it in your language. including formal and informal meetings, workshops and online surveys. 8 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 -2020 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 -2020 9 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 2020 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace ABOUT THIS REPORT TOPIC SELECTION Defining what matters with materiality matrix Significance to stakeholders Sustainability & Environment NGO Topics & NGOs Feedbacks Report Reviews by SKD (WBCSD Turkey Materiality is an essential concept for Axis 3: Significance to Elif Strategy TOPIC SELECTION STEPS Branch) NGOs Included in sustainability reporting and its impacts Topics and aspects that should be Elif Sustainability Report The contents of the materiality matrix on the investors are of great importance reported and to which Elif attaches Global Media Review Media Media were established in 2017as part of a to Elif. GRI helps companies select topics importance the most are displayed multi-level materiality process involving Civil Society Dialogues Civil Society and arrange them according to their at the intersection of the upper most internal and external stakeholders. priorities for the companies in terms quadrants of the three axis. These action Based on qualitative and quantitative Social M Feedbacks & Website Visits Sivil Society & Sector Professionals of reporting and communication by points are classified as being particularly interviews with the Elif’s Executive providing certain high-level guidance crucial to Elif’s success in business and Brand Awareness and Packaging Procurement Sector Professionals & Existing/ Board, Elif’s Sustainability Commitee Preferences Survey Potential Elif Customers for Sustainability Reporting Standards. they are featured prominently in the comprising of Marketing, Occupational Included on Having taken advantage of this report. Customer Feedbacks & Demands Existing Elif Customers Health and Safety and Energy and elif.com guidance, we have recognized our Utility Services, Human Resources, Material and Technology Providers' Feedbacks Suppliers impacts on sustainability and prioritized Elif’s Sustainability Report 2019-2020 Brand Developmentand Corporate certain topics and issues for reporting covers all the subjects included in the Communication specialists worked on Elif Brand Expecience Survey Existing Customers while being in communication with our matrix. The reporting on the key areas Not selected key themes for Elif, discussed stakeholders. (GRI aspects) is based on the indicators Elif Global Branding Survey Elif Co-workers reported them with selected stakeholders outlined in the GRI-G4 guidelines. and refined them in structured Elif Innovation Survey Elif Co-workers The materiality matrix covers the key interviews. Elif’s first materiality matrix sustainability themes at Elif and arranges GRI is the world's leading standard is announced with Elif Sustainability them according to their weighting from for comparable sustainability Report 2018-2019.The matrix will be an internal and external perspective. reporting based on key figures (www. reviewed annually and amended when globalreporting.org). Elif applies the necessary. The central issues of the sustainability guidelines in conformity with the Significance in sustainability context Significance to Elif Strategy are displayed and organized along three GRI-G4 Core option. In addition, Resulting topics are considered in their broader sustainability context based on: Significance to Elif Strategy axes: industry-specific requirements for European Comission 2030 Targets IGOs Axis 1: Significance to stakeholders industrial manufacturing services Elif Strategy & Shareholder Feedbacks providers (manufactured capital UNGC, UNICEF & IPCC (UN & WMO) IGOs Axis 2: Significance to sustainability disclosures) have also been taken into WBCSD Vision 2050 Report NGOs Sustainability Priorities context account. GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and Sustainability Initiatives Key Projects Standards Elif business environment outlook Financial & Reputational Risks Read More Elif’s latest topic selection criterias, steps of materiality matrix process and final materiality matrix can be found at elif.com 10 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 -2020 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 -2020 11 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 2020 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace ABOUT THIS REPORT MATERIALITY MATRIX Issue Action Boundary Environment Society Focus Areas Economy Workplace Marketplace Consumers Investing in research and development and bringing innovative Customers products to market to improve product design and life cycle impacts Responsible Communities considering enhanced recyclability and lightweighting; sustainable x x x x Packaging Elif business groups selection of materials; innovating to improve Elif’s manufacturing and Environment business processes. Suppliers Classification of topics by focus area & Sustainable Responsible sourcing practices that lead to minimized environmental Consumers Customers topics in detail impacts and create social value; using materials that are selected Elif business groups Materials x x x x according to sustainable sourcing schemes, using materials that are Suppliers Management bio-based, and leverage post-consumer recycled content. Regulators Environment Consumers Customers Product Quality Ensuring the safety and quality of Elif’s products according to Elif Elif business groups x x x x GHG Emissions Perf., and Safety Quality and Product Safety Policy throughout the value chain. Suppliers Sustainable Materials Responsible Packaging Lower-carbon and Elif co-workers Management Renewable Energy GHG Emissions Reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions across Elif’s value chain Consumers Customers Performance, by lowering energy consumption, using renewable energy, inspiring Transport & Logistics Lower-carbon other sector players with innovative projects, enabling GHG reductions x x x x x Elif business groups and renewable through the selection of plastic packaging over other materials and Suppliers Natural Resources & energy optimizing transportation and packaging manufacturing processes. Environment Waste Pollution Environment Post-consumer Waste: Supporting the prevention of plastic pollution in Consumers the human food and goods chain; Minimizing food waste; Communities Environment Waste Operational Waste: Minimizing manufacturing waste through source x Elif business groups reduction, reuse and recycling; responsibly disposing of hazardous Transport & Logistics waste. Suppliers Local Supplier and Employee Attraction and Ocupational Health and Skill Development Engagement Safety & Human Rights Occupational Providing safe working conditions and access to resources to Elif business groups Health and maintain and improve co-workers’ physical and emotional well-being. Elif co-workers x x Safety & Human Leveraging human rights in all circumstances. Communities Rights Business Strategy & Business Partner Management Consumers Circular Economy Customers Performance and Collaboration Developing product innovations and collaborating with industry Elif business groups Circular Economy partners and governments to improve recovery and recycling for plastic Industry/partners x x x x packaging. Regulators Retailers Suppliers Supply Chain Technology & Responsible Packaging Policy and Next Generations & Education Industry 4.0 Community Education Information Improving information security with ISO 27001 standards and policies Elif business groups Certificators x x x Security to provide better and more reliable service for our customers Elif co-workers Elif business groups Equality & Women Access to Food and Information Security Responsible Promoting responsible packaging policy and regulations; educating Consumers Empowerment Prevention of Food Waste Packaging Policy and Community consumers to improve understanding of recycling of plastics and Customers Industry/partners x informing the community on the role and benefits of plastic packaging. Education Suppliers Regulator Environment Workplace Business Partner Collaborating with customers and suppliers to improve sustainability Customers Product Safety and Quality Management and performance; Managing customer relationships and working together with supplier feedbacks to increase customer satisfaction; Using Elif's Suppliers Elif business groups x x x Economy Society Marketplace Collaboration position and capabilities to drive sustainability throughout value chain. Elif co-workers 12 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 -2020 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 -2020 13 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 2020 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace ABOUT THIS REPORT MATERIALITY MATRIX Issue Action Boundary Environment Society Focus Areas Economy Workplace Marketplace Attracting high-caliber people by communicating Elif's culture, business Customers Employee model and the value of packaging; improving employee loyalty Elif group companiess Attraction and x by leveraging the best employee brand to increase involvement, Elif co-workers Engagement productivity, and retention. Potential employees Prioritization of topics & Next Generations Developing countries and enhancing standards of communities Consumers Customers Communities topics in detail cont’d. by providing better living and education conditions for the next x & Education Elif group companiess generations. Suppliers Elif co-workers Consumers Emphasizing our belief in the power of “equality of man and woman‟ Customers Equality through our diversity and equal employment principles. Assimilating Communities & Women x and applying an approach empowering women's presence in the Elif group companiess Empowerment economy. Suppliers Elif co-workers Consumers Acting responsibly toward the environment and promoting productive Customers Natural and source saving methods and technologies in its business activities. Communities Resources & x x Driving new projects and inspiring industrial organisations to do the Elif group companiess Environment same. Suppliers Elif co-workers Responsible packaging and transportation practices that lead to Consumers Access to Food minimized food waste. Using materials that are selected according Customers & Prevention of to food protection and safety. Using materials more functional, more Communities x x x Food Waste leightweighted and more protective materials. Elif group companiess Suppliers That are bio-based, and/or contain post-consumer recycled content. Elif co-workers Developing the capabilities of local workers by on-the-job training, Elif group companiess Local Supplier master-apprentice system, and investing in technical high schools. Suppliers and Skill x x x Demanding high level of standards from local suppliers and supporting Elif co-workers Development those to achieve the given targets. Communities Supply Chain Improving manufacturing performance, product quality and flexibility Elif group companiess Technology and by close tracking developments in technology, implementing new Elif co-workers x x x Industry 4.0 technological advancements and developing implemented systems. Suppliers Shareholders Elif group companiess Business Strategy Contributing to the sustainable growth of Elif and the communities Elif co-workers x and Performance where Elif operates. Suppliers Customers Air: Reducing toxic air pollutants (VOCs, nitrogen oxides, etc) across Elif’s value chain and minimizing impact to air quality in local Elif group companiess communities. Environment Pollution Suppliers x x x Water: Designing and operating our facilities to help reduce their fresh Regulator water use and reuse recycled water. Communities Land: Designing our products and processes to minimize landfill. Read More Elif’s updates on materiality matrix and selected topics of Elif can be found at elif.com 14 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 -2020 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 -2020 15 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 2020 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace ABOUT THIS REPORT EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Our Brand Story Our logotype tells our passion for packaging. To learn more about Elif brand story please visit us on elif.com Leading the way of flexible packaging Being a global supplier of flexible Elif’s international operations network by the synergy of Elif's customers, packaging solutions for food, beverage, is strategically structured to offer both suppliers, professional human resources pet, home and personal care industries, worldwide supply flexibility and a global and management team with innovative Elif works continuously to create localized service for its customers. approach. 50+ countries 1400+ co-workers 40+ awards 100+ leading brands value in a spirit of leadership, diversity Offering services to many major brands, Flexible packaging solutions Elif takes pride in its growing More than 40 awards pride Elif is a global supplier of and integrity and acknowledges its both domestic and global, Elif exports Continuously improving its service of Elif are consumed in more talented and diverse team of Elif on its ability to make Elif a flexible packaging serving than 50 countries across 4 more than 1400 professionals great partner to its customers more than 100 market responsibility for providing professional over 50% of its production to more and quality standards, Elif has been continents to create a happier who work to create value for and a great place to work for leading brands in various human resources with its innovative than 50 countries worldwide. authenticated as the market leader for and healthier life. its customers. its co-workers. consumer goods industries. management approach. setting high standards in the flexible Elif has generated 6% volume packaging industry by its multinational We know what it means to be worldgrowth in 2019. customers with leading brands. Elif at a Glance class and have a clear vision of how to Our logotype tells our passion for packaging. be that in every aspect of the packaging Elif is dedicated to make use of Elif is committed to work relentlessly business. We will continue to empower collaboration and innovation to serve to deliver value adding flexible initiatives and set worldwide standards and create the highest quality products packaging solutions through leadership, through leadership, responsibility, specially designed for each customer responsibility, passion to create value, passion to create value, integrity thanks to its BRC/IoP Grade A integrity and diversity. and diversity for this purpose. Elif’s certification as well as ISO 9001, ISO commitment to deliver high-standard 14001, ISO 27001, ISO 50001 and Sustainable development for Elif is the results is encouraged by these values. ISO 45001. As a company, we not combination of long term oriented only stand for efficient corporate economic success with environmental Elif continuously search for new governance but also promote honest protection and social responsibility. concepts and packaging ideas together communication with customers and As sustainable actions are an essential with its customers and suppliersto suppliers and long-lasting cooperation part of our corporate culture, we provide packaging solutions of future. to uphold the principles of mutual trust have completed many projects that and fundamental human values as a are considered to be the best in class Elif owns leading flexible packaging part of our code of conduct and ethics within this concept and been awarded production facilities in the world policy. by our customers and authenticated with architecture of construction, authorities. With this understanding, infrastructure and high technology Elif continues to target tomorrow's Elif will continue to be a pioneer of production and scale. With its excellence to keep its global benchmark in taking sustainable development worldwide benchmark factories in company position in the flexible related actions as new investments and Turkey and Egypt, Elif has a production packaging industry. This has been initiatives strengthen its sustainability capacity over 100,000 tons per year. achieved with the enthusiasm generated approach. Read More About Elif Access to our web site in order to get more detailed information regarding Elif and its operations. www.elif.com 16 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 -2020 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 -2020 17 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 2020 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace ABOUT ELİF OUR BUSINESS MODEL Elif Value Chain PASSION TO Our sustainable business model leverages LEADERSHIP RESPONSIBILITY DIVERSITY INTEGRITY CREATE VALUE Elif’s successful business transformation. HORIZON OF IMPROVEMENT sources, and disciplined management DIVERSITY Quality Safety Cultural Honest and Ethical Customer Focus of capital by benefiting our cash flow, Behaviour Elif’s successful transformation of We leverage diversity to create Know-how Environmental Intellectual Talent & productivity and cost lowering methods, Respect Teamwork business into a global benchmark maximum value for our business Innovation Respect Geographical we achieve sustainable growth and company is leveraged buy its value using the colors of diverse ideas, Sprit of Law Productivity successful transformation of business Social Awareness chain and growth strategies based needs, talents, geographies, cultures into a Global Benchmark Company. on its corporate values. With the and capabilities of our organization, well management of change, risks customers, business partners as well as Our core values also map our business and capital basing on its value, Elif’s communities. strengths and priorities. sustainable growth model targets long term economic success in combination INTEGRITY Change Management Successful transformation of with environmental and social LEADERSHIP business into a We build trust in our relationships Global Benchmark responsibility both in the workplace and We will continue to be pioneers by Sustainable Company through honest and ethical behavior . marketplace of Elif. empowering initiatives and setting We uphold the values and principles of Capital Management Growth worldwide benchmarks. We are topElif in every action and decision. As a For the last 45 years, we have come notch in the way we design, produce vital asset of our corporate responsibility, along a long way through challenges and serve our products, leader in to reach our goals. In this long journey, management performance and we operate within integrity, respect and Risk Management the sprit of law. we recognize that the horizon of committed to deliver leadership results. improvement never comes closer, thanks to our vision of being a global RESPONSIBILITY benchmark flexible packaging company. In every phase of our transformation we We act responsibly toward the Elif Growth Strategy target to achieve higher standards for environment and the society and aim Customer Technology Market Sector Investment in our sustainability framework (society, to make a positive impact through our Value Proposition Primacy Penetration Coverage Human Capital environment & economy). This is the brands, activities, resources and assets. source of our never ending enthusiasm and passion for our business. PASSION TO CREATE VALUE We are passionate about intelligent Through change management using packaging solutions and helping to “Elif DAA (Define-ApplyAdopt) shape the next generation of our Transformation Method”, minimization customers’ products. of risks by diversification of growth Our Sustainable Business Model Elif’s http://www.elif.com/our-business-model are the drivers of the company’s successful business transformation. 18 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 -2020 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 -2020 19 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 2020 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace ABOUT ELİF CHANGE MANAGEMENT Long-termed, organized and strategical change. CHANGE MANAGEMENT our customers. As an indicator of we are improving our performance in 1972 1997 2005 2010 2015 that approach, Elif has been one of the sectors we lead with better value Through change management using the pioneering companies to utilize proposition, we also enter and grow in “Elif DAA (Define-ApplyAdopt) the Digital Plate Making and HD new sectors on a strategic background. Transformation Method”, minimization of risks by diversification of growth Flexo Printing technologies and offer PHASE 1 PHASE 2 PHASE 3 PHASE 4 PHASE 5 these high quality printing options INVESTMENT IN HUMAN sources, and disciplined management to its customers. With this innovative Continuity of our quality and service of capital by benefiting our cash flow, approach, we aim to provide the best can only be achieved with qualified 1976: 1st factory 1998: First ERP 2007: ISO 14001, 2011: Decision for Multi-geographical productivity and cost lowering methods, solution available for our customers employees. Therefore, we select high system live OHSAS 18001, overseas investment we achieve sustainable growth and 1990: 2nd factory production and with our expert team and state of the quality employees and invest in them ISO 22000 successful transformation of business 2001: Decision to 2011: BRC/IoP distribution art equipment. Therefore, we leverage to make them even more qualified for 1991: First export collect production 2009: COBIT & 2012: New ERP into a Global Benchmark Company. closer relationships with our customers, the road in front of them. Co-worker under single roof General audit to system facilities & 1994: 3rd factory ensuring that we can fully understand development and career planning define necessities Global Corporate Our growth strategy is powered by 2004: State-of-art 2014: Cairo plant the dynamics shaping their markets as is integrated into Elif's performance 1995: Revitalization 5 strengths of our company: production facility 2010: SEDEX & startis production Governance Model their packaging partner and deliver the management process. We organize with state-of-art production lines start operating Total process opt. 2014: 4rd phase innovative packaging that they need tailor-made induction programs to CUSTOMER VALUE PROPOSITION 2004: 2nd phase re2010: 3rd phase reorganization and want. ensure that new co-workers receive 1997: ISO 9001 We are strictly connected with our organization re-organization (under Elif Holding) consistent introductory training about (2nd generation values chain in order to deliver an MARKET PENETRATION 1997: 1st phase Elif and the industry dynamics. At Elif, re-organization outstanding value proposition for Through a truly global presence and it is believed that competencies and our customers. Our values are the supply flexibility, we have a penetration capabilities develop on-the-job as well integral part of our customer value in more than 50 countries all over the as formal training programs and training proposition. With well-founded knowworld. Parallel to the balance of local tools. We build capability through 'on how and talents, state-of-art production and export markets, we are delivering the job learning' as well as through techniques and the flexibility for more than 50% of our products to formal programs and trainings. tailor-made products and services, we Europe and rest is equally distributed in contribute to the business success of North America, Asia, Middle East and our customers all over the world. We Africa. We are leading the local market continuously develop, test and optimize in sectors we serve and target to be the CORPORATE CULTURE & VALUES our products, materials and processes market leader in MENA after opening of in order to provide the optimum our facility in N.Africa. packaging solution for their needs and secure their success. SECTOR COVERAGE TECHNOLOGY PRIMACY Flexible packaging sector produces Change Management packaging for almost all of the Read http://www.elif.com/history for further details of our successful transformation of business into a Global We are continuously seeking for new consumer and industrial markets. Benchmark Company. materials, techniques and technologies We are the clear leader in hygiene, to be the leader in adopting, using detergents, consumer tissue, and food and developing these new solutions sectors in Turkey and a significant player to be able to offer advanced products in hygiene market in Europe. While and services for packaging needs of 20 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 -2020 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 -2020 21 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 2020 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace ABOUT ELİF CORPORATE PRESENCE 2 benchmark sites, Providing a full range of services Serving over 50 countries, With more than 1700 co-workers. on a secure global footprint Elif has stayed one step ahead of the To gather sales and distribution of all Elif standard and complex flexible need to change for 48 years since it subsidiaries under one roof, Elif Global’s packaging solutions in Elif’s state of was first founded in 1972, and has headquarter with more than 1700 art plant in Istanbul. Elif Turkey flexible become one of the most prominent employees is located in Istanbul, Turkey. packaging manufacturing factory group companies in Turkey as well combines its high-quality production as in Europe. When taking steps, Elif ELIF EUROPE techniques with an understanding of has always followed international Elif Europe is the hub of European consumer and customer needs. standards and achieved continuous operations of Elif Group. Elif's European In Turkey Elif has more than 1350 improvement. It has become a global sales organization and operation employees. Elif Turkey business is player making progress day by day network is strategically structured to headquartered in Istanbul, Turkey. towards success. Elif aims to administer provide operational excellence and corporate governance, undertake supply flexibility for Elif’s European ELIF EGYPT social responsibility and protect the customers. Elif Egypt is the hub of Middle East environment at international standards and African operations of Elif Group. to become a worldwide international Elif Europe business is headquartered in The state-of-the-art facility has started trademark. Lausanne, Switzerland. Elif Global S.A. operation in 2015 and represents a aims to provide localized service and significant Greenfield investment by Elif ELIF GROUP OF COMPANIES competitive advantage for its customers in Egypt. Elif continues to transform new market in Europe. potentials into growth and strengthens Elif Egypt business is headquartered its international position on a secure Elif Europe sells and distributes in 6 October City in Cairo, Egypt. Elif global footing. various standard and complex flexible Global S.A.E. employs 350 co-workers packaging solutions produced in Elif and aims to bring a competitive Being a worldwide leader in flexible Turkey and Elif Egypt to European advantage to the Egyptian Industry Elif Holding packaging, Elif Global has strong markets. with quality packaging that will increase international relationships with major the demand to their products in global customers through a comprehensive ELIF TURKEY arena. network stretching across the globe. Elif Turkey is the leading global flexible Manufacturing & Sales Sales & Distribution These relationships enable the global packaging manufacturer in Turkey with coordination of customer requirement a customer network all over the world. and ensure the delivery of a single Elif Turkey manufactures various quality system across all operations. Elif Turkey Elif Egypt Elif Europe Elif Global Corporate Structure and Governance To see the overview of Elif Group of Companies with a detailed list of key products, capabilities and services please http://www.elif.com/corporate-structure 22 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 -2020 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 -2020 23 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 2020 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace ABOUT ELİF OUR PRODUCTS Our packaging reaches millions of people all Packaging Films around the world everyday, helping to create a happier and healthier life. Pre-made Bags & Pouches Stand-up Flat (Block) Quad-seal (Stabilo) Monolayer Laminated FFS Pouches Bottom Bags Bags Co-extruded Films Films Films 36% 52% 12% Packaging Films Wicket Back-seal 3-Side Seal ElifHyPEr Barrier Retort Films & Bags Gusseted Bags Pouch Advanced PE Films Films Laminates Printed Films for Surface Protection Lamination Films Hygiene films for & Metals ElifCare ElifFine Paper-like Home Care for Converters Components Automotive Biodegradable Film Paper-like Film Coated Films Pre-made Industrial & Bags & Pouches Other Resistant Films and E-Commerce & Other Speciality Bundle (Shrink) Twist Lidding (Top Web) Read More Bags for Building & Logistics Access to our markets and solutions on our http://www.elif.com/products Petrochemical Soln. Applications Solutions Films Films Films full a full range of features and capabilities. 24 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 -2020 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 -2020 25 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 2020 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace ABOUT ELİF SECTORS WE SERVE Home Care Personal Care Shaping the future of packaging with our customers Pet Care Confectionery Snacks Chilled & Cheese, Dairy & Pet Food Pet Products 38% Deli Food Milk Products 26% Food & Beverage 10% Home Care 26% Frozen Food & Bakery & Baking Food Mixes & Detergents & Consumer Dried Food Ice-Cream Ingredients Ingredients Cleaning Agents Tissue Coffee, Tea & Agriculture & Building & Automotive & Beverages Fresh Produce Solubles Horticulture Petrochemicals Metals Industrial Food & Beverage Pet Care & Rest Home Care Read More Baby & Hair & Automotive & Adult Care Feminine Care Hygiene Packaging Access to our markets and solutions on our http://www.elif.com/products Body Care Metals full a full range of features and capabilities. 26 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 -2020 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 -2020 27 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 2020 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace ABOUT ELİF OUR COMMITTMENTS FOR SUSTAINABILITY ACHIEVEMENTS FOCUS GOAL STRATEGY 2019-2020 2017-2018 2015-2016 • Recognition of 2 awards for sustainability. • Direct waste to landfill is recorded as 0. • GHG emission is reduced by 27.3%. • Trigeneration project resulted in42,8% Drive process, product and policy Reduce naturalresource usage • Water consumption is decreased • Direct waste to landfill is recorded as 0. calculated and 36,1% efficiency in electricity ENVIRONMENT continuously and globally. initiatives in the sector related to by 4.4%. usage. reduction of natural resource usage. • Water consumption is decreased • Paper waste decrease by 13% by 4.4%. • 9,9% GHG emission reduction achieved in 2016. • 7 social responsibility projects completed • 7 social responsibility projects completed • 4corporate social responsibility projects. in 2019. in 2012. • Signed United Nations Women Create value for the communities we Sponsor education of future generations • Direct Positive effect on 4870 children’s life • Direct Positive effect on 4870 children’s life Empowerment Principles SOCIETY touch. for sustainable development. standard. standard. • Planted more than 10.000 trees • Amenity of 1200 trees is saved against • Amenity of 1000 trees is saved against • Support for animanl sheplters and Children global warming. global warming. with Leucemia continues • Elif brand is accepted to Turquality Promote efficient, productive and • Over 10% CAGR in last 5 years. • Over 11% CAGR in last 5 years. program. Perform sustainable solutions for cost saving methods, technology and • 4% increase in total export in 2019. • 12.3% increase in total export in 2018. • 12% growth and 15% capacity increase in ECONOMY our business framework to achieve investments for and with the business 2016. sustainable growth. • Investment decisions were taken in 2019 • 10% capacity increase achieved in 2018 framework. for product diversification. with new investments in production line. • Cairo factory doubled its capacity and increased work force by 43%. • Lost days due to injuries decreased by • Workplace Conditions Assessment Lost days due to injuries decreased by 26%. Achievement Award 26.1%. Develop an equal opportunity for Elif is committed to deliver any legal, • Average lost time weight reduced • UNGC supporter for last 5 eyars • Average lost time weight reduced WORKPLACE diverse workforce, engaged to work in a organizational or functional requirement by 29%. by 29.0%. • R&R System launched in 2 plants safe workplace with no injuries. related with labor rights and safety. • 12 hours of education per • 11.6 hours of education per • 12 hours of training per co-worker co-worker achieved. co-worker achieved. • Stable case weight and frequency* • The capacity of pouch production process • Packaging 4.0 in progress in concept factory • Project for new production facility in Cairo, is increased. Develop intelligent packaging solutions Egypt has kicked off. • 91 existing product developments achieved Help shaping the next generation of our • 8 years of SEDEX membership has been MARKETPLACE customers’ products. for consumer, environment, customer completed successfully. • 7 years of SEDEX membership has been • New innovation concept: Neo-eco packaging and economy. completed successfully. • 6 years of SEDEX membership • Ower 60 new product developments • 64 new product developments achieved. • ElifHybr hybrid printing technology achieved. 28 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 -2020 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 -2020 29 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 2020 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace 5 new product innovation for lower raw material use and rcyclability 5 green projects for future 2 NGO collaborations 2 awareness campaign for environment 30 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 -2020 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 -2020 31 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 2020 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace ENVIRONMENT PACKAGING FOR OUR PLANET Innovating sustainable solutions with higher performance, functionality and cost-efficiency Offering high-quality printing and lowparticularly in terms of marketing by Elif offers PE twist film Elif2Twist to wrap cost yet efficient solutions, especially reducing high installation, roller printing a large variety of pre-formed confection, in short runs, ElifHybr is the hybrid and line-cut costs. ElifHybr enables such as hard candy, caramels, chocolate printing technology of Elif that uses a printing the desired design on different truffles, chocolate bars and taffy with combination of different ink transfer packaging films regardless of thickness outstanding printing quality and ideal systems with electron beam curing. of film and color. twist properties. This hybrid printing technology is Elif Hybr technology saves energy Being available in transparent, white especially beneficial for customers in by using its electron beam curing and metallized versions, Elif2Twist works the rapidly changing consumer sector technology through the curing process, smoothly on high-speed packaging who would like to gain considerable and hybrid printing technology by machines as a result of its improved advantages over its rivals. ElifHybr reducing volatile organic compounds surface properties for lower friction. improves market entry speed of packing (VOCs) as much as possible. In addition, Sales and brand loyalty are increased average 50-70%, and this provides the non-use of solvents during the with the help of Elif2Twist, Elif’s highthe desired advantage during printing drying process with special inks quality printing solutions and finishing/ preparation and installation. produced for this technology offers the coating applications that meet the optimum solution for the environment. confectionery producers’ requirement of ElifHybr eliminates all quality and high The immediate curing process of shelf appeal. cost problems of brands implementing ElifHybr conserves energy by 65% as designs on more than one or different well as reducing the consumption of ink vElif2Twist can be recycled and is campaigns and promotions parallel by 60%. Considering the decrease of ecologically safe, thus can replace to increasing marketing activities by energy use, emissions from the drying the traditional materials that harm differentiating product designs on process and non-solvent printing and the environment, such as cellophane, the packages by taking into account less VOC formation as a result of the paper and PVC. A wide range of colors personal, regional and similar purposes unique ink used and the curing process, is available for Elif2Twist including and objectives of the companies. it is observable that ElifHybr reduces the transparent, matte, gloss, white and ElifHybr, supporting brand ownership carbon footprint by 75%. metallized enabling high visibility of the for the brand owners at the side of candy or chocolate. consumers by establishing an emotional ElifHybr is honored with WorldStar ElifHybr & Elif2Twist link between consumers and brands, Award of WPO (World Packaging Visit Elif’s innovation highlights on our website to see more products providing more performance, functionality, meets personalization, privatization and Organization) which is the packaging cost-efficiency and sustainability. differentiation needs of its customers industry's most prestigious award. 32 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 -2020 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 -2020 33 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 2020 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace ENVIRONMENT RECYCLING COMES FIRST Running together to reach the European Commission's 2030 recyclability targets O pt ics Stif le Tensg fne t ren th ss Elif presents another new alternative ElifHyPEr can be used in different flexible • Great optical properties. High clarity, S with “ElifHyPEr”, the high-performance packaging applications such as stand-up transparency and gloss PE packaging solution created as a pouches, in-mold labels, shrink sleeves, result of Elif’s intensive R&D studies drawstring tapes, cereal and cracker • Excellent stiffness and strength To u r g h n e ss rie r and continuous efforts to develop packaging, sealant wraps, twist wraps, Ba useful solutions for “humans” and tapes, frozen food packaging, barrier • 100% recyclable -Can be recycled “environment”. packaging, liners, heavy-duty bags and with all other PE materials including lamination replacement as its purpose is retail shopping bags Properties Standart PET BOPP ElifHyPEr has better optical properties to achieve maximum performance with Thickness ISO 4593 12µ 20µ 20µ such as higher gloss, clarity, lower minimum resource usage. • Compatible with existing postOTR (23oC, 0%rH) ASTM 3985 Excellent Poor Excellent haze and offers better mechanical consumer recycled waste streams Barrier Properties WVTR (38oC, 90%rH) ASTM F1249 Poor Excellent Excellent and barrier properties, advancement With its improved properties Haze % ASTM D1003 Excellent Excellent Excellent in film performance and reduced use ElifHyPErcan be used as an alternative • 100% recyclable closure, spout and Optical Gloss 60o ASTM 2457 Excellent Excellent Excellent of natural resources. The packaging for BOPP or PET films enabling zipper options Tensile Strength, N (MD) Excellent Good Excellent can be recycled thanks to ElifHyPEr recyclability of the packaging, which ASTM D882 Tensile Strength, N (CD) Good Excellent Poor eliminating the need for lamination leads to recyclable pouches and bags. • High barrier to moisture Mechanical Elongation at Break (MD) % Good Good Poor ASTM D882 with other substrates. Elif’s contribution Properties Elongation at Break (CD) % Poor Poor Excellent to the environment and sustainability Elif’s 100% recyclable PE pouch solution • Excellent puncture resistance for Elmendorf Tear Test (gf) (CD) Excellent Excellent Good ASTM D1922 and the advantages it provides Elif2Pouch is created to meet the greater product protection Elmendorf Tear Test (gf) (MD) Excellent Excellent Good regarding financial feasibility and growing demand for recyclable and product differentiation enables the sustainable packaging. This innovative • Customizable oxygen and aroma Properties Standart PET-PE Pouch BOPP-PE Pouch high-performance PE film solution of Elif packaging solution of Elif satisfies the barrier Thickness ISO 4593 12µ 20µ BOPP / 60µ PE 20µ ElifHyPEr / 60µ PE being at the forefront of the fast-moving customer’s needs and is in line with OTR (23oC, 0%rH) ASTM 3985 Excellent Good Excellent Barrier Properties consumer sector in its increasingly the 2030 recyclability target of the EU WVTR (38oC, 90%rH) ASTM F1249 Excellent Excellent Excellent competitive environment. Commission to create a better future for Haze % ASTM D1003 Excellent Excellent Excellent Optical the environment. Gloss 60o ASTM 2457 Excellent Excellent Excellent Tensile Strength, N (MD) Excellent Good Excellent ASTM D882 Tensile Strength, N (CD) Good Excellent Good Mechanical Elongation at Break (MD) % Excellent Excellent Good ASTM D882 Properties Elongation at Break (CD) % Good Good Excellent Elmendorf Tear Test (gf) (CD) Excellent Excellent Good ASTM D1922 Elmendorf Tear Test (gf) (MD) Excellent Excellent Good ElifHyPEr & Elif2Pouch To learn more about how ElifHyPEr and Elif2Pouch contributes ‘Packaging for Earth’ please vsit our product pages on our website. 34 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 -2020 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 -2020 35 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 2020 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace ENVIRONMENT RECYCLING COMES FIRST reduces greenhouse gas emissions, and ElifPCR • Sustainable solution with reduced the consumption of energy and nonElifPCR is an eco-friendly packaging CO2 emission and energy consumption. renewable resources. solution that contains high quality Elif Natty in the end, returns to the earth post-consumer recycled material • Contribute to circular economy by through processes of biodegradation content. ElifPCR reduce carbon food utilizing recycled material in its original and composting — without releasing print and environmental impact of the function. pollutants Elif recent sustainable solutions package while maintaining its quality. Elif Natty provides certificated ElifPCR will provide sustainability • Quality comparable to virgin grade compostable products to the customers gains and truly contribute to Circular products. using TUV Austria certification Economy. programme. By using post-consumer recycled ElifGreen • Lower CO2 gas emissions (75% lower • High-barrier properties against By replacing non-degradable structures Carbon Footprint versus traditional PE) humidity and oxygen material in its primary function, as ElifGreen is a renewable resource PE Elif Natty meets customer’s expectations a flexible package film, high quality flexible packaging film filled with green and achieves 2030 sustainability targets • Versions made with responsibly • Optional integration of barrier recycled content will return to PE granules made from sugar cane of EU Commission. sourced sugar cane (BonSucro certified) properties against light economy without losing its intrinsic in various percentages up to 100%. are available upon request. value. ElifGreen offers keeping the same • 100% biodegradable and 100% • Optional integration of barrier ElifPCR will provide a sustainable mechanical properties as in fossil based compostable. ElifProLite properties against mineral oils packaging solution that have PE films. ElifGreen is 100% recyclable, ElifProLite is Elif’s new high barrier lower CO2 emission and energy 100% renewable and 100% sustainable • Lower greenhouse gas emissions laminated packaging solution for flexible • Solutions suitable for packaging of an consumption that generate lower film solution. packaging industry. ElifProLite is fully array of products, contributing to their environmental footprint in its life cycle ElifGreen has the OK biobased label, • Better option to save the Earth from recyclable thanks to its mono-material shelf-life extension when compared to flexible packages offered by TÜV AUSTRIA, uses a star plastics structure & homogeneous composites that contain only virgin plastic as film system to indicate the biobased content which suitable for recycling through • Lighter than conventional laminates material. of certified product’s – the more stars • Nature-friendly to have, means the higher biobased the available corresponding recycling of the same thickness content contained. streams. ElifGreen allows recyclability of the ElifProlite has excellent film performance • Higher product-to-package ratio packaging helping customers to meet and superior processability for consumers’ sustainability expectations high speed packaging applications. Elif Natty – Compostable and achieve 2030 recyclability targets of ElifProLite’s high barrier laminate Flexible Packaging Solutions EU Commission. features offers excellent aroma Elif Natty is a compostable PE protection and prolonged shelf life. film formulated with a family of • Fully recyclable where polyolefin While replacing non-recyclable innovative bioplastics alloys based recycling streams for flexible packaging laminates and allowing recyclability on biodegradable polymers totally in place for the packaging products, ElifProlite or partially obtained from renewable helps customers to meet sustainability resources. Elif Natty makes the World a • Renewable source expectations of consumers and greener place. achieves 2030 recyclability targets of EU • Applicable for all kind of flexible film Commission. Elif Natty serves Sustainable packaging products Development — combining • High barrier packaging designed for environmental demands with those of • Options for customers to buy green recyclability agriculture and industry. products • Mono-material structures Elif Natty comes from renewable resources of agricultural origin and 36 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 -2020 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 -2020 37 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 2020 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace ENVIRONMENT BETTER TOGETHER ELIF FRESH COMPRESED AIR Elif is proud to introduce the new investment plan of new technology turbo compressor system. Running together to reach the European The newly planned turbo compressor system will turn off some of the existing compressed air compressors and produce a large Commission's 2030 recyclability targets amount of oil-free air. As a result of this new technology less energy will be used, and NEW YEAR, NEW HOPE; Elif reduced its dependence on the for the first time in its sector.Today, where therefore, electricity consumption and carbon emissions within ‘Packaging for Environment’ distribution network to a minimum and the energy is increasingly important, TS EN the factory will be reduced. In addition, it is planned to provide Elif has been considered as a symbol transmission. Additionally Elif managed to ISO 50001 Energy Management System, a safer air to use by being oil-free. that makes a difference in its sector reduce production losses, resulting quality which is based on the principle of efficient through environmental awareness and problems and maintenance costs as a result use of energy, is a Management System WHAT WE DO environmental activities within the scope of network interruptions and fluctuations. that can be applied to any business from Project Goals and Deliverables of climate change since the day it was small to large in every sector, it can be first established. We have launched a new Elif’s previous system which produces 4 carried out alone or in integration with 2020: More and more European countries will recycle flexible project and donated seedlings to the TEMA MW of electricity allowed saving energy by other management systems. EMS enables packaging by the assistance of CEFLEX initiative through: Foundation on behalf of our suppliers and 80% in energy efficiency and cooling water organizations to determine energy policies, Fresh Compressed Air customers. and efficiency via obtaining thermal oil. The manage energy consumption within The development and implementation of robust Design System generates the recovery of 3.2 MW the framework of energy management Guidelines for collecting, sorting and recycling flexible packaging Elif is proud to introduce the new investment plan By drawing attention to environmental of heat energy, clean energy production programs created in line with their goals and the “End of Cycle” infrastructure of new technology turbo compressor system. problems and the fight against them, Elif and low carbon emissions, reducing and objectives, and ensure improvements has continued to raise awareness in the past greenhouse gas emissions. by evaluating the performance of the The identification and advancement of environmental friendly year. Hundreds of seedlings were donated energy management system. end markets for the secondary materials recycled from flexible to the TEMA Foundation on behalf of its Elif introduced a new system. Elif invested packaging customers and suppliers to contribute to 4.3MW more energy in addition to the Future Aspects the greening of the North Cyprus cantonal existing 4MW electrical energy generating GREY WATER TREATMENT Offering a viable business case to collect, sort, recycle and area. system and started to produce 8.3MW of SYSTEMS return flexible packaging to the economy in quantity and at a total electrical energy, and with the energy Elif will invest to a Grey Water treatment competitive quality/price for future end-market applications. As always, Elif supported the 'Earth Hour' amount of natural gas consumed by the system. Grey water reuse has major benefits movement again this year. We switched existing system and the energy waste in the to environmental sustainability. With the 2025: The development of infrastructure across Europe for the our lights off on Saturday, March 24, for an heating and cooling system from the heat. awareness of sustainable usage the aim collection, sorting and reprocessing post-consumer flexible hour at 8:30 pm for Earth Hour, which is an is to reduce the need for fresh water and packaging thanks to the project CEFLEX by: annual event aimed to raise awareness on From this, the operation of this facility minimizing the demand public fresh water energy consumption and climate change. benefits by reducing the harm to nature usage and reusing the water created during A robust business case implementation that supports the Being one of the leaders in Turkey for this and human and carbon emissions. proses stages. development of the circular economy in which flexible movement, Elif raised awareness on the Thanks to this facility, the main heating packaging is thought to be a relevant and responsible packaging issues of climate change, depletion of water thermal conditioning (heating, cooling, Production machines in our factory require decision resources and the loss of biological diversity humidification) where the production chilled water in accordance with the that the earth is facing. phases take place will provide double process. This water sent to the rainwater Proof of principle from fruitful pilot projects benefit by reducing natural gas channel will be combined with the TRIGEN II consumption with the addition of providing process residual water coming from the Proceeding to invest in future working comfort and proactively prevents polyethylene recycling facility and will be the occurrence of quality problems. collected. Elif has invested a trigeneration project 2 In the extrusion section, the temperature, years ago as part of its 'NOsume Energy' the waste heat of the newly established The accumulated water will be separated program. Elif continued to contribute to the facility is brought to the desired from solid particles with the support protection, improvement and sustainability temperature. This improvement ensures of chemical dosing. With the reverse of the environment and human life through the efficiency increase in the process and osmosis system, and it’s conductivity will its new Trigeneration investment, Trigen II, the continuity of the production in case of be reduced and it will be ready for use. which increases its trigeneration capacity by power cuts. Thanks to this recycled water to be used in 100%. the system, less water will be drawn from EarthHour Elif started to produce the energy it ISO 50001 Energy Management SystemElif has been awarded the ISO 50001 the network line and the amount of water consumption will be greatly reduced. TRIGEN I & II Please connect vith us on elif.com to get more used at its production facility in Istanbul according to its sustainability approach. Energy Management System certificate Elif invested in 2 trigeneration projects: information regarding Earth Hour activities and TRIGEN I in 2016 and TRIGEN IIin 2019-2020. reminders. 38 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 -2020 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 -2020 39 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 2020 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace Millions of people in contact with Elif every day 3 years of UNICEF Platinum Wings sponsorship 6 years of Save Food Initiative membership 7 years of UNGC participation 40 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 -2020 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 -2020 41 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 2020 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace SOCIETY PACKAGING FOR THE FUTURE Elif’s major areas of focus: Next Generations & Access to Food PACKAGING FOR LIFE The most significant influence Elif has on hygiene, 2.8 million children were given Producing Packaging for Life , Elif Elif the people of the world is the quality of psychosocial support and 5.5 million acts in the spirit of leadership while its packaging materials that help people children were given formal or nonstriving continuously to create value access better quality products. formal access to basic education in 2017 for producing Packaging for Life and thanks to regular funds raised by Elif and knows that a diverse and rich culture Elif is passionate about promoting other supporting organizations. requires honesty and responsibility as information exchange and collaboration key values. between those who are a part of the SAVE FOOD INITIATIVE value chain as part of “Save Food Elif has been the honored to be a We all use packaging one way or Initiative”. The company will keep supporter of the Save Food Initiative as another in our daily lives. Elif strives for working on new technologies to reduce of 2018. waste while extending shelf life and “always” better products for the society, delivering the ultimate product and 3RD YEAR OF UNICEF PLATINUM WING the environment and the future. We are The purpose of Save Food Initiative is to Elif continued supporting UNCEF for treating children with disadvantageous conditions. Packaging for Life. brand protection. establish new ways with which industry More info is accessable here for: 2019 and 2020. experts, politics, researchers and Save Food Initiative is aiming for the ANOTHER YEAR OF UNICEF consumers can use food more efficiently. better access to food in disadvantageous ‘PLATINUM WINGS’ regions of the world. The group that SPONSORSHIP is suffering the most from shortage of Elif has been Turkey’s first supporter of food is children. UNİCEF’s “Platinum Wing” program since 2017. Elif continued its supports Having been the first ‘Platinum Wing’ for this significant project in 2019-2020 supporter of UNICEF in Turkey, Elif is as well. We are proud to state that Elif always trying to be a part of certain is the first Turkish institution bestowed sustainability projects to help these with the ‘UNICEF Platinum Wing’ children enjoy basic rights and freedoms SAVE FOOD honor as a result of the regular support and to live equal lives with those who Elif is the supporter of given to UNICEF projects to help the are more advantageous. Save Food initiative since 2014. disadvantegeous children of Turkey Visit www.save-food.org web site and the world to access the living, 2.5 children were treated for severe for further information. improvement, health and education acute malnutrition, 13.6 million children services and offer them the same rights were vaccinated against measles, 29.9 with their peers. million people were given safe access to safe drinking, cooking and personal 42 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 -2020 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 -2020 43 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 2020 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace SOCIETY PACKAGING FOR NEXT & GENERATIONS line with their interests, 'One day project' was carried out, where they will spend one day at Elif production facilities. 01 02 03 04 05 Elif’s major areas of focus: Women Empowerment RESPECT ENSURE SUPPORT ELIMINATE ERADICATE As a continuation of this project, Elif and support That your Freedom of all forms of forced or all forms of child Internationally company does not association and compulsory labour labour in your created the Graduate Training Program. and UN Global Compact Principles recognized human participate in any recognize to productive chain In this context, new graduates who were night in your are if way in the violation open collective Influence of human rights bargaining thought to create added value were given the opportunity to gain experience and UNGC after the 'March 8th Women's Day Lunch’ Elif will continue to promote, implement awareness within Elif. Elif is committed to realizing its social attended by all employees. and reflect its commitment to sustainable responsibilities and making its corporate development and corporate values by In order to ensure that the students environment official and has put this Additionally on this meaningful day, the encouraging all of its consultants, business participating in the program are in the intention on paper by sending a Letter of products produced by the working women partners, suppliers and dealers to adopt the right job later in their career, a plan 06 07 08 09 10 Commitment to UN in July 2012 to join of Yırca were presented to support our UN Global Compact principles. has been created in which they will STIMULATE ASSUME DEVELOP PROMOTE FIGHT United Nations Global Compact. female employees and raise awareness in gain 1 month of experience in each all practices that a responsible, Initiatives and the development corruption in all of order to contribute to the working women Companies included in the department. At the end of the program, eliminate any form preventive Practice to promote and dissemination its forms, including The company’s economic, ecological of Yırca Village. Business Plastics Initiative job opportunities were provided to of discrimination and proactive and divulge socio of environmentally Extortion an bribery at the workplace posture towards environmental responsible and social engagement, the effective announced that they will participants who wanted to continue environmental responsibility technologies integration of these with one another and The company donated the Turkish their career in Elif. challenges carrying out individual responsibilities to Education Foundation to support strong determine their plastic realize and sustain a profitable business women of the future on behalf of its commitments! compose the corporate values of Elif. employees and further improved its Elif is proud to be a part of this initiative Being a word-wide operating company, Women’s Day activities. within its sustainability strategy. we interact and make business with a lot Turkey Global Compact, World Business 7TH YEAR OF UNGC of different cultures, social attitudes and The concept of gender equality was Council for Sustainable Development and To access our UNGC CoP various environmental platforms. Elif has discussed during the Women’s Day events carrying plastic pollution TUSIAD fight a reports please visit our the knowledge of how important the UN by conducting a short survey among the step further with Plastic Business Initiative www.unglobalcompact.org Global Compact principles are and has employees. We also had the chance to established. By responding to the initiative's watch some short videos with anecdotes call, companies that want to be a part web site. already adopted certain aspects of these principles, such as the way it conducts about the matter and shared these on social of the solution announced that they will relations with employees, business partner media platforms. determine their plastic commitments by and other stakeholders. We believe that 2021. to achieve sustainable development, one To achieve a higher level of development, The Business Plastics Initiative was needs to run business with integrity, in the society needs the women’s increased established to encourage private sector THE BUSINESS PLASTICS INITIATIVE compliance with the laws and regulations participation in the economy, improvement organizations to establish commitments to Elif is proud to be the first flexible packaging company governing its activities, social responsibility of their place in the family and a bigger plastics and to transparently report their to join the Business Plastics Initiative as an indicator of and environmental protection. share to them from development and commitments on an annual basis. The growth. Being conscious about this, its sustainability strategy. plastic commitments of the companies Elif is dedicated to integrating the Global Elif continues to start influential social involved in the initiative will be reviewed Compact and its principles with its responsibility projects as well and continues regularly and the progress made will be corporate strategy culture and everyday to offer jobs to housewives within shared with the public every year. operations. The company is passionate the development goals of the United Responding to the initiative's call, 26 about engaging in joint projects to address Nations and particularly the Millennium companies, including Elif, announced and advance the ultimate needs of our Development Goals. that they will determine their plastic society with these principles in mind. commitments by 2021. Elif puts substance behind the interest of As it is a tradition now, we have continued realizing sustainable, fair, responsible and Support From Elif To New our Women's Day activities this year, as well. ethical principles of conduct within the Generations voluntary code called The Global Compact. Elif carried out a project that aims to bring Elif presented Women’s Day flowers with The Global Compact is a UN initiative for universities and industrial establishments special messages about the significance the business world, announced in 1999 of Women’s Day as a gift to ensure that to achieve a sustainable world and has closer and provide students with knowledge MARCH 8TH GRADUATE TRAINING PROGRAM and experience about the industrial sector. all our employees, their families and their 10 principles in four key areas: human Elif celebrated March 8 Women's Day th Elif carried out a project that aims to bring universities For the students who participated in surroundings are aware of ‘gender equality’ rights, labor rights, anti-corruption and university fairs and student days, selected in together with all of its employees in and industrial establishments closer and provide students. environment. 2019 and 2020. 44 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 -2020 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 -2020 45 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 2020 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace 4% Capacity Grow 8% Revenue Growth Upgrading to high technology print inspection systems Stand up poch machines investment 46 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 -2020 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 -2020 47 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 2020 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace ECONOMY Ambitious business objectives encourage investors REWARDING BUSINESS Elif installed on 5 new high technology In addition, in order to increase Elif OUTCOMES print inspection systems. With this lamination capabilities, our capacity was Elif’s sustainable business model, investment, Elif aims to detect reliable increased by 20% by investing in a new expanding packaging portfolio and errors, increase productivity with lamination machine that can laminate B2B2C business approach supports the automatic print monitoring method, with and without high technology company’s sales growth to strengthen focus on the root causes of errors solvent and has different coating its achievements by triumphing depending on the analysis of production applications. together with the customer within the records, tend to less error and waste, Flexible packaging supports sustainable customer centric approach. We have and thus increase customer satisfaction production and consumption. with controlled quality. According to this sustainability embraced a business objective that approach flexible packaging is designed Elif Plants brings consistent organic sales growth beyond the growth of the segments Elif invested to the infrared scanning is to minimize the use of packaging Elif installed on 5 new IPQ center 100% print inspection systems. in which we compete. Our objective a unique system that will allow you to materials, prevents packaging waste and to deliver value creation for Elif and its read in real time the coating weight that plays a minor part of a food product’s partners has driven us to reach highis being applied. This technology is able environmental footprint but a major role level of top-line growth running and to read the amount of adhesive with in preservation. consistent bottom-line growth. a very high precision, even solventless or solvent based, on clear, printed or Elif can offer pre-made gusseted bag Continuing its growing business results, metalized films. It will give opportunity solutions such as quad-seal bags, back Elif increased its investments to cover to measure adhesive that is applied and seal gusseted bags and flat bottom bags capabilities crucial to its customer chance to control coating weight in with 8 new machine investments for the success in 2017. We have closed this each position, coating weight target, bag converting line. year with 10% growth compared to range, machine speed, etc. last year, thanks to the brilliant Egypt Gusseted pouches of Elif are produced operation. It has increased its capacity According to Elif's sustainability goals, with high performance laminates, to both adapt to changing customer increase efficiency and reduce the recyclable laminates and barrier needs and to meet the mid-term growth resulting losses with the transition to materials and serve a wide range of targets of the company with innovative more systematic work, is one of the food& beverages, personal care and and strategic investments. major topic. With the standardization, home care applications as well as pet investment, and operational excellence care products. NEW INVESTMENTS methods implemented since 2017, a REWARDING BUSINESS OUT 23% reduction in waste rate has been achieved. COMES Elif continues to make investments by In order to increase the capacity in following Innovative and technological Elif Printing Department, a new flexo developments closely. printing machine that can print 8 colors was invested. Elif Pouch Solutions http://www.elif.com/products 48 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 -2020 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 -2020 49 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 2020 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace ECONOMY • MANUFACTURING • INTEGRATION & • BUSINESS LOGIC SERVICES • VISUALIZATION QUALITY • PLANT CONNECTIVITY INTELLIGENCE • ENGINE KPIS/METRICS/ALERTS • DATA SERVICES Elif continues pioneering technology from Industry 4.0 to Packaging 4.0. Performance Management Distributor & Customers INDUSTRY 4.0 VISION PACKAGING 4.0 AT ELIF All inputs and outputs of the system Our goal is to adopt Packaging 4.0 to be were controlled and analyzed following DCS/PLC MES LIMS/Inspection Industry 4.0 is a vision in which via OPC Equipment flexible, cost efficient and high-quality, the implementation of the new system Testing all processes and system states are all at once. We will be addressing APO and its effective use. This led to the independently controlled by each the below given strategic trends by production system to be in line with the system and machine. This vision enables embracing this new industrial approach: system inputs and the collected live data Manufacturing the production process to be optimized Worker UIs enabled diagnosis and of analysis of the Analytics for the entire process chain through •Emphasizing a greener, more efficient deviations in the outputs instantly thus Plant DB Environmental Plant Data sharing information between systems. Building Collection and sustainable approach creating an opportunity to immediately Management Covering mechanized processes, interfere the system when needed. production automation and mass production, Industrial Revolutions 1.0 • Being mobile and having web-based information systems The strategic platform of Packaging 4.0. to 3.0 paved the way for industrial enables manufacturing integration and advancements and enabled Industry SCADA / HMI Wireless Plant Historian • Transforming applications through intelligence and plant connectivity. 4.0 to focus more on increased Supplier / Integration ERP Business collaboration, operational process convergence to initiate new Business Process advancements Relying more on intelligent machines Partner Simpliﬁcation enhancement, production innovation and integrated automation for the and cyber-physical production. Elif has been able to define the production made Elif more cost We have a long road ahead to fully production phases of machines, efficient, flexible and high-quality adopt this vision at Elif. Nonetheless, downtimes and stops and collect live through increasing the level of control it is still crucial to define Industry 4.0 data from systems to share for analysis on machines. in detail to be able to create a flexible packaging market: Packaging 4.0. since the steps it took in 2008 for Elif is implementing Packaging 4.0 in Industry 4.0 Packaging 4.0 consists of intelligent Industry 4.0 thanks to data master Overview of the strategic platform for Elif’s connected plant in Istanbul. Data feeding ERP MII enables live software. its business units and production lines machines conducting intuitive operation management of performance resulting in increased flexibility, quality and cost efficiency. seeing that the vision will develop even and integrated processes. We have started to use MII module with further with the advancements of the the integration of PLC device, which technology. enabled recording and data flow into operator computers, to all machines after transforming our ERP system to a full scale one. Packaging 4.0 at Elif Upgrades at Elif Istanbul plant for Packaging 4.0 50 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 -2020 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 -2020 51 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 2020 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace 26% Lost days injury frequance rate 4.88% case weight ratio 12 hours of OHS education 8 yearsof SEDEX membership ELOX Elif Operational Excellence 52 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 -2020 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 -2020 53 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 2020 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace WORKPLACE OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Elif’s major areas of focus: Occupational Health and Safety ONE STEP CLOSER TO OUR ElifCase Frequency Rate is measured by Periodical educations and trainings ‘NO INJURIES’ TARGET calculating the number of injuries or are offered to Elif employees and work-related illnesses per total hours yearly health risk-control programs are Elif Environment, Occupational worked and multiplied by 1.000.000. conducted by the company to assure a Health and Safety Policy covers the healthy environment. Elif implemented occupational and workplace health ElifCase Weight Ratio is measured by a wide range of processes and programs and safety approaches of Elif. In order calculating the number of lost days due to achieve better protection and to to fulfill its long-term objectives, Elif to the injuries or work-related illnesses prevent occupational injury and illness establishes and prepares an annual per total hours worked and multiplied of its employees, contractors and action plan on occupational health and safety. All Elif employees are encouraged by 1 million. No changes occurred in visitors and thus received a OHSAS OCCUPATIONAL 2019 compared 2018 and a 4,88% 18001 Occupational Health & Safety to make proposals for the development decrease was observed in Case Weight Management System Certificate. HEALTH & of company’s safety policy at Elif just like the Elif Environment, Occupational Ratio as well as a 4,96% decrease in It is clearly concluded from the results SAFETY AT ELIF Down Time. that Elif’s health and safety programs are Health and Safety department living up to their promise and we are www.elif.com to read Elif’s responsible from the management of ElifCase Weight Ratio is measured by one step closer to fulfilling our target for Occupational Health and Safety the environment and labor safety. An calculating the number of lost days due following Environment, Occupational award system is established to reassure Policy. To learn more about to the injuries or work-related illnesses Health and Safety Policy and «No that employees are welcome to make occupational health and per total hours worked and multiplied 1 Injuries» target. their suggestions and share their ideas. million. safety at Elif please follow the Each of Elif’s manufacturing sites CO-WORKER AWARENESS AND It was verified that most of the accidents EDUCATIONS prepare an annual program including, that took place in the in the past years but not limited to, an action plan to We have given education for 12 hours during production were due to cuts of support the company’s Environment, per co-worker with the purpose of snap curved knives. In order to solve Occupational Health and Safety Policy orientation, information and awareness that problem, special equipment was and strategy. purchased and related trainings were raising on occupational health and OCCUPATIONAL COsafety issues. Elif is aware that these Elif's occupational health and safety given to all employees in the related subjects have certain technical WORKER AWARENESS & subject as well as determining a team of programs aim to build a healthier and experts on cutting. As a result, Elif has requirements and design the educations EDUCATION safer work environment to protect the accordingly. managed to decrease the cutting work people engaged in work, employment To learn more about carrier and coaccidents by %60. or its surroundings as well as these worker development programs of Elif, people’s welfare and Elif’s coworkers. please follow the www.elif.com Our company knows that the Or contact Elif HR department. company’s core is its co-workers and their synergy. 54 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 -2020 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 -2020 55 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 2020 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace WORKPLACE THE JOURNEY TOWARDS SUCCESS, OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE Elif’s major areas of focus: Next Generations Elif is a member of SEDEX (Supplier we get into the actions to implement COMING TOGETHER ONLINE Elif has launched an important project this concept, let’s understand how Our company has become a part of the together with its 700 employees to operational excellence is related to social platforms to grow its entertaining, realize its objectives of achieving, continuous improvement. dynamic and informative shares. Elif managing and ensuring the sustainability shares market trends, innovations and of industrial order and cleanness into the We hear the term “operational company news on its LinkedIn, Twitter, organization in an efficient way. excellence” everywhere nowadays. We Facebook and other social media are coming into contact with more and platform pages. Being a social platform Elif participated in the Workplace more organizations that have committed that aims to bring together business Conditions Assessment program. The or are willing to commit to this concept professionals and enable their information Workplace Conditions Assessment on a personal level. There seem to be exchange, LinkedIn draws the attention program enables companies to efficiently various interpretations of this term as of professionals in the packaging and evaluate the workplace conditions with many companies that are committed are FMCG sectors. Our company page on the right techniques. In doing so, it not achieving the same target. LinkedIn is named Elif Global and you can uses common and accepted industry support us in our journey to strengthen standards. Workplace Conditions Leaders who think of operational communication online. Assessment thus provides a powerful excellence as the proper and consistent solution for companies and facilities that application of certain procedures (World Having more than 500 million users, /ElifGlobal want to improve themselves based on Class Reliability, Six Sigma, TPM, Lean LinkedIn is the largest social platform in best practices. Workplace Conditions TQM etc.) and tools (SMED, Visual the business world today that gathers Assessment is undoubtedly a very Management, DMAIC, Kaizen, Kanban professionals from more than 200 effective and powerful tool for evaluating, etc.) are focused on having the right countries. benchmarking and continually improving work practices and business processes supplier workplace conditions. (i.e., doing work the right way). However, Elif has renewed its company page in others may view operational excellence the past year and aims to introduce its Leadership and problem-solving are as creating the right work culture that new products, projects and services via what make an operation truly excellent. emphasizes acknowledgement and the company page on LinkedIn. We These skills are the key to continuous rewards the right behaviors while a would also like to see all Elif co-workers improvement, but some people can be different group see operational excellence gathered on this platform to get and stay somewhat unsure about the correct way as in operational results and value connected. to approach the operational excellence capture. subject. It is something that the majority Elif will continue to use its accounts find too ambiguous or too broad to The Internal Trainer Project was on social media more actively in an discuss and it is definitely a challenging initiated in Elif to train trainers and entertaining and informative way and term to define. Operational excellence facilitate standardization in education and reach our passion for ‘Packaging for can be defined as more of a mindset practices. Life’ to more and more individuals every that you and your employees should day. You can follow us on social media have rather than a set of activities that A platform where training, coaching and platforms to be informed about new you perform. You might be thinking that guiding competencies will be developed business opportunities and stay in contact this is something that could only work was created for the Internal Trainer team with Elif's new products and services. in theory and wondering if there are of 16 people and up to 300 hours of any actionable steps to take. But before training was provided. 56 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 -2020 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 -2020 57 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 2020 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace NO corruption 8 years of SEDEX membership 4th year in information security system certificate CEFLEX membership IPG Business Plastic Initiative 58 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 -2020 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 -2020 59 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 2020 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace WORKPLACE MARKETPLACE APPROACH Responsible sourcing and information safety MARKETPLACE APPROACH NEW INFORMATION established an information safety Self-Assessment Questionnaires and sustainable approach. The Elif has objectives as a brand to provide MANAGEMENT SECURITY policy that consists of all its activities (SAQs): Members can assess their plants company registers information in services and products of high quality and creates awareness between the in terms of safety standards, working the Sedex database to meet the SYSTEM staff regarding the threats towards conditions, company policies and customers increased demand to access and value, helping societies worldwide, Elif was awarded the ISO/IEC 27001 articulation their goals and creating a information safety to be entitled to environmental impact etc. with the help sustainability related information Information Safety Management System receive that certificate. of the SAQ. Elif plants complete these on Elif’s operations as was the case path to guide them from their current Standard 2017 thanks to being one of position to where they want to be in questionnaires and review them every in 2019-2020 when more than 20 the first packaging companies in Turkey. We renewed our ISO 27001 certificate year. Furthermore, the customers who customers applied for accessing Sedex the future. Treating customers’ assets as its own and taking actions and in August 2020. participate in Sedex platform can also information about Elif’s plants. The only international standart that is view our Self-Assessment Questionnaire making decisions with their long-term controllable and defines the Information development in mind, Elif promotes the RESPONSIBLE AND results to support our accountability for Safety Management System (ISMS) sustainable progress in improving our cultures and values for which it strives. requirements at the same time is ISO/ ETHICAL SOURCING AND operational impact. IEC 27001. It helps securing and PROCUREMENT CODE OF CONDUCT controlling important information assets Sedex is a global organization operating Sedex Members Ethical Trade AND ETHICS POLICY through its design that ensures required with members to make improvements Audit (SMETA): SMETA provides IMPLEMENTATION FOR NEW and proportionate safety controls. In addition, ISO/IEC 27001 embraces the in ethical business practices in global supply chains since 2010. Sedex has an ethical methodology for “best 8 years of MARKETPLACES practice guidance and ethical audit We are planning to start the operation process approach to create, implement, members from 160 countries, 17,000 techniques to help auditors conduct membership operate, monitor, inspect, maintain suppliers, more than 21,000 sites and high-quality audits for responsible at Elif’s new manufacturing plant in the and develop the Information Safety 400 global brands. business practices.” and is carried out fourth quarter of 2014. This new facility Management System. independently. is built to be the hub of Middle East and Being a Sedex A/B member, Elif is able Africa operations of Elif. An information safety certificate to share to its ethical performance Elif is periodically audited as per the that determines the standard for information with its customers and requirements of being a member Elif’s will be implementing Code of risk management preparations, risk demand the same information from its of the organization according to Conduct and Ethics Policy in this new handling and business continuity plans, suppliers. Elif enables us to exchange Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit plant by bringing its know-how and duties, record keeping, responsibilities date through the Sedex platform. Our (SMETA) and has recently completed latest technology to Cairo as well as and emergency incident management participation in Sedex may be detailed Sedex Self-Assessment Questionnaire providing new opportunities with procedures of institutions in the as below: (SSAQ) to improve its ethical policies regards to employment and creating matter of safety called ISO 27001 has added value for the economy of the region. been granted to Elif for completing Elif ISO 27001 the inspections carried out in June successfully. The company has INFORMATION MANAGEMENT SECURITY SYSTEM Visit our website to reach Elif’s latest ISO 27001 certificate. 60 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 -2020 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 -2020 61 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 2020 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace WORKPLACE MARKETPLACE APPROACH Responsible sourcing and information safety 35TH INTERNATIONAL INDEPENDENT AUDITS Innovation Focused Mentorship Elif applied to the 2244 Industry The importance of transparency and Program as a University – Industry Doctorate Program in order to raise CONFERENCE continuity in both the international Cooperation aims at sustainably qualified human resources with a Elif has Participated in and national scope cannot be increasing innovation management doctorate degree needed in the the 35th International emphasized enough in today's global competence, constituting and industry within the scope of the 2023 Conference of the economic conditions. In order to obtain strengthening innovation management goals of our country, to encourage the Polymer Processing transparency, the companies must infrastructure, designing and adopting employment of doctoral researchers Society as the Platinium provide financial reporting and be institutional innovation system at in the industry, and to develop the Sponsor. subjected to independent auditing. firm level. The Inosuit program was university / research infrastructuresuccessfully completed on May 19. industry cooperation. Doctorate Elif not only goes through a tax audit Ranked 134th in Innovation Results students have been employed. and auditing of accounts every year category in İnovaLİG. but also gets external and independent auditing to fulfill the requirements of R&D CENTER being a global company operating R&D Center application was made to in foreign trade. Our declarations create new and innovative products and and whether they are in line with the services to create added value in the R&D CENTER regulations and determined duties and national and international arena. taxes are audited within this scope and CERTIFICATE the outcome is reported . In the light of these achievements, Elif has been awarded Elif has been awarded with R&D with ‘R&D Center INNOVATION FOCUSED Center Certificate by the Ministry of Certificate’ by the Technology and Industry at September Ministry of Technology MENTORSHIP PROGRAM and Industry 2018. In the first year after becoming an Elif adopts an innovative approach in at September 2018. R&D center, 6 Utility Models, 4 Patents order to increase the product variety and 2 project applications were made and quality, service quality and customer to the TÜBİTAK TEYDEB 1501 Industrial satisfaction offered in the developing R&D Support Program. world conjuncture. Elif has participated in the 35th In this context, in order to develop the International Conference of The innovation phenomenon in Elif with a Polymer Processing Society as the sustainable and systematic approach, Platinum Sponsor and took part in the Elif participated in an Innovation International Scientific Committee. Focused Mentorship Program consisting of companies that are members of A presentation prepared jointly with exporters' associations and based on Yıldız Technical University was made at university-industry cooperation. the same congress. 62 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 -2020 ELIF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 -2020 63 Elif Holding Elif Global Europe Elif Holding A.Ş. Elif Global SA Orhangazi Mahallesi 1652 Sokak No:2 Avenue Gratta-Paille 2 C/O Mazars Sa Esenyurt 34538 Istanbul TURKEY Lausanne 1018 Vaud SWITZERLAND www.elif.com www.elif.com +90 212 622 06 22 +41 21 310 49 49 Elif Global Turkey Elif Global Egypt Elif Plastik Ambalaj San. ve Tic. A.Ş. Elif Global Packaging S.A.E. Elif Global Ambalaj San. ve Tic. A.Ş. Engineering Square Plot No: O18-O20 Orhangazi Mahallesi 1652 Sokak No:2 North Extension of Industrial Zones 6th Esenyurt 34538 Istanbul TURKEY October City Cairo EGYPT www.elif.com www.elif.com +90 212 622 06 22 +20 238 642 188 Elif Plastik Ambalaj San. ve Tic. A.Ş. Orhangazi Mahallesi 1652 Sokak No:2 Esenyurt 34538 Istanbul TURKEY www.elif.com +90 212 622 06 22
