Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2019 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices What’s Inside I have every Our Approach to ESG confidence that, Page 5 Letter from Our CEO as a company and a Page 7 Citi at a Glance society, we will emerge Page 9 Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact stronger and more committed to the collective good than ever before. Solutions for Impact Page 23 Inclusive and Resilient Communties — Michael L. Corbat, CEO Page 43 Environmental Finance 2 How We Do Business Page 54 Environmental and Social Risk Management Page 62 Human Rights Page 70 Operations and Supply Chain Page 86 Digital Innovation Page 96 Talent and Diversity Page 114 Ethics and Culture About This Report This report illustrates how we bring our mission to life Appendices through our business; it covers our environmental, social Page 125 2019 Sustainable Progress and governance (ESG) activities, performance and approach Strategy Scorecard for calendar year 2019, focusing on the issues we have determined to be of greatest importance. Page 127 GRI Content Index This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Page 141 Task Force on Climate-related Core option. We also used the United Nations (UN) Global Compact and Financial Disclosures Index the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights frameworks to guide our reporting. (See related indexes.) Page 142 United Nations Global Compact Index We have embedded the UN Sustainable Development Goals into relevant sections of the report where Citi plays a direct role in making progress Page 144 United Nations Guiding Principles toward specific goals. Additionally, we include an index that indicates Reporting Framework Index where report content is specifically aligned to the recommendations of the G20 Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate-related Page 148 Assurance Financial Disclosures. Finally, this report supplements information published in our 2019 Annual Report. All reporting and performance data are limited to information for the owned and operated facilities of Citigroup Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless stated otherwise. Additional information about Citi can be found on our website. For more information on Citi’s ESG initiatives, please visit citi.com/citizenship or contact: Global Public Affairs Citigroup Inc. 388 Greenwich Street New York, NY 10013 citizenship@citi.com 3 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices Page 5 Letter from Our CEO Page 7 Citi at a Glance Page 9 Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact OUR APPROACH TO ESG 4 Letter from As I write this letter, we are in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic, which will have a wide-ranging and long-lasting impact on every part of the world. Our global Our CEO society and economy are being tested to an unprecedented degree. Managing through this crisis will require the best of what we, as a company and as a society, have to offer. I know that the progress we have made in the past has meaningfully That businesses will ultimately be more successful and contributed to our ability to weather the profitable when they take into account the broader needs present storm and, ultimately, to recover of society is not a new idea. But that principle gained from it. new traction in the latter half of 2019, when the Business We know that this crisis is having a disproRoundtable gave fresh voice to it. The new statement of portionate impact on our most vulnerable communities. To help mitigate widespread corporate purpose said simply that companies should take economic distress, our society needs the interests of all stakeholders — including shareholdto find better ways to address wealth ers, colleagues, clients, suppliers and communities — into inequality and provide more people with affordable access to financial products account when making decisions. Who could have imagined and services. Programs like Cobro Digital just how urgent responsible companies’ commitment to (CoDi), launched in Mexico last year, serve the greater good would be, less than a year later? have become increasingly relevant as a 5 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices Letter from Our CEO (continued) means of bridging the gap between the I know that these efforts will continue and remains to be done, quickly, and so we digital haves and have-nots. Today, CoDi will even accelerate as will the time and are as committed as ever to bringing our is enabling more than 5.5 million digital dedication that my Citi colleagues pledge resources and capacity for innovation to clients to send invoices and payments to supporting their communities. We have bear as we seize the opportunity to even using QR codes on their phones at no committed to build on the nearly 1 million more effectively and creatively tackle this cost. Citibanamex is one of the leading hours of service contributed by Citi volunurgent challenge. banks behind this innovative initiative teers in 2019, virtually and once we can and has had a leadership role since its safely re-engage with our communities. Banks have a central role to play, both in inception. helping people and communities through We also strongly believe that our most the current pandemic and in the ultimate We’re also continuing to support entreimportant impact comes from our core recovery. At Citi, we will continue working preneurs through efforts like Scaling business activities, including the financwith all of our clients and customers — Enterprise, a $100 million loan guarantee ing of critical infrastructure, affordable individuals, small businesses, companies facility and joint effort with the U.S. housing, environmental finance and small and governments around the world — to International Development Finance business lending. The economic recovery manage the business and economic Corporation (the former OPIC) and the will be further strengthened by institufallout of this pandemic. We will provide Ford Foundation. Scaling Enterprise tions’ commitments to addressing an the necessary support, credit and assisprovides early-stage financing in local increasingly acute shortage of affordable tance programs that people, institutions currency to companies that expand housing. Last year, Citi provided more and communities will need to rebuild. access to products and services for than $6 billion in loans for affordable low-income communities in emerging housing projects in the U.S., making our I write this letter with the utmost humility, markets. To complement our lending firm the largest U.S. affordable housing as I know the work ahead will require activities, our new $150 million Citi lender for the 10th consecutive year. even more focus, more dedication, more Impact Fund will make equity investpartnership and more commitment than ments in socially oriented startups It’s also my hope that one outcome of at any time in recent memory. But we will and companies. our present predicament will be an even use the lessons of the past and the depth deeper respect for science and a recogniof our partnerships to guide us. I have And we continue to champion philantion of the investments in technology we every confidence that, as a company and a thropic causes to increase economic will need to make to help our world thrive society, we will emerge stronger and more opportunity. An urgent need is to help in the years ahead. Innovation will be committed to the collective good than ever narrow the gap between the skills and essential as we look to confront the many before. I know our citizens, our companies knowledge many young people have and other challenges that critically impact us and our governments are resolved to do what they will need in order to succeed all — chief among them, climate change. in this century. That’s why one of our nothing less. My colleagues at Citi and I are largest philanthropic focus areas is workOur health, our economic success and more than ready to help lead the way. force development. Last year, the Citi our environment are all inextricably Foundation completed its three-year, linked, which is why, despite the current $100 million Pathways to Progress challenges, we must sustain our efforts initiative to invest in preparing youth for to fight climate change. In 2019, Citi 21st century jobs, and we’ll soon expand exceeded our $100 billion goal to help that program with an additional new reduce the impacts of climate change Michael L. Corbat commitment. Last year, Citi and the Citi through environmental finance activities Chief Executive Officer Foundation gave $147 million in grants around the world more than four years and charitable contributions. ahead of schedule. Still, we know much 6 Citi at a Glance Responsibly Serve as Create provide a trusted economic financial partner value services Supporting clients Digital and mobile Diverse workforce of More than in more than 160 at the core of a close to 200,000 to 200 years of countries and simpler, better serve our clients and experience jurisdictions client experience customers Institutional Clients Group Global Consumer Banking Largest proprietary global network, with a client base Serves more than 110 million customers of 13,000 and a presence in more than 90 countries Digital leader in credit cards, retail banking and Facilitates ~$4 trillion of transaction flows daily wealth management across 19 markets Serves more than 90% of global Fortune 500 Strategic focus on the U.S., Mexico and Asia companies Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact ! ? Taking a stand on issues that matter and driving solutions Executing a business model that adds Maintaining a focus on ethical decisionvalue to society making and responsible business practices Reporting transparently and learning Catalyzing innovation through strategic through dialogue philanthropy and employee engagement 7 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices Citi’s Value Proposition A Mission of Enabling Growth and Progress: What You Can Expect from Us & What We Expect from Ourselves Citi’s mission is to serve as a trusted partner to our clients by responsibly providing financial services that enable growth and economic progress. Our core activities are safeguarding assets, lending money, making payments and accessing the capital markets on behalf of our clients. We have 200 years of experience helping our clients meet the world’s toughest challenges and embrace its greatest opportunities. We are Citi, the global bank — an institution connecting millions of people across hundreds of countries and cities. We protect people’s savings and help grow, creating jobs and real economic We strive to earn and maintain the them make the purchases — from everyvalue at home and in communities around public’s trust by constantly adhering to day transactions to buying a home — that the world. We provide financing and the highest ethical standards. We ask our improve the quality of their lives. We support to governments at all levels, so colleagues to ensure that their decisions advise people on how to invest for future they can build sustainable infrastructure, pass three tests: they are in our clients’ needs, such as their children’s education such as housing, transportation, schools interests, create economic value, and are and their own retirement, and help them and other vital public works. always systemically responsible. When we buy securities such as stocks and bonds. do these things well, we make a positive These capabilities create an obligation to financial and social impact in the commuWe work with companies to optimize act responsibly, do everything possible to nities we serve and show what a global their daily operations, whether they need create the best outcomes, and prudently bank can do. working capital, to make payroll or to manage risk. If we fall short, we will export their goods overseas. By lending to take decisive action and learn from our companies large and small, we help them experience. Sustainable design is present throughout the renovation of our global headquarters in New York City, which will be completed in 2020. The building was recently awarded LEED Platinum certification. 8 Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact Through our business, we address some of society’s greatest challenges — an imperative stated in our mission and an idea that shapes our decisions every day. In this report, we share many individual stories of progress — how as a bank, employer and philanthropist, Citi catalyzes sustainable growth, helping to drive broader systemic improvements. We also outline the ideas and frameworks, both internal and external, that guide us in this work, ensuring that we tackle challenges and engage with our communities in a way that is consistent with our mission and values and in alignment with global and industry efforts, including the UN Sustainable Development Goals, the Principles for Responsible Banking and the Paris Climate Agreement. While our commitment to engagement, innovation and market-based solutions Our Guiding Principles own progress. We also use philanthropy and the time and talent of our employees is unwavering, we recognize that many We are guided by a commitment to drive to catalyze innovations for customers and of the biggest societal challenges are positive social and environmental impact communities in a way that can be brought part of a significant economic and social through our products and services and to scale. transition that will take years — in some our work with clients. Success — for us cases generations — to come to fruition. and for the financial services sector as a We continue to learn from our experience whole — requires that we operate responExecuting a Business and to bring diverse stakeholders to the sibly, building ethical decision-making Model that Adds table to help us understand what leaderinto everything we do. When we do Value to Society ship looks like on these evolving issues. this well, we have the latitude to drive Throughout the following pages, we solutions through other avenues as well, The scale and global reach of our outline how we put our guiding principles using our corporate voice to engage in business means we are able to have into action. dialogue around the most pressing issues significant impact through the products and reporting transparently about our and services we bring to market. Our 9 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices business activities demand financial this — both our successes and where we we engage stakeholders. For example, innovations that meet the needs of our see need for continued attention and we have deepened our reporting on clients and tackle some of society’s improvement. climate-related risks and opportunities greatest challenges — a concept that is as part of our responses to the Task fundamental to our mission to enable ! Taking a Stand on Force on Climate-related Financial growth and progress. Aligning with Disclosures, including more information ? Issues that Matter this mission requires that we not only in this report as well as additional, pursue the opportunities presented and Driving Solutions stand-alone climate-related reporting. but also that we understand the risks Companies are increasingly expected inherent in our financing decisions and to leverage their corporate voices to our own operations. This dichotomy benefit society. Like many of our corpoCatalyzing Innovation is best evidenced in our efforts to rate peers, we have chosen to take a Through Strategic finance a sustainable economy while understanding and mitigating our stand on a wide range of issues, includPhilanthropy environmental and social risk. We know ing climate change, pay equity, immiand Employee gration, racial equity and gun violence we have a great deal more work to do in the U.S. We have made statements Engagement in these and other efforts, as noted in response to issues that matter to Citi and the Citi Foundation support a throughout this report in discussions of our employees, clients, investors and variety of philanthropic causes and, the management of our material ESG communities. Speaking out, however, is wherever possible, develop partnerships issues. often just the first step. Where we can, with community organizations that we work to be part of the solutions to allow us to catalyze change through Maintaining a Focus these very complex and pressing issues. innovative and efficient solutions. In on Ethical Decision2019, the Citi Foundation provided $76 million in grants that increase Making & Responsible Reporting financial capability, promote job Business Practices Transparently and opportunities for youth and reimagine Learning Through approaches to building economically Ethical business practices are central to the success of the entire financial Dialogue vibrant communities. In addition, through Citi businesses around the services sector and are the foundation To successfully meet the expectations world, Citi provided $70 million in of all our activities at Citi. We place of our stakeholders, especially as the charitable giving to causes that align significant emphasis on understanding, scope and pace of disclosure evolves, with our mission of enabling growth and improving and fully integrating ethical we need to both communicate what progress. and responsible practices into everywe are doing and engage in dialogue thing we do. We increase our positive impact in to understand what more can be done. the community by encouraging our The Ethics and Culture section We are committed to improving our colleagues to lend their time and provides more detail on how we do reporting efforts and the way in which talent toward volunteer activities that complement our philanthropic giving. Our signature effort, Global Community Day, engaged more than 120,000 volunRecognition of Our Efforts teers in 2019, including Citi colleagues, alumni, clients, friends and families in more than 400 cities across 90 In 2020, Citi placed seventh overall out of 300 firms — and first in the financountries. cial category — in Newsweek’s inaugural index of America’s Most Responsible Companies, a ranking of the country’s top-performing companies in the We highlight examples of Citi and Citi context of corporate social responsibility. The rankings were based on an Foundation philanthropy in the Inclusive independent survey of 6,500 U.S. citizens and an analysis of performance and Resilient Communities section and indicators included in external reporting. provide more detail on how we engage our employees in volunteer activities in the Talent and Diversity section. 10 Reporting on Climate Change The risks and opportunities connected to climate change affect many parts of our business. As such, there are multiple points of reference — on our approach, results and challenges — throughout this report. For example: Climate opportunities, and the Climate risk in transactions and Our operational impacts on role Citi plays in financing a lowclients — a critical topic as it relates the climate, from our direct carbon, climate-resilient future, to our core business — is considered operations to our supply chain, are explored in more detail in the through our ESRM Policy and are explored in the Operations Environmental Finance section. broader climate risk analysis, as and Supply Chain section. detailed in the ESRM section. The TCFD index highlights where climate-related content in response to the TCFD’s recommendations can be found in this report. Citi’s Support for to play and are responding in several ways: through increased climatehighlights some of the opportunities that arise from this transition and the risks of Climate Action related measurement and disclosure, enhanced Environmental and Social Risk continued investment in the incumbent energy infrastructure. Over the last few years, numerous Management (ESRM) policies and reducclimate reports, including those from tions in our own environmental footprint. the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate We also are stress-testing our business Change (IPCC), as well as the Fourth and innovating our products National Climate Assessment from the and services accordingly. 2° Investing Initiative U.S. Global Change Research Program, make clear that the world is rapidly We demonstrate leadership by collaboScenario Analysis Pilot warming, leading to changes in weather rating with other companies and orgapatterns, sea levels and terrestrial and nizations to drive change. In 2019, for ocean ecosystems. The impacts and costs example, we worked with other banks and Citi is one of 17 international banks of climate change are already affecting organizations within the shipping induspiloting the Paris Agreement many industries and regions globally and try to develop and cosign the Poseidon Capital Transition Assessment are expected to further increase as the Principles, a framework for lenders, (PACTA) methodology for climate world continues to warm. lessors and financial guarantors to intescenario analysis of corporate grate climate considerations into lending lending portfolios, developed by The science on climate is clear, and decisions with international shipping the 2° Investing Initiative. This the expectations of corporate and clients. Learn more in the ESRM section. methodology allows banks to study government action are only increasing. the alignment of their corporate From youth-led climate marches and We also publish thought leadership lending portfolios with different school strikes to investor proposals for content to stimulate dialogue and action. 2° C and below benchmarks based climate-related disclosures, the pressure For example, the Citi Global Perspectives on the assets, technologies, and is mounting for companies like Citi to & Solutions (Citi GPS) report Energy capital expenditure and produccontribute to solutions. Darwinism III: The Electrifying Path to Net tion plans of companies in their Zero Carbon offers data and narrative portfolios. Tackling climate change requires a global regarding the transition toward renewenergy transition, as well as sustainable able energy and away from fossil-based urban and regional development. As a energy sources and technologies such as global bank, we have a meaningful role coal and combustion engines. The report 11 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices Citi and the Task Force design a banking-sector climate scenario • Enhancing our approach to analyzing analysis pilot project. As part of this the climate risk of our clients in on Climate-related pilot, we looked at transition risk under carbon-intensive sectors Financial Disclosures 1.5° C and 2° C scenarios for our North • Providing more metrics and setting American oil and gas exploration and targets related to the carbon intensiCiti has long recognized the global production portfolio and our U.S. power ty of our credit portfolios challenge of climate change; we released portfolio, as well as physical risk under a our first Climate Change Position • Conducting an assessment of physi4° C scenario for our U.S. power portfolio. Statement in 2007. In 2017, our CEO cal climate risk and risks to Citi’s own In late 2018, we published our first TCFD signed a statement of support for the facilities, as a complement to our report, Finance for a Climate-Resilient recommendations of the Task Force on business continuity planning Future, in which we disclosed our TCFD Climate-related Financial Disclosures, implementation across the four pillars of • Collaborating with others to norwith the understanding that Citi needed Governance, Strategy, Risk Management malize climate disclosure, further to continue to build on its strong founand Metrics and Targets, including the developing and standardizing climate dation of climate-related activity and results of our scenario analysis pilot scenario analysis and reporting, and disclosure. Our objective is to understand project. disclosing our learnings as we go the potential financial risks to Citi, our clients and communities from climate With feedback from our investors on Following the release of that report, we change, how Citi and our clients may be how we might prioritize these numerous convened a half-day investor dialogue in contributing to climate change, and how potential next steps, along with ongoing February 2019 with Ceres, a climatewe can help our clients transition to a conversations with regulators and our focused nonprofit organization, during low-carbon economy. lessons learned from our first phase of which a group of institutional and ESG implementation, in 2019 we embarked on We conducted a TCFD gap analysis and investors provided feedback on our TCFD phase two of our TCFD efforts. identified the climate scenario analyimplementation and disclosures to date. sis recommendation as a key area of We learned that investors valued the Our 2020 TCFD implementation plan development for Citi and our sector. We level of transparency, effort and detail includes activities across the following collaborated with the UN Environment provided in our reporting, appreciated the three integrated pillars and builds in Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) — standalone report and were interested opportunities for investor feedback, peer a global, UN–private sector collaboration in seeing TCFD references in financial collaboration and quick learning so that with more than 240 finance institutions reporting and our Proxy Statement. We we can course correct as needed: as members — and 15 other banks to elicited these investors’ feedback on a  isk Policies — Integrating climate 1. R number of potential actions Citi could risk further into Citi’s risk managetake on our TCFD journey, including: ment approach; reviewing and International Climate • Continuing to enhance our climate updating our ESRM Policy, including risk governance Sector Standards, to ensure that Reporting Awards our engagements with client sectors • Supplementing our scenario analysis pilot work with a shorter-term are guided by specific requirements climate stress test, given the lack of for higher-risk sectors, such as Citi was one of six global financial coal mining and coal-fired power alignment between the shorter time institutions awarded an International generation horizon of loans and the longer time Climate Reporting Award for innohorizon of climate change scenarios  limate Scenario Analysis — 2. C vation and best practices. Citi was • Looking into third-party methodUtilizing climate scenario analysis to recognized for reporting related to ologies, including the 2° Investing help understand differentiated client climate risk assessment and risk Initiative’s PACTA tool and the impacts (or resilience) to stresses management in our 2018 TCFD Partnership for Carbon Accounting from physical or transition climate report. The awards were jointly Financials, to analyze the alignment risk organized by the French Environment and Energy Management Agency and of our portfolio with the Paris 3. Carbon Measurement — Assessing the French Ministry for Ecological Agreement goal to limit warming to and testing different emerging and Inclusive Transition. well below 2° C, and/or to measure methodologies to evaluate portfolio the carbon associated with our loan carbon and portfolio decarbonizaportfolio tion pathways 12 In addition to these three pillars of activities, we are also actively participating in industry and multi-stakeholder workstreams to help build best practice in climate risk assessment for banks; engaging our clients on their own TCFD implementation and low-carbon transition; and engaging with regulators on emerging climate risk supervisory guidelines. We also plan to increase training on climate risk internally to build awareness and capacity. We are still in a relatively early stage of extensive climate scenario analysis but consider deepening our analysis of climate-related risks and opportunities fundamental to our sustainability goals and overall corporate strategy. Transparency and disclosure are critical to our efforts, and we continue to highlight relevant climate disclosures in this report. The TCFD Index indicates where related content can be found throughout the report. We plan to publish an update on our TCFD efforts in late 2020. Climate Scenario Analysis Citi and the Principles for Climate scenario analysis is still nascent within the financial sector. We Responsible Banking began piloting long-term climate scenario analysis in 2017–2018, building on In 2019, Citi became the first major U.S. a number of different types of climate risk analyses that Citi had conducted bank to endorse and become a signatory over the previous few years. We undertook our first climate-related stress to the Principles for Responsible Banking, test, a drought stress test, back in 2016, in collaboration with the Natural joining more than 100 banks around the Capital Finance Alliance and UNEP FI. We followed this up in 2017 with a world supporting this important effort. stranded asset analysis to understand the likelihood that upstream oil and The Principles were developed by the gas assets in our energy portfolio would lose value because of a carbon price banking industry itself, facilitated by and how that would impact clients’ credit quality. More information about UNEP FI. these analyses is available in our 2017 Global Citizenship Report. These Principles, which define what it We continue to collaborate with our peers to refine the methodologies and means to be a responsible bank, are tools developed during the UNEP FI pilot and to implement them more designed to enable all banks to implement broadly. For example, through Citibanamex’s participation in phase two of them, no matter their specific context. the UNEP FI pilot project we are expanding our scenario analysis to cover The Principles also provide the frameadditional sectors and geographies. In addition, we are continuing to partner work for a sustainable banking system, to with climate scenario modelers from the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact guide the industry in demonstrating how Research and the International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis to it contributes to society, with an aim to develop disorderly transition scenarios suitable for financial analysis and plan accelerate its contribution to achieving to test these additional scenarios. We are also piloting and exploring other the UN Sustainable Development Goals methodologies and tools, such as the 2° Investing Initiative’s PACTA tool. and the Paris Agreement. 13 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices TCFD Implementation Highlights Phase 1 (2017–2018) Learnings Risk Policies • A cross-functional team is required, including Environmental and Social Risk • Updated our ESRM Policy with new restrictions on financing for the construction or Management; Credit Risk; Quantitative expansion of coal-fired power plants Risk and Stress Testing; Sustainability & Climate Scenario Analysis ESG; and Banking. • Co-developed methodologies with UNEP FI and 15 other banks, and conducted a pilot • Sectors are heterogeneous, and some climate scenario analysis looking at transition risk (1.5°C and 2°C) associated with our clients are more resilient than others to North America oil & gas exploration and production and U.S. power portfolios, and climate stresses due to factors such as physical risk (4°C) associated with our U.S. power portfolio cost structure. TCFD Disclosure Challenges • Published our first TCFD report, Finance for a Climate-Resilient Future • Long-term orderly transition scenarios are not reflective of how climate risks are likely to evolve and are insufficient for understanding impacts on shorterterm credit portfolios. • There are continued data challenges and limitations with existing methodologies and tools available for climate risk assessment. Phase 2 (2019–2020) Challenges Ahead Risk Policies • Data challenges remain, including incomplete data for some client segments, • Updating our ESRM sector standards for coal mining and coal-fired power and expandwhich will need to be overcome. ing the climate risk section of our ESRM Policy • Determining which methodologies are • Established a global, cross-functional Climate Risk Working Group optimal is essential, as road testing • Incorporated climate risk into our material risk inventory and risk taxonomy different approaches is time and resource intensive. Climate Scenario Analysis • Methodologies for assessing the carbon • Stress testing the resilience of our global oil and gas exploration and production portintensity and emissions of loan portfolios folio to understand the impacts of a rapidly instituted carbon price (e.g., $50/ton of are still in “beta testing” mode and carbon dioxide from 2019 to 2021) remain controversial. • Conducting a physical risk assessment of Citi’s own facilities to understand our exposure to various climate hazards and the resilience of our operations Carbon Measurement • Road testing the PACTA methodology to analyze the alignment of our credit portfolios with 2°C scenarios • Assess the PCAF, the Science Based Targets initiative and other initiatives TCFD Disclosure • Convened an investor roundtable to obtain feedback and input on our TCFD strategy, implementation and disclosure • Publish our second TCFD report in late 2020, describing learnings from our current efforts 14 Citi and the Sustainable In 2019, Citi joined with the UN and other business leaders to create the Global Citi GPS, our premiere thought leadership product designed to help navigate the Development Goals Investors for Sustainable Development economy’s most demanding challenges, (GISD) Alliance, which promises to do uses the SDGs among other global referGiven our global footprint and our role more to address the multitrillion-dollar ence points to inform strategic insight on in financing economies around the shortfall in funding for the UN’s goals. topics such as single-use plastics and the world, Citi has an important role to The 30 members have committed to transition to more responsible production play in achieving the UN Sustainable scale up our collective efforts to align our and consumption of plastics and other Development Goals (SDGs). Throughout businesses with the goals and to remove packaging materials. Citi GPS released a this report, we have made an effort to barriers to finance. The GISD Alliance report in 2018 that aimed to simplify the indicate where information is relevant to will operate on a two-year timeline, from SDGs and identify the incremental finanaction on the SDGs. While our work and October 2019 through October 2021, cial costs and opportunities of achieving the content of this report cover many focusing on solutions related to long-term the individual goals and the human benefit SDGs, we have identified seven goals on SDG investment, particularly in developing that might be gained by solving them. which we can have the greatest impact. countries. These 17 interrelated Sustainable Development Goals represent an ambitious agenda to achieve a sustainable future by 2030. Citi has a role to play in all 17, yet our business most directly impacts the seven highlighted here. 5 Gender Equality Page 35 | Page 79 | Page 98 7 Affordable and Clean Energy Page 45 8 Decent Work and Economic Growth Page 36 | Page 40 | Page 65 | Page 77 9 Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure Page 25 | Page 28 | Page 36 11 Sustainable Cities and Communities Page 28 | Page 29 | Page 45 13 Climate Action Page 45 17 Partnerships for the Goals Page 25 15 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices ESG Governance to address global challenges through our core business. 88 percent of the Board is independent. Additionally, the Chair of the Board is a at Citi All of our Board committees play nonexecutive independent director. a role in providing oversight of our The full list of standing committees of our Good governance is a fundamental prinefforts to ensure responsible business Board of Directors is as follows: ciple at Citi, and we work to ensure that practices. For example, the Personnel we are at the leading edge of best prac• Audit and Compensation Committee reviews tices. We strive to maintain the highest • Ethics, Conduct and Culture all compensation programs, including standards of ethical conduct — reporting incentive compensation, so that they • Executive results with accuracy and transparency do not, among other things, encourage • Nomination, Governance and Public and maintaining full compliance with the imprudent risk taking. The Nomination, Affairs laws, rules and regulations that govern Governance and Public Affairs Committee Citi’s businesses. • Operations and Technology oversees Citi’s global ESG activities and performance. Our Ethics, Conduct and • Personnel and Compensation Corporate Governance Culture Committee reflects our commit• Risk Management ment to promote a strong culture of Our governance structures, policies and ethical conduct. See our website for more information processes serve employee, client and about Citi’s corporate governance, includcommunity needs; promote a culture of Our Board of Directors aims to have ing our Board committee charters. accountability and ethical conduct across at least two-thirds of its members as our firm; and support our commitment independent directors. Currently, Citi’s CEO and Chief Country Officer for Canada hosting a town hall for employees in Toronto. 16 ESG Governance The Nomination, Governance and Public Affairs Committee of the Board of Directors oversees our ESG activities. This committee’s responsibilities include reviewing our policies and programs for sustainability, climate change, human rights, diversity and other material ESG issues, as well as advising on engagement with external stakeholders. For more information on the roles and responsibilities of this committee, download the Nomination, Governance and Public Affairs Committee charter. Sustainability Citi’s Sustainability & ESG team, led by our Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO), works in partnership with our businesses Citi’s Board Chair participating in a fireside chat in Singapore discussing a range of topics, including to lead and implement our ambitious building an ethical culture. sustainability efforts globally, as well as our work to ensure that the human rights of our employees, suppliers and For many years, climate risk has been organizations in support of its economic those affected by the projects we finance addressed under our ESRM Policy in progress mission, is a separate legal are respected. Our Global Sustainability relation to project-related finance, and entity that is governed by a Board of Steering Committee provides guidance on Citi is actively working to develop more Directors made up of senior executives environmental and social issues related comprehensive approaches to evaluate from across Citi. Learn more about to global business activities. The commitclimate risk across our business, includthis team’s efforts in the Communities tee is chaired by the CSO and a senior ing reporting climate risk activities to section. executive in our Institutional Clients the Risk Management Committee of Group and includes executives from the Board. To further our efforts, we Talent and Diversity Banking, Risk, Public Affairs, Operations formed a global, senior-level Climate Citi’s Global Head of Talent and Diversity and Technology, and ESRM. Committee Risk Working Group in March 2019. oversees our efforts to promote talent, meetings are held approximately three This cross-functional group is tasked diversity and inclusion in the worktimes annually. with evaluating further integration of place. Reporting to the head of Human climate risk considerations into Citi’s risk Resources, she works in partnership Citi’s ESRM Policy is managed by management process, climate scenario with senior management, particularly the ESRM team, which works closely analysis and stress testing, climate data members of the executive management with ESRM specialists in the business and engagement with regulators on team who co-chair our Affinity groups. and with regional ESRM Champions. climate risk management. Our talent and diversity efforts are Within Operations and Technology, our governed by the Citi Board of Directors. Corporate Realty Services and Enterprise Community Investing Supply Chain teams each have specialEthics and Business Practices ized sustainability groups that manage Our Head of Community Investing and our environmental footprint and green Development leads the team that tackles Ethics and responsible business practices building goals and oversee supply chain challenges within our communities are among the most material ESG issues sustainability. These specialized teams through business investments as well as for Citi and our stakeholders. The Ethics, sit within their respective business units, philanthropy. In late 2019, we announced Conduct and Culture Committee of the ensuring ownership of sustainability the $150 million Citi Impact Fund, the Board oversees management’s efforts goals throughout the company. largest standalone fund of its kind in to foster a culture of ethics within the the financial sector. The Citi Foundation, company and receives regular reports which provides grants to community from senior management on the progress 17 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices of those efforts. To learn more about the responsibilities of the committee, Our Material ESG Our most recent materiality assessment, which was completed in late 2017, download the Ethics, Conduct and Culture Committee charter. The Ethics Issues: Citi in a included feedback through an online quantitative survey of more than 200 and Culture section of this report also Global Context global external stakeholders and over provides more information about efforts 500 Citi managing directors. It also to encourage a culture of ethics at Citi. We conduct periodic and comprehensive included a review of the ESG attributes materiality assessments to identify our used by rating and ranking agencies and Among its responsibilities, the Board’s most relevant (or “material”) reporting a focus on how these issues will play out Risk Management Committee reviews topics from an ESG perspective — which between now and 2030. Citi’s risk appetite framework, including is a broader standard than that used reputational risk appetite, and reviews in our financial disclosures. These ESG We complement our formal materiality and approves key risk policies, including topics, which we refer to as “material assessment process with regular engagethose focused on environmental and ESG issues” throughout this report, help ment with stakeholders on how these social risk. To learn more about the inform which issues we communicate issues are advancing. For example, we responsibilities of this committee, downhere, which issues we consider raising to have engaged with investors on TCFD load the Risk Management Committee our Board and how we establish our ESG and with industry stakeholders on our charter. priorities. approach to addressing climate change Citi’s Material ESG Issues Addressing Data Climate Transparency Security/ Ethics Change Risk/ Privacy Opportunity Products/ Financial Acting in Services with Human Systemic Inclusion/ Clients’ Best Environmental/ Rights Risk Interest Importance to Stakeholders Access Social Benefit Health/ Environmental Corporate Employee Customer Well-Being of Footprint Governance Risk Behavior Satisfaction Employees Partnerships Responsible Talent Diversity/ with Civil Innovation/ Supply Chain/ Attraction/ Equal Society/ Digitization Operations Development Opportunity Government Preparing Youth for Strategic Regulatory the Future Philanthropy Reform Economy Influence on Business Success 18 and are able to use these insights to ensure that we have a thoughtful and timely approach to sustainability and In 2019 our CEO signed the Business Roundtable’s Statement climate issues. on the Purpose of a Corporation, which reinforces the idea that companies should operate in the interest of all their A key insight underscored by our matestakeholders. riality process is the interconnectedness among material issues, such as acting in our clients’ best interests, systemic risk, climate change and talent attraction and development. Our core business must Stakeholder we regularly review our stakeholder partnerships across a range of funcaddress these issues holistically, and our ESG approach must enable the business Engagement at Citi tions, including Sustainability, Public Affairs, Government Affairs, Investor to address the risks and opportunities One of the most important ways we fulfill Relations, Human Resources, Corporate presented by the material issues. our mission to be a trusted partner to Governance, the Citi Foundation and our clients is by engaging with a wide other teams. array of stakeholders to gain their input and insights and share our expertise and The table below includes examples of our perspectives. As part of our engagement, recent stakeholder engagement efforts. Stakeholder Group How We Engage Examples from 2019 Investors • Group calls and meetings (quarterly • Completed dialogue session focused on earning calls, investor conferences and climate risk next steps Citi-hosted group meetings) • Citi senior executives presented at a • One-on-one meetings to discuss financial number of industry conferences for performance and ESG issues investors and peers • Communications through our Investor • Members of the Board and senior Relations and Corporate Governance management conducted meetings and teams calls with investors for input on a variety of governance, compensation and sustainability matters Government and Regulators • In-person meetings, conference calls, • Hosted forums with mayors around the lobbying activities, industry associations, world to discuss development, inclusion public policy forums, press conferences, and climate change issues conferences and convenings • Participated in the Federal Reserve • Membership on government councils and Bank of New York’s annual workshop committees on culture and behavior, discussing the impact of new technologies on culture in the workplace 19 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices Stakeholder Group How We Engage Examples from 2019 Suppliers • In-person meetings, calls, conferences • Co-hosted events with NGOs and indusand workshops try organizations and participated on panels to provide educational content to • Corporate Responsibility Questionnaire diverse suppliers to help assess management of ESG issues • Hosted multiple events to create opportunities to engage with diverse suppliers and help to build their capacity, including in the area of sustainability Community Leaders and • In-person meetings, calls, conference • Our Chief Sustainability Officer served calls, emails, social media and events on the Board of the UN Global Compact’s Nongovernmental U.S. Network • Specialized websites, including for the Organizations (NGOs) Citi Foundation and Citi Community • Engaged community leaders and NGOs Development at Citi Foundation events, including gatherings for Pathways to Progress, the • Collaboration with NGOs on issues Community Progress Makers Fund and relevant to their organizations and our the Financing Sustainable Cities Initiative business Employees • Company intranet, email, mail and • 120,000 employees, friends and families in-person meetings volunteered as part of Citi’s annual day of service, Global Community Day • Voice of the Employee survey • More than 21,800 employees partic• Employee Networks, volunteer councils ipated in more than 180 Employee and Green Teams Network chapters, and more than 1,800 • Community events employees participated in 18 Green • In-person and online training Teams globally • Performance reviews • More than 188,000 employees completed compliance training, including on anti• Citi Blog money laundering, sanctions and anti-bribery topics • Featured stories on Citi’s intranet and in blogs from Citi senior executives, employees and partners highlighting how we enable growth and progress • Established the Global Sustainability Network in 2018, consisting of employees from across Citi whose work directly relates to sustainability and ESG to promote knowledge sharing and alignment on related activities 20 Stakeholder Group How We Engage Examples from 2019 Clients and Customers • Meetings to share Citi’s environmental • Engaged Citi mobile customers in a and social performance and to underco-creation effort to identify digital stand our clients’ approaches to managbanking challenges that our mobile app ing environmental and social risks could potentially help solve • Social media, including our Customer • Engaged clients around specific, projectService Twitter handle (@AskCiti) related financial transactions and their associated environmental and social • Customer satisfaction surveys risks and mitigation efforts • Citi Blog • Shared red flags for illegal wildlife trafficking (IWT) with relevant clients to help them identify IWT Other Financial Institutions • Working groups • Member of the Equator Principles Association since 2004 • Joint projects • Founding member of the Diversity • In-person meetings, conference calls Project North America, a National • Industry groups, roundtables, workshops Investment Company Service Association and events initiative to promote diversity in the asset management industry • One of 30 core group banks that worked with UNEP FI to develop the Principles for Responsible Banking • Member of the Banking Standards Board in the UK, supporting its independent role to help rebuild trust and confidence across the UK banking industry • Citi and Citibanamex worked on implementing the TCFD recommendations with UNEP FI and nearly 40 banks 21 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices Page 23 Inclusive and Resilient Communities Page 43 Environmental Finance SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT 22 Inclusive and Resilient Communities HIGHLIGHTS Supporting mission-driven #1 affordable housing lender enterprises Investing in youth Provided $6 billion in loans, making Citi the Launched a $150 million impact investing More than $194 million invested by the top lender for the 10th consecutive year fund to support companies addressing Citi Foundation in youth employment Page 30 societal challenges efforts since 2014 Page 33 Page 41 From infrastructure to affordable housing, from jobs to financial inclusion, we are helping to build more inclusive, resilient and sustainable communities. As a leading global bank, we have the scale and capabilities to finance and support the institutions — governments, corporations, nonprofits and aid organizations — that can contribute to the future our communities deserve. 23 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices Catalyzing Inclusive and Resilient Communities Citi and the Citi Foundation focus our efforts on six primary areas, with the following overarching impacts Innovative Local Government & The Future of Work and results in 2019. Community Change Agents $194M invested globally by the $12.6M invested by Citi and Citi Foundation through the Citi Foundation in its Pathways to Progress programs implemented program to prepare youth with municipalities for 21st century jobs (2014–2019) Some of the contributors to positive outcomes in communities include: Infrastructure Financial Inclusion $13B • Public Sector Group $1B in lending toward • Municipal Securities Division • Export and Agency Finance • Community Capital • Inclusive Finance in green building and sustainable financial inclusion transportation • Sustainability & ESG around the globe projects financed • Community Development over the last decade globally (2014–2019) • Citi Foundation Affordable Housing Thriving Small Businesses & Homeownership $10.6B in lending provided to small $6B in loans provided for affordable businesses in the U.S. housing projects in the U.S., the #1 lender for the 10th year This section of the report is not intended • Citi Public Sector Group globally • Citi Community Capital, our comto be a comprehensive inventory of our and Municipal Securities Division munity development lending and efforts but rather a sample of highlights in the U.S. provide products and investing group, provides financial to demonstrate how we deploy our services to national and local products to help affordable housing products, people and financial resources governments, central banks and developers construct, rehabilitate, to solve problems in our communities, other public-sector institutions that refinance and acquire affordable promote economic mobility and create enable countries and communities to multifamily housing across the U.S. an economy in which households at all operate. • Citi Inclusive Finance works across income levels have the opportunity to • Citi Export and Agency Finance Citi businesses globally to develop succeed. Multiple Citi businesses and collaborates with export credit agensolutions that enable us, our clients units contribute to the efforts highlighted cies, multilateral agencies and develand our partners to expand access throughout this section, including the opment finance institutions to help to financial services and advance following: expand their reach in both developed economic progress in underserved and emerging markets. market segments. 24 • Citi Sustainability & ESG partners with colleagues across Citi businessInnovative Local vouchers monthly, reconciling and consolidating the fuel expenses, which were es to encourage and enable solutions that contribute to sustainable growth Government and then reported to the Ministry of Finance for validation. This manual process was around the world. Community Change labor-intensive and time-consuming. • Citi Community Development forges innovative partnerships with leading Agents At the request of the Red Cross, Citi developed and implemented a tailored nonprofits and public agencies across Increasingly, local governments and purchase card program to replace the the U.S. to expand financial inclusion community organizations are playing a paper voucher model. The now-automated and economic opportunity for lowcentral role as change agents, leading system not only ensures that ambulance er-income and underserved houseon a wide array of issues, including drivers have access to fuel, it has also holds in the communities we serve. infrastructure, employment, housing improved efficiency and reduced costs for and financial health. Moreover, these the Red Cross. In addition, the Citi Foundation, a entities often do so while facing signifprivate foundation funded by Citi, Many institutional investors are looking icant budget and resource constraints. provides philanthropic grants to commufor returns beyond profit, and Citi offers A core pillar of our efforts to invest nity organizations around the world for products to meet this intent. Thematic in local communities is to collaborate efforts that increase financial inclusion, bonds — such as social, green and with — and provide financial solutions catalyze job opportunities for youth sustainability bonds — provide a way for to — local governments and community and reimagine approaches to building investors to see yields while also contriborganizations. economically vibrant communities. uting to positive environmental and social Underlying our approach is the notion Public-Sector and solutions. Thematic bonds continue to evolve to address changing needs and that no single institution can address Institutional Financing issues, and Citi works closely with clients system challenges by working in a and partners on new products. To learn silo. We rely on a variety of partnerWe provide a broad range of banking and more about Citi’s efforts to promote ships — with clients, governments, financial products and services, advice the growth of thematic bonds, including nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), and support to public-sector clients, such green and sustainability bonds, visit the academic institutions, and companies as government agencies, central banks, Environmental Finance section. ranging from startups to large, multidevelopment organizations, NGOs and national corporations — to succeed. academic institutions, to enable them to These partnerships highlight how our more effectively provide critical services Philanthropic Efforts work contributes directly to SDG 17, to local communities. Around the world, NGOs make valuable which seeks to strengthen the means Citi is uniquely positioned to support contributions to addressing difficult social of implementation and revitalize the large, global organizations that are in problems. But they need funding and global partnership for sustainable need of rapid solutions to solve complex other resources to amplify the impact of development. In particular, Citi’s efforts problems. For example, in Costa Rica in their work or to pursue as-yet-unproven contribute to target 17.3, which seeks to 2019, we supported the payment needs solutions that can be tested and later mobilize additional financial resources of the International Federation of Red brought to scale. This is often where for developing countries from multiple Cross and Red Crescent Societies. The Citi and the Citi Foundation can play an sources, including the private sector, to Red Cross is responsible for operating a effective role. Moreover, by helping city ensure sufficient financing is available to large fleet of emergency response ambuleaders develop technology-driven soluachieve the SDGs. lances, with fuel costs funded by Costa tions to urban challenges, our initiatives Rica’s Ministry of Finance. Historically, help support SDG 9, which promotes SDG Goal 17: Partnerships for the Goals inclusive and sustainable industrializaambulance drivers were given paper vouchers reflecting an approved tion and fosters innovation. monthly fuel allowance. The vouchers were accepted at most (but not all) fuel SDG Goal 9: Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure stations and were occasionally lost or damaged, rendering them invalid, leaving ambulances without fuel and putting lives at risk. The Red Cross collected used 25 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices Economic Transformation Through Digital Technologies Community Progress Makers Fund Digital technologies (especially relating to connectivity, big data and artificial intelThe Community Progress Makers Fund ligence) are transforming every facet of the economy — globally and locally. With supports high-impact community public-sector expenditure in most countries accounting for anywhere from one-third organizations that are driving economic to two-thirds of gross domestic product, it has become imperative for governments progress in their communities. Since to drive digitization efforts. A strong digital economy requires a robust digital infraCommunity Progress Makers launched structure, with digital money, payments and identity all required for the transformain 2016, the Citi Foundation has tion of any industry or society. Citi’s Digital Money Index, published annually since provided two-year, general operating support grants of $500,000 plus access 2014, helps governments understand their respective countries’ readiness for usage to skills-based, pro bono Citi volunteer of digital money. Each step taken toward digital money readiness can enhance a teams and a network of technical nation’s ability to transform its economy. According to the Digital Money Index, even experts to nonprofits in six cities. a 10 percent increase in digital money readiness could help up to 220 million individUnrestricted funding, which is often in uals enter the formal financial sector. A recent Citi Global Perspectives & Solutions short supply, allows these organizations (Citi GPS) report highlights the digitization of government, offering examples and to go beyond business as usual to test case studies of how countries are progressing on their digital journeys. innovative approaches in the way they work to better fulfill their missions and serve their communities. Cities for Citizenship Financing Sustainable Cities In 2019, we completed the second round Initiative of Community Progress Makers funding, In 2014, Citi became the founding corporate partner of Cities for Citizenship with grantees producing meaningful The Financing Sustainable Cities Initiative (C4C), a nonpartisan national initiative impacts in their communities: (FSCI), a partnership funded by the Citi aimed at promoting and expanding Foundation, aims to help educate cities American citizenship and financial capa$7M about how to accelerate and scale up bility among lawful permanent residents their investments in sustainable urban in the U.S. What began with just three solutions. In 2015, the Foundation in household energy costs saved cities (New York City, Chicago and Los teamed up with the WRI Ross Center for for 32,000 low-income families Angeles) has since grown to a network Sustainable Cities and the C40 Cities of 92 American cities and counties. Climate Leadership Group to help reduce C4C celebrated its fifth anniversary in September 2019 with 45 local citizenglobal greenhouse gas emissions and improve quality of life for urban residents 33,800 people trained for employment and around the world. Areas of focus include 9,900 hired for new jobs ship events across the country. Since bike sharing systems, lowand zero-emisthe program’s launch, the network has sion buses, rapid transit, transit-oriented $46M reached nearly 1.8 million people who development and affordable housing. attended citizenship-related programming, helped more than 48,000 people The FSCI consists of two primary saved through tax preparation initiate the citizenship process and/ service programs components: or apply for citizenship and connected 30,000 individuals with financial • Peer-to-peer learning communities affordable housing empowerment services. C4C, which through which cities can share their units retained for 62,000 is also supported by the Center for experiences developing sustainable Popular Democracy and the National projects Partnership for New Americans, plans • Direct technical assistance to cities people to expand to 100 cities and counties in developing sustainable finance strat8,900 2020. In September, Citi was recognized egies and projects by the United Nations Association, Southern California Division, for our In 2019, C40 Cities released a report small businesses expanded role in catalyzing and scaling immigrant showcasing early results of the initiative. integration efforts. 26 Service Design for and with Thanks to the Community Progress Makers Fund… Low-Income New Yorkers Two years ago, the New York City (NYC) Mayor’s Office for Economic Opportunity — We had the flexibility to innovate with funding and support from Citi — hired a team of designers and gave them one quickly and foster new partnerships mission: make public services more effecwith employers, resulting in hundreds of tive and accessible for all New Yorkers. Since then, NYC’s Service Design Studio low-income job seekers securing jobs at has taken on dozens of projects, including average wages of $27+ per hour.” the following: • Pathways to Prevention: Studio — Abby Snay, CEO, Jewish Vocational Service designers partnered with the Administration for Children’s Services (ACS) to improve how families enroll Our work went from a couple of in and engage with ACS Prevention services. The project ultimately resulted insightful ideas in a report to landin new, user-informed communication materials about Prevention services mark legislation that has the potential currently being field tested. • Women in Rikers: Reentry: Studio to redefine how the Bay Area delivers designers were tasked with improving housing affordability and opportunity.” how women released from Rikers Island, home to many of the city’s inmate facilities, access reentry services, so they — Heather Hood, Vice President & Market Leader, Enterprise return home in a strong and stable way. Community Partners Northern California The redesigned referral management service and support infrastructure will be piloted in 2020. We’re building community solar projThe service design studio model is spreadects that preserve affordability and ing. The NYC Studio was influential in the formation of the Philadelphia Service create economic opportunity for hundreds Design Studio announced in Fall 2019. of District of Columbia residents.” — Michelle Moore, CEO, Groundswell Graduates are participating in the digital economy for the first time in their lives. Together, we’re putting tech within reach.” — Elizabeth Lindsey, Executive Director, Byte Back 27 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices Infrastructure were counted toward our $100 Billion Environmental Finance Goal, are helping Airport in Quito, the sole airport serving Ecuador’s capital and the largest airport According to the Global Infrastructure cities meet the needs of rapid urbanization in the country. Execution of the bond Hub, the world faces a $15 trillion gap and work toward SDG 9, which commits to issuance leveraged Citi’s unique combinabetween the amount of money invested build resilient infrastructure, promote tion of insights and experiences with both and the amount actually needed to inclusive and sustainable industrializaglobal airport credits and Ecuadorian provide adequate infrastructure globally tion and foster innovation, as well as SDG sovereign bond issuances. This transby 2040. In the U.S., the American 11, which aims to make cities and human action was the first private sector bond Society of Civil Engineers estimates there settlements inclusive, safe, resilient issuance in over 20 years from Ecuador will be a $1.5 trillion shortfall between the and sustainable. Our work contributes and demonstrates how financing of amount of infrastructure needed and the to target 9.1, which includes developing essential infrastructure assets can open amount actually funded by 2025. quality, reliable, sustainable and resilient doors to new pools of international infrastructure, and also supports target capital for emerging markets. Publicand private-sector stakeholders 11.2, which includes an aim of providing need to work together to find ways to access to safe, affordable, accessible and SDG Goal 9: Industry, Innovation and overcome investment barriers to muchsustainable transport systems for all. Infrastructure needed infrastructure projects. Citi SDG Goal 11: Sustainable Cities and finances billions in infrastructure projects As one example of our significant support Communities around the world. Between 2014 and for infrastructure, in 2019, we served as 2019, we provided more than $13 billion global coordinator and joint bookrunner in green building and sustainable transin a $400 million debut bond issuance to portation projects. These activities, which finance the Mariscal Sucre International Citi led the first private-sector bond issuance in over 20 years in Ecuador in support of the Mariscal Sucre International Airport in Quito. 28 Affordable Housing Citi Bike Program Expansion ® and Homeownership While homeownership in the U.S. has The Citi Bike program has been one of the most visible been rebounding, a lack of housing invendemonstrations of our bank’s commitment to making a tory continues to erode affordability, particularly for lowand moderatepositive contribution to society. In 2019, the New York income households.1 Citi is working to City mayor’s office announced plans to double the Citi help address the affordable housing Bike Program’s service area by 35 square miles and crisis by financing projects in low-income triple the number of bikes to 40,000. The five-year urban areas and developing new models to strengthen affordable housing markets expansion will bring the nation’s largest bike share overall. This work aligns with SDG target system to a broader and more economically diverse 11.1, which includes providing access for range of communities. all to adequate, safe and affordable housing and basic services. SDG Goal 11: Sustainable Cities and Communities New York City Launched: May 2013 Trips since launch: 92.2M 861,682 unique riders Financing Affordable Housing We offer a range of housing financing Miles traveled: 159.3M Annual members: 145K in 2019 solutions — including construction and permanent lending, tax credit equity, and Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac mortgage banking — to affordable housing developers. We focus on projects that serve low-income and special needs populations, including seniors, individuals with disabilities and people who are homeless. Miami Our work goes beyond just housing; we Launched: Dec. 2014 also finance projects critical to strong Trips since launch: 8.2M and vibrant communities such as schools, Miles traveled: 24.7M healthcare facilities and businesses Annual members: 6K that contribute to revitalization. Our long experience as a leading provider of capital to the affordable housing development community in the U.S. gives us the expertise to solve complex development problems that often confront Jersey City our affordable housing developer clients, including creative adaptive reuse project Launched: Sept. 2015 and public housing projects employing Trips since launch: 1.4M HUD’s Rental Assistance Demonstration Miles traveled: 1.6M (RAD) program. In 2019, we financed Annual members: 2.1K * All figures are through 1 Joint Center for Housing Studies of Harvard University, December 31, 2019. The State of the Nation’s Housing 2019, (2019). 29 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices Affordable Housing Impacts In 2019, we provided more than $6 billion in loans for affordable housing projects in the U.S., covering nearly 38,000 apartments in 200 cities, making us the leading financier of affordable housing in the U.S. for the 10th consecutive year. 1.6K buildings financed 194 projects closed 65 rehab construction 80 new construction 1,259 buildings 27M 36 permanent 341 green buildings square feet financing 8 acquisition 5 adaptive reuse 26.1K affordable and mixed income 30 states 6.3K senior 3k RAD 200 cities 1k special needs 984 38K 117 formerly homeless 350 veteran apartments financed clients served more than 3,000 apartments under the For example, Citi invested $5 million for Inclusive and Supportive RAD program. construction of a new plant for Factory_ OS, which builds thoughtfully designed Housing In 2019, we also financed multiple multifamily units at a San Francisco Bay Citi works to increase and preserve modular — or offsite — construction projarea location faster and at a lower cost affordability while strengthening affordects, which can allow for more efficient than conventionally built housing. able housing options for vulnerable and sustainable construction of multifampopulations, many of which are often ily homes while creating permanent jobs. overlooked. 30 For example, Citi recently provided a $23.6 million construction letter of credit to finance a new, 107-unit apartment Female veterans are the complex in New York that will reserve 65 fastest-growing segment of the homeless veteran units for chronically homeless individuals population in the U.S. In and families living with mental illness and Dallas, 175 Citi employees special needs. The property will include volunteered more than 2,400 hours to help build access to a full range of supportive a Green Extreme Home for services for adults and children. The female veterans — the first entire building is reserved for residents group home in the U.S. built with income from 30 to 60 percent of the under the U.S. Department of Energy’s Zero Energy area median income. Ready guidelines. Citi also supported the home project Older members of the LGBT+ community with funding as part of Bring face high rates of discrimination, includThem HOMES. ing when seeking affordable housing. Citi partners with SAGE, one of the oldest nonprofit organizations dedicated to the needs of the elder LGBT+ constituency in the U.S., to help ensure that communities are equipped to support aging LGBT+ Housing for U.S. residents through capacity building, consumer education, advocacy, training and the construction of more LGBT+Veterans welcoming housing. In October 2019, On any given night in America, an estimated with support from Citi, SAGE brought 2 together housing developers, nonprofit 38,000 veterans are homeless. Many of them practitioners and policy experts from struggle with lingering trauma or suffer from across the nation for an inaugural LGBT various physical or mental disabilities. Since 2012, Elder Housing Symposium in Washington, D.C. SAGE’s National LGBT Elder Housing Citi has supported LISC and the National Equity Initiative aims to make the housing Fund’s Bring Them HOMES initiative, which finances, sector more welcoming of older LGBT+ facilitates, advocates for and implements affordable people. These efforts aim to contribute to housing options for veterans. To date, a total of meeting the need for affordable housing among the 3 million to 7 million LGBT+ 5,000 affordable housing units, including 3,100 people age 50 and above expected over specifically for veterans, have been completed the next decade. or are in development. Innovative Approaches to For example, thanks to support from Citi, U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Creating and Preserving Skid Row Housing Trust built an affordDevelopment and the U.S. Department Affordable Housing able housing project in Los Angeles called of Veterans Affairs. The Six, which now provides housing A half century after the Fair Housing Act and services to veterans. The housing Bring Them HOMES earned Citi a 2019 was passed to boost access to housing complex’s name is derived from “Got Community Commitment Award from the opportunities for all U.S. residents, the your six,” a military phrase that roughly American Bankers Association — the first entry point for homeownership is only translates to “I’ve got your back.” In such award given for supporting military Sacramento, California, a complex with families. We were one of eight banks getting more challenging to attain as 39 units — most of them earmarked for recognized for outstanding commitment housing prices continue to rise. veterans — opened in 2019, thanks to to our communities. Citi has identified and is investing in a funding from Citi and money from the proven tool for creating and preserving affordable housing: community land 2  U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, 2018 Annual Homeless Assessment Report to Congress (Part 1: Point-in-Time Estimates of Homelessness). 31 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices trusts (CLTs). A CLT is a nonprofit, ownership of the land while enabling In New York, Citi has invested $1.2 million community-based organization, typically lowand moderate-income households in the Joint Ownership Entity NYC run by a board, staff and community to purchase homes at affordable prices. (JOE NYC), which is enabling neighbormembers, that buys land to build permaThe homeowners agree to cap the resale hood-based nonprofit housing organizanently affordable housing for low-income prices of the residences to ensure that tions to aggregate their affordable units households. Dating back to the civil future owners benefit from affordable to achieve economies of scale. Together, rights era, CLTs separate ownership of prices as well. these organizations are creating one of housing from ownership of the land on the city’s largest nonprofit housing portwhich the housing sits. The CLT retains Today, there are some 225 CLTs, comprisfolios. JOE NYC is on track to own 3,500 ing more than 25,000 rental and 12,000 affordable apartments by 2020. ownership units, across the country. As a leading supporter of CLTs in the U.S., Beyond homeownership, in cities such as New Tool Aims to Citi has invested approximately $7 million San Francisco and Washington, D.C., Citi in seeding new CLTs in places like Miami, has financed nonprofits that are trying to Aggregate Vacant New York City and Washington, D.C. On boost affordable rentals through accesLand for Affordable Long Island, which suffered significant sory dwelling units (ADUs) — secondary Development damage from Hurricane Sandy in 2012, dwellings on a housing parcel, such the Long Island Partnership Community as basements, garage apartments or Land Trust has committed to building separate freestanding structures. ADUs According to federal statistics, over three dozen affordable homes — benefit homeowners by creating income nearly two-thirds of lower-income several of which have been completed streams while adding more affordable renters in Miami spend at least half and now house residents — thanks in housing in residential neighborhoods. of their income on housing — more part to a $1.2 million investment from In Washington, D.C., for example, the than any other city in the nation. Citi. In New York City, the mayor recently nonprofit United Planning Organization is Local officials and real estate develcommitted to CLT units for 3,000 teaching residents how to take advantage opers, however, have long said that families, building on Citi’s $1.5 million of zoning regulations that allow for the there isn’t enough land available to investment in the Interboro Community building of ADUs. By educating qualified build more affordable housing. Land Trust. homeowners on how to design, permit and build ADUs on their properties, A new online tool developed by the In San Francisco, it is nearly impossible homeowners can increase property University of Miami with support for affordable housing developers to values, age in place, build intergenerafrom Citi has revealed approximately compete with private developers in one tional wealth and grow new skill sets in 500 million square feet — roughly of the most expensive, cash-driven real development and property management. the size of Manhattan — of underutiestate marketplaces in the country. That’s why Citi worked with the City of lized, publicly owned land in the greater Miami area that is potentially San Francisco to create the San Francisco Thriving Small suitable for affordable housing development. Called Land Access Housing Accelerator Fund (SFHAF) — an innovative nonprofit vehicle that enables Businesses for Neighborhood Development mission-driven housing developers to According to the U.S. Small Business (LAND), the tool provides a realmore nimbly and sustainably build and Administration, small businesses are at time snapshot of the location, size preserve affordable housing. Since its the forefront of economic growth. Yet and ownership of thousands of launch in 2017, SFHAF has funded the they often face difficulties accessing parcels of publicly or institutionally preservation and construction of 433 the capital and development resources owned vacant or underutilized land units, including a historic Mission Street needed to thrive and grow. Through across Miami-Dade County and its building that will provide eight apartdirect financing and partnerships with 34 municipalities. In order to build, ments for lowand moderate-income community organizations and local developers would need to get access households. The acquisition is also governments, we support the growth of to land from the city and/or county helping to preserve El Rio, a popular bar small businesses and their contributions or from institutions such as universiand cultural landmark that has served the to the broader economic ecosystem in ties and NGOs. local Latino and LGBT+ communities for countries around the world. In 2019, Citi more than 40 years. invested more than $10.6 billion in small business lending in the U.S. 32 d.light, a social enterprise, received $5 million in financing to expand access to off-grid solar energy in Kenya through Scaling Enterprise. Empowering MissionDriven Enterprises Citi supports mission-driven enterprises that are working to build more equitable communities. In early 2020, we launched a $150 million venture capital fund that will allow us to make investments in U.S. companies that are addressing societal challenges. The Citi Impact Fund will prioritize companies that are led or owned by women or minorities and that are using technology and innovation to help address four key societal challenges. Citi’s Impact Fund focuses on four key areas: Workforce Financial Physical & Social Sustainability Development Capability Infrastructure Solutions that address issues related to energy, Solutions that train Solutions that Solutions that improve an water and sustainable and connect people increase access to the individual’s way of life production to careers financial system through housing, healthcare and transportation The fund, which is one of the largest standCorporation (formerly OPIC) and the Ford affordable housing, water and sanitation alone impact investing funds in the financial Foundation. Through this facility, we are to low-income households in emerging sector, will highlight the ability to achieve able to provide earlier-stage financing in markets. In the first two transactions both healthy financial returns and positive local currency to companies that expand under Scaling Enterprise, the partners social impact. It builds on and complements access to products and services for lowhave committed $5 million in financing to our other efforts to expand access to earlyincome communities in emerging markets. InI Farms to help smallholder banana and stage financing by companies that are Loans and working capital in local currency pomegranate farmers in India access export addressing community challenges. and at affordable rates can enable innomarkets and increase incomes by up to vative social impact companies to achieve 20 percent, as well as $5 million in financing One example of these other efforts is scale, greater efficiencies and lower costs. to d.light to expand access to off-grid solar Scaling Enterprise, a $100 million loan Scaling Enterprise will facilitate vital growth energy in Kenya. guarantee facility launched in 2019 by Citi, financing to companies that are expanding the U.S. International Development Finance access to finance, agriculture, energy, 33 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices Supporting Womenand investing in programs that emphasize WE NYC has surpassed its initial goal entrepreneurship, employee ownership of serving 5,000 women by helping Minority-Owned Small and local contracting. We support these more than 6,000 female entrepreBusinesses efforts through a number of partnerships, neurs develop their ideas and expand including the following: their enterprises. The gender and race gaps in the world of small businesses are very real, with • Women Entrepreneurs NYC (WE NYC) • The National Coalition for Asian reports showing that less than 3 percent was launched by the NYC Department Pacific American Community of venture capital funding is allocated to of Small Business Services in 2015 Development issued a report supwomenand minority-owned startups. to connect aspiring and established ported by Citi called Small Business, In New York City, for example, there are female entrepreneurs to the reBig Dreams, which highlights almost 360,000 female entrepreneurs sources, education and community how entrepreneurship is a critical who contribute approximately $50 billion services needed to build thriving asset-building pathway for many annually in revenue to the city’s economy. businesses. Citi supported the initial members of the Asian American and Yet research by Citi found that men own research study that defined the Pacific Islander (AAPI) community. 1.5 times the number of businesses, program design as well as WE Master AAPI immigrants start businesses at have 3.5 times the number of employees Money: Credit, connecting women a higher rate than the general U.S. and generate 4.5 times the amount of with credit-building workshops and population, yet they face significant revenue. one-on-one counseling to help them obstacles to business growth, includmanage credit and access more ing language barriers and limited Citi aims to change the statistics for loans, thereby building credit and access to capital. womenand minority-owned businesses by financial resilience. Since its launch, Shinar Little (far right), owner of FogHill, Inc., stands with some of his employees outside of Georgetown University. Little benefited from the DC Community Anchor Partnership, a program that connects local, minority-owned firms with leading university and health system organizations in the nation’s capital. Citi provided seed funding for the program. 34 • The Democracy at Work Institute and the National League of Cities are part of a national movement aimed Microfinance as a Path to Women’s Economic at encouraging business owners of Empowerment color to convert their businesses to employee ownership models to preserve wealth and stabilize commuCiti has partnered with the U.S. International Development Finance nities. In the U.S., more than Corporation (DFC, formerly known as OPIC) to expand microfinance loans 1 million business owners of color are to women in emerging markets around the world. In 2019, we committed nearing retirement. Collectively, they to work with the DFC, the U.S. Agency for International Development and employ more than 8.2 million people private-sector partners to mobilize an additional $500 million for women in and generate more than $1.2 trillion Latin America. In Tunisia, we recently announced the launch of a $10 million in annual revenue. Yet fewer than loan guarantee facility, which will provide growth financing to more than 20 percent of these business owners 17,000 microentrepreneurs, approximately 65 percent of them women. And have post-retirement succession in Jordan, Citi provided $5 million to Microfund for Women, which will now be plans. In Washington, D.C., where able to give loans to an additional 10,000 underserved Jordanian women. nearly 40 percent of Black business owners are nearing retirement age, Citi also has partnered with CreditAccess Grameen, which was born out of Citi supports the D.C. Employee the need to provide timely and affordable credit to low-income households in Ownership Initiative to preserve India. Women in India make up 60 percent of the country’s unbanked populalegacy businesses and create new tion of 190 million people. In 2019, Citi provided $29.5 million to CreditAccess pathways to entrepreneurship. We Grameen to help reach an additional 75,000 women with an average loan size also support Project Equity, a nonof $390. profit that helps retiring business owners transfer company ownership Microfinance loan programs are typically associated with emerging markets, to employees to preserve small while the need for such programs in industrialized countries such as the U.S. businesses in Southern California is often underappreciated. A decade ago, Citi collaborated with Grameen and South Florida. America to help establish the organization’s first office in Queens, New York. • In Los Angeles, Citi was the founding Grameen America members — who are all minority and immigrant women corporate sponsor of a regional living on lower wages — are provided with microloans, fee-waived Citi savings collaborative launched to make it accounts, peer support and financial education to help them expand their easier for small businesses to bid for businesses and generate income for themselves and their families. Grameen local contracts worth more than America released early results of the most rigorous, independent, third-party $1 billion. Small business owners have evaluation of group microfinance in the U.S. to date, which was produced with for years battled with a fragmented, funding from Citi. This important preliminary research on Grameen America’s antiquated and complex contract prolending program demonstrates that helping women build positive credit histocurement system in the Los Angeles ries and raise credit scores is a powerful approach to expanding economic area. The newly launched OneLA opportunity for fledgling entrepreneurs. Since launching in 2008, more than Regional Collaborative establishes 129,000 women have received over $1.4 billion in microloans through this a partnership between some of the program to start and grow their businesses — with 99 percent repayment. largest public agencies in the region seeking to connect diverse businessMost microfinance beneficiaries globally are women, making Citi’s work on es to technical assistance, business microfinance a direct contributor to SDG 5, in support of gender equality and resources and public and private empowerment for all women and girls, and in particular target 5.a, which contracting opportunities. The new strives for a range of gender-related objectives, including giving women system will streamline and speed up equal rights to economic resources. the procurement process and give small businesses a fairer shot as they SDG Goal 5: Gender Equality compete for contracts. Learn how we are supporting womenand minority-owned small businesses in our own supply chain in the Operations and Supply Chain section. 35 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices Preserving Local Jobs 21st century industrial and manufacturing excluded. Without that, even the most jobs in New York City. In the Bronx, a innovative and thoughtfully developed Citi works with public and private partmixed-use, 50,000-square-foot industrial products will fail. ners to help remove the individual and space that will create industrial and systemic barriers to success for current commercial space, as well as 740 housing Citi works to develop solutions that are and aspiring small business owners, such units and open workspaces, will open safe, transparent and accessible — ones as access to capital and affordable space, in three phases by 2024. The Urban that provide real economic value, includas well as roadblocks to entrepreneurManufacturing Accelerator Fund helped ing for those whose financial needs are ship. Because the specific challenges to catalyze both projects. currently unmet. We seek out innovative facing entrepreneurs often vary by city partnerships with financial institutions, and region, we engage with local entities telecommunications and fintech providto implement thoughtful solutions. Financial Inclusion ers, government agencies, consumer goods companies and others that have In New York City, Citi partners with LISC Most people can easily comprehend the close relationships with the unbanked and NYC and the NYC Department of Small economic and social case for ensuring the underserved segments of society. Business Services to help revitalize that all households have access to the Our partners are trusted leaders in their commercial corridors and small busifinancial products and services they sectors who understand the needs of nesses across the city. Community organeed. But to develop solutions that meet their local markets. nizations apply for funding and access the needs of underserved households, we to expertise to implement initiatives that need to understand the financial behavSuccess also requires setting public are most valuable to their corridors. iors of customers who are at risk of being policy priorities and building the industry. The organizations focus on storefront improvements, such as new signage and lighting, as well as broader efforts aimed at boosting foot traffic, increasing sales and contributing to a greater sense of Financial Inclusion and the SDGs safety. An estimated 1.7 billion adults around the world, in both developing and developed markets, remain outside the formal banking sector. To improve access for these people, Urban manufacturing also holds great banks need to understand and address the mistrust of financial institutions among many promise as a path to higher-wage employtraditionally underbanked communities and also invest in innovative products that meet ment and greater economic security. New their unique needs. We offer a variety of products, tools and services that help improve York City has made development of the industrial and manufacturing sector a key financial resiliency and inclusion in these communities and partner with organizations component of its strategy to create more that are increasing access to financial services and providing educational resources to living-wage employment. Together, Citi residents. and the Association for Neighborhood Our extensive work on financial inclusion contributes to progress on SDG 8, which aims, and Housing Development launched the among other things, to provide full and productive employment and decent work for Urban Manufacturing Accelerator Fund to create and preserve quality manufacall. For example, Citi’s work on financial inclusion around the world contributes to target turing jobs in New York City. The Fund 8.10, which aims to strengthen the capacity of domestic financial institutions to provides frontline resources that enable encourage and expand access to banking, insurance and financial services for all. nonprofit developers to more effectively Inclusive finance is also a key success factor for progress on SDG 9, which aims to build acquire and renovate manufacturing resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and space by leveraging financing from the NYC Economic Development Corporation. foster innovation, specifically enabling progress on target 9.3, which seeks to increase the access of small-scale enterprises, particularly in developing countries, to In Brooklyn, a $6.85 million warehouse financial services to facilitate integration into value chains and markets. renovation project will create 10,000 square feet of industrial space to be leased at affordable rates for local SDG Goal 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth industrial businesses and manufacturers. The project is one example of progress in SDG Goal 9: Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure the City of New York’s 10-point Industrial Action Plan, which is aimed at growing 36 For example, the Citi Foundation has supported the Better Than Cash Alliance at the United Nations; the Alliance works with governments and businesses around the world to introduce public policy, regulations and best practices that accelerate digital platforms and financial access. But to empower significantly more people and businesses, we need even more collective action. No single company, industry or government agency can tackle these issues alone. Making Financial Products and Services More Inclusive Citi is working to expand access to safe and affordable products and services within low-income communities and communities of color, where a lack of access to financial products and services can leave families financially vulnerable. We harness our global infrastructure and the deep expertise of our colleagues and collaborate with other institutions to understand the challenges of our clients and create scalable, responsible and commercially viable solutions that expand access and deliver greater inclusive economic growth. In Mexico, where 63 percent of adults are unbanked and 80 percent of payments are made in cash, we’re focused on bringing more residents into the formal banking system. Through the launch of the Cobro Digital market-wide initiative works with all smartphones, banks and are helping to reduce transaction costs, (or CoDi Payment, for short), Mexico is telephone carriers. improve convenience and choice for enabling more than 5.5 million digital customers, and expand access for people clients to send collection requests and In the U.S., we have established relationin the communities we serve. payments of up to 8,000 pesos ($400 ships with 28 minority-owned depository USD) by using QR codes and near-field institutions, community banks and credit communication (NFC) on their phones unions as part of our Citi ATM Community Fostering Financial at no cost. Citibanamex is one of the Network, a pilot program we started in Education and leading banks in the initiative and has July 2016. Today, more than 440,000 Empowerment had a leadership role since inception. customers of these institutions are able CoDi will redefine the way charges and to use any of Citibank’s 2,300 ATMs Building financial knowledge and skills payments are made in Mexico, allowing without paying out-of-network fees. By and encouraging positive financial behavmonetary transactions to be made more removing surcharge fees on cash withiors are important components of a more efficiently and securely. The new platform drawals from Citibank branch ATMs, we inclusive financial system. Consumers 37 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices need access to financial products and deferrals and forbearance programs. Late lower-income workers, is often the largest services, as well as the ability to use these in 2019, we provided a suite of disaster lump-sum payment these households products responsibly while protecting relief packages to customers impacted by receive all year. Yet according to the their own best interests. Australia’s bushfires, including a payment Internal Revenue Service, one out of moratorium with a suspension of repayevery five eligible households does not Citi offers a range of free, publicly ment and no interest or fee charges. claim the EITC and, of those who do file, available financial education resources many pay hundreds of dollars to file their online, including tools that help consumWe also partner with community orgataxes when there are free, professional ers plan for retirement, prepare for life nizations to build financial capability filing services available to them. changes and protect their wealth. In some for individuals and communities. In the instances, when customers may need U.S. in 2019, Citi collaborated with more Citi provided approximately $4.5 million special assistance, we provide support to than 20 municipalities and counties, as toward 2018 and 2019 tax time initiatives. address their needs. For example, during well as leading nonprofit organizations, In 2019, Citi’s investments had widespread the U.S. federal government shutdown to support free tax preparation services positive impact, especially across the that ended in early 2019, Citi offered a and address the billions of dollars in state of California, where Citi-supported range of assistance measures for customunclaimed Earned Income Tax Credits tax preparation campaigns and services ers experiencing financial hardship as a (EITCs) left on the table by millions of helped 29,500 eligible filers complete result of the shutdown, including fee and lower-income working households annutheir EITC forms, which yielded over interest adjustments, minimum payment ally. The EITC, a refundable tax credit for $58.5 million in tax credits claimed. These free tax preparation services helped filers save an estimated $6.8 million in tax preparation fees. EmpoweredNYC launched Also in 2019, Citi announced the expansion in early 2018 with an initial of Empowered Cities, a landmark initiative $2M designed to advance financial inclusion and economic opportunity for people with disabilities, many of whom live on lower incomes. Citi’s $2 million commitment will expand the initiative to Boston, seed investment from Citi Chicago, Los Angeles and San Francisco, building on the existing partnership with the City of New York and the National EmpoweredNYC has Disability Institute. Empowered Cities is delivered more than 1,100 also expanding the initiative’s areas of focus to include housing and employment for financially vulnerable households in the disability community. Individuals with disabilities and their families are among specialized financial counseling the most underserved and financially sessions to nearly 700 New Yorkers vulnerable groups in the country. There are 61 million people with a disability in the U.S., and more than a quarter of them are living below the poverty line. The national expansion builds on the first municipal model, EmpoweredNYC, which launched in early 2018 with an initial $2 million seed investment from Citi. Led by the NYC Department of Consumer and Worker Protection’s Office of Financial Empowerment, EmpoweredNYC has delivered more than 1,100 specialized financial counseling sessions to nearly 700 New 38 Yorkers with disabilities and their families. In 2019, we participated in a convening of commissioners from 10 mayoral offices and disabilities-focused leaders to explore how we can address the most pressing financial security issues facing the disability community. In addition, we work with several municipal and community partners to provide immigrants with knowledge and resources to strengthen their financial capabilities. Many Mexican immigrants in the U.S., for example, are not familiar with the country’s complex financial and tax environment and face real or perceived obstacles rooted in language, culture and barriers to trust. The Ventanilla de Asesoría Financiera (VAF) program operates on-site at Mexican consulates and offers in-language guidance on opening a bank account, budgeting, paying off debt, gaining access to free tax preparation, establishing credit and building a secure financial future. Citi provided seed funding to create and scale this model and has collaborated with the Foreign Ministry of Mexico to expand it to 48 consulates across the country. Of the 48 VAFs operating in the consular offices of Mexico in the U.S., Citi directly finances eight. In 2019, the VAF program Brave Girl Rising is a short film presented by the nonprofit behind the global campaign for girls’ was featured at the first-ever summit for education and empowerment Girl Rising. The film follows a young refugee woman named Nasro who sees education as her lifeline, yet who every day faces formidable challenges in accessing this financial inclusion of Mexicans abroad, fundamental human right. In telling her story, the film seeks to illuminate the plight facing millions of which was attended by key Mexican refugee girls around the world and inspire action for girls’ education and empowerment. Citi, which government officials across finance, supported the film with the International Rescue Committee and others, hosted over 160 screenings education and foreign affairs. of the film when it premiered on March 8, 2019, on International Women’s Day. Empowered Through where one in three children are born who are foster children, is included. Education into families with little to no savings. For The result was Kindergarten to College many of these children, a college savings (K2C), the nation’s first universal youth Education is one of the best means for account could be their family’s first exposavings account program, built on the improving one’s financial situation. But sure to mainstream financial services as first-of-its-kind Citi Start Saving platform. high costs and other socioeconomic well as a pathway to opportunity. A K2C account contains an initial $50 barriers can put higher education out of incentive for every child who enters the reach for many, especially those who are In 2009, when then-Mayor Gavin city’s public school system. Additional unbanked or living on lower incomes. Newsom put forward his vision for a incentives are awarded over time for universal children’s savings program, Citi making deposits or for positive behaviors In the U.S., where the rising cost of a stepped up to the challenge. We worked in school. college degree can prevent many from with the city, teachers and parents to pursuing higher education and leave understand the needs and challenges A new update to Citi Start Saving that many others saddled with significant of establishing a savings program in was deployed in 2019 provides five debt, Citi Start SavingSM aims to help. which every child, even those whose different automated channels for taking The program launched in San Francisco, parents may be unbanked and those deposits and automatically processes 39 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices the lives of youth globally. As we look ahead, we remain committed to tackling “E for Education” the youth unemployment challenge. In 2013, we created our “e for education” campaign to raise awareness and funds for The Citi Foundation will reaffirm its education-focused nonprofits that tackle childhood illiteracy and improve access to philanthropic commitment, and we will complement these investments with quality education. During the annual campaign, Citi’s Foreign Exchange business youth-focused efforts happening across donates $1 for every $1 million traded on our platforms. The initiative, which also Citi, including programs that are helping included local market bonds, expanded across Futures and Cash Equities for the first us build a more diverse talent pipeline time in 2019. We raised $8.15 million in 2019, reaching over $37 million since the while also preparing the next generation campaign’s inception. for today’s workforce. It is important for us to share the valuable lessons that have informed the Foundation’s programming and shaped and reconciles transactions and posts daily. These updates help families have The Future of Work the evolution of this commitment. We greater control over their financial believed then and continue to believe now The youth unemployment rate is that empowering young people, providing resources and immediately see how daily three times higher than that of adults. early work experience and financial activity impacts their overall position. Allowing economically disadvantaged knowledge, incubating an entrepreneurial Participants and their families can young people to turn into economically mindset, creating networks and access access information on their program disadvantaged adults contributes to a to role models, and driving systemic and accounts 24/7 from a desktop, destructive cycle that hinders the growth and structural changes to the field of smartphone or tablet. In September, of communities, cities and economies. Citi work are each integral to helping the Citi Start Saving enabled about 11,000 and the private sector as a whole have a next generation build stronger futures San Francisco public school students, role to play in helping to make the next for themselves, their families and their including 5,000 kindergarteners, to kick generation the most employable yet. And communities. We recently published a off the new school year with this powerful public–private partnerships are among report, entitled Pathways to Progress: new tool for achieving future success and the most effective ways to reach lowInsights from Six Years of Programming saving for their education. income communities at scale and drive that reflects on these learnings. Learn We have made this platform available positive social and economic gains. more about Pathways to Progress on the to any municipality that wants to start next page. Through the Pathways to Progress initiaa child savings account (CSA) program. tive, Citi and the Citi Foundation help to Research has shown that even a small amount of college savings can help build deliver on SDG target 8.6, which aims to substantially reduce, by 2020, the What’s Ahead aspirations and encourage young people proportion of youth not in employment, We will continue to collaborate both to view a college education as attainable. education or training. internally across our business units and We recognize, however, that creating with external stakeholders to maximize aspiration is not enough. We know that SDG Goal 8: Decent Work and Economic our impact and ensure an intersectional steps need to be taken to address the Growth approach to the interrelated challenges systemic roadblocks to higher educafacing our communities, such as wealth tion, especially for low-income families. Universal access to youth savings Pathways to Progress inequality and race, access to capital and gender, and financial capability and accounts is but one tool that can help The Citi Foundation’s Pathways to citizenship status. We will prioritize a advance that goal. Progress initiative is designed to help business-led approach to building incluclose the job-skills mismatch by providing sive and resilient communities that allows young people with the tools they need us to bring all our resources to bear, through training, work experience and leveraging initiatives such as the Citi entrepreneurial opportunities. Impact Fund, which makes investments in companies that are addressing societal Since 2014, the Citi Foundation has challenges, with an emphasis on womeninvested more than $194 million to impact and minority-owned enterprises. 40 Pathways to Progress Pathways to Progress has had a big impact over its six years, and we have learned some important lessons along the way. After fleeing Boko Haram in northeast Nigeria, Laraba settled 300 kilometers south in Yola with her younger brother. Laraba started growing beans to care for herself and her brother. With coaching and a small grant from the International Rescue Committee’s Rescuing Futures program, Laraba has expanded her business beyond beans to include grains and is working to be the most successful grainseller in her community. Impact Since 2014, the Citi Foundation has invested more than $194 million in Pathways to Progress, with the following results: 32K Youth-led 370K Young 12KCiti 80 Countries and 850K Youth served businesses created people mentored volunteers engaged territories across or expanded as mentors the globe * Learn more about Pathways to Progress in this wrap-up report. 41 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices Pathways to Progress (continued) Lessons Learned 1. Young people need to be part of the solution Julio Cesar, a young man in his early 20s living in Mexico, actively sought a chance to improve his employability and 2. increase his income to support his family. After seeing a post for the International Youth Foundation’s EquipYouth program on social media, he enrolled in a welding course that led to a Financial capability full-time job, as well as an opportunity to continue studying and serve as inspiration to his family and friends. is key to economic inclusion 3. Leveling the playing field requires a multistakeholder approach 4. An entrepreneurial mindset can open doors 5. Relationships matter DamoGO, co-founded by Lin Hwang, is a social impact startup focused on reducing food waste in South Korea. DamoGO offers a free mobile app through which restaurants and other food retailers can upload the day’s unsold food for customers to purchase instead of letting it go to waste. DamoGO was one of the Youth Co:Lab awardees in the program’s Urban Innovation Challenge in Korea in 2019. 42 Environmental Finance HIGHLIGHTS Surpassed our $100B goal Issued our first green bond Exceeded our Environmental Finance Goal, Expanded from bond underwriter to issuer counting a total of $164 billion (2014–2019) with an inaugural green bond of €1 billion Page 44 Page 47 As the world’s global bank, Citi has an essential role to We made a bold, 10-year commitment to finance and facilitate $100 billion in enviplay in financing the transition to a low-carbon economy ronmental finance activities to reduce by supporting our clients with new ways of creating finanthe impacts of climate change and enable cial value that have environmental benefits. We believe positive environmental impact, beginning in 2014. We exceeded that goal in 2019 the financial industry must drive capital to where it can — four years ahead of schedule. And we have the most positive impact. look forward to continuing to collaborate with our clients on climate finance opporThe impacts of climate change are economic risks and opportunities. There tunities, as well as to better understand increasingly clear — not just the physical is growing awareness that the climate the challenges that need to be addressed effects of a warming planet as it threatis changing at an unprecedented pace by Citi, and the financial sector overall, in ens communities and reshapes urban and that we’re well beyond the time to order to drive positive change. infrastructure, but also the associated operate in a business-as-usual mindset. 43 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices Our $100 billion goal directly supported our mission to provide financial services Championing Climate Action that enable growth and economic progress. Each transaction needed to meet at least one of six criteria in order to be counted: renewable energy, water quality As a bank, we have the ability to leverage our financing decisions, our and conservation, sustainable transportarelationships with our clients and our policies and procedures to drive tion, green building, energy efficiency or positive climate action. We also champion climate-positive activities more clean technology. The activities that met broadly. In 2019 alone, we became: these criteria covered a diverse range of • A signatory to the Principles for Responsible Banking, a set of principles that provide a products and services, such as project framework to achieve a sustainable banking system. and infrastructure financing, green • A signatory to the joint labor union and CEO “United for Paris Agreement,” reinforcing bonds, power purchase agreements and our commitment and support for the international plan to address climate change tax equity financing, to name a few. and accelerate the actions and investments needed for a sustainable future; this statement built on the “We Are Still In” declaration we signed in 2018 as part of our The environmental finance projects that ongoing support for the Paris Agreement. counted toward the goal were all core banking activities financed and facilitated • A signatory to the Guiding Principles for Federal Action on Climate, which set out in partnership with Citi clients. While principles for long-term federal policy on climate change in the U.S. they certainly added to our own bottom line, their value and benefits extended to many stakeholders, local communities and the broader global economy. Completing Our The marketplace has matured since we launched the $100 billion goal, which $100B Environmental followed a previous $50 billion goal Leader in Sustainable Finance that we completed in 2013. Many of the In 2019, Citi was ranked second in Finance Goal products available today — such as green Dealogic’s Corporate Green, Social & bonds and loans, hedging for renewable Sustainable Bonds League Table. We were Environmental finance was one of the energy projects and lending linked to also ranked second in the industry for our pillars of our five-year Sustainable environmental, social and governance municipal finance activity, which includes Progress Strategy, which concluded in (ESG) performance — were relatively new 2019.1 The $100 Billion Environmental or even nonexistent just a few years ago. green bonds, by the Thomson Reuters SDC Finance Goal was the strategy’s flagship The increasing focus on environmental League Table, and fourth on Bloomberg’s initiative. Due to increasing and innovafinance is due to growing efforts by Global Green Bonds (Corporates & Govtive environmental finance activity in the companies and other organizations to ernments) League Table. Additionally, we global market, we were able to reach the establish sustainability targets and the ranked third for Tax Equity by Bloomberg $100 billion mark in the second quarter of new and innovative products to help them New Energy Finance. 2019 and counted a total of $164 billion achieve these goals, with an increased by year’s end. In 2019, several key investrecognition of the urgency of the climate ment banking transactions related to challenge and the need for solutions. To renewable energy financing and mergers meet these needs, we help our clients and acquisitions contributed significant achieve their goals in support of a league table credit2 to the goal. sustainable global economy. 1 For performance against our Sustainable Progress Strategy Scorecard, please see the report Appendices. 2 A league table is a competitive ranking of banks, companies, industries, geographies or other groups of entities ordered according to a metric (e.g., deal volume, number of deals). 44 Environmental Finance in Support of the SDGs $100 Billion According to a recent report,3 an estimated $90 trillion of investments in climate Environmental projects will be needed by 2030 to combat climate change and achieve the UN Sustainable Development Goals. In addition, global green finance must reach Finance Goal: $1 trillion by the end of 2020, growing each year thereafter. Much of the work that we counted toward our $100 Billion Environmental Finance Goal was most aligned with three of the SDGs: SDG 7, which seeks to ensure access Financial Highlights, to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all; SDG 11, which aims 2014–2019* to make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable; and SDG 13, which contributes to urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts. For example, target 7.2, to increase the share of renewable energy in the global energy mix by 2030, and target 7.3, to double the global rate of energy efficiency A total of improvements by 2030, were both aligned with the objectives of our $100 billion $164B goal. The total financing of renewable energy and energy efficiency projects accounted for $122.1 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively. The $100 billion goal also contributed to SDG target 11.2 — which aims to provide resulted in: access to safe, affordable, accessible and sustainable transport systems for all — thanks to our investments in sustainable transit, another of the key criteria of our goal. Financing for sustainable transit projects contributed a cumulative $8.4 billion toward our goal. While SDG 13 is focused on the wider response to a changing climate, several of our investments, including municipal bond underwriting and activities supporting water $8.4B $122.1B quality and conservation projects, delivered on SDG target 13.1, which aims in part to strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity to climate-related hazards. in sustainable in renewable energy transportation SDG GOAL 7: Affordable and Clean Energy SDG GOAL 11: Sustainable Cities and Communities $22.1B $24.3B in public finance in green bonds** SDG GOAL 13: Climate Action 3  Climate Bonds Initiative, Bonds and Climate Change: The State of the Market 2018 (September 2018). $4.6B $13.1B in green building in water quality and conservation * Transactions fall within multiple categories of reporting. ** Includes the green portion of sustainability bonds when information is available. 45 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices How We Reached For the majority of the financial activity counted toward the goal, we used league Contributing Our Goal table accounting credit from Dealogic, Thomson Reuters and Bloomberg New Businesses Energy Finance. For loans or other To reach our goal, Citi drew on the financial products for which there are no Alternative Energy diverse expertise of our global banking teams to provide our clients with innovaestablished league tables, we counted Banking and Financing tive products and services that finance the amount that reflects Citi’s financial Citi provides a full range of financing solutions to address climate challenges. involvement in the deal. solutions for environmental projects Our Sustainability & ESG team worked globally, and we continue to develop To track transactions and calculate closely with contributing business units innovative, end-to-end solutions to meet their contribution toward the goal, we to track progress toward our $100 billion our clients’ unique financing needs. Our used third-party financial sector league goal in the following business categoAlternative Energy Banking and Financing table data, which was developed to rank ries: Alternative Energy Banking and teams have developed extensive experfinancial institutions based on their role in Financing, Green Bonds, Public Finance, tise in financing solutions for a broad each transaction and overall activity in the Commodities, and Consumer Banking and spectrum of renewable energy technolmarket. This is aligned with the sector’s Commercial Banking. ogies, including wind, solar, geothermal method for measuring credit received and biomass. For larger, utility-scale for business activity. Our methodology is projects, we are able to provide multiple publicly available on our website. services as a one-stop shop for our clients, including construction financing, commodities hedging and tax equity on a single deal. Citi’s approach to alternative The World’s First SDG-Linked Bond energy and banking products has sparked increased client demand for across-theboard financing solutions. In 2019, the Italian utility Enel, a leader in the renewable energy space with Case Study: A Financing Solution for an ambitious decarbonization strategy, launched the world’s first general NextEra Energy Partners and KKR purpose bond linked to the Sustainable Development Goals. This transaction is significant as the first general corporate purposes bond to be linked to Citi structured a convertible equity sustainability performance indicators. Citi acted as joint active bookrunner portfolio financing solution for NextEra on the $1.5 billion U.S. bond issue, which offers a unique coupon step-up Energy Partners (NEP) and KKR & Co., a feature: a one-time interest rate step-up of +25 basis points triggered if the leading global investment firm, to fund renewable installed energy capacity target of 55 percent is not met by the renewable development in a unique end of 2021. structure that met the objectives of both clients. Under the agreement, KKR will After the inaugural issuance, Enel launched another SDG-linked bond in the acquire an equity interest in a structured European market, raising €2.5 billion across three tranches. The transaction partnership with NEP, which owns a was almost four times oversubscribed, with total orders of about €10 billion. diverse portfolio of 10 wind and solar The short-dated tranches of four and seven years followed a similar strucprojects in nine U.S. states, collectively ture as the USD bond; however, the coupon on the long-dated 15 year was consisting of more than 1,100 megawatts linked to Enel achieving greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 equal to or less (mw). than 125 grams of carbon dioxide (CO 2) per kilowatt hour, also incorporating a +25 basis point step-up mechanism if the target is not reached. These Citi was one of the leads on the financing sustainability KPI-linked bond issuances have set a new precedent in the of this complex, multilayered deal, which international bond market, and we expect several other issuers to adopt this featured an innovative structure with a structure in 2020. unique buyout option for NEP. The financing included a funded term loan, delayeddraw term loan and equity margin loan. 46 Green, Social and Case Study: Underwriting Case Study: Supporting a Greener a Green Bond Building Product Sustainability Bonds Citi was one of the largest underwriters In 2019, Citi acted as a joint lead manager Citi helped to finance construction of green, social and sustainability bonds on a $2 billion, 10-year green bond for of the manufacturing plant for the globally in 2019. These transactions KfW, the flagship promotional bank of the world’s first commercial-scale producer helped our clients raise more than Federal Republic of Germany. The bond of medium density fiberboard (MDF) $7.8 billion to meet their environmental, marks the largest USD green bond ever made from post-harvest rice straw. social and overall sustainability goals. issued by any sovereign, supranational Once complete, CalPlant will be able to and agency (SSA) issuer. The orderbook supply approximately 140 million square Citi co-founded the Green Bond comprised 120 individual investors, feet of sustainable high-performance Principles, which provide issuers with closed in excess of $4.8 billion, and was no-added-formaldehyde MDF to the guidelines encouraging transparency, underscored with strong support from building products industry. In 2019, Citi and we are an active member of its green-motivated investors, who made financed $74 million of subordinate lien Social Bond Working Group and the up 58 percent of allocation. This was bonds that were certified “green,” given Working Group on Climate Transition KfW’s first USD-denominated green the project’s environmental aspects. Finance. Through these working groups, bond following the update of their Green These follow $228 million in green we continue to contribute to the further Bond Framework in May 2019 to include bonds Citi financed for CalPlant in 2017. development of the social and sustainfunding for energy efficiency projects. able bond market and look to provide Proceeds from the bond will finance new CalPlant’s predecessor company, CalAg, further guidance for the emerging eligible green projects within the categoLLC, spent over 20 years developing and climate transition bond market. ries of renewable energy (including the patenting a process to make sustainable construction, expansion and acquisition high-performance MDF using annually In early 2019, Citi expanded our leaderof plants generating power or heat from renewable post-harvest rice straw as the ship role in green bonds and sustainable renewable energy sources) and energy feedstock. California’s Sacramento Valley financing. We have evolved from one efficiency (including the construction is home to approximately 500,000 acres of the co-authors of the Green Bond of new energy-efficient residential of rice annually. Rice straw, which has Principles to underwriter and now to buildings). posed environmental issues in California issuer with our inaugural green bond: for more than a century, is an agricula €1 billion, three-year, fixed-rate green tural waste product of the annual rice bond. Through March 2019, Citi issued Public Finance harvest. a total of approximately $1.3 billion National and subnational governments equivalent in green bonds, including Historically, each year farmers would are often on the front lines in responding $143 million equivalent across dispose of rice straw by burning the to climate change, and Citi provides 18 transactions through the structured straw. The burning of rice straw produces financial solutions, including loans and notes channel. The proceeds of the various pollutants, which impacted the bonds, to help them invest in clean water, green bonds will fund renewable energy, air quality of California’s Central Valley transportation and energy infrastructure sustainable transportation, water quality during the straw burning season. More to meet the needs of their citizens. and conservation, energy efficiency recently, the straw has been disposed and green building projects. These Citi’s community lending and investing of by flooding the fields after harvest, green bond issuances are an important activity also includes financing of initiating a decomposition process. This milestone for Citi and demonstrate our affordable housing and LEED-certified practice uses a large volume of water commitment to being a leader in financaffordable housing projects that were and generates one-half to one ton of ing sustainable global growth and progcounted toward our $100 billion goal. methane gas per acre of planted rice ress. They also illustrate Citi’s ability to The affordable housing activity counted from the rotting straw. By processing the scale sustainable solutions, respond to across the six years of the goal served straw into MDF, CalPlant will significantly fast-growing investor demand and drive nearly 6,800 families. reduce the amount of water that might global impact in partnerships with our otherwise be diverted from regional clients. waterways to flood the fields, and, will improve air quality by less straw being decomposed in the flooded fields. Sacramento Valley rice growers within 15 to 25 miles of the plant site are providing the straw used at the plant. 47 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices Our $100B Environmental Finance Goal Results To achieve our goal, we used our environmental criteria to review activity financed and facilitated in partnership with our clients: Renewable Water Quality and Sustainable Green Energy Clean Energy Conservation Transportation Building Efficiency Technology We identified activity that counted toward the goal, such as the examples listed below: Alternative energy banking Public finance Consumer/commercial banking and finance • Wind energy power transit bond • Solar company corporate loan • Wind energy project financing • L  EED-certified affordable housing • Solar company IPO loan Green bonds Commodities • Corporate green bond • Power purchase agreement • Sovereign green bond • Monetization of renewable energy credits We financed environmental solutions around the world: $61.7B $4.7B $164B North America Multiple Regions $88.9B Europe, Middle Total $2.2B $6.5B East and Africa Latin America Asia Pacific These solutions resulted in measurable impacts: 11.8M mt CO e 198K avoided emissions 2 jobs supported 95M population in U.S. 6,792 families served by 6,869 MW new renewable energy (direct, indirect and cities and counties green affordable capacity induced) served by waterhousing quality projects 48 $100 Billion Environmental Finance Goal Financial Data* In billions USD, 2014—2019 Environmental Criteria 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Total $ Total % Renewables 4.9 11.6 9.6 10.9 24.3 60.8 122.1 74% Solar 0.8 2.1 0.6 4.9 1.6 1.5 11.5 7% Wind 3.0 7.9 8.6 4.4 7.4 1.1 32.5 20% Mixed Renewables 1.1 1.6 0.4 1.6 15.3 58.1 78.1 48% Energy Efficiency 0.1 0.3 0.3 0.1 0.0 0.4 1.3 1% Green Building 0.4 0.6 0.7 0.3 2.2 0.4 4.6 3% S ustainable 0.5 1.8 1.6 1.2 1.6 1.7 8.4 5% Transportation  ater Quality and W 0.4 1.2 2.8 1.4 5.3 2.0 13.1 8% Conservation Clean Technology 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.4 0% Multiple Criteria 1.1 1.4 0.5 2.9 5.1 3.2 14.2 9% Total 7.5 16.9 15.6 16.9 38.6 68.6 164.0 100% Region North America 4.2 11.2 6.7 7.4 24.7 7.4 61.7 38% E urope, Middle East and 2.4 4.1 7.8 6.7 9.5 58.5 88.9 54% Africa Asia Pacific 0.2 0.1 0.5 2.3 2.0 1.3 6.5 4% Latin America 0.2 0.5 0.1 0.4 0.4 0.7 2.2 1% Multiple Regions 0.5 1.1 0.5 1.9 0.6 4.7 3% Total 7.5 16.9 15.6 16.9 38.6 68.6 164.0 100% Business  lternative Energy A 4.2 11.0 9.0 9.2 24.1 56.7 114.3 70% Banking and Finance Green Bonds** 1.8 1.8 1.4 4.4 7.0 7.9 24.3 15% Public Finance 0.7 3.2 4.3 2.9 7.3 3.6 22.1 13% Commodities 0.2 0.5 0.5 0.2 0.0 0.2 1.6 1% C onsumer Banking and 0.6 0.5 0.4 0.2 0.1 0.1 1.8 1% Commercial Banking Total 7.5 16.9 15.6 16.9 38.6 68.6 164.0 100% * Figures may not sum to totals due to rounding. ** Includes the green portion of sustainability bonds when information is available. 49 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices Commodities Citigroup Energy Inc. (CEI) — Citi’s Commodities team and energy trading desk — provides hedges for renewable energy project financing deals, helps clients obtain renewable energy credits and works on commodities derivatives. These services help enable our clients to achieve their financial and environmental goals for renewable energy procurement. CEI has also played a role in helping Citi meet our goal to power our facilities with 100 percent renewable energy by 2020. Case Study: Sourcing Renewable Power Citi financed a U.S. wind and solar project owned by NextEra Energy Partners and KKR. QTS Realty Trust, a leading provider of data centers, signed a 10-year agreement to purchase renewable energy to power we identified a range of impacts — green$100 billion goal — specifically, renewable 100 percent of its electricity needs for house gas (GHG) emissions avoided, energy financing, energy efficiency its facilities in Chicago and Piscataway, jobs supported and community benefits financing and public finance. The estiNew Jersey. With support from CEI, the realized — that we are able to calculate mated 11.8 million metric tons (mt) of company has also achieved 100 percent for a subset of the transactions counted avoided GHG emissions as a result of our renewable energy status for its Irving, toward the goal. As there is no estabactivities throughout the duration of the Texas, data center and plans to expand lished standard way to measure these goal is the equivalent of removing more renewable power initiatives in existing impacts, we developed our approach than 2.5 million cars from the road for and new data centers. In addition to wind following extensive research on a variety one year.4 power, the Piscataway data center also of best practices. We utilize actual project data or apply a reasonable proxy if For social impacts, our primary metric is features a 14 mw solar farm that supplies applicable. the number of jobs that are supported energy. by a segment of the transactions countThis area of work proved to be an ing toward the goal, specifically Citi’s Environmental and ongoing education for us, where we financing of U.S.-based renewable energy Social Impacts learned as we went and consistently challenged ourselves to dig deeper. We projects and public finance activity. We developed a model, based on an approach Achieved Through refined our methodology over the last several years to better understand the used by economists and public policy experts, that estimated our contribution Our $100 Billion Goal impacts associated with the activity that to supporting U.S. jobs. These calculacounts toward our goal. Overall, we took tions were based on specific investment We recognize that the real-world impacts a conservative approach to reporting and expenditure profiles tied to data of our financing and lending activities impacts and did not include deals in aggregated from a number of sources. are a crucial measure of success, and which we have limited transparency Since 2014, we estimate that more than this certainly applies to the $100 Billion on transaction details. Our impact 198,000 direct, indirect and induced Environmental Finance Goal. The impacts measurement methodologies align with jobs were supported by the financing we of this goal go much further than just the our accounting approach, reporting our provide to our clients. dollar amount of our direct financing. share of the impacts proportional to our financial share of the transaction. We also calculate our direct, indirect When we first developed our goal, we and induced impact on the U.S. gross felt it was important to try to measure To calculate environmental impacts, domestic product (GDP). We estimate that and understand the impact — for our we developed models to estimate the our 2018 and 2019 financing activities clients and the communities where we avoided GHG emissions by a subset of contributed approximately $15.7 billion in do business. Using stakeholder feedback, the transactions that contributed to the total to U.S. GDP. 4 EPA GHG Equivalencies Calculator, March 2020 50 Impact Data* Environmental Impacts 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Total Avoided GHG Emissions (mt)** 1,360,092 1,740,659 325,676 1,058,809 4,410,701 2,900,418 11,796,355 Renewable Energy 1,294,788 1,590,612 180,739 1,057,022 4,317,287 2,846,359 11,286,807 Project Finance Energy Efficiency 60,061 145,524 140,149 – 91,199 51,735 488,667 Finance Public Finance 2,224 1,672 1,453 1,246 2,215 2,324 11,134 Consumer/ 3,019 2,851 3,335 541 – – 9,746 Commercial Banking Renewable Energy Capacity 563 869 278 619 3,154 1,386 6,869 Added (MW) Social Impacts 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Total Jobs Supported*** 11,574 29,494 30,140 22,995 63,932 39,965 198,100 Renewable Energy Project 4,870 8,069 4,378 4,357 9,603 5,528 36,805 Finance Public Finance 6,704 21,425 25,762 18,638 54,330 34,437 161,296 People Serviced by Water Quality and Conservation 211,346 6,916,113 28,831,321 7,617,037 12,363,540 39,476,656 95,416,013 Projects Families Serviced by 1,237 1,004 1,166 1,340 956 1,089 6,792 Affordable Housing Activity Trips on Transit System – 3.5 3.1 4.2 3.2 4.2 18.2 Projects (in billions) * Figures may not sum to totals due to rounding. ** 2018 Avoided GHG Emissions has been adjusted to reflect non baseload grid emissions factors consistent with previous reporting years. *** 2018 amount of Jobs Supported is revised from previous reporting to accurately reflect our methodology. 51 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices What’s Ahead TCFD and Climate Finance Opportunities We recognize the severity of the climate crisis and the critical role Citi can play to Citi supports the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and its help address the significant challenges recommendations for improved disclosure regarding the financial impacts of climateand help our clients seize the opporturelated risks and opportunities. The focus on climate opportunities as well as risks nities. We’re proud of the work we’ve is well aligned with our Sustainable Progress Strategy. Our environmental finance done so far, but there is more to do. activities reduce climate change impacts and create environmental solutions in In partnership with our clients, we are collaboration with our clients and other stakeholders. embracing the opportunity to develop innovative products and services to For more on how we are responding to the TCFD’s recommendations and managing support the transition to a low-carbon climate risks and opportunities, see the Citi’s Support for Climate Action section. economy and to continue our learnings on the path forward. And, as we learn, we will continue to be transparent, both about our successes and how we are addressing challenges. Our continuous progress from the earliest days of our sustainability program — most recently with the completion of our $100 billion goal — represents key milestones in a journey that is far from over. We have worked to move not only Citi, but the whole financial sector, forward, from the Green Bond Principles and the recently launched Poseidon Principles to our engagement with the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures and its climate risk assessment recommendations. As we look ahead, we are excited about the opportunities for Citi and our clients to drive positive change. We intend to continue to be a force for action as we focus on developing approaches to transition finance for our clients to reduce their impacts and to work to meet the expectations of our stakeholders. Citi helped finance construction of CalPlant, the production plant for the world’s first commercial-scale producer of medium density fiberboard (MDF) made from rice straw. Learn more. 52 Page 54 Environmental and Social Risk Management Page 62 Human Rights Page 70 Operations and Supply Chain Page 86 Digital Innovation HOW Page 96 Talent and Diversity Page 114 Ethics and Culture WE DO BUSINESS 53 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices Environmental and Social Risk Management HIGHLIGHTS Equator Principles update Founding signatory: Poseidon Principles Helped to develop the latest iteration of A global framework for financial institutions this global standard for banks evaluating to address climate risk in shipping portfolios environmental and social risks Page 59 Page 56 Citi finances billions of dollars in transactions worldwide Our ESRM Policy for a wide variety of clients and projects, many of which have potential environmental and social impacts. Our Our internal ESRM Policy, summarized publicly in our Environmental and Social Environmental and Social Risk Management (ESRM) Policy Framework, helps us finance projpractices help us navigate an evolving risk landscape in ects and activities responsibly by engagorder to make responsible decisions and better serve the ing our clients on sustainability best practices. ESRM was one of three key long-term interests of our clients and the communities pillars of our 2015 Sustainable Progress in which they operate. Strategy1 and will continue to be a core component of our sustainability efforts moving forward. 1 For performance against our Sustainable Progress Strategy Scorecard, please see the report Appendices. 54 Our ESRM Policy covers a broad scope being made. As a result, our client took of financial products and client sectors responsibility for the worker accommoand sets standards for how we assess ESRM Due Diligence in Action dations of their subcontractor and made client impacts on air quality, water In 2019, we identified environmental risks improvements to bring them up to the quality, climate change, biodiversity, local during due diligence for two potential appropriate standards. communities, labor and other environfinancings of industrial facilities in Mexico. mental and social issues. We established In some cases, we must decline to particOne of the planned facilities had the ipate in a transaction because we do not our comprehensive ESRM Policy in 2003 potential to negatively impact a critical believe we can adequately address the — the first U.S.-based financial institution mangrove habitat; the other was planned environmental and social risks through to do so — and we continue to evolve our approach in response to emerging risks near an internationally protected wetland mitigation measures or because the risks and new product development. site where there were concerns about are too high. During 2019, for example, effluent drainage from the project into the we declined participation in an oil and gas exploration project in a biodiverse Policy Implementation wetlands. In both cases, we put financing conditions in place requiring the clients to tropical rainforest due to a lack of free, engage biodiversity experts and develop prior and informed consent from affected Our centralized team of ESRM specialists indigenous communities, as well as action plans to avoid these environmental within Citi’s risk management function impacts to a critical habitat. We also evaluates transactions that trigger a risks. These conditions led to the developdeclined a transaction for a hydroelectric review according to our ESRM Policy. 2 We ment of biodiversity management plans project in Southeast Asia because of also provide ESRM training to employees that were implemented during the conoverlap with critical habitat for endanthroughout our organization globally, struction of the facilities. Our ESRM Policy gered species. In addition, we declined a enabling them to spot potential risks. This is most effective in cases like these, when number of early financing opportunities network approach enhances the global we are considering financing projects and related to coal-fired power in Latin coverage capacity of our centralized can include conditions requiring tangible America and Asia based on the standards specialist team. The ESRM team works actions to improve environmental and of our ESRM Policy commitment on coalcollaboratively and shares information social outcomes. fired power. and best practices during bimonthly calls that help support and strengthen the Applying our ESRM Policy helps us entire network. identify risks beyond traditional credit social plans, policies or practices and risks, guides how we evaluate transacOur ESRM team categorizes the projectinternational standards, we develop an tions related to companies or projects related transactions they review as Environmental and Social Action Plan within high-risk sectors and presents A, B or C, with A indicating the highest (ESAP) to fill the gaps. As a condition of opportunities for us to advise clients risk. The categorization is based on the financing, we require the client to impleon solutions to thematic risks. To learn magnitude of potential adverse environment the ESAP, and we monitor progress more about our ESRM Policy, including mental and social impacts associated over time. Areas of High Caution, sector-specific with the project and is aligned with the standards and policy prohibitions, see Equator Principles (EP) and International We also monitor the projects we finance our Environmental and Social Policy Finance Corporation categorization. For to ensure the conditions of financing are Framework. general corporate purposes transactions being met. For instance, as part of our under our ESRM Policy (categorized as routine monitoring of a financed manu“general review”), we evaluate a client’s facturing plant in Asia, we discovered that environmental and social policies and while our client’s accommodations for performance, as well as its commitment construction workers met international and capacity to manage environmental standards, some of their subcontractors’ and social issues. Higher-risk, projectaccommodations did not. We stepped in related transactions also receive in-depth to ensure the conditions were improved reviews by independent environmental to meet international standards for and social consultants. If gaps are found decent living conditions and followed up between a client’s environmental and regularly to confirm that progress was 2 The ESRM section of our Environmental and Social Policy Framework outlines the scope of our ESRM Policy, including the types of transactions that trigger a review. 55 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices Monitoring the evolving risks, enabling us to raise awareness within Citi about emerging issues about new financial regulatory guidance related to environmental and social risk Changing Risk and helping us identify clients that might be impacted for further engagement. and provide important regional insights that improve our ability to make responLandscape Our risk monitoring feeds into our ESRM sible lending decisions. For instance, Watchlist process, through which we flag in some countries that are developing The ESRM team uses a number of individual companies based on their track or have recently adopted regulations methods to proactively scan the changing records, sensitive or controversial assets, requiring banks to develop environmental risk landscape for new, emerging risks third-party sustainability scores and and social risk policies and procedures as well as risks with increased prominegative news. — including Brazil, Ecuador, Honduras, nence and prevalence. Through internal Paraguay and Peru — our ESRM research and third-party environmental ESRM Champions Champions are helping us understand the and social data, we monitor relevant local context so we can more effectively developments in high-risk industries and Our ESRM Champions are credit risk execute due diligence processes and align stakeholder concerns to flag emerging officers and other employees with our implementation. issues. In recent years, for example, regional expertise and additional ESRM concerns regarding e-cigarettes, opioids, training, who serve as bridges between Client Engagement private prisons and artificial intelligence our local banking teams and our global have become more prominent. Our ESRM team. They assist in training their Engaging our clients is an important ongoing monitoring of these and other local, internal teams about our ESRM part of our ESRM due diligence process. elevated concerns keeps us responsive to Policy, engage with regional regulators Initially, these engagements were tied Collaborating to Update Agribusiness Portfolio Review the Equator Principles Sixteen years after co-founding the Deforestation is a key environmental concern globally, as it leads to habitat Equator Principles (EP), Citi continues to loss, biodiversity impacts and climate-related risks, among others. In 2019, we help strengthen the Principles to ensure conducted a portfolio review of our agribusiness clients with a focus on the they remain relevant. During 2019, we impacts of deforestation. We developed a questionnaire to gather information continued our participation in the EP upabout how clients manage deforestation risks in their operations in the global date process, helping to develop the most tropics, including the tools they use to track deforestation and the certificarecent iteration of this global standard tions they use to ensure sustainable practices and processes. for banks evaluating environmental and social risks of project-related finance. We found that one of the most effective ways to decrease deforestation risks Thanks to an initiative co-led by Citi, EP is through quality sustainability certifications, such as the certification of now encourages clients to share crucial plantations by the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil, the Forest Stewardship Council and the Round Table on Responsible Soy. Some of the practices that biodiversity data for all transactions these certifications ensure include the preservation of high-conservation and covered by the Principles. This transparenhigh-carbon-stock forests, the restoration of forests cleared after 2009 and a cy helps to improve conservation efforts prohibition on using fire to clear lands. around the world. Citi also co-led the social risks working group, working hard Our clients’ adoption of certifications in the areas of palm oil, forestry and soy to reach a consensus among all members in tropical countries has increased in recent years, as has the total area of on strengthened requirements related to their plantations certified. In addition, more companies are actively employing potential project impacts on human rights new technologies that enable transparent traceability of their supply chains. and Indigenous Peoples. The updated These are positive developments, and we are now analyzing the results of this standards, known as EP4, were released portfolio review to inform continued improvement in our ESRM approach to in November 2019 for implementation in the agribusiness sector. July 2020. 56 to specific, project-related financial a palm oil client that has shown imprestransactions and their associated envisive supply chain traceability through Partnership to Protect ronmental and social risks and mitigation certification of their smallholders to efforts. However, as we have developed ensure their supply chain is deforestaWorkers’ Rights sector-specific standards over the years, tion free. These engagements help us we have added corporate-level reviews learn about emerging best practices for and client engagements in a number managing environmental and social risks Ulula is a mobile phone technology of sectors. These sector-specific risk that can be shared with other clients platform that facilitates the reportreview processes encourage dialogue facing similar challenges. During 2019, ing of worker welfare issues, the between Citi and our clients about the we also continued to engage clients in monitoring of working conditions material environmental and social risks the oil and gas industry on issues related and employee engagement. In 2019, associated with their operations, enabling to environmental, social and governance we worked with Ulula to lay the us to develop a better understanding performance and climate risk. groundwork so that this tool of prevailing industry practices and our could be deployed to address labor rights issues for a large infrastrucclients’ performance. Enhancing Our ture project in the Middle East beginning in 2020. This technology Some examples of client engagement activities in 2019 include ESRM-focused Training has great potential to safeguard the site visits in Colombia and Peru to Each year, we train key risk and banking rights of migrant workers, enabling meet with clients in the oil, mining and personnel on our ESRM Policy. Topics immediate reporting of concerns palm oil industries. We learned how include environmental and social risks using mobile devices. Ulula has one mining client was addressing and relevant to certain regions and sectors, reached more than 1 million people remediating legacy environmental lead EP implementation and Citi’s Sector in 22 countries to help advance contamination and other environmental Standards. The training also includes worker and community engagement health concerns connected with one of emerging risks and guidance to help through their inclusive technology their mines. Another mining company employees recognize environmental and and real-time analytics across a demonstrated best practices in biodisocial risk in transactions — ranging from broad set of industries. versity management by successfully climate change risks to human rights restoring a biodiversity corridor after risks to labor concerns and more. In total, mine decommissioning, which fostered more than 590 Citi employees underwent the reemergence of local flora and fauna, ESRM training during 2019. including jaguars. We also engaged with Piloting a Policy Chat Bot During 2019, Citi piloted a new chat bot that provides employees with information about a broad range of issues covered by Citi’s risk policies. Our ESRM function provided input into the development of the chat bot related to the scope of our ESRM Policy. The chat bot pilot is designed to test ways to make Citi policies more accessible to employees, and, in the case of the ESRM Policy, to help them better determine whether a specific transaction or client review requires engagement with the ESRM team. 57 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices Climate-Related Risk Climate Risk Analysis Group, the ESRM team is developing more comprehensive internal guidance Climate change is one of the most critical Citi’s ESRM Policy sets a framework to evaluate the climate risk of specific issues facing society today. Actions must to assess the potential climate risks sectors for integration into the broader be taken to transition to a low-carbon and impacts of the clients and projects risk analysis of clients. More information economy and address the climate-related that we finance. Our project-related about our ESRM Sector Standards are risks that are already being felt in many finance approach aligns with the Equator available in our Environmental and Social regions and industries to avoid the Principles, including an alternatives analPolicy Framework. worst impacts of climate change. As a ysis of less carbon-intensive technologies Climate risk analysis methodologies, financier of the global economy, we are for all transactions that exceed 100,000 tools, data and scenarios continue to keenly aware of the seriousness and tons of carbon dioxide emissions and a rapidly improve and advance. As the urgency of climate change and how it risk assessment of negative impacts from expectations on banks to understand may affect the world. In response, we are physical climate risk. their portfolio-wide climate risk continue assessing the impacts of climate change Our ESRM Policy also includes Sector to increase, Citi is taking steps to further on our portfolios, and then, informed Standards that cover carbon-intensive integrate climate risk considerations by this deepened understanding, we are sectors such as coal mining, coal-fired into our risk management approach working to enable the transition toward power, forestry, oil and gas and palm oil, beyond the scope of the ESRM Policy. a low-carbon economy. This section that have a greater impact on climate We remain committed to participating delves into our risk-related activities. For change and are more exposed to climate in industry collaborations, monitoring a broader overview of Citi’s approach to transition risks. With the help of our developments and experimenting with climate-related issues, see Citi’s Support cross-functional Climate Risk Working different approaches to help us enhance for Climate Action. our understanding and capacity for addressing climate-related risks and opportunities. Analysis of Clean Energy Scenarios For a discussion of Citi’s Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) implementation, please see our In 2019, Citi Global Perspectives and Solutions (Citi GPS) released its report 2018 TCFD report, Finance for a ClimateEnergy Darwinism III: The Electrifying Path to Net Zero Carbon . The report Resilient Future, and the Citi’s Support for notes that significant reductions in future carbon dioxide emissions can be Climate Action section of this report. achieved through the electrification of transport and industry as we move away from fossil fuel use and toward clean energy alternatives. Using Citi’s Reducing Credit Global Integrated Energy & Emissions Framework it provides an analysis of Exposure to Coal likely impacts if the global community maintains its current level of energy use compared with the impacts and tradeoffs that could occur if we pursue differThe shift away from fossil fuels to ent energy use scenarios. renewable energy will have a significant effect on both coal mining and coal-fired Increased electrification from clean energy poses undeniable risks for the fossil power production. Since 2015, Citi has fuel industry. The Citi GPS report delves into the implications for the oil and had a commitment to reduce our credit gas and coal industries, showcasing the variables at play and the complexity exposure to the coal mining industry inherent in charting a course forward. In relation to our own business, quantiand conduct enhanced due diligence on fying short-term and long-term risk for these industries remains a high priority our coal mining clients’ environmental as we manage our energy portfolio and reduce our exposure to industries that and social policies and performance. carry significant risk. The effort applies globally to companies generating a majority of their revenues Of course, risk is only one side of the equation. The transition also creates from coal mining activities and to coalnew opportunities. For more information about how Citi embraces investment focused subsidiaries of diversified mining opportunities related to clean energy and other sustainable solutions, see the companies. As a result of our commitEnvironmental Finance section. ments and related activities, we have successfully reduced our credit exposure in recent years. 58 During 2019, we made progress implementing our new ESRM Policy commitment Cross-Industry What’s Ahead on coal-fired power, which prohibits any Collaboration on Addressing the risks associated with financing for the construction or expanClimate Risk in climate change is a priority for Citi and sion of coal-fired power plants. The restricMaritime Shipping for our key stakeholders, including tion includes transactions supporting the clients, investors and regulators. In an supply of all components, equipment, GHG emissions from the maritime shipeffort to better understand how the materials and services directly required ping industry are expected to increase transition and physical risks of climate for the construction of such plants. The over time to keep up with expanding change may affect our business, our only exception that may be considered is global trade. As industries transition clients, our communities and the global for proposed ultra-supercritical plants that to low-carbon alternatives, maritime economy, we are continuing to explore address situations of energy poverty (i.e., shipping will need to do the same or face new methodologies and tools that in countries where the national electrificasignificant financial risks. Our influence assess and measure these risks — as well tion rate is 90 percent or below according and investment in this sector give us an as potential opportunities. It is incumto the annual Energy Progress Report) and opportunity to advance initiatives that bent upon all sectors to contribute to align with the host country’s Nationally promote responsible lending and accelersolutions that limit warming to no more Determined Contribution under the Paris ate financing to support this transition. than 2°C, with a goal of staying below Agreement. Since the implementation of 1.5°C, above pre-industrial levels. As a the policy, no transactions that we have Working in collaboration with other result, we expect that climate-related reviewed have met this exception criteria. banks and organizations within the risks and opportunities will be a growing In 2019, we declined five opportunities shipping industry, Citi helped to develop priority for our clients in all sectors, not for financing during the early stages of and was a founding signatory of the just for those in the fossil fuel and other engagement as a result of this policy Poseidon Principles. Released in 2019, traditionally carbon-intensive industries. restriction. these Principles provide a framework for In 2020 we will continue to test emerglenders, lessors and financial guarantors ing climate risk assessment methodolIn support of our new commitments, we to integrate climate considerations into ogies to better understand the climate are reviewing our power-sector clients lending decisions with international risk faced by Citi and our clients, and we with coal-fired generation to evaluate shipping clients to help the sector will continue to engage our clients on their greenhouse gas (GHG) tracking, decarbonize in line with the goals of the the transition to a low-carbon economy. reporting and reduction strategies and International Maritime Organization. their management of risks and opportuAs a part of our commitment under the In addition, 2020 will be a key year for nities related to a low-carbon transition. Poseidon Principles, we will be measuring biodiversity and implementing the new We want to understand how they are and disclosing the carbon intensity of our EP4. As a leader in developing the guidintegrating climate risk analysis into their shipping portfolio on an annual basis. We ance note on Biodiversity Data Sharing business strategy, if they have plans expect to publish our first disclosure in for EP4, Citi will be working with partners for diversification away from coal-fired alignment with these Principles in 2020. and other banks that have adopted the power sources and whether they are Equator Principles to raise awareness developing low-carbon transition stratCiti is also a member of the Getting to and train clients on how to share critegies to align with the objectives of the Zero Coalition, which is focused on the ical biodiversity data that is gathered Paris Agreement. development of commercially viable, during project design and operational zero-emission vessels and other needed monitoring. As we help our clients transition away maritime infrastructure for scalable netfrom coal, we consult external framezero-carbon energy sources, including works and initiatives such as the Edison production, distribution, storage and Electric Institute’s environmental, social, bunkering. Launched during Climate governance and sustainability template Week NYC in September 2019 with over and the Transition Pathway Initiative. 100 coalition members and supported We also identify clients that have by 14 governments, this coalition is coordemonstrated success in transitioning dinated by the Global Maritime Forum, away from coal as well as clients that Friends of Ocean Action and the World are experiencing challenges. Through Economic Forum. engagement with diverse clients, we share best practices and encourage open dialogue to support the energy transition. 59 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices 2019 Projects Covered by the Equator Principles As part of our commitment to the Equator Principles (EP), Funded EP ProjectFunded EP Project Related Corporate Funded EP Project we report annually on our implementation. Finance Loans and Bridge Loans Finance Advisories A Category A — Projects likely to have potential significant adverse social or environmental impacts that are diverse, irreversible or unprecedented 0 1 1 B Category B — Projects likely to have potential limited adverse social or environmental impacts that are few in 3 5 0 1 0 0 number, generally site-specific, largely reversible and readily addressed through mitigation measures Category C — Projects likely to have minimal or C no social or environmental impacts Total = 4 Total = 6 Total = 1 Funded Project Finance Loans Breakdown Funded Project-Related Corporate and Bridge Loans Breakdown By Sector A B C Total By Sector A B C Total Infrastructure 1 1 Infrastructure 1 1 Oil, Gas and Petrochemicals 1 1 Manufacturing 1 1 Power — Wind 2 2 Oil, Gas and Petrochemicals 1 1 2 By Region A B C Total Power — Gas and Diesel 1 1 Asia Pacific 0 Power — Wind 1 1 Europe 0 By Region A B C Total Latin America 1 1 Asia Pacific 1 1 2 Middle East and Africa 0 Europe 1 1 U.S. and Canada 2 1 3 Latin America 2 2 By Country Designation A B C Total Middle East and Africa 0 Designated* 2 1 3 U.S. and Canada 1 1 Non-designated** 1 1 By Country Designation A B C Total By Independent Review A B C Total Designated* 2 2 Yes 3 3 Non-designated** 1 3 4 No 1 1 By Independent Review A B C Total Yes 1 3 4 Funded EP Project Finance Advisories By Sector A B C Total No 2 2 Pulp and Paper 1 1 *Designated Countries as defined by the Equator Principles are high-income By Region A B C Total OECD countries. See the Equator Principles website for more information. ** Non-designated Countries as defined by the Equator Principles are all nonLatin America 1 1 OECD countries and all OECD countries not designated as high income. By Country Designation A B C Total Designated* 0 Non-designated** 1 1 60 Transactions Receiving ESRM Review The ESRM team is consulted in the early stages of potential transactions. These numbers show transactions screened by the ESRM team, regardless of whether they proceeded to financial close. Total Transactions Receiving By Region ESRM Review Category A Total 58 557 557 58 A 10/132 4/80 0/20 U.S. and Europe Global Canada 452 35 123 B 382 19/127 12/61 13/137 30 113 22 C Latin Middle East Asia America and Africa Pacific 148 56 By Sector # of Category A Total 281 GR* Forestry, Palm Oil, Pulp and Paper 4 50 34 Infrastructure and Transportation 5 62 Manufacturing and Industrials 3 46 212 Metals and Mining 13 98 144 Oil, Gas and Petrochemicals 21 132 Power (Including Renewables) 11 94 Not Other 1 75 73 Categorized 26 36 By Product Type 2017 2018 2019 # of Category A Total * G  eneral Review (GR) is used for Advisories 4 11 corporate reviews and transactions for general corporate purposes. Annual Credit Reviews 0 57 Corporate or Government Loans 19 216 Debt and Equity Underwriting 4 111 EP Covered Projects & Corporate Loans 21 57 Letters of Credit and Guarantees 6 56 Other (e.g., Equity, Derivatives, etc.) 4 49 For more information on our ESRM Policy, including how we categorize loans, visit our Environmental and Social Policy Framework. Citi received external assurance of our Equator Principles data from SGS. For our SGS Assurance Statement, see the Assurance section. 61 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices Human Rights HIGHLIGHTS Financial inclusion for survivors Recognition of Firearms Policy Joined a coalition to help survivors of Received award for our U.S. Commercial modern slavery and human trafficking Firearms Policy from the Brady Center to gain access to financial services Prevent Gun Violence Page 63 Page 66 Our work to uphold human rights extends across our Our Commitment to value chain. We create and maintain policies and standards that protect our employees, guide our suppliers Respect Human Rights and inform our business decisions — including what Citi is committed to respecting human we choose to finance and the conditions we place on rights wherever we do business, regardless of the degree to which governments that financing. Through risk analysis, due diligence and are upholding their duties to protect, regular engagement with stakeholders, we ensure that respect and fulfill human rights. We human rights considerations are taken into account engage human rights experts, clients and peers to help implement our respect across our business. for human rights in line with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights — a global framework 62 for preventing and addressing the risk client transactions — and in our supply Principles (EP) framework to enhance and of adverse impacts on human rights chain. It covers information about our standardize risk management across the linked to business activity. The UN governance and policies related to banking sector, establishing an internal Guiding Principles draw upon existing modern slavery, risk assessment and due ESRM team, and developing our risk international human rights instruments diligence processes, and training. identification and mitigation policies and whose principles we endorsed years procedures. (See page 66 for more about ago, such as those in the UN Universal Analysis and feedback from third parties how we manage these risks.) Declaration of Human Rights and the provide valuable perspective as we work International Labour Organization’s Core to improve our policies and practices in Conventions regarding child labor, forced this area. In November 2019, BankTrack labor, freedom of association, the right released its third Human Rights to organize and bargain collectively, and Benchmark for global banks. The benchFinancial Access for mark scored 50 global banks according equal pay and nondiscrimination in the Survivors of Modern workforce. To increase transparency, we to criteria based on the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Slavery and Human have prepared this Environmental, Social and Governance Report in accordance Our policies, processes and reporting Trafficking with the UN Guiding Principles Reporting helped us achieve “frontrunner” status in Framework (see UNGP index). the benchmark, the only U.S. bank to do so. However, the benchmark shows that In September 2019, the UN Citi regularly updates our policies and improvement is needed across the indusFinancial Sector Commission practices to strengthen our human try, including by Citi, to make a measuron Modern Slavery and Human rights due diligence. During the develable difference in the lives of people Trafficking released its final report, opment and subsequent updates of around the world who are affected by Unlocking Potential: A Blueprint our Statement on Human Rights, which our financing activities. We will continue for Mobilizing Finance Against we first adopted in 2007, we engaged to improve and consistently implement Slavery and Trafficking. It also internal and external stakeholders to help our due diligence processes, revisit our launched Finance Against Slavery assess our actual and potential adverse commitments regularly, updating them and Trafficking (FAST), a new human rights impacts and to identify the as needed, and provide transparent project intended to help survivors most salient human rights risks faced by disclosure to drive progress in respect for of modern slavery and human our employees, workers connected to our human rights across the financial sector. trafficking gain access to financial supply chain and individuals who might services. FAST is a coalition of 12 be impacted by our clients’ operations. Our Salient Human leading banks, including Citi, and We published the most recent update to six survivor service organizations in our Statement on Human Rights in late Rights Risks North America and Europe. FAST’s 2018. Survivor Inclusion Initiative aims Human rights is one of our most material environmental, social and governance to help survivors facing barriers In addition, Citi’s Environmental and (ESG) issues. We have spent more than to financial access, such as having Social Risk Management (ESRM) Policy, a decade working on the most salient their identification documents adopted in 2003 and summarized in human rights risks related to our busiconfiscated by traffickers or having our Environmental and Social Policy ness — those that pose the greatest risk their identity or financial informaFramework, guides our approach to to people — including the activities of our tion hijacked for money laundering assessing environmental and social issues clients and other business partners. We purposes. The Survivor Inclusion related to financing our clients’ business identified most of these risks under our Initiative provides financial instituactivities. For more information about our ESRM Policy as “Areas of High Caution” tions, service providers, regulators, ESRM Policy and related due diligence several years before the advent of the governmental actors and other key processes, see the ESRM section of this UN Guiding Principles. To identify these stakeholders with a framework to report. areas, we focused on the most severe match identified survivors to basic Each year, we publish a UK Modern potential risks posed to people by our financial services, such as checking Slavery Act transparency statement clients’ activities, particularly in the and savings accounts as well as summarizing our approach to identifycontext of project finance. Our work debit cards. ing and mitigating the risks of modern to address these risks has included slavery in our operations — including helping to found and govern the Equator 63 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices While our formal risk management processes give us more leverage when we privacy of information shared with us by our employees and customers; and more. Respecting the are directly financing a project, we also identify and address human rights risks Citi has longstanding policies, procedures and programs to address these issues. Human Rights of that could arise across our value chain. In Our handling of salient human rights Our Employees the most recent update to our Statement on Human Rights, we formally recognized risks is regularly communicated to senior Every Citi employee is expected to adhere many of those issues as salient human management and our Board of Directors. to our Code of Conduct, which includes rights risks for our company, including For more information about our govera commitment to human rights, and to discrimination in employment practices nance of ESG issues, including human participate in relevant training. Our Code and the provision of financial services; rights, see the ESG Governance at Citi of Conduct prohibits unlawful discrimiadequate standard of living and right section. nation, harassment and other behaviors to property; the need to safeguard the that infringe on individual rights. This policy applies to all employees, as well as to suppliers, clients and community Salient Human Rights Risks: Stakeholder Impacts partners globally. This table illustrates which stakeholders could be impacted by the human rights risks Efforts to promote diversity and incluwe have identified as most salient to our company, including risks related to our own sion are not always discussed in terms operations and the activities of our clients. Shaded risks are categorized as Areas of of human rights, but they are human High Caution and trigger additional due diligence for project transactions in alignment rights concerns, as they seek to protect with our ESRM Policy. Additional context about these risks and the due diligence individuals from unlawful discrimination processes we have in place to identify and mitigate human rights risks in our value on the basis of essential characteristics chain can be found throughout this report, in our Statement on Human Rights and in that relate directly to a person’s sense of our Environmental and Social Policy Framework. dignity. These efforts also aim to remedy disparities in the treatment of women and minorities in the workplace. Respect for Citi’s Suppliers’ Customers Those Affected by diversity and inclusion is a high priority Human Rights Risks Employees Employees and Clients Clients’ Projects wherever we operate and can become a particular concern in countries where Adequate standard of living; there is no legal protection against right to property discrimination based on gender, gender identity, race, ethnicity, age, religion, Conflict risk physical or mental disability or medical condition, or sexual orientation, in Discrimination in the provision addition to a range of other essential of financial services characteristics inherent to identity and personhood. Citi prohibits discrimination Diversity and inclusion; and harassment of our employees in all discrimination in the workplace forms regardless of whether individual protections are legally mandated in the Indigenous Peoples countries and communities where we operate. In fact, we know that even in Information security; privacy locations where anti-discrimination laws exist, there is still a need for companies to ensure they are doing their part to Labor practices (including modern slavery) respect individual rights. During 2019 we raised the minimum wage Resettlement of our U.S.-based employees to $15 an hour. We also continued our study of pay Security practices equity across the company to identify gaps in pay between men and women 64 globally and minorities and nonminorities slavery concerns, and we are planning to screening and escalation of higher-risk in the U.S. Learn more about our pay gap implement these questions across other suppliers for further engagement in a analyses and broader diversity and incluregions as well. consistent fashion across our regional sion efforts in the Talent and Diversity sourcing teams. More information about In 2017, we conducted an assessment section. our efforts to combat modern slavery is of our Tier 1 suppliers at certain spend available in our 2019 UK Modern Slavery thresholds in EMEA to assess modern Freedom of Association slavery-related risks. Following that Act transparency statement. assessment, we have been engaging The work we do to fight modern slavery While the financial services industry is suppliers deemed of greatest risk to throughout our value chain, along with not heavily unionized, we do have unions better understand their approach to our related reporting, policies, due or work councils in many of the countries managing these risks. In 2018, we initidiligence and risk assessments, demonwhere we operate. Approximately ated a pilot for our highest-risk suppliers strates Citi’s commitment to SDG 8, 12 percent of our employee population in the following sectors: building services, which aims to promote sustained, incluis covered by collective bargaining cleaning services and supplies, catering sive and sustainable economic growth, agreements. We engage directly with services, and ground transportation full and productive employment and our employees and through these assoand other transportation sectors. We decent work for all. In particular, our ciations to discuss issues such as health expanded this work in 2019 to target 219 work in these areas addresses target 8.7, and safety, remuneration, work hours, suppliers with enhanced due diligence which includes a mandate to eradicate training, career development, work questions about their specific policies forced labor, end modern slavery and time flexibility and equal opportunity. and procedures to identify, prevent and human trafficking and end child labor in Information related to freedom of assomitigate risks of modern slavery in their all its forms. ciation is communicated to employees operations and supply chains. We are through various mediums, including using the responses we received from SDG Goal 8: Decent Work and Economic employee handbooks, our intranet and this initial group of high-risk suppliers Growth employee emails. to develop a methodology for assessing and categorizing the quality of the For more information on our supply Extending Respect information provided. We will then roll chain, see the Operations and Supply out the program globally to enable the Chain section. for Human Rights Through Our Suppliers and Partners Calling for Inclusion Our nondiscrimination policies extend of Refugees to Citi’s and the Citi Foundation’s philanthropic activity and to Citi’s suppliers. We do not provide funding to organizaIn 2019, we reinforced our committions that discriminate on the basis of ment to refugees by signing the personal characteristics, such as gender, Business Refugee Action Network’s race and sexual orientation, among statement on the Sustainable others. We communicate our approach Development Goals. The statement The Vice Chairman of Citigroup and Chairman of Banking, Capital Markets and Advisory to human rights to our suppliers in our advocates for the inclusion of joined business leaders and journalists at the Statement of Supplier Principles. Our refugees to make progress toward UN General Assembly to demand action and approach is reinforced by our Corporate the SDGs and recognizes the critical draw attention to the lack of refugee inclusion in the SDGs. Responsibility Questionnaire (CRQ), which role of business to ensure they helps our procurement team determine are not left behind. Citi and the how well potential and current suppliCiti Foundation have a history of grants. By signing this statement, we ers manage environmental and social supporting refugees through finanjoin with other businesses and organisustainability issues, including human cial inclusion programs as well as zations to call for action to improve the rights issues. Our CRQ for the Europe, with business training and start-up lives of refugees. Middle East and Africa (EMEA) region includes questions specific to modern 65 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices Respecting Human selling high-capacity magazines or bump stocks (which modify semiautomatic firehaving such extensive business relationships, and we have adopted the approach Rights in Our arms to fire faster, at rates comparable to fully automatic firearms), and selling set out in the Principles of prioritizing our due diligence and risk mitigation first to Financing Decisions firearms to individuals under age 21 only areas where the risk of adverse human if they have received firearms safety rights impact is most significant from The challenge of effectively evaluating training (e.g., as part of active or former the perspective of people who could be human rights risks related to our clients military or law enforcement employaffected. We use our ESRM Policy, where and the projects we finance is significant. ment or via hunter safety training). For applicable, to assess and manage risks We work diligently to meet this challenge manufacturers, best practice entails consistently and evaluate client projects and respect the human rights of the only selling firearms to retailers who are and activities against a common set individuals and communities impacted by following these same practices. of environmental and social standards the projects we finance. grounded in international best practice, Another opportunity we have to thwart including human rights norms and the Our U.S. Commercial Firearms Policy, human rights abuses is through our antiInternational Finance Corporation’s adopted in 2018, is one example of money laundering efforts, which help us Performance Standards. how Citi can have an influence on the prevent criminally sourced funds — includprotection of human rights. Under this ing funds associated with human rights Our ESRM team screens transactions policy, we require clients or partners that abuses, such as human trafficking — from covered by our ESRM Policy during the are U.S. firearms retailers or firearms passing through our bank. Disrupting initial marketing phase to identify any manufacturers that sell through U.S. the flow of money to those perpetrating client activities we believe pose heightretail channels to adhere to a set of best human rights abuses and denying those ened risks to workers or local commupractices regarding the sale of firearms. abusers safe harbor for illicit proceeds nities. Our policy prohibits financing For retailers, these practices include tied to corruption or human rights violaany project for which our due diligence selling firearms only to individuals who tions are effective ways to undermine indicates a risk of harmful or exploitative have completed a background check, not their efforts. forms of forced labor or child labor or when the relevant labor forces have While these two examples illustrate our been subjected to human trafficking. In ability to proactively avoid business addition, the policy covers Areas of High Recognition of Our Work transactions with adverse human rights Caution — heightened environmental and impacts, there are other situations in to End Gun Violence which the link between our financial social risks that require closer due diligence and additional risk management. In 2019, Citi received the Corporate Action services and adverse human rights These are issues we have identified as Award from the Brady Center to Prevent impacts is less direct. That complexity salient human rights risks related to our Gun Violence during the first-ever Brady may mean we have less leverage, and corporate and investment banking clients’ Action Awards. The award was in recogit diminishes our ability to ensure that activities. They include the following: nition of Citi’s U.S. Commercial Firearms on-the-ground outcomes are consistent with Citi’s values. In these instances, we • Conflict risk: Certain sectors may Policy, which enforces a set of best work to improve our clients’ awareness present a greater degree of projpractices for our U.S. clients and partners and business practices. In addition, ect-induced conflict risk, which may regarding the sale of firearms. Citi continwhere a transaction’s financial and legal be tied to competition for resources ues to support the Second Amendment to or land. In such cases, Citi carefully structure allows it, we put loan covenants the U.S. Constitution and the rights of Citi assesses key conflict factors such as in place and monitor mitigation efforts customers to purchase firearms. At the through ESRM systems and corrective sources of tension and root causes same time, in response to horrific acts of action plans. of conflict, actors and their intergun violence in our communities, we also ests, and development needs and recognized our responsibility to establish Human Rights Due incentives to address such risk in the project’s area of influence. this policy, which includes common-sense Diligence in Client provisions for the responsible sale of • Indigenous Peoples: Various conTransactions firearms. The elements of the policy have cerns can arise regarding the extent strong bipartisan support and are backed Citi has thousands of corporate and instito which indigenous communities are by many gun owners. tutional clients. The UN Guiding Principles consulted during project developacknowledge the challenges posed by ment and have consented to impacts 66 to their land, livelihood and cultural threat to people or communities — and we Transactions Reviewed heritage. will re-evaluate the client relationship or decline involvement in the transaction. Under Citi’s Statement on • Labor: There are risks related to labor forces used in the construction This is a move we take very seriously Human Rights of projects or other operations, as we recognize that terminating the relationship can have a number of ramifiIn 2019, the ESRM team screened 557 including risks associated with forced cations, including removing any leverage total transactions during the initial labor, child labor and human traffickwe might otherwise have had to improve marketing phase, and of those, 44 were ing by project operators and their practices over time through constructive flagged as requiring additional due subcontractors. engagement. diligence for human rights risks. This • Resettlement: The resettlement screening does not include other human of local communities, including After the financial close of projectrights risk assessments the ESRM team indigenous groups, can be necessary related transactions that have timeundertakes as part of annual client for project implementation. When bound environmental and social action reviews or portfolio reviews. The specific this occurs, it should be conducted plans, we monitor the project sponsor’s types of risks we uncovered are outlined through carefully designed resettleimplementation of those actions through in the table below. Of the 44 transactions ment action plans that are reviewed the construction and operation phases of flagged for additional human rights due by project lenders in advance the project — often through the retention diligence, 18 proceeded to close after of implementation and should, of an independent environmental and we confirmed the clients were managing where necessary, include efforts social risk consultant who periodically and mitigating the potential risk approtoward achieving the free, prior and reports to lenders following on-thepriately. Transactions may not reach informed consent of indigenous ground audits. For more information, financial close for a number of reasons, communities. see the ESRM section. not solely due to ESRM review. • Security practices: Security concerns can arise relating to how project sponsors engage with public or private security forces protecting project sites. In such circumstances, Identifying Human Rights Risks in Transactions* if we decide to proceed with financing, we will advise project sponsors on the implementation of internaHuman Rights Risks Reviewed in 2019 Closed in 2019 tional standards, such as those in the Voluntary Principles on Security and Conflict Risk 8 2 Human Rights. If, during our initial screening or more Indigenous Peoples 17 6 extensive due diligence for a transaction, we find there is a risk of adverse impacts, we carefully evaluate the client’s Labor Risks 9 6 current commitment and capacity to avoid, mitigate and/or manage those impacts in accordance with international Resettlement 8 4 industry best practices and human rights norms and their willingness to engage in continual learning and improvement. We Security Practices 7 1 escalate the most challenging cases with the potential for severe adverse impacts to senior business and risk managers Water 4 1 for collective discussion on the risks and the client’s commitment and capacity. In some cases, senior management will Total Transactions 44 18 conclude that the likelihood for adverse impacts is too great — posing an imminent * One transaction may have more than one human rights risk. 67 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices Providing Access to possible, to their lives and enjoyment While in recent years banks have come of their rights before those rights were under increasing pressure to disclose Remedy violated. Remedy can also help ensure specific findings related to client projects, that they and others will not suffer similar we are bound by legal requirements and The UN Guiding Principles call on harm in the future. business ethics related to confidentiality governments and companies to play their that limit our ability to disclose such respective roles in ensuring that victims As a financial institution, our approach information without client consent. of human rights abuse have access to to remedy usually involves working with Addressing requests for transparency will effective remedies. Remedy can take clients to ensure they have the right continue to be a balancing act between many different forms, including apolopolicies in place and channels available protecting the confidentiality of our gies, financial or nonfinancial compento enable victims to lodge grievances. In clients’ information and disclosing inforsation or efforts to prevent future harm addition, these companies must follow mation to stakeholders as appropriate to through policy commitments and changes up on allegations and have established advance the protection of human rights. in operational practice. The purpose of processes to offer remedies or cooperate In 2019, we responded both informally remedy is to help make victims whole with authorities to make sure effective and in writing to a variety of human again or to restore them, as much as remedy is provided. rights inquiries regarding our financing activities and our general due diligence Continuous Learning practices. These inquiries came from nongovernmental organizations such Applying Our Policies as BankTrack, the Business and Human to Protect Human Engaging Stakeholders Rights Resource Centre, the Investor Rights and Reduce Risk To ensure that we are living up to our Alliance for Human Rights and the Sierra commitment to respect human rights Club. and anticipate emerging risks, we When our due diligence processes regularly communicate our approach Reporting Mechanisms uncover the risk of human rights externally and engage with stakeholders for Stakeholders violations in potential or estabon their issues of concern. During 2019, lished client relationships, we inveswe participated in a project to improve Our Ethics Hotline provides a way for our tigate further and, when necessary, metrics related to human rights reporting employees, suppliers and other external engage with our clients to better through Shift. Citi also acted as co-lead stakeholders, including the general understand their approach to for the EP Social Risk working group, public, to report concerns about unethmanaging such risks. When needed, which developed new language and ical behavior to Citi’s Ethics Office. This we work with them to identify guidance on both protection of the rights includes human rights-related issues such corrective action in alignment with of Indigenous Peoples and human rights as workplace harassment, violations of international best practices. risk assessment. supply chain standards or concerns over project financing activities. Stakeholders If proactive management of In addition, we pay close attention to and whistleblowers can report violations human rights risks is not possible, human rights issues raised by stakeholdto the Ethics Hotline using a 24-hour we might re-evaluate the client ers within specific industries, such as the phone line, email address, fax line, relationship or deny financing or energy sector and palm oil. We engage website or physical mailing address. involvement in a particular transacwith these industries directly through tion. During 2019, we exited a relaclient relationships, stakeholder meetings In addition, for certain qualifying projtionship with a client in the palm and active participation in groups. For ects, we apply the Equator Principles to oil industry who failed to follow instance, our participation in the RSPO assess and manage environmental and our policy requirement of mainenables us to engage with multiple social risks. The EP framework includes taining certification through the stakeholders connected to the palm oil an assessment of the project sponsor’s Roundtable on Sustainable Palm value chain in the hopes of enhancing stakeholder engagement process, as well Oil (RSPO) — a multistakeholder our leverage and improving the collective as its operational-level grievance mechinitiative with principles and criteria effort of those connected to particular anisms for affected communities to raise regarding sustainable palm oil. commodities or risks. concerns proactively with the project developers. 68 Employee Training What’s Ahead Human rights content is integrated into The robust policies and programs we have in place throughout our business help us the training we provide for the employees avoid or effectively address a range of human rights impacts. We are also continuresponsible for implementing our ESRM ally engaging stakeholders and surveying the global landscape to identify emergPolicy and in our Code of Conduct training human rights risks that might affect our business and our stakeholders. For ing, which is required of all employees. instance, the use of artificial intelligence to boost surveillance and restrict freedom During 2019, we developed a comprehenof movement in some parts of the world is a growing human rights threat. In sive module on modern slavery, which so addition, our conversations about climate change with clients, peers and industry far has been provided to more than 1,000 organizations increasingly include concerns about the impact of a warming planet supply chain employees globally. As we on human rights. We will continue to monitor these issues and other emerging continue to roll out training, we will identrends to protect our stakeholders and use our influence to uphold human rights tify staff across the company whose work globally. would be enhanced through this training. 69 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices Operations and Supply Chain HIGHLIGHTS Addressing climate risk Green Teams recognized Opportunities for diverse banks We invest in climate adaptation solutions Employee-led teams in Florida and Costa Mentorship of a small, minority-owned for our operations to increase resiliency Rica received awards for sustainabilitybank is opening doors for future work Page 75 focused volunteer efforts Page 80 Page 76 Capitalizing on the tremendous opportunity we have Resource Use and for positive impact through our global operations, we have established commitments to further minimize the 1 Environmental environmental footprints of our facilities and to ensure Impacts high environmental and social standards throughout our We have been measuring our environsupply chain. mental footprint for 20 years and began reporting on our direct operational impacts in 2002. During 2019, we explored new avenues for sourcing renewable electricity for our facilities 1 For performance against our Sustainable Progress Strategy Scorecard, please see the report Appendices. 70 globally, continued executing on multiyear strategies to meet our 2020 goals, and began looking ahead to our next set of operational goals, which we will announce in 2020. Also, in recognition of the connection between environmental sustainability and employee well-being, we continued implementing improvements in our workspaces and encouraging employee wellness initiatives. 2020 Goals We are currently tracking progress against our third generation of operational footprint goals — our 2020 goals, which we first announced in 2015. These goals cover energy use, water consumption, recycling, waste and green building, and, in 2017, we announced a goal to use 100 percent renewable electricity to power our facilities globally by 2020. In 2018, we achieved three of these goals two years early, and during 2019 we made progress in all the areas we measure. We continue to work toward achievement of all six goals and are on track to reach at least five of them by the end of 2020, as expected. While our strong focus on water has enabled us to surpass our 2020 goal for total water use reduction, operations. In order to meet our ambito meet our goal of sourcing 100 percent our goal to use reclaimed or recycled tious goal, we have established power renewable electricity for all our facilities water for at least 10 percent of our water purchase agreements (PPAs) in Mexico by the end of 2020. In connection with consumption has proven more challengand the U.S.; secured utility green supply our renewable electricity commitment, ing. We are continuing to push forward in contracts in the U.S. and the UK and Citi is a member of RE100 — a global this area and identify more places where other parts of Europe; and are obtaining initiative led by the Climate Group and the use of reclaimed or recycled water is energy attribute certificates in the form CDP, which are both part of the We Mean a viable option. of renewable energy certificates (RECs), Business coalition. international RECs, and guarantees of In 2019, we continued to make progress origin that support voluntary renewable Detailed data showing progress toward against our goal to source 100 percent electricity markets across each of our all of our 2020 goals are included at the renewable electricity across Citi’s global operating regions. We also use on-site end of this section. Our greenhouse gas operations. We own or lease more than power when feasible, though it makes up (GHG) emissions and environmental data 50 million square feet of real estate a small portion of our overall renewable are verified and assured by SGS, a leading across 7,700 properties in 95 countries. portfolio. We have already completed third-party inspection, verification, It is complex to secure renewable the work necessary to power our North testing and certification company. For electricity in many of these markets, America facilities with renewable elecour SGS Assurance Statement, see the especially where renewable electricity tricity beginning in 2020. During 2019, Assurance section. resources are less developed, where we we made progress across our Asia Pacific have a smaller presence or where we do and Europe, Middle East and Africa not directly source electricity for our (EMEA) regions as well, so we will be able 71 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices 2020 Operational Footprint Goals: 2019 Progress Goal Goal 100% use of renewable electricity 30% reduction in energy consumption for facilities globally* (compared with 2005 baseline) Progress Progress 86% 35% Goal Goal 30% reduction in water consumption 10% of water used coming from (compared with 2005 baseline) reclaimed or recycled sources Progress Progress 35% 6% Goal Goal 60% diversion rate of waste to landfill 33% of global real estate (compared with 2005 baseline) portfolio LEED-certified Progress Progress 63% 27% * Contracted amount of renewable electricity for delivery in 2020 72 Citi Hong Kong Sustainability Initiatives and Recognition During 2019, we established an agreement with CLP Power Hong Kong Limited and The Hongkong Electric Company, Limited, to purchase renewable energy certificates equating to a combined 300,000 kilowatt hours (kWh) of renewable electricity from local sources, including solar and wind power. To further reduce our environmental impact we are considering the installation of solar panels on the rooftop of Citi Tower in Hong Kong. These efforts will help us reach our In 2019, we opened a new operations facility in Sioux Falls, South Dakota, for which we achieved LEED 2020 goal to power our facilities Gold certification. with 100 percent renewable electricity. Sustainable Building The renovation of our global headquarOur Citi Tower facility in Hong ters in New York, for which we were Kong also participated in the Principles in Action awarded LEED Platinum certification, is 2019 Carbon Challenge orgaon track to be completed in 2020. During nized by Dow and the U.S. Green Whether undertaking new construction construction, approximately 98 percent Building Council. Carbon reducor renovating existing buildings, we of all concrete, steel and glass demolition tion initiatives included an energy prioritize efficiency and sustainability to material was transported to recycling audit, centralized temperature minimize the environmental impact of our facilities, where it was converted back control, and automated shutdown facilities across the globe. As part of our into new building products. With this of air conditioning and lighting energy reduction efforts for our facilities renovation, we are installing waterduring hours when people are in North America, we are retrofitting our conserving plumbing fixtures, enhancing not typically in the building. branches, offices and operations centers the green space outside the building and These efforts reduced energy with LED lighting. As of the end of 2019, implementing systems to improve indoor consumption by more than 2,100 9.4 million square feet, representing air quality. Water retention tanks on metric tons (mt) of carbon dioxide 89 percent of the square footage of the building’s roof will capture 2 million equivalents (CO2e) during the our offices and operations centers, had gallons of rainwater annually, which we one-year challenge. Our sustainbeen retrofitted. We have also completed will use to irrigate plants on the buildability efforts in Hong Kong were lighting retrofits at 378 banking branches ing’s plaza and terraces. In addition, our recognized with awards from a with an additional 144 to be completed cogeneration plant, fueled by natural gas, number of organizations during in 2020. We expect this retrofit, once will produce heat and electricity on-site, 2019, including China Light & complete in 2020, to reduce our energy reducing the building’s carbon footprint Power, the International Facility consumption related to lighting by up by 34 percent. This significant, multiyear Management Association and the to 50 percent. Switching to LED lighting undertaking has been a driving force in World Green Organisation. also helps improve the overall quality of solidifying our approach to sustainable lighting and reduces maintenance costs. building principles and a catalyst for the 73 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices implementation of efficiency projects throughout the global footprint of our facilities. These sustainable building efforts, among others, support our goal to have 33 percent of our real estate portfolio LEED-certified by the end of 2020. Efficient Travel Options We encourage employees to use video and web conferencing technologies rather than traveling, whenever possible. When business travel is unavoidable, we ask employees to group trips together to manage costs and reduce the number of trips taken, and we offer employees the option of train travel whenever feasible. Many of our offices are centrally located near public transportation, which reduces the need for employees to drive to work. To encourage the use of these options and reduce the impact of employee commuting, we offer U.S.-based employees pre-tax dollars to cover the cost of commuting by subway, bus, train, ferry and vanpool. We also offer bike storage and bike racks at a number of facilities Employees in Colombia Champion Sustainable Transportation and sponsor bike share programs, known In 2016, Citi employees in Bogotá, Colombia, launched the Citi Mobility program, which as Citi Bike® Program, in New York City, focuses on transportation solutions that benefit the environment, the company and the Jersey City and Miami. At our car park in city. The program provides the bank’s employees with rapid, safe and convenient ways the London Citigroup Center, we offer a to get to and from work. As of the end of 2019, it has led to more than 46,000 carpooldozen charging stations for those driving ing trips; more than 7,300 trips by bicycle; and more than 3,900 commutes by walking. electric vehicles. Business travel and Efforts like these earned the program first place in the 2019 Sustainability Challenge employee commuting are reported as sponsored by Try My Ride, a company committed to promoting sustainability mobility. part of our Scope 3 emissions data. The Citi Mobility program was judged to have done the most to reduce CO2 emissions, improve quality of life for employees and promote sustainable mobility during the oneTransparent Reporting month challenge. Citi Colombia was also awarded a Gold Quality Seal by Bogotá’s Secreof Operational Climate tary of Mobility in recognition of the high-quality, secure bicycle parking at the facility. Impacts Citi reports our Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 GHG emissions in both this and Scope 2 Guidance for measuring Scope 3 electricity transmission loss annual Environmental, Social and and reporting both market-based and and employee commuting data to CDP. Governance Report and in our CDP location-based Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG In early 2020, Citi received a score of A response. We began reporting on the emissions. We also report Scope 3 CO2 from CDP on our climate change disclodirect environmental impacts of our operemissions from employee air and train sure and an Afor supply chain reporting, ations in 2002 and have submitted data travel and project-financed thermal for 2018 data. to CDP every year since 2003. We follow power plants in this Environmental, Social the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard and Governance Report, and we report 74 Sustainable design was a priority throughout the renovation of our global headquarters in New York City. Managing Climate Risk in Our Operations The effects of climate change, particularly any associated extreme weather events, pose a potential risk to our operations. In addition to mitigating our risks by reducing GHG emissions through the use of renewable energy and improved energy efficiency, our Citi Realty Services group and crisis management and business continuity teams help us to monitor, prepare for and respond to a range of issues — including extreme weather events — that could disrupt our operations. Because Citi operates in nearly 100 counover time due to climate change. Moving for almost two decades and set significant tries, our facilities could be exposed to a forward, we also plan to incorporate physreduction targets for our energy consumprange of risks that vary in type based on ical risks related to climate change into tion. Disclosure of Scope 1, Scope 2 and the location of each facility. To increase the scenario analyses we conduct on our Scope 3 GHG emissions is a component of our resiliency, we have invested in climate operations. the recommendations of the Task Force adaptation solutions in a number of critical on Climate-related Financial Disclosures facilities. In addition, our crisis manageTo avoid the most severe negative impacts (TCFD). Our disclosures can be found in our ment team has developed action plans to of climate change, it is estimated we must Environmental Impact Report at the end of address immediate risks and support our limit global warming to no more than 1.5°C this section. In 2018, Citi published Finance employees and customers before, during above pre-industrial levels, an achievefor a Climate-Resilient Future — a detailed and after adverse events. Our business ment that many climate experts suggest report of our activities and progress in continuity team also has plans in place to is unlikely at this stage. To address the accordance with the TCFD recommendations help Citi resume business operations as seriousness and urgency of the challenge and metrics. We’ve also included a TCFD quickly as possible in the aftermath of an ahead, Citi has established a goal to index in this report. extreme climate event. We are assessing the transition to sourcing 100 percent renewexposure of our global facilities to different able power for our facilities by 2020. In climate hazards and how that might change addition, we have disclosed our emissions 75 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices Environmental employees to use the stairs and walking we’ve received WELL Silver certification paths at our buildings to increase daily from the International WELL Building Sustainability and physical activity and improve their Institute™ for facilities in Hong Kong Employee Well-Being health. Participating employees track the and India over the last few years. The number of steps they take during walking WELL Building Standard is a system for We encourage employees to participate breaks at work. This initiative has gained measuring, certifying and monitoring in activities and initiatives that emphasize popularity over the last few years, and building features that impact the health the intersection of personal well-being in 2019 we developed a smartphone app and well-being of occupants. and reduced environmental impact. For to make it even easier for employees to instance, our Drink-Up initiative promotes participate and track progress. During Employee Engagement hydration, but rather than stocking our 2019, 1,300 employees logged more than breakrooms with disposable plastic water 120 million steps. We engage employees in achieving our bottles, we are converting the water environmental sustainability objectives in fountains at our facilities to also work In addition, we recognize that wellness their day-to-day activities and responsias bottle-filling stations. Based on the is an important aspect of sustainability bilities at work, as well as through volunamount of water dispensed via the bottle in building design alongside more traditeer efforts and Green Team activities. fillers, we estimate that we have helped tional environmental considerations, employees avoid the use of nearly such as energy and water efficiency and Green Teams are employee-led groups 3.2 million water bottles in the U.S. and the use of green materials. When looking that design and lead environmental close to 3.8 million in Mexico between at how our buildings can affect the initiatives — such as recycling drives, the program’s inception in 2016 and the well-being of our employees, we consider volunteer projects, informative lectures end of 2019. air and water quality, opportunities to and awareness campaigns — tailored stay active, healthy food options and a to their workplaces and local commuTo further inspire well-being at work, our work environment that is both flexible nities. We have 18 Green Teams, with annual Step Up challenge encourages and effective. As a result of these efforts, 2,670 employees, operating around the Green Team members participating in a volunteer event Members of the Costa Rica Green Team celebrating the Ecological Blue in Jacksonville, Florida Flag award 76 world. In 2019, these Green Teams held rights, including issues of modern slavery, For more information about our 223 volunteer and educational events, and further integration of environmental approach to human rights, see the resulting in 16,200 volunteer hours sustainability priorities into business Human Rights section. dedicated to helping communities. In policies. 2019, two of our Green Teams received In addition, Citi complies with the UK recognition for their sustainability In 2015, Citi identified three focus areas Modern Slavery Act and releases an efforts. In Jacksonville, Florida, the local as part of our Sustainable Progress annual transparency statement summaGreen Team received the Jacksonville Strategy: paper and paper products, rizing our approach to identifying and Environmental Protection Board’s information technology hardware and mitigating the risks of modern slavery in Environmental Achievement Award in e-waste disposal, and travel and logistics. our operations and supply chain. the large business category. Costa Rica’s We have developed position statements Green Team received an Ecological that recommend actions for each of Supplier Engagement Blue Flag award, which recognizes local these areas and incorporated them and Evaluation efforts that promote conservation and into our supply chain Global Operating development. In addition, in recognition Procedures. In 2019, we continued engagWe use a Corporate Responsibility of Earth Day, Citi Green Teams and other ing employees and making progress in Questionnaire (CRQ) to evaluate colleagues organized environmental and these areas, including: suppliers’ adherence to our Statement sustainability events during the month • Performing an analysis of our of Supplier Principles. The CRQ helps of April. printers us gauge how well suppliers manage a range of issues, such as environmental Each year, our company participates in • Communicating the benefits of purmanagement, human rights, labor practhe World Wildlife Fund’s Earth Hour. chasing EPEAT-certified products to tices, diversity, and health and safety. In March 2019, nearly 2,800 facilities employees who purchase items for For example, the CRQ for our EMEA in 98 countries turned off the lights their teams region includes specific questions to help between 8:30 p.m. and 9:30 p.m., local • Reinforcing the importance of identify and contribute to eradicating time. Citi has participated in this event sustainable practices in contractual child labor and modern slavery, including for 12 consecutive years. language for our technology hardforced or bonded labor and human ware suppliers that align with EPEAT trafficking. We plan to implement these Responsible Sourcing questions across other regions in coming Supplier Policies years. Citi seeks out suppliers that share our values and our commitment to having We have developed standards and poliIntegrating these important issues into a positive impact in the communities cies to support our efforts and clearly our CRQ and our broader work to address where we operate. We set high standards communicate our expectations to supplithe issue of modern slavery is part of of performance for resource use and ers regarding environmental and social the way Citi supports SDG 8, which aims supplier practices across our global issues, including the following: to promote sustained, inclusive and supply chain. sustainable economic growth, full and • The Citi Statement of Supplier productive employment and decent Principles outlines the aspirational Citi’s Supply Chain Development, work for all. In particular, our work in this guidelines that anchor our sustainInclusion and Sustainability team works area addresses target 8.7, which includes able supply chain initiative, including with procurement leaders across the a mandate to eradicate forced labor, end those related to ethical business company to support diversity in supplier modern slavery and human trafficking practices, human rights in the selection, build the capacity of diverse and end child labor in all its forms. workplace, environmental sustainsuppliers, implement sustainable supplier ability, management systems and initiatives and mitigate environmental SDG Goal 8: Decent Work and Economic implementation. and social risks in our supply chain. The Growth team champions inclusive and sustainable • The Citi Requirements for Suppliers, processes and practices as they engage formerly known as Citi Standards for Given our global footprint, we rely on with Citi employees responsible for the Suppliers, facilitates supplier complia strong network of Global Champions supplier selection process. This includes a ance with contractual requirements — Citi colleagues around the world who focus on engagement with women-owned and other key Citi policy obligations. serve as connections between their busibusinesses in developing countries, • Suppliers are also asked to abide by nesses and supply chain sustainability increased due diligence related to human the Citi Statement on Human Rights. and diversity efforts — to help implement 77 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices sustainable supplier initiatives locally help suppliers quickly address any issues we identify diverse suppliers, including and adapt the CRQ to local cultures and flagged related to their CRQ responses small businesses that can meet our business norms. We also translate the and align to Citi’s expectations. If the supply chain needs, help build these CRQ into 14 languages to make it easier necessary improvement is not achieved suppliers’ capacities and support supply for suppliers to complete and to enable within that year, we escalate review to chain diversity and inclusion more productive follow-up conversations. determine whether the contract should broadly. These organizations include the be discontinued. In addition, to ensure National Minority Supplier Development Our goal is for suppliers to complete the a consistent approach and understandCouncil and several of its global affiliCRQ every two years. If a supplier’s CRQ ing of the CRQ process and supplier ates, the Women’s Business Enterprise score is below 70 percent, we communievaluation, we provide training for our Council, the National LGBT Chamber of cate our concerns and ask the supplier to employees. We also provide sustainability Commerce and WEConnect International. take action to improve and submit a new training and education to suppliers. We also engage with UN Women and CRQ the following year. We have rolled the Sustainable Purchasing Leadership out the CRQ to more than 30 percent of Supplier Diversity Council, an organization dedicated to sustainable purchasing efforts. our suppliers and are focusing on impleOur Supply Chain Development, Inclusion mentation with our top 100 suppliers and Sustainability team sets clear For every bid over $250,000, we require based on spend. In 2019, 16 percent of supplier diversity goals and embeds them the inclusion of diverse suppliers in our top 100 suppliers scored 70 percent in our supplier selection processes. In the bidding process. This requirement or lower on the CRQ. We meet with addition, we provide U.S. small businesses ensures that diverse suppliers are considsuppliers that fall below the 70 percent and women-, veteran-, disability-, LGBT+ered not only for small engagements but threshold and outline steps together to and minority-owned firms with access for large ones as well. As the result of a improve these scores within the year to business opportunities, education, technology upgrade that began in 2018 when they resubmit. Additional training mentoring and training. Working with a and continued into 2019, our enterprise and face-to-face dialogue has proven to range of supplier-focused organizations, supply chain employees were provided 2019 CRQ Implementation Among Top 100 Suppliers CRQ Surveys Completed Suppliers Scoring 70% or Lower 87% 12% North America 14 languages in which the CRQ is available 100% 33% Europe, Middle East • Arabic • Russian and Africa • English • Spanish • French • Turkish • German • Hungarian • S implified Chinese (China) N/A N/A • Italian Latin America* • Japanese • Korean • T raditional Chinese (Taiwan) 100% 21% • Portuguese Asia Pacific * During 2019, none of our suppliers in Latin America were within the top 100 by spend. 78 access to enriched supplier diversity data and analytics, enabling them to consider additional certified diverse suppliers they might not otherwise have visibility to. The technology also provided data to support measurable, sustainable goals to further advance our diversity efforts. Citi is committed to procuring from women-owned businesses, especially from firms located in developing markets. In 2019, we worked with partner organizations to identify businesses around the world that have registered as womenowned through these organizations and evaluate their capabilities. We also worked to identify existing women-owned Citi suppliers and encourage those not already members of WEConnect to join in order to be more easily identified by companies seeking their services. In 2019, we procured $149 million from womenowned businesses. Our efforts to support women-owned businesses align with SDG 5: Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls. In particular, our work in this area helps address target 5.5, which aims to ensure women’s full and effective participation and equal opportunities for leadership at all levels of decision-making in political, economic and public life. SDG Goal 5: Gender Equality Engaging Diverse Broker-Dealers Citi has a history of consistently working with diverse broker-dealers, and we have used an underwriting syndicate composed of diverse third-party broker-dealers — $1.18B including those that are minority-, veteranand women-owned — for more than 15 years. Since 2015, we have used exclusively minorityand women-owned businesses as co-managers on at least one transaction each year. Total amount spent on Tier 1 and Tier 2 In 2019, we included at least seven diverse broker-dealers in each of our 12 USD, diverse suppliers in unsecured benchmark debt and capital offerings — using 30 different diverse firms throughout the year. We also hosted our 15th annual broker-dealer breakfast, which 2019 provides diverse broker-dealers with an opportunity to share best practices and ($700 million direct network with Citi leaders. spend on Tier 1 only) 79 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices Paving the Way for Diverse Banks Citi is one of a handful of large national banks authorized to work as financial agents for the U.S. Department of the Treasury. This allows us to perform financial services on behalf of Treasury and its financial management arm, the Bureau of the Fiscal Service. Through the Bureau’s Financial Agent Mentor-Protégé Program, financial agents such as Citi are paired with small banks — including minorityand women-owned banks — to pave the way for more firms in the minority-owned banking sector to perform important financial services for Treasury. Acting on Treasury’s commitment to For the past decade, Citi has been respontransferring our institutional expertise achieve a more inclusive network of finansible for the day-to-day management of the and experience to enrich Industrial Bank’s cial agents, and our own commitment to Bureau’s OTCnet application, which autoqualifications. This work will put Industrial increase supplier diversity, we worked with mates its point-of-sale/over-the-counter Bank on a path to become a financial agent Treasury to engage with the Washington check-deposit process by capturing check in the future and enable it to bid for federal D.C.-based, Black-owned Industrial Bank images. OTCnet processes $100 billion of contracts on its own. as the program’s first certified protégé. deposits annually. By jointly developing Industrial Bank was founded in the 1930s our proposal for the re-bid of the OTCnet and has since grown to become one of the program with Industrial Bank, the firm will largest minority-owned banks in the U.S., be able to become a full OTCnet partner. with assets of more than $432 million. Industrial will also participate in knowledgesharing sessions with Citi aimed at 80 Building the Capacity of Diverse In 2019, we continued our participation Suppliers in an in-depth mentoring and training What’s Ahead program called AC2A, in partnership We have been measuring our operational Outreach programs that engage, educate, with the New York & New Jersey Minority environmental impacts for two decades develop and train our diverse suppliers Supplier Development Council, Rutgers and, over time, it’s become increasingly and partners are integral to the efforts University, Covenant Business Concepts clear that incremental improvements of our team. One of our priorities is and other corporate sponsors. Through in this area are table stakes. We will to ensure that small and diverse busithis program, Citi works with diverse continue to push ourselves to set more nesses have the training they need to suppliers and other corporate coaches to ambitious goals that reduce our negative compete with more established firms. ensure that diverse suppliers have access impact on the environment, and we will For instance, we help build capacity in to information through workshops about also continue to increase our focus on the area of sustainability so that a lack of sustainability, leadership development promoting positive social impacts within knowledge in that area doesn’t become and coaching. This is the fifth year Citi and beyond our firm, creating workspaces a roadblock to completing our CRQ or has participated in the program. Also in that promote employee wellness and other requirements for working with Citi. 2019, in partnership with the Minority engaging employees in our effort to During 2019, we collaborated with the Supplier Development UK (MSDUK) create a culture of sustainability. In our New York & New Jersey Minority Supplier program, we provided a scholarship supply chain, we will increase supplier Development Council to host the ninth for a finalist of the MSDUK Innovation diversity both inside and outside the U.S. annual Sustainability Symposium in New Challenge — a pitch competition for and pursue the growing opportunities York City. The agenda included a focus minority-owned businesses. within sustainable supply chain finance. on the integration of the UN Sustainable Development Goals into standard business practices, a workshop with the UN Global Compact to educate diverse firms about the business implications of modern slavery as well as a panel focused on ratings and reporting. To further build the capacity of diverse suppliers, we host events in different locations around the world to share information and best practices for doing business with Citi and other large companies. We often include “matchmaking sessions” during these events, to help connect suppliers with buyers and regional sourcing managers. During 2019, our EMEA team partnered with WEConnect International and Minority Supplier Development UK to host several of these events throughout the region, including in Hungary, Kenya and South Africa. We also worked with WEConnect to host events in Brazil, Costa Rica and Mexico. 81 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices Environmental Performance for Operations Progress Against 2020 Goals 2020 Goal Progress 100% use of renewable electricity for facilities globally* 86.0% 30% reduction in energy consumption (compared with 2005 baseline) 35.1% 30% reduction in water consumption (compared with 2005 baseline) 35.3% 10% of water used coming from recycled/reclaimed sources 6.3% 60% diversion in waste stream to landfill (compared with 2005 baseline) 62.8% 33% of global real estate portfolio LEED-certified 26.9% LEED-Certified Buildings by Region** Region Certified Silver Gold Platinum Total Asia Pacific 6 21 42 12 81 Europe, Middle East and Africa 2 5 27 9 43 Latin America 4 7 6 0 17 North America 26 32 68 1 127 Total 38 65 143 22 268 LEED-Certified Buildings by Building Type** Building Type 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Branches 10 23 4 1 14 Data Centers (DC) 0 1 1 0 0 DC File Storage 0 0 0 0 0 Office Buildings 14 7 12 11 14 Operational Centers 1 1 3 1 1 Total*** 25 32 20 13 29 † Cumulative Total 174 206 226 239 268 * Contracted amount of renewable energy for delivery in 2020. ** Based on the active buildings in the portfolio by year-end 2019 and excludes projects for inactive and disposed buildings. *** 2018 total is revised from previous reporting to account for a building that was certified in 2018 but for which we did not receive final documentation until early 2019. † Includes buildings certified prior to 2015. 82 Environmental Performance for Operations (continued) GHG Emissions (Scopes 1 & 2) by Region Region Scope 1 C02e Scope 2 CO2e Total CO2e Location-Based Market-Based Location-Based Market-Based (mt) (mt) (mt) (mt) (mt) Asia Pacific 1,137 172,876 172,960 174,013 174,096 Europe, Middle East 4,478 49,561 39,943 54,038 44,421 and Africa Latin America 2,183 111,241 87,602 113,423 89,785 North America 15,492 259,933 59,243 275,425 74,735 Regional Operational Environmental Performance Region GHG Emissions Total Consumption Total Waste Location-Based Market-Based Energy Water 3 (mt) (mt) (mt) (GWh) (m ) Asia Pacific 174,013 174,096 281 720,500 4,915 Europe, Middle East 54,038 44,421 171 386,405 3,321 and Africa Latin America 113,423 89,785 268 1,044,659 10,315 North America 275,425 74,735 739 2,184,519 17,819 Electricity Consumption Amounts Applied to Market-Based Emission Factor Types Electricity Steam Chilled Water Total % of Total Emission Factor Basis (kWh) (kWh) (kWh) (kWh) Consumption RECs or Other Energy 500,213,468 0 0 500,213,468 37% Attribute Certificate PPA or Source Contract 135,925,193 0 0 135,925,193 10% Supplier Specific 12,571,312 0 0 12,571,312 1% Steam Default 0 17,009,278 0 17,009,278 1% Residual Mix 175,398,871 0 1,114,353 176,513,224 13% Grid Average 486,492,780 0 27,386,346 513,879,126 38% Total 1,310,601,623 17,009,278 28,500,700 1,356,111,601 100% Figures may not sum to totals due to rounding. 83 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices Environmental Impact Report 2005 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Operating Sq. Ft. 71,978,507 54,888,730 52,399,026 50,354,101 48,051,230 45,137,587 45,116,344 Headcount 344,650 225,750 224,740 219,056 208,043 199,458 188,779 Absolute Indicators Energy Electricity (GWh) 1,964 1,657 1,586 1,516 1,447 1,374 1,311 District Heating 87 60 62 61 58 57 46 (Steam & Chilled Water) Energy Purchased 2,050 1,717 1,648 1,577 1,505 1,431 1,356 (GWh) — Scope 2 Natural Gas (GWh) 145 83 76 70 63 80 71 Fuel Oil (GWh) 51 37 37 32 29 28 32 Energy Consumed 197 120 113 102 92 108 103 (GWh) — Scope 1 Total Energy (GWh) 2,247 1,836 1,761 1,679 1,597 1,539 1,459 CO2e Emissions* Direct CO2e (GHG Scope 1) 43,533 27,042 25,742 23,141 20,951 24,132 23,289 (Gas & Fuel Oil) (mt) Indirect CO2e (GHG Scope 2) (Electricity, Steam & Chilled 1,048,226 821,767 789,002 747,748 677,636 623,233 593,611 Water) (mt) Total CO2e (mt) 1,091,759 848,809 814,743 770,889 698,587 647,365 616,900 Water Consumption Potable Water (m3) 6,691,534 5,272,072 5,094,364 4,823,836 4,595,506 4,278,673 4,061,356 Nonpotable Water (m3) 13,014 20,784 57,822 233,093 284,292 247,846 274,727 Total Water 6,704,548 5,292,856 5,152,186 5,056,930 4,879,798 4,526,519 4,336,083 Consumption (m3) * For our GHG emissions performance, the base year and the annual performance against the goal are calculated using a location-based method. Figures may not sum to totals due to rounding. 84 Environmental Impact Report (continued) 2005 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Waste Recycled Office Paper (mt) 6,230 16,608 14,992 26,908 11,709 10,953 10,611 Refuse and Other (mt) 57,412 29,825 28,818 27,717 26,846 26,683 25,759 Total Waste (mt) 63,642 46,433 43,810 54,625 38,555 37,636 36,370 Relative Indicators Total Energy Consumed kWh/Rentable Sq. Ft. 31 33 34 35 33 34 32 kWh/Headcount 6,520 8,135 7,834 8,094 7,678 7,716 7,729 Net CO2e Metric Tons/Rentable Sq. Ft. 0.015 0.015 0.016 0.015 0.015 0.014 0.009 Metric Tons/Headcount 3.168 3.760 3.625 3.542 3.358 3.246 2.066 Scope 3 Emissions Business Travel Business Air Travel CO2e (mt) NA 178,694 109,687 135,735 151,112 149,588 126,055 Business Train Travel CO2e (mt) NA 6,651 1,605 2,125 209 227 174 Thermal Power 30-Year Plant Life CO2 (mmt) NA 0.0 9.6 7.8 18.1 9.9 0.0 60-Year Plant Life CO2 (mmt) NA 0.0 19.2 15.6 36.2 19.8 0.0 85 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices Digital Innovation HIGHLIGHTS A decade of innovation Protecting digital identity Citi Innovation Labs have been creating We focus on employee training, investigation of new and scaling new ideas since 2009 technology and broad engagement on the issue Page 87 Page 95 To achieve the breakthrough innovations that are critical Fostering Innovation to business success, Citi must do more than stay current with today’s technological advancements; we must also Innovation at Citi means problem-solving with clients, partnering with next-generaexamine the trends and issues that are changing the tion companies to stay ahead of the curve world around us and affecting the needs of our clients and fostering an environment that values and customers. We recognize innovation/digitization as experimentation. Across our company, we empower our employees to develop and a material environmental, social and governance (ESG) deliver new solutions that meet the most issue. It also connects to and enables several of our other pressing needs of our clients, customers material issues, including financial inclusion, data security and communities. Working in partnership with startups, governments, universities and privacy, customer satisfaction, and products with and technology companies, our Citi environmental and social benefits. Ventures team is one of the key ways we drive innovative change for financial 86 services. Since 2010, Citi Ventures has invested in more than 40 startups and has helped to pilot or commercialize more Citi Innovation Labs: A Decade of Innovation than 60 percent of those startups within Citi. The team’s current portfolio includes companies that are leading the way in Understanding the needs and expectations of our customers in relation to investment platforms, digital infrastructechnology is a longstanding tradition for Citi. In 1975, the rise in popularity of ture, fintech, commerce and payments. ATMs prompted us to establish a research center exploring consumer behavior and interactions with these machines. From there, our interest in how technolIn addition to investing in startups, Citi ogy both influences customer expectations and has a positive impact on their Ventures advances innovation through experiences with our bank has only grown. three complementary focus areas. In 2009, we opened our first Citi Innovation Lab in Dublin, Ireland, with the • Through our D10X® program, we aim of understanding how advancements in technology would impact our empower our employees to build, test clients’ expectations as well as our business models and treasury operations. and launch new solutions that are In the decade since, our Innovation Lab model has evolved to keep pace with exponentially better for our clients. technological advancements, the direction of our business and the needs of This approach helps us accelerate our clients. We started with a single lab that operated independently from our learning and bring more certainty to business and was focused on Citi-oriented solutions. Today our Innovation where we should — or should not — Lab network has grown to five labs globally. Not only are these labs now more invest resources. integrated with our core business — enabling greater innovation throughout • Our Emerging Technology team our organization — they also partner with fintech firms to bring new solutions monitors new solutions that offer the to scale from concept through execution. greatest potential to transform the In the last 10 years, technological innovation has led to new ways of doing lives of people, businesses and combusiness as well as completely new business models based on e-commerce, munities. Working closely with Citi connected systems and real-time dynamics. The two-way channel between colleagues and the external innovaour labs and our business enables collaboration and a free exchange of ideas, tion ecosystem, we learn, engage and helping us find cutting-edge solutions and often co-creating with our clients to experiment. This is critical as we look address the unique challenges they face. to upskill our workforce and prepare both our employees and our clients As we move forward, our Labs are considering how business models will for the next decade. change in the coming years as demographics shift, the needs and activities • Our Studio team, which launched of our clients evolve and technology continues to develop at a rapid pace. in 2018, collaborates with Citi Citi currently has Innovation Labs in England, Ireland, Israel, Mexico and colleagues internally and engages Singapore. with the broader, external digital innovation ecosystem to understand the macro trends affecting economic vitality for people, businesses and cities and to incubate solutions. The team identifies areas where Citi can drive change and help communities thrive, specifically looking at the future of work, inclusive entrepreneurship and city competitiveness. Through these efforts and others across Citi, we collaborate on breakthrough ideas that originate outside of our company and support innovation from 87 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices within — thereby incubating new solutions and products that support our mission of growth and economic progress. Empowering Financial Security and Strengthening Communities In 2019, Citi Ventures invested in, built and launched a range of products and services that improve financial security for consumers and support community development. One such investment is Digit — an app that analyzes users’ spending habits and helps them save money. Digit connects to an individual’s checking account and uses advanced algorithms that look at historical transaction behavior and use predictive technology to determine the optimal amount of money to save each day. It then automatically moves that money into a separate account. This automation helps users better understand their financial health Accelerating the and save money without thinking about it so they can reach their goals and feel Identification of Assets for Green Bonds more financially secure. The Citi Ventures team partnered with Digit in 2019 to help them build their business and scale their solutions. Green bonds are debt instruments whose proceeds Similarly, Citi Venture’s D10X program go toward financing or refinancing projects that meet supported an internal team of employees certain environmental or climate-aligned criteria. to develop a solution that helps consumers track their spending and manage One challenge of green bonds is that they require their finances. This app — called Beacon companies to identify new projects or green assets on by Citi — tracks everyday expenses such their balance sheets for the bonds to fund. This is often as eating out, buying coffee, taking taxis a slow, manual process, which can discourage large or buying groceries and then provides customized activities based on each companies from attempting to secure green bonds. person’s spending habits to encourage behavior change. Both Digit and Beacon In 2019, one of our employee-led D10X After successful internal tests, Citi by Citi are available to everyone via the teams developed and piloted a new platis exploring piloting the service with form in partnership with Microsoft that public-sector clients, including developApp Store and Google Play, regardless of uses machine learning to automate this ment banks. We will use insights from whether they are Citi customers. time-intensive process — rapidly scanning the pilot to refine and improve the platbalance sheet data to identify potential form, with the goal of making green bonds In addition to tools that help individuals green assets and suggesting financing or a more accessible option for companies manage their personal finances, we also refinancing structures. This cloud-based and large issuers with extensive or contribute to solutions that support the service also has the potential to help complex balance sheets. financial health of entire communities. In institutional investors and asset managers SM 2019, we launched City Builder by Citi , track their green bond investments, learn a data-driven platform for investors and more about their portfolio and provide funds to explore place-based investments, impact reporting. 88 identify local investment needs and gain Our D10X program, powered by Citi Another important part of our innovation valuable insights into the potential social Ventures, is one way we foster innovation strategy involves engaging with diverse impact of investments in affordable internally and encourage new ideas emerging talent. Through Citi® University housing, job creation, youth services and across our businesses. Through this Partnerships in Innovation & Discovery more. City Builder by Citi is currently model, we engage our employees and (CUPID), launched in 2018, Citi embeds focused on supporting community impact partner with our clients to develop, valistudents from leading universities in investments in U.S. Opportunity Zones, date, test and deploy innovations quickly innovation activities across the company. aggregating census data and real estate and effectively. Employees test their The students gain exposure to various insights to present a comprehensive view hypotheses and refine their approaches aspects of Citi’s businesses while helping of the needs and opportunities within through direct contact with clients. to solve complex, real-world challenges each city. Grounded in the principles of venture with cutting-edge solutions for clients capital and in Lean Startup methodology, and communities. Investing in Tech Talent participating employees are coached and championed by seasoned, in-house CUPID emphasizes an interdisciplinIn addition to supporting entrepreneurs coaches through each step of the process ary, collaborative approach, seeking and innovative companies, we also invest — from ideation to pitching and validating out talent beyond business graduate in the passionate, skilled employees ideas to launching solutions into the programs to include individuals studying within Citi who know our business, market. Examples of projects in develdesign, engineering and public policy. know our clients and have their own opment during 2019 include the Beacon Rather than taking a one-size-fits-all groundbreaking ideas that can benefit by Citi app and cloud-based green assets approach, we match students in the customers. And we look to attract future as a service platform, both mentioned program with innovation-focused tech talent by developing meaningful earlier. Since the program’s inception in internships that fit their interests, programs that pave the way for the next 2016, more than 2,800 employees have goals and skills. In 2019, we hosted a generation of leaders. been involved with D10X, and we have skills-building summit for students from tested nearly 300 new ideas. historically black colleges and universities Diversity in Student and University Participation Through CUPID The Citi® University Partnerships in Innovation & Discovery (CUPID) program collaborates with a diverse group of students from more than 70 leading universities to support innovation efforts across Citi. 1,800 students with whom 20% of students engaged 75% of students are not Hosted our first ALL-WOMEN HACKATHON the CUPID program are from historically pursuing Masters in at Wellesley College has engaged black colleges and Business degrees universities in 2019 89 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices and initiated a recruitment program with women’s colleges, beginning with of Singapore Management University. Approximately 1,800 students from more Customer-Centric Wellesley College. In addition to engaging with universities in Canada, the UK and than 70 universities have participated since CUPID was established. Learn more Solutions the U.S., we expanded the program into about our efforts to recruit diverse talent The success of our business depends on Asia for the first time with the addition in the Talent and Diversity section. balancing the needs of all our customers. This means that while we maintain our physical branches and analog processes for our customers who depend on them — a sizable and important portion of our Building Digital Acumen customer base — we are also investing in and advancing digital solutions, which we see as our biggest opportunity for future The Future of Jobs Report 2018 from the World Economic Forum offers a growth. Our Global Consumer Banking broad overview of how the Fourth Industrial Revolution is affecting the global business has reshaped itself in recent workforce and an analysis of how the labor market will take shape leading up years to become even more customerto 2022. Among other findings, the report asserts that to meet the future centric, with a focus on digital solutions needs of their organizations, businesses must support the reskilling and that meet customers where they are and upskilling of their current workforces (beyond just those employees already respond to the ways they want to engage performing in-demand jobs). Furthermore, the report found that as the with us. A growing number of customers workforce changes rapidly, the window to proactively manage this change expect digital innovation that provides is closing. Unfortunately, rather than embracing this window of opportunity, ease and convenience in accessing finanmany employers are focusing their upskilling efforts on a narrow set of cial information and empowers them to already highly skilled, highly valued employees.1 manage their money responsibly. In this context of a rapidly changing world and a workforce that is transformEmpowering Customers ing along with it, Citi is providing our employees with access to resources Through Digital Platforms that help them build digital skills, enabling them to take advantage of opportunities within our company. Through the online platform Degreed, we offer As more of our customers embrace employees learning pathways on digital awareness and digital acumen. These mobile technology, we have evolved to curated collections of resources — including courses, videos, articles and a mobile-first strategic focus. Some of other tools — help employees gain an understanding of the digital world and the most recent updates to our mobile provide insight into the latest technology trends, how they impact Citi and banking app provide practical, convenient what our company is doing in response. The resources cover a wide range solutions that empower customers of topics, including machine learning, artificial intelligence, cryptocurrency, to avoid fraudulent activity on their extended reality, and agile and robotic process automation. Employees can accounts. For instance, customers can complement this coursework by joining an online collaboration community use the app to report lost or stolen ATM where they share knowledge and best practices with their colleagues about and debit cards and track replacement the skills required for the future of work. cards, all while monitoring their transaction history for fraudulent activity. They In addition, our Citi Ventures Emerging Technology team engages with stakecan also use the geolocation of their holders inside and outside of Citi to understand technological breakthroughs mobile phones to gauge their proximity on the horizon. The team uses this knowledge to push Citi’s collective underto their credit cards during point of sale standing forward and develops learning packs to educate Citi employees transactions, which reduces the likelihood about next-generation technologies, opportunities within the current market that a genuine transaction will be interand how their skills could be used in the future. rupted due to a mistaken fraud alert. Secure, streamlined solutions are also important for connecting with new customers and expanding offerings to our 1 World Economic Forum, The Future of Jobs Report 2018 (Sept. 2018), pages v, vii and 23, http://www3.weforum.org/docs/WEF_Future_of_Jobs_2018.pdf. 90 existing customers. In 2019, for example, we became the first bank in Poland to use biometrics to make credit card and The Future of Digital, digital competitors in a 2019 report from Citi Global Perspectives loan application processes more efficient Customer-Oriented & Solutions (Citi GPS) entitled for our customers. The technology Banking Bank X: The New New Banks . enables automatic income verification and remote confirmation of a client’s identity using facial biometrics. And in Mexico, Citibanamex customers now Despite rapidly emerging technolhave a quick, secure, digital option for ogies, legacy banks can be bogged opening accounts in branches nationwide. down with siloed data, manual In both cases, these technologies reduce processes and outdated technology. wait time for customers, contributing to In order to meet our customers’ positive customer satisfaction. Further, expectations, we must reinvent the increased integration of digital techbanking, aided by digital solutions nologies in our processes increases the and with customer experiences and accessibility of our products and services expectations at the center of the for those unable to visit a branch. model. Read more about the opportunities banks have to embrace We are also developing solutions to serve partnerships and disruptive technolour institutional clients who are embracogies to transform themselves into ing mobile technologies. The CitiDirect BE® Mobile app is a digital solution for our institutional customers that enables a secure, convenient way to authorize payments, view balances and cash positions and manage users. Throughout 2019, we expanded access for clients across many countries in Latin America Fast-Tracking Solutions to Support Financial Well-Being and the Caribbean, enabling the use of Launched in 2018, the Citi® Open Innovation Challenge was a five-week virtual program fingerprint or facial recognition to access that challenged applicants to answer the question: “How can Citi empower customers to the platform. Designed in partnership manage their debt and improve their overall financial wellness?” During 2019, selected with clients, these biometric solutions enable authentication in mere seconds applicants participated in the Citi FinTech Integration Program, where they received and serve as an alternative method for mentorship to develop their ideas on an accelerated path to commercialization with Citi, secure access to their accounts. We as well as practical tools and lessons they can apply to work with other large organizaare introducing the app and biometric tions. The seven fintechs selected to participate represent a wide variety of solutions to authentication capability in additional help promote financial wellness, including debt repayment, management of household markets throughout the region. finances and more. Developing Solutions with Customer Feedback actively engage with customers, listen to quantitative metrics such as product Citi identifies customer satisfaction as concerns and take direct action based on use and Net Promoter Score, and the one of our most material ESG issues. feedback. identification of pain points through We know that we exist to bring value to multichannel monitoring (including all of our stakeholders, including our Citi takes an agile approach to undersocial media, phone, chat and email), we customers. Monitoring their feedback standing the customer experience, are able to take corrective action, drive and addressing concerns is vital to our and we use a range of inputs, including improvements and prioritize product success as we seek to deliver value and customer feedback, to prioritize improveenhancements that are important to our empower customers with tools that help ments across our businesses. Through customers. them thrive financially. To this end, we the use of customer survey input, 91 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices Designing for Accessibility As we strive to put all customers at the center of what we do, we recognize the importance of providing products and services that meet accessibility needs and preferences. We offer Braille and talking ATMs, large print and Braille statements and raised-line checks for the visually impaired. We also offer TTY or Text Telephone for the hearing impaired. Many of our services are provided in multiple languages to support the diverse populations we serve, and our products are tailored to meet the needs of the individuals in the countries where we do business. Our global Disability Affinity group deepens employees’ understanding of the appropriate etiquette and language to use when interacting with people with disabilities. During 2019, the Affinity created an employee user group to help us test our current assistive technologies, so we can identify problem areas and work with our external technology partners to develop applications that are fully accessible. In 2019, for example, we tackled the top customer complaint that we receive at Beyond individual features, technologies #1 in Customer Citi branches: wait time. Teams across and services, when we think about the best way to serve those in the Satisfaction Citi partnered together, tapping into the expertise of employees in Independent disability community, we also consider Compliance Risk Management, Legal, other factors and issues that intersect Finance, Global Consumer Banking, with disability and must be overcome In 2019, the American Customer Global Public Affairs, Human Resources, to advance financial inclusion and Satisfaction Index rated Citibank and Operations and Technology to empowerment. In 2018, we worked with the #1 retail bank for customer solve this problem for our customers. the National Disability Institute and the satisfaction. We led national banks The result is our Digital Appointment City of New York to launch Empowered in the areas of perceived value, scheduling — a seamless, simple-to-use Cities — a national initiative to improve customer loyalty and retention tool that enables branch customers to financial access, stability and opportunity and call center satisfaction, among use Citi Online or the Citi Mobile® App for low-income people with disabilities others. We also earned the top spot to schedule visits that are convenient and their families. Building on that effort, in Business Insider Intelligence’s for them. Because the scheduler uses in 2019 we participated in a convening of U.S. Mobile Banking Competitive real-time availability pulled from bankers’ commissioners from 10 mayoral offices Edge Study, due to the customercalendars, customers can count on and disabilities-focused leaders to explore centric features available in our branch employees being ready to meet how we can address the most-pressing mobile app. their needs when they arrive. financial security issues facing the disability community. Gatherings like this help us to expand financial inclusion for people with disabilities, both through 92 support for financial education as well as in the design of truly inclusive products and services. Managing Cyber Perspectives & Solutions (Citi GPS) Risk with Human explores cyber risk for governments, Safeguarding Data Intelligence infrastructure systems, corporations and individuals. The report advocates and Protecting for a move away from reactive, defensive approaches and toward a proacCustomer Information Technological advancements enrich our lives and empower us tive, intelligence-led risk management strategy. It also provides foundational As digital solutions expand and become with interconnectedness, access guidance for how to move in that more integrated into our daily lives, to information and increased effidirection. we see increasing concerns related to ciency. Unfortunately, those same privacy and security breaches. Data positive attributes can be exploited security and privacy are top priorities by those who carry out cyberatfor Citi and for our stakeholders and are tacks on individuals, corporations among our most material ESG issues. and governments. It is estimated that cyber breaches cost the global Information Security economy $1.5 trillion per year, and this is expected to increase, with Citi’s Chief Information Security Office some sources believing it could cost (CISO) Program combines information the global economy $6 trillion by gathering and data analysis with foren2021. 2 sics to inform strategic decisions. Our In a 2019 report entitled Managing approach rests on having the right techCyber Risk with Human Intelligence: nology, systems, policies, processes and A Practical Approach, Citi Global talent in place to prevent, detect, respond to and recover from cyber threats quickly. Our CISO Program is accredited by the British Standards Institution, and we are the first major financial institution to have our program ISO 27001 certified. The program is also regularly examined privacy of information when working with Citi Payment Outlier Detection solution. by regulators, as well as by internal and companies that provide services to us. This technology uses analytics, artificial external auditors. intelligence and machine learning to To safeguard information in our own find transactions that don’t align with The Audit Committee of our Board of operations and for our clients, we invest typical patterns of activity. These outliers Directors oversees the development, in, develop and use advanced technolcan then be investigated to determine implementation and maintenance of our ogy. For instance, the Citi Virtual Card whether they indicate fraud. CISO Program. The program is managed Account provides a secure, businessby the Chief Enterprise Infrastructure to-business digital solution for large Citi conducts regular information secuOperations & Technology Officer and workflows through the generation of rity risk assessments and has internal the Chief Information Security Officer unique, nonplastic account numbers. The controls to defend against information on a global enterprise basis; the Chief virtual card technology enables real-time security breaches. We have stringent poliExecutives of each business sector and transactions that are automated and cies and employ robust technologies to region are responsible for implementasecure, safeguarding against fraud and protect our data and systems, supported tion and compliance with program procepotential misuse. The card eliminates the by a strong team with deep expertise. dures and requirements. Annually, we need for paper-based payments but still Our CISO team protects information from provide our employees with training on leaves an electronic trace, which allows data breaches and misuse by maintaining how to properly handle personal informafor easy reconciliation and reporting. strong networks to protect our systems tion and how to maintain the security and During 2019, we also announced the and databases, but we remain vigilant as 2  Citi Global Perspectives & Solutions, Managing Cyber Risk with Human Intelligence: A Practical Approach (May 2019), page 3, https://www.citivelocity.com/citigps/managingcyber-risk-with-human-intelligence/. 93 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices we know that such threats persist. Our We also collaborate with external stakePrivacy Committee. The program Information Security Utility team works holders to raise the level of security of provides a framework for managing with partners across Citi’s businesses the industry. Working with our clients, privacy and confidentiality risks for the to support CISO Program compliance competitors, governments, law enforcecompany. requirements and increase efficiency ment and intelligence agencies, we through standardized processes and share best practices and conduct joint Citi’s Privacy and Confidentiality Policy automation. cyber resilience exercises. Our security articulates principles relating to the teams also study information security collection and processing of personal In the event of a potential breach, we challenges across industries to learn how information, requiring, in part, that have a robust process to ensure an effecto strengthen our internal practices and personal information only be collected tive response, which includes: respond to problems quickly. and used as necessary for the performance of the services offered and for the • Reviewing the breach to determine purposes disclosed in a privacy notice. whether it meets any regulatory Privacy Citi is transparent in our collection and or legal reporting requirements in The fair, ethical and lawful collection, use use practices and offers customers the country(ies) where the breach and processing of customers’ personal choices with respect to how their occurred or in the country(ies) information is essential to build trust, personal information may be collected impacted by the breach. If deemed provide best-in-class services and achieve or otherwise used (as required by law), necessary, a legal assessment is our corporate objectives. To help meet including opting out of marketing or conducted. this goal, Citi has established a dediother communications or reviewing and • Notifying the impacted customers as correcting information. Citi employees cated Chief Privacy Office team led by required by the laws or regulations are required to take privacy and infora global Chief Privacy Off﻿icer. The Chief of the impacted country(ies) and as mation compliance training that covers Privacy Office, part of our Independent directed in the legal assessment, if it these privacy concepts. Compliance Risk Management team, results in a requirement to perform manages the Citi Global Privacy program, customer notifications. which is overseen by the Citi Global 94 What’s Ahead The depth and reach of digital innovation offer us incredible opportunities to deepen relationships with our existing clients and customers while expanding our business. In the coming years, partnerships will be critical as we collaborate to bring innovations to scale, expand financial inclusion through digital solutions, strengthen our business and respond to the changing expectations of our clients and customers with agility and expertise. Protecting Digital Identity As reliance on digital technologies accelerates, it is imperative that we remain knowledgeable of the latest advancements and the related implicaOur digital identities are a critical aspect of our tions for our business and our clients and modern lives and integral to many financial products customers, including safeguarding digital and services. With this, we face the ongoing threat of identities, the ethical use of artificial intelligence and the opportunities offered identity theft and cyberattacks that can undermine by blockchain, to name a few. Digital the security of our personal information. As a result, advancements affect every aspect of our people often wonder how to take full advantage of business, so we will continue to engage our employees with resources that help digital solutions while protecting their privacy and them acquire and hone the skills essential safeguarding their data, especially as they grow weary to their success at Citi and, by extension, of complex authentication requirements and the need our success in the marketplace. to remember an ever-growing list of passwords and user IDs. For financial institutions such as Citi, privacy rights are elevating the need verifying our customers’ identity is for more end-user control over personal fundamental to safeguarding their finaninformation. cial assets and protecting their privacy. Our aim is to deliver solutions that We are seeing advancements in decenprovide seamless, intuitive interactions tralized identity that provide efficient with digital tools that won’t compromise solutions that are more secure than personal data. To provide ongoing traintraditional, centralized models and less ing for our employees, we have created cumbersome than maintaining multiple digital identity learning packs that help IDs and passwords. During 2019, Citi build awareness of and skills related participated in a digital identity project to new digital identity technologies. In with external partners to explore new addition, in 2019 we hosted an event decentralized approaches enabled by called The Future of Digital Identity that blockchain technology that build trust engaged clients, partners, startups and to create a secure exchange of informaCiti employees. Regardless of the varying tion between unknown parties. We will perspectives the panelists brought to continue to explore the latest trends and the event, there was consensus that data technology in this cutting-edge space, privacy and protection are central to while working to implement secure, advancements in digital identity. Their user-friendly solutions that meet our assessment was that regulations around customers’ needs. the world and increased attention on 95 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices Talent and Diversity HIGHLIGHTS Pay equity transparency Equality Act Paid leave Publicly shared our raw pay gap in 2019, Supported the proposed Equality Act, Expanded our Paid Parental Leave Policy with continued pay equity transparency federal legislation that would provide to every kind of family, everywhere we in early 2020 protections to LGBT+ people operate Page 97 Page 101 Page 110 At Citi, we actively seek out diverse perspectives at we are using data more effectively to diagnose our challenges and areas of all levels of our organization because we know that it opportunity; and we have increased will improve performance and boost innovation and accountability for our representation engagement. Over the last two years, we have elevated goals among people managers. In 2019, we built out our analytics team to help the conversation around race, gender and equal pay for us use evidence-based decision-making equal work. Our increased transparency, which in turn to better attract, retain and promote top breeds accountability and credibility, is a force for talent. This year, the team focused on gaining insights on a range of research change both inside and outside our company. While we topics, including differentiating highrecognize that we have much more to do, we are proud performing teams, female attrition of where we are headed. and the impact of leaves of absence on career trajectories. One of the initial Engagement with our people throughout that they can be proud of, is essential to projects was strengthening our employee their careers at Citi, along with a commitour success. We are innovating how we survey by adding more questions related ment to being a company with values engage with, recruit and develop talent; to experiences and perceptions. This 96 feedback, viewed with a demographic men are paid at Citi, and there was no lens, helps us better understand where statistically significant difference in we need to focus. adjusted compensation for U.S. minorities and nonminorities. Following our Our Diversity review, we once again made appropriate pay adjustments as part of our annual Priorities compensation cycle. We also made a decision to be transparPay Equity ent about a statistic that our CEO has described as “disappointing” and “ugly”: In the U.S., women make less than men, our unadjusted or “raw” pay gap1 for and women of color take home less than women and U.S. minorities. The analysis white women. Worldwide, women hold showed that Citi’s median pay for women only about one-third of corporate leadglobally is 71 percent of the median for ership positions. Businesses have been men and that the median pay for U.S. working for decades to advance gender minorities is 93 percent of the median equality in the workplace, but progress for nonminorities. An updated analysis has been slow and results disappointing. released in early 2020 found those Radical transparency At Citi, we’ve pushed ourselves beyond numbers had moved slightly, but in the certainly makes you our comfort zone — not just to acknowlright direction, to 73 percent for women and 94 percent for U.S. minorities. For uncomfortable, but it’s edge the stark realities laid bare in the statistics around pay equity, but also to our company, the data reaffirms the important to get out of the recognize the social and cultural forces importance of goals we announced in old habits. You’ve got to 2018 to increase our representation of that produced them. We are being open shake your thinking up and about our data, what it means and what women and U.S. minorities in senior and needs to be done to meet our goals. higher-paying roles at Citi. (See more on do something differently, page 98.) We know that is the only effecand that’s why it makes a In 2019, we disclosed that, on an adjusted tive way for us to meaningfully reduce difference.” basis, women globally are paid on our raw pay gap over time. average more than 99 percent of what — Jane Fraser, who was promoted in 2019 to President of Citi and Chief Executive Officer, Global Consumer 1 The raw pay gap is the difference between the median pay for all female employees and the median pay for all male Banking employees at Citi, and the difference between the median pay for minorities and nonminorities, not accounting for differences in factors such as job function, level or geography. Raw Pay Gap Data Citi was the first company to disclose the aggregate measure of total compensation (i.e., all men vs. all women, all U.S. minorities vs. all U.S. nonminorities) across all employees regardless of role. Equal Pay Better Representation Pay Equity Median Pay Firm-Wide Representation Goals 2018 2019 71% 73% 40% Women Midand seniorIncreased vs. level female by Representation 2021 = Men talent globally to + of women and minorities in highercompensated roles 93% 94% 8% U.S. Minorities Midand seniorvs. level Black talent by to help close the U.S. Nonminorities (U.S. only) to 2021 raw pay gaps 97 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices Our work to address both pay measures recent data from the National Center Citi and address unconscious bias and is continuous, and the pace of change for Education Statistics shows that workplace micro-inequities head on. We is likely to vary from year to year. As women make up 47 percent of people kicked off 2019 with our second annual people come in and out of the firm, as our receiving graduate degrees from U.S. Together at Citi: Building an Inclusive colleagues are promoted and as market business schools. Yet the percentage of Culture event in which our CEO and our dynamics change, these reviews serve as women who run Fortune 500 compaAffinity group leaders engaged employimportant measures of how we’re doing nies declined in 2018 to 4.8 percent, ees in a robust discussion on inclusive on our commitment to pay colleagues down from 6.4 percent the prior year. leadership, transparency and belonging. equitably for their work and of the progSuch outcomes reinforce how deeply This session was complemented by four ress we’re making to increase diversity rooted and systemic these challenges regional sessions on building an inclusive at more senior levels at Citi. are. Advantages are available to some culture that were led by senior executives because of their socioeconomic, and Dr. Binna Kandola, co-founder of the Representation Goals academic or cultural background, and business psychology firm Pearn Kandola. reflecting a true meritocracy requires In these sessions, which engaged 8,500 We have set representation goals to that we eliminate the imbalance of colleagues, participants heard anecdotes increase diversity across the firm and women and minorities in our workforce from real employees about their personal have focused our efforts on three key by working to actually level the experiences with micro-inequities and the areas: targeted recruitment, development playing field. impact those experiences have had on and retention, and promotion paths and them in the workplace. Participants also processes. At a minimum, by the end of These representation goals, as well as learned strategies for building awareness 2021, we plan to improve the representaother work we are doing around gender of and mitigating micro-inequities. tion of women in assistant vice president equality in the workplace, directly to managing director level roles to at contribute to SDG 5 in support of In addition, we trained more than 4,500 least 40 percent globally, up from gender equality and empowering all hiring managers and Human Resources 37 percent when we set the goals in 2018, women and girls. Specifically, we are colleagues to recognize and call out and to boost the representation of Black enabling progress toward target 5.5, potential unconscious biases in their employees in those same roles in the which aims to ensure women’s full and people decisions. We have created interU.S. to at least 8 percent, up from the effective participation and equal opporactive sessions to recognize common 6 percent 2018 baseline. Senior leaders tunities for leadership at all levels of unconscious biases and hold one another at Citi were involved in the development decision-making in political, economic accountable to calling these out when we of the goals and are now measured on and public life. see them. their progress against them, just as they SDG Goal 5: Gender Equality In July, New York University School of are for other business priorities. Law Professor Kenji Yoshino presented As we work toward these goals, we are his research on “covering” — i.e., downgaining valuable insight into the internal Inclusive Leadership playing our outsider attributes in order to and external roadblocks that can make blend into the mainstream — at Citi’s New growing the pipeline of diverse talent We engage our colleagues in creative York headquarters. Professor Yoshino and expanding diversity at senior levels ways to help them understand the argued that we should find common challenging — challenges that are shared importance of inclusive leadership at ground in our desire to be authentic — across many industries. As we learn, we are able to implement changes that ensure we sustainably move the needle Shared prosperity will not be achieved in the on our diversity metrics while supporting absence of a strong commitment, coming from the representation across all diverse groups top, to equal pay for equal work and equal representation globally. in positions of seniority. It cannot be achieved if our Some have raised concerns that increascolleagues, no matter their position within an organization, ing the focus on diversity and inclusion runs contrary to the idea of creating a don’t work in an environment where they feel like they true meritocracy. However, the myth of belong and are free to contribute their talents to reach meritocracy is that a level playing field, their full potential.” where there is equal opportunity for all to succeed, already exists. But, the most — Michael L. Corbat, CEO 98 Our new multimedia advertising campaign, The Moment, was created to further the discussion around the issue of pay equity and senior-level representation gaps — at Citi and beyond. The campaign, which kicked off in 2019 with a Times Square billboard, unveiled a series of photographs that capture the raw, unedited reactions of the children of Citi employees at the precise moment when they learn about the gender pay gap and unequal opportunities that persist across many industries. The full video, showcasing their real-time reactions, can be viewed on Citi’s website. a desire that brings us together instead company’s diversity priorities and goals. Another critical area of focus is ensurof driving us apart. During the session, Our 10 Affinities — Asian Heritage, Black ing that our talent pipeline is more Professor Yoshino offered concrete and Heritage, Citi Salutes®, Citi Women, aggressively managed. We have been actionable solutions to create and sustain Disability, Generations, Hispanic/Latino conducting pipeline analysis as part of an inclusive culture. Heritage, Multicultural, Families Matter annual succession planning in a number and Pride — are designed to ensure that of units across the company. In 2019, we Our Affinity Groups we understand, appreciate and respond expanded these efforts, enabling leaders to the needs of our entire employee base. to ensure that we have the right mix of With close to 200,000 colleagues in The Affinities contribute to our efforts to talent who are ready now for promotion nearly 100 countries, our people reflect hire, promote and retain diverse talent and that employees who are two to three the remarkable range of cultures and while also advocating for and engaging years away from their next roles have perspectives of our clients and customemployees and supporting our commuappropriate development plans in order ers. The breadth of backgrounds, expenities. Members of our CEO’s leadership to facilitate career mobility. riences and perspectives of our team is team, along with other senior leaders what enables our success. across the company, co-chair each Affinity to help provide accountability for Our Affinity model, built as a complement an equitable and inclusive culture. The to our global, grassroots Employee Affinity leaders act as public champions Network program that has been in for the priorities and needs of each existence for 18 years, is our enterprise demographic, both within the company approach to setting and reinforcing the and externally. 99 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices Affinities and Networks in Action: 2019 Our Employee Network chapters serve as local branches of our Affinities and are initiated and led by employees. They offer professional development, mentoring, networking and community engagement opportunities to members and colleagues. Consistent with our inclusive culture, Employee Network chapters are open to all Citi employees, whether or not they identify with a particular Affinity. Here we highlight a few examples of the efforts of these networks in 2019. 187 Families Matter Hispanic/Latino Heritage launched as a new Affinity, replacing the former hosted philanthropist Luis A. Miranda to speak Parents network. Families Matter is designed to on how everyone can do their part to effect support employees through all stages of their change in their communities. lives by creating a culture of balance between Total Employee work and family life. Generations Network Chapters Pride Asian Heritage across our Affinities celebrated Asian Heritage Month in May with a virtual session in which co-leads of the Affinity Citi Women group shared insights and tips on career co-hosted the inaugural Equality Lounge and two management at Citi, highlighting Investing in equality panels alongside The Female Quotient You, an initiative focused on providing unique Multicultural at the 2019 Milken Institute Global Conference. development opportunities to ensure that During these panels, Citi senior executives Affinity members have the skills and experience discussed our diversity and inclusion work, Black Heritage including our gender equality efforts, with more to advance their careers. sponsored the Owning My Success group than 200 Citi clients. coaching program for high-performing Black employees for the second year, increasing the Citi Salutes®, number of participants by 85 percent from 2018. Disability our veterans Affinity, hosted a fireside chat with David McCormick, co-CEO at Bridgewater Associates and previously U.S. Treasury Under Secretary for International Affairs. While in the U.S. Army, McCormick was part of the first wave of U.S. troops sent into Iraq during the first Gulf War in 1991. During the fireside chat, he discussed his journey from West Point to the military and Employee Networks government service and his subsequent transition to the private sector. by Region 101 North America 45 Europe, Middle East and Africa 17 Latin America 24 Asia Pacific 100 Citi rang the closing bell at the New York Stock Exchange in recognition of Pride Month and the 50th anniversary of the Stonewall uprising in New York City. We also replaced the red arc of our logo with a rainbow in solidarity. LGBT+ Equality and Rights We recruit the best talent and give them opportunities have reaffirmed our commitment to stand for success and mobility. This explicitly includes with the millions of people in America who identify as transgender or gender nonbinary ensuring that LGBT+ candidates and employees have or who are intersex. Through this public access to a safe, inclusive and diverse workplace. In demonstration of support, we aim to encourorder to do that, we must confront unconscious biases age others to treat people who are part of this community with the respect and dignity and make certain that our policies are inclusive for all. they deserve. Citi operates in many countries and jurisdicknow they are here, that they are welcome In 2018, we expanded our new global tions where LGBT+ rights are not yet legally and that management wants to understand badging policy to enable our transgender and socially accepted. We recognize the how their identity impacts their experience colleagues to more easily change the name challenges faced by the community and our working at Citi. By understanding the on their Citi identification badge. colleagues in some of these countries. We demographic makeup of our employees, are committed to ensuring that the rights we will be better able to make strategic Citi was a founding member of the Stonewall of all LGBT+ employees are fully respected, decisions around recruitment and developGlobal Program and continues to work with covered by Citi policies and reflected in the ment. In 2019, we continued to expand the other organizations advancing LGBT+ rights, diversity of our workplaces. demographic questions in our Voice of the including the Human Rights Campaign, Employee survey, including those on sexual Out Leadership and Out & Equal. Also, we We have expanded insurance and other orientation and gender identity, to 39 counwere awarded the highest score on the benefits available under our U.S. policies tries, reaching 82 percent of our employee Human Rights Campaign’s LGBTQ Corporate to LGBT+ partners globally wherever the base. We plan to expand similar voluntary Equality Index for the 15th consecutive year. benefits are legal and permitted under local self-ID in our human resources profiles. law, such as in Brazil, Hong Kong, India, See the Communities section to learn about Mexico, Singapore and Taiwan. In addition We are a signatory to the Human Rights our work to support inclusion through our to designating a spouse through marriage Campaign’s Business Statement for partners. or civil partnership, employees are able Transgender Equality and are proud to to designate a “partner” of any sex as an eligible family member. We recognize that employee benefits are critical to ensuring equality and mobility for our colleagues. In 2019, we became a signatory to: • The Business Coalition for the Equality Act, to support federal legislation to provide the Citi views self-identification as a strategic same basic protections to LGBT+ people as are provided to other protected groups under priority for our diversity and inclusion federal law; and efforts, including for our LGBT+ employees. More and more companies are embracing • A U.S. Supreme Court amicus brief in support of workplace LGBT+ protections under Title self-ID as a way for diverse employees VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. Working in partnership with the Human Rights Campaign to raise their hands to be counted and and other advocacy groups, Citi joined more than 200 companies to send a powerful and acknowledged. We believe that self-ID unequivocal message in support of LGBT+ equality. communicates to our employees that we 101 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices Disability Inclusion At Citi, our commitment to disability inclusion is central to building a workplace where all of our colleagues feel Team USA Paralympic athletes Nicky Nieves and Trey Jenifer talk with Citi employees about the welcome and can reach their full potential. Disability incluthrills of competing on the Paralympic stage sion is top of mind at the highest levels of our company, and, in early 2020, our CEO signed on to The Valuable 500, a global movement to put disability on the business leadership agenda. In 2019, our Disability Affinity led an effort athletes since 2012. In December 2018, we to evaluate Citi’s assistive technologies and announced our global, mission-led partthe accommodations we provide for employnership with the International Paralympic ees with disabilities. These include Braille Committee and 18 National Paralympic display technology, captioned telephones Committees. We are also supporting more and desktop magnifiers. As a result, we than 40 Para athletes as they prepare for launched a firm-wide accessibility resource the Tokyo Paralympic games. Our aim is center, formed an assistive technologies to shine a spotlight on the worldwide Para working group composed of employees with Movement, engage colleagues across the disabilities, and established a dedicated globe and help to change perceptions of channel for resolving assistive technology people with disabilities. We are also working issues. to offer resources that improve economic opportunity and financial stability for all, Our commitment to disability inclusion also including those living with disabilities. Learn extends beyond our firm to the communities more about these efforts and our work we serve. We have been proud supporters with Empowered Cities in the Communities of the Paralympic Movement and Para section. 102 2018 Consolidated U.S. Employer 2019 data will be published in line with the Information Report (EE0-1)* EEOC deadline (expected in June 2020) as published September 2019 Native American Black or Hispanic Hawaiian Indian or MultiJob Categories Gender White African Asian Total** or Latino or Pacific Alaskan Racial American Islander Native Executive/Senior Male 2.7% 47.7% 1.8% 0.9% 12.6% 0.0% 0.9% 0.2% Managers Female 1.8% 27.9% 0.0% 0.0% 3.6% 0.0% 0.0% First/Mid-Level Male 7.1% 37.4% 2.3% 0.1% 13.0% 0.1% 0.5% 17.0% Managers Female 6.2% 24.5% 3.1% 0.1% 5.4% 0.1% 0.4% Male 6.9% 30.3% 3.3% 0.1% 15.5% 0.1% 0.5% Professionals 35.4% Female 6.1% 23.1% 4.0% 0.1% 9.4% 0.1% 0.5% Male 16.7% 25.3% 5.7% 0.0% 5.7% 0.0% 0.7% Technicians 0.6% Female 10.0% 28.9% 2.1% 0.0% 4.1% 0.2% 0.5% Male 10.1% 36.8% 2.9% 0.1% 11.9% 0.1% 0.5% Sales Workers 9.6% Female 9.4% 15.2% 2.7% 0.2% 9.7% 0.1% 0.4% Administrative Male 6.8% 14.4% 3.9% 0.1% 1.6% 0.1% 0.4% 37.1% Support Workers Female 16.8% 37.6% 12.7% 0.2% 4.0% 0.3% 1.1% Male 7.3% 26.2% 3.4% 0.1% 9.5% 0.1% 0.5% Total 100.0% Female 10.4% 28.0% 6.9% 0.1% 6.7% 0.2% 0.7% * For certain job categories, including craft workers, operatives, laborers and service workers, the total number of employees accounts for less than 1 percent of staff. As a result, those categories are not included in the table above. ** The total percentage is based on a U.S. workforce of 66,739. Figures may not sum to total due to rounding. 103 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices Citi’s Global Workforce Employees by Region 63,743 North America 28,386 Europe, Middle East and Africa 8,131 7,552 3,723 2,904 New Employee Hires Employee Turnover New Employee Hires Employee Turnover (12.8% Rate) (11.8% Rate) (13.1% Rate) (10.2% Rate) 43,857 Latin America 63,917 Asia Pacific 8,400 4,995 10,092 7,618 New Employee Hires Employee Turnover New Employee Hires Employee Turnover (19.2% Rate) (11.4% Rate) (15.8% Rate) (11.9% Rate) 104 Citi’s Global Workforce (continued) By Employment Type 199,903 Total Workforce 196,961 Full-Time Employees 2,942 Part-Time Employees Total By Gender 199,903 101,155 98,748 Total Employees Female Male 30,346 15,230 15,116 New Employee Hires New Employee Hires New Employee Hires (15.2% Rate) (15.1% Rate) (15.3% Rate) 23,069 11,806 11,263 Employee Turnover Employee Turnover Employee Turnover (11.5% Rate) (11.7% Rate) (11.4% Rate) 105 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices Targeted Recruiting Our Early Insights Programs target freshmen and sophomores, focusing on iden• Freshman Discovery Day is a two-day exploratory program that helps edutifying, mentoring and hiring top diverse cate underrepresented minority colWe have a clear goal at Citi to become talent for summer analyst programs lege freshmen on the various roles in more representative of the clients, across the firm. These programs, provide financial services. After the program, customers and communities we serve. early exposure to and education regardparticipants are paired with a mentor It’s smart business — the best way to ing Citi’s businesses, technical training, from Citi and have the opportunity compete and be reflective of the value we mentorship and Citi’s culture. to participate in recruiting activity. place on diversity. But we will never make Approximately 40 percent of the progress increasing the representation of female and minority talent at all levels of the firm without focusing on how we bring new colleagues into Citi. Our goal is for our analyst and associate programs to include 50 percent female colleagues globally and 30 percent Black and Hispanic/Latino colleagues in the U.S. Female representation in full-time analyst and associate roles globally increased from 35 percent in 2018 to 45 percent in 2019. Likewise, women in summer analyst and associate roles have increased from 42 percent to 47 percent over the same time period. In the U.S., our Black and Hispanic/Latino representation has increased from 14 percent in 2018 to 18 percent in 2019, with our summer representation increasing from 17 percent to 26 percent over the same time frame. For managing director and director level hires, we continue to ensure diverse HBCU Innovation and Leadership Symposium slates, including at least one woman in our interviews for global hires and at In 2019, we held our inaugural HBCU Innovation and Leadership Sympoleast one woman or racial/ethnic minority sium, which brought together 85 firstand second-year students from 21 in our interviews for U.S. hires. In 2019, historically black colleges and universities for an introductory experience 68 percent of interview slates for managfocused on helping them understand financial services, gain technical skills ing director and director roles included at and kickoff the career planning process. The two-day immersive experience least one diverse candidate. gave participants an opportunity to network with other HBCU students from In addition, we utilize trainings and across the U.S. and participate in workshops to share and discuss the rich technology designed to help us leverage experiences of professionals at Citi. The symposium provided an overview of our hiring process to drive greater divertopics such as career preparedness, entrepreneurship and personal financial sity, including interview training for all management. While we would like the students to consider the possibility of recruiters and hiring managers and new a future with Citi, our primary goal was to provide them with helpful tools on sourcing platforms. their path to professional success, without regard for industry or profession. The symposium not only allowed us to build relationships with individual students, but strengthened our engagement with their universities as well — Campus Recruiting a key priority as we work to expand the network of institutions from which we Campus recruiting is imperative to pursue talent. establishing Citi as an employer of choice among early-career professionals. 106 students who participate in Freshman Discovery Day typically move on to our Sophomore Leadership Program. • The Early Identification Leadership Program focuses on identifying, mentoring and hiring diverse talent for our summer analyst programs over a five-week period. The program pairs each participant with a mentor from Citi and provides access to a virtual learning tool that includes weekly virtual trainings, as well as virtual panels and seminars given by Citi professionals. • Through training, hands-on work experience, mentorship and peer networking, participants in the Sophomore Leadership Program receive early opportunities to build the skills necessary for our full-time analyst programs. More than 95 percent of program participants receive an offer to return for their junior summer. In an effort to expand our reach beyond our traditional target schools and attract a wider variety of applicants, we have been exploring various proactive employee recruiting methods. By partnering with companies such as Jopwell and WayUp, which are U.S.-based recruiting platforms for diverse students, recruiters have been able to communicate customized messages to promote our opportunities and more directly engage with diverse talent. We also leverage opportunities to meet students in person. For example, we participated in the National Black MBA Association Conference, which convenes Black professionals and Our Citi® University Partnerships in Innovation & Discovery (CUPID) Program Development and MBAs, corporate partners and thought enables us to accelerate innovation projects across Citi by engaging diverse Retention leaders for a week of career development. Through this event, we engaged students and developing a robust pipeOur best chance of making meaningful with some 500 attendees, distributing line of talent from leading universities. improvements in diversity at more resumes to our recruiters and guiding Learn more about CUPID in the Digital senior levels is to ensure we cultivate the conference attendees as they apply for Innovation section. diverse talent we already have and give Citi jobs. This engagement provides an our people career momentum. We will opportunity to expand our pipeline and continue our focus on pay equity for all be purposeful in our targeting approach. of our employees and also provide access to a robust range of career development and learning resources. 107 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices We offer a broad range of firm-wide global development programs and empower business leaders to create Addressing the Needs of New Managers employee programs that are tailored to As a new generation begins managing for the first time, Citi has been refreshing the the unique needs of their organizations, preparation and support we provide to help them succeed in their new roles. In 2019, because a one-size-fits-all approach to we hosted design thinking sessions to help us better understand the needs of new development will not foster diversity managers. Through eight, one-day sessions around the world, we brought together 150 at senior levels. Moreover, we want to new managers from different backgrounds and countries to identify common challenges reinforce a spirit of innovation among and develop creative solutions. The challenges participants identified included the need our leaders, allowing them to test new for a better way to connect to peers to share best practices; a desire for more easily approaches that will better enable our accessible tools to address management questions; and a demand for digital resources firm to figure out what works and what doesn’t. that curate the most relevant information new managers need as they transition to their new roles. Based on our findings, we have launched a new program called Welcome to Citi In the last few years, business leaders Management that brings together new managers to address these shared challenges in have piloted a range of programs, primaran interactive, participant-driven format, and provides them with a digital “placemat” that ily focusing on mentorship, leadership puts a range of essential resources at their fingertips. development and skills development. In each case, programs are designed to provide access to senior leaders, foster community support and meet employees cybersecurity to effective communication Evaluation skills. Employees can choose from a where they are in the development series of recommendations that can be Employees receive formal feedback from process — helping them understanding personalized for each individual. In 2019, their managers through midyear and their own unique skills and building their more than 120,000 employees accessed year-end reviews. Our two-rating system personal brands. Degreed, with leadership and data analytevaluates employee performance against ics among the skills most frequently their goals and assesses their leadership Learning and added to individual profiles. through the lens of our Leadership Standards. Citi also encourages employEvaluation Training for Advancement ees and their managers to create individual development plans that consider Providing our employees with access We provide a range of internal developthe skills, strategic training opportunities to quality learning resources is critical ment and rotational programs for leaders and behaviors needed to enhance current to enhancing their ability to perform in at all levels, and we continue to evolve performance and prepare for future their current roles and prepare for future those learning programs to meet new roles. These plans are created as part opportunities. In 2019, we provided trainneeds. Our Global Consumer Operations of midyear and year-end reviews, and ing to all Citi employees. We offer flexible programs help high-performing employemployees are able to use digital and solutions that enable learning when, ees build the skills needed to transition in-person training resources to execute where and how it is most effective for to manager and supervisory roles, and their development plans and enhance employees, and we continue to expand 80 percent of participants have been their skills. our program offerings. As we enhance promoted or are on a promotion path. these offerings, we are working to Beginning in 2019, all Citi employees have formally capture employee feedback on Our Global Associate Learning Initiative the ability to request feedback from and programming to better understand the is a nine-month training program aimed provide feedback to colleagues in real impact on employees and the potential at Institutional Client Group employees time, while managers can also ask for for further enhancement. at the associate level — a critical milefeedback on team members throughout stone early in an employee’s career. The the year. In addition, more than 2,700 Digital Learning program, which combines digital learning managers who participated in training with in-person training, prepares the programs received a 360-degree perforIn order to help our employees learn in a next generation of Citi leadership for the mance review, which is designed to help rapidly changing world, we offer Degreed, future of banking. In 2019, we hosted 450 identify opportunities for development. an online platform that delivers inforglobal associates (representing 40 mation on the topics employees want to countries and 50 cities) at our New York learn about, from artificial intelligence to headquarters for the inaugural event. 108 Promotion Paths Voice of the Employee and Processes Our annual Voice of the Employee survey gathers critical input on trends in the workA critical part of guiding our employplace and management practices, serving as an important catalyst for implementing ees’ career progressions is working to change within our company. All employees are invited to participate and have their better understand what works and what voices heard. doesn’t so we can not only retain but also promote our talent. Career develIn 2019, the survey’s Engagement Index — which measures employees’ sentiments opment is an important priority, and we regarding opportunities for growth, job alignment with skills and perception that the promote from within wherever possible. company is making the changes necessary to compete — came in at 76 percent, the In 2019, 38 percent of open positions same as in 2018. were filled internally. This focus is particularly important for our diverse talent We also measure sentiments about diversity. The Diversity Index covers a range of as we work to increase representation factors, including employees’ perceptions of: at more senior levels of the company. • Senior management support for diverse backgrounds and ideas For example, with immense focus and • Equal opportunity for success at Citi, regardless of background or differences continued investment in development, more than 28 percent of our Citi Country • Being treated with respect at work Officers (our country business heads) • Manager support for efforts to balance work and personal life are female, and our ultimate goal is to • Good ideas being adopted regardless of who suggested them increase this to 50 percent. • The ability to be oneself at work We have been focused on equipping The Diversity Index for 2019 was 81 percent, the same as in 2018. managers to better anticipate and learn about employee concerns and to partner to develop solutions that help them retain and promote key talent. Managers or engagement interviews, with direct to consider existing talent when filling are encouraged and supported to look reports to build trust and better underopen opportunities. Take, for example, beyond formal talent review converstand employees’ career aspirations and the Institutional Client Group’s Candidate sations to have candid conversations, morale. Managers are also encouraged Care program, which was launched in Global Employee Training in 2019 Average Hours per Employee Total Hours by Training Format 37.2 36.7 5.4M 40.1 8.0M North Europe, Middle Web-Based America East and Africa Total 51.0 Total 37.2 2.6M Instructor-Led Latin America Asia Pacific 109 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices 2019 to help increase the pipeline of personal issues, such as stress, relationthe form of gift cards to popular retailers. minority lateral hires. Through this ship conflicts and financial challenges, Our locations in the U.S. and Mexico are program, senior Citi managers increase as well as workplace challenges, such tobacco-free. their network of potential talent, in part as communicating with managers and We also offer a Health Advocate program by meeting with high-potential talent dealing with organizational change. In the in the U.S., separate from insurance before there is a job opening. When UK, Australia and New Zealand, we offer programs, to aid employees in resolving there is an opening, internal referrals mental health training to help managers insurance claims, accessing medical complement recommendations from the recognize when employees may be expespecialists and addressing their health Citi alumni network and search firms, and riencing issues that impact their mental needs and those of their families. We also Citi maintains contact with candidates, health and to provide guidance on how consider how our buildings can affect our including those who are internal, through to respond and offer support. We are employees. From providing ergonomic a cadence of in-person and virtual working to expand such efforts to the U.S. furniture to managing air and acoustics, check-ins. As we strive to create a culture in which we strive to create an environment that everyone feels supported and valued, We also maintain an employee nominasupports the well-being and productivity we recognize that mental well-being and tion guide for managers, which can be of our employees. Learn more about how physical health must both be supported. used to help identify employees for open physical space impacts employee wellroles, development programs, special In 2019, we started offering enhanced being in the Operations and Supply Chain assignments and promotions. The guide mental health benefits for employees and section. Also, our Save Well plans guide aims to reinforce effective practices for their families, including telemedicineour employees in building financial stabilfair, balanced and inclusive promotion based behavioral health options, on-site ity and saving for retirement, and we decisions. mental health professionals at our offer a tuition reimbursement option for largest locations, and Sleepio, a behavior certain employees going back to school. Workforce Well-Being modification therapy program designed to build better sleep habits and improve Citi Benefits and Maintaining a culture of well-being for our mental health. And, through our learning Family Life and development efforts, we offer opporemployees is critical to our success. We tunities to learn about mental health and Supporting employees in their family life continually evaluate the tools and policies strategies for helping others who might is an important part of workforce wellavailable to maintain the well-being of our be affected. being. We believe all parents deserve global workforce. time to adjust to parenthood and bond In the U.S., our on-site medical clinics with the newest members of their famiWork/Life Balance provide healthcare, free preventative lies. That’s why we recently expanded screenings and health promotion our Paid Parental Leave Policy to include Citi realizes the importance of being programs, immunizations and pre-travel Citi employees around the world. The flexible on how, when and where work health guidance to all employees. new policy, which began rolling out in gets done. We have a variety of programs These initiatives help employees and early 2020, applies to every kind of that help employees balance their work their families achieve their health goals family and includes a new parental paid and life, including both formal and inforthrough resources that are free, easy to leave minimum everywhere we operate. mal remote work arrangements and flex use and available to employees whether At a minimum, all Citi employees will be schedules. Providing opportunities for or not they are enrolled in a Citi health eligible for 16 weeks of paid maternity flextime, compressed workweeks, job plan. Our Live Well Rewards program in leave and four weeks of paid parental sharing and reduced schedules improves the U.S. enables employees and their leave. Maternity leave applies to all birthemployee satisfaction and retention while spouses or partners who are enrolled ing parents while parental leave covers increasing productivity. in our medical plans to earn up to $450 all nonbirthing parents, regardless of ($900 for a couple) in Live Well Rewards gender or type of birth (e.g., adoption or Our Minds at Citi initiative aims to destigjust for practicing healthy behaviors such surrogacy). matize and address issues of mental as tracking their exercise, participating in health. While specific resources can vary biometric screenings or taking an online Employees working in countries that offer by country, we provide access to free and course in how to lose weight or start an longer periods of paid leave time will confidential counseling and life coaching exercise program. More than 57,000 continue to maintain their benefits. sessions. The program enables employemployees in the U.S. earned Live Well ees to seek support for a wide range of Rewards in 2019. Rewards are offered in 110 We recognize that our parental leave While Citi employees volunteer yearWe conduct a robust annual review of benefit only adds value if our employees round, Global Community Day, our annual compensation, which includes multiple actually take the time that is offered to day of service for employees, friends and layers of reviews of compensation them. We know that some new parents family, is an important way in which we recommendations and pay equity analmay be reluctant to take time off after collectively deepen relationships with our ysis. Learn more about our pay equity adding to their families, and we aim to communities. In 2019, 120,000 volunteers analysis. foster a culture that supports employees participated in more than 1,500 events in making this decision. held in 400 cities across 90 countries. Executive Compensation Since the inaugural Global Community We also offer employees discounts for Day in 2006, Citi volunteers have We compensate our executives fairly, dependent care, and we provide a new contributed more than 4 million hours of based on individual and company parent program for both men and women service to projects in hundreds of cities. performance, competitive benchmarking as they navigate the transition to parentWe also track how Global Community Day and support of our Mission and Value hood. In addition, we offer the Bright events are helping to advance the UN Proposition. Our Proxy Statement Horizons Special Needs program, which Sustainable Development Goals. contains a scorecard with each named provides online resources for parents in executive officer’s financial and the U.S. with special needs children and subsidized dependent care when workFair Employment nonfinancial performance goals, which are approved by the Board’s Personnel |related issues disrupt regular schedules. We also offer a college coach to help Practices and Compensation Committee. We seek to design our executive pay program to families and their children navigate the motivate balanced behaviors consistent We strive to maintain an environment post-secondary education admissions with our focus on long-term strategic in which opportunities to develop are process. In addition, we have policies for goals. For example, diversity and incluwidely available, where people are hired employees who require paid time off for sion, including increasing the represenand advanced on their merits and where reasons such as military or medical leave. tation of women and U.S. minorities, and our employees treat each other with respect. We are fully committed to equal ethics and culture are incorporated into Volunteerism employment opportunity and comply senior executives’ scorecards, which are a factor in remuneration. Citi incorporates with the letter and spirit of all laws regarding fair employment practices and shareholder and stakeholder input on We offer our employees resources and nondiscrimination. executive pay into our Compensation tools to volunteer in the communities in Philosophy. We apply our Compensation which they live and work, and, in turn, For more information on fair employment Philosophy through our Executive our employees are proud to contribute to practices, see the Human Rights section Compensation Framework, which enables helping individuals and families thrive. of this report as well as our Code of incentive compensation awards to In 2019, Citi employee volunteers contribConduct. closely reflect our pay-for-performance uted more than 1 million volunteer hours approach. in communities around the world. Compensation Our colleagues used their professional Discrimination and skills, expertise and time volunteering We offer competitive salaries based on Sexual Harassment with community organizations to support our Compensation Philosophy, which in the Workplace a range of projects, from traditional outlines our five primary objectives (see hands-on activities to skills-based volunbox on on page 113). Our approach to Citi strictly prohibits any form of unlawful teering. These employee engagement compensation includes ensuring that discrimination or harassment, as set forth efforts with community organizations entry-level employees receive competin our widely disseminated and consisoften complement financial support itive wages within the industry, and in tently enforced policies. Employees who from Citi and the Citi Foundation. To help June, we raised our minimum wage in believe they have been discriminated encourage employee engagement in the U.S. to $15 per hour. We also offer against or harassed are encouraged to communities, every active and qualified employees the opportunity to take advanreport any incidents that violate Citi’s polCiti employee is entitled to one paid day tage of formal or informal flexible work icies to their managers, another member each year to volunteer with an eligible arrangements, including part-time work of the employee’s management chain, nonprofit organization of their choice. and job sharing. Human Resources, or the Ethics Hotline. 111 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices Citi employee participating in Volunteer Africa in Kenya Service and Skills Among our volunteer opportunities, we provide immersive experiences that serve as valuable professional and personal development for our employees and important retention tools for Citi. They also contribute to our commitment to engaging with the communities where we live and work. These opportunities include the following: CariClub: Since 2017, CariClub has been Service Year: Through a partnership with 41 percent increase in income and a helping Citi bankers engage with their Service Year Alliance, select first-year 53 percent increase in profit nine months communities and develop leadership expeCiti analysts in New York City who have after completing the program. rience by serving on nonprofit associate accepted a full-time offer have the opporboards. Through this external resource, tunity to defer that offer for one year to One Young World: As part of the One Young more than 80 Citi colleagues are now work in a strategic role at a nonprofit of World program, select Citi employees serving on an associate board or have joined their choice. With a guaranteed return to participate in a six-month mentorship a young professionals committee, and an Citi after their year of service, participrogram with young social entrepreneurs additional 80 colleagues will be working pants contribute their skills and expertise from Yunus&Youth, an organization that through the process in 2019. Citi offers to supporting their communities while promotes social entrepreneurship by the program to employees who have been honing skills that will prove valuable in connecting business leaders with the with the firm for three to seven years. Most their careers at Citi. Since the program’s next generation of social entrepreneurs. participants are between the ages of 25 inception in 2016, 32 Citi colleagues have Participants also attend the annual One and 35. participated. Young World Summit, where they debate, formulate and share innovative solutions iMentor: Since the launch of our Pathways Volunteer Africa: Launched in 2016, for the world’s most pressing issues and to Progress program in 2014, the Citi Volunteer Africa connects microentreprebring these ideas back to their workFoundation and iMentor have worked neurs in Africa with Citi employee volunplaces. In 2019, alumni of the program together to equip high school students teers from select areas of our business. In convened a panel of senior executives to with the tools to succeed academically and 2019, 24 junior bankers spent five weeks bring awareness to Citi’s efforts around prepare for post-secondary education and in Kenya supporting 16 high-potential the Sustainable Development Goals. An career opportunities. In addition to the entrepreneurs to help grow their businesses additional 43 colleagues participated in Foundation’s grant funding, more than and create much-needed jobs in the local the program in 2019. 130 Citi employees across the U.S. served community. The entrepreneurs are also able as mentors in 2019, helping to develop to pitch for investment from Citi through college and career aspirations, assist a dedicated fund established by the bank. with the college application and financing Research on previous entrepreneurs particprocess and coach mentees throughout ipating in the program in Kenya found that, their post-secondary academic years. on average, entrepreneurs experienced a 112 Upon receipt of any complaint, Citi promptly investigates and takes remedial measures up to and including termination Citi’s Compensation Philosophy of employment, where appropriate. All We have a comprehensive compensation philosophy anchored by the following contacts and investigations are treated five objectives: as confidentially as possible, consistent with the need to investigate and address • Align compensation programs, structures and decisions with shareholder and other stakeholder interests the matter and subject to applicable laws and regulations. Citi’s policies also strictly • Reinforce a business culture based on the highest ethical standards prohibit retaliation against any employee • Manage risks to Citi by encouraging prudent decision-making who has made a complaint or participated • Reflect regulatory guidance in compensation programs in an investigation. For more on our dis• Attract and retain the best talent to lead Citi to success crimination and harassment policies, see our Code of Conduct. For more detailed information on each of these objectives, see our complete Compensation Philosophy. In 2019, we updated our U.S. Workplace Anti-Harassment Training Program. Our refreshed training incorporates learnings and best practices, such as bystander intervention, and provides additional What’s Ahead examples of the types of conduct that Our goals for improving representation and pay equity at Citi are important markers constitute sexual harassment or discrimfor our progress in building a diverse and inclusive culture, particularly at the most ination. The training gives all employees senior levels. We will continue to focus on data-driven insights and engagement with information and tools on how to recogour employees to inform the steps we take to propel organizational change. Our hope nize, address and escalate workplace is that by achieving these goals in the short term, we will build the foundation for harassment or discrimination when it more ambitious goals down the line. We are also committed to continuing to extend occurs. We are committed to a diverse our efforts beyond our firm, using our financial resources, the time and talents of our and inclusive workforce built on the people, and our corporate voice to advance progress around issues of diversity and foundation that all employees treat one inclusion globally, whether we’re helping to change perceptions of people with disabilianother with respect and dignity ties through our sponsorship of athletes or advocating for LGBT+ equality through our and are comfortable coming to work support of legislative action. each day. 113 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices Ethics and Culture HIGHLIGHTS Ethical fitness A commitment from the top We launched the Ethical Fitness campaign to Globally, senior leaders have been reinforcing get our employees in their best ethical shape the importance of ethical decision-making Page 115 Page 117 We continue to invest in improving ethics-related controls, are in our clients’ interests; they create economic value; and they are always including those related to risk, compliance and auditing, systemically responsible. enabling us to safely run and grow our business. All These three tests help our employees of our employees, at all levels, are held to the highest to deliver on our core activities of safestandards of ethical and professional behavior so we can guarding assets, lending money, making deliver the best possible results for our clients, customers payments and accessing capital markets and communities. Our governance structure helps us to on behalf of our clients — each of which creates an obligation to act responsibly, identify and learn from our mistakes and hold ourselves do everything possible to create the best accountable for our actions. outcomes and prudently manage risk. The Ethics, Conduct and Culture Ethics and Culture interaction, by responsibly providing our products, services and expertise. We Committee of our Board of Directors oversees Citi’s efforts to foster a culture at Citi expect our employees to comply with all applicable laws, regulations and Citi of ethics and appropriate conduct within the organization. At Citi, we establish Each Citi employee has made a commitpolicies — including our Code of Conduct. and communicate our core values and ment to earn and maintain our clients’ Our Mission and Value Proposition asks principles through our Code of Conduct, trust, in every transaction and every our employees globally to ensure that our Leadership Standards, various their decisions pass three tests: They 114 training and development opportunities, their responsibility to adhere to our core misconduct, providing information on the employee engagement initiatives and values while leading by example, being various resources available to them to do communications from our senior leaders. accountable for their decisions and escaso. Code of Conduct training is provided In doing so, we reinforce that our employlating actual or potential misconduct. The to new hires globally on a rolling basis, ees must apply our values and principles Code emphasizes that, when in doubt, as well as to nonemployee contingent every day to everything they do, wheremployees should always err on the side workers who are performing services ever Citi operates. of escalation. for Citi. Upon joining Citi, employees must acknowledge that they have read and We ask our colleagues to ensure will comply with the Code. Violations Voice of the Employee that their decisions pass three of the Code can result in disciplinary As part of Citi’s annual Voice of the action up to and including termination tests: of employment. Employee survey, an initiative to gather • They are in our clients’ interests feedback from our employees, we include • They create economic value We ask employees to periodically reaffirm an Ethical Culture Index. This index their commitment to comply with the measures five items: • They are always systemically Code through Code of Conduct training. responsible • Comfort with reporting unethical pracThe training is required following the tices without fear of reprisal issuance of an updated Code of Conduct. • A feeling of accountability to identify As such, new training was launched and escalate issues for all employees in early 2020. The Code of Conduct training serves as an essential means • Confidence that Citi will act upon reported legal or ethical violations to connect Citi’s values and principles Citi’s Code of Conduct outlines the • A belief that colleagues act with integrity to expected employee behaviors and standards of ethics and professional conduct. Through the use of hypothet• Manager encouragement of ethical behavior expected of employees and ical work-related ethical scenarios, the conduct even in the face of pressure representatives of Citi when dealing training is designed to help employees with clients, business colleagues, shareIndex results have held steady for several make ethical decisions by having them holders, communities and each other. It apply — to common workplace situations years, with 89 percent responding posialso provides an overview of key legal — the principles in Citi’s Code of Conduct, tively to the index items in 2019, the same and regulatory requirements and select Mission and Value Proposition, applicable as in 2018. global policies. The Code applies to all laws and Citi policies. The training also directors, officers and employees of emphasizes employees’ obligation to Citi worldwide. In addition, individuals promptly report actual or suspected performing services for Citi may be subject to the Code by contract or agreement. To best serve our global workforce, the Code is published in 21 languages and is publicly available on our Investor Staying on Top of Your Ethical Game Relations website. Updated in 2019 and approved by our In 2019, we launched Ethical Fitness, a global campaign led by our executive Board of Directors, the Code of Conduct management team to provide Citi colleagues with the equipment they need is fundamental to fostering our culture to get in their best ethical shape. A series of seven modules that incorporate of integrity. Our Code illustrates how senior leader videos, storytelling and manager support gives employees the members of our workforce can make opportunity to practice consistently making the right ethical decisions. The ethical decisions using a decision-making first module, launched in December, focused on the factors that contribute guide that identifies key criteria through to unethical decision-making, to help employees identify, anticipate and build which a proposed choice or course of resilience to these influencing factors. The campaign will continue through action should pass in order to align with 2020. the tests contained in our Mission and Value Proposition and our Leadership Standards. It reinforces for employees 115 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices Escalating Business and Ethical Concerns We emphasize to our employees the importance of escalating issues in Citi’s global Escalation Policy. The Escalation Policy clearly sets forth employees’ obligation to escalate violations or potential violations of law, rule or regulation, or breach or potential breach of Citi policy or procedure or the Code of Conduct. The Escalation Policy also provides information on the multiple avenues through which employees can raise issues, including, among others, to their managers or other members of management, their Human Resources or labor relations representatives, internal legal counsel, a designated Independent Compliance Risk Management (ICRM) officer, Citi Security and Investigative Services and the Ethics Hotline. The Escalation Policy was updated in 2019 to add requirements for prompt escalation and reporting of significant matters to senior management and to the appropriate legal entities and Board committees. The policy sets forth requirements on what to escalate, when to escalate and the parties to whom to escalate. It includes roles and responsibilities for the identification, reporting, investigation, resolution and senior management reporting of these concerns Spotlight on Ethics and for oversight of escalation requireCiti shares the results of ethics investigations with employees through a quarterly comments and processes. munication called the Spotlight on Ethics. This communication is designed to show As part of Citi’s escalation resources, the employees that their concerns are investigated while highlighting commonplace areas in Ethics Hotline provides multiple channels which ethical lapses can occur. The Spotlight on Ethics also includes corrective actions for employees and any third party, includto demonstrate that speaking up and raising concerns leads to meaningful action. With ing members of the general public, to data security among Citi’s most material environmental, social and governance issues, report concerns about unethical behavior 2019 Spotlight communications focused on information security, addressing topics such to Citi’s Ethics Office. In addition to interas safeguarding Citi’s network and systems by protecting user IDs and passwords; Citi’s nal and public-facing websites facilitating prohibition on the use of personal email to conduct Citi business or transmit Citi inforthe submission of concerns, a telephone mation; the importance of proper data classification and handling; and the risks posed line is available 24 hours a day, seven to our network by the downloading of unapproved software and the use of unauthorized days a week, with live operators who code. These communications emphasized that our workforce is on the front line of Citi’s can connect to translators in multiple information security and that each employee has a responsibility to protect and defend languages. data and information entrusted to Citi. We believe it is essential that individuals feel secure when raising a concern. All 116 contacts and investigations are treated as confidentially as possible, consistent with the need to investigate and address Reinforcing Our Commitment to the matter and subject to applicable laws Ethics from the Top and regulations. Concerns may be raised either anonymously or with attribution, subject to applicable laws and regulations. Further, Citi prohibits any form of Globally, senior Citi leaders have been reinforcing the importance of ethical retaliation against anyone who raises a decision-making. In Mexico, our largest consumer market outside of the U.S., concern or question in good faith or who and in multiple other countries in Latin America, our senior executives and participates in a subsequent investigation. colleagues engaged in a yearlong campaign to promote ethical decision-making Employees who engage in retaliation and escalation across the organization. Through a senior leadership town hall, against a colleague because he or she internal communications, manager trainings and monthly surveys to validate raised a concern or question in good faith, learning, we worked to foster a collaborative environment in which colleagues asked for a reasonable accommodation, feel comfortable talking about ethical dilemmas and asking for advice about reported a violation or was involved in an how to deal with challenging situations. A similar effort was rolled out in six investigation are subject to disciplinary countries in Asia Pacific, with approximately 7,000 employees participating. action, up to and including termination Citi Country Officers, who are responsible for leading the business in each of employment or other relationship market, and their management teams led interactive, face-to-face workshops with Citi. for employees. By considering how individuals may be able to rationalize unethical behaviors, employees engaged in thought-provoking discussions that Each year, the Citi Ethics Office provides allowed them to better identify these rationalizations and effectively mitigate to all employees a summary of the types them. Similar sessions will be rolled out elsewhere in 2020. The Ethical Fitness of concerns received through the Ethics Campaign, launched at the end of 2019, will help to reinforce these efforts. Hotline, to show the use of Citi’s Ethics Hotline process and demonstrate that raising concerns to the Citi Ethics Office leads to meaningful action within our organization. Examples of such action can include disciplinary actions against individual employees and nonemployees; the termination of vendor relationships; employees, suppliers, communities and shareholders. Managing Compliance referrals to the appropriate law enforceAlso in 2019, Citi’s Chief Innovation Risk ment or governmental authorities; Officer and head of Citi Ventures particcommunications to our workforce; addiOur ICRM team helps to drive a culture of ipated on a panel at the Federal Reserve tional training for employees and nonemethical conduct at Citi by establishing poliBank of New York’s annual workshop ployees; changes to Citi policy, business cies, programs and procedures that guide on culture and behavior, discussing the processes and procedures; and control and support our employees in making impact of new technologies on culture in enhancements. ethical decisions and adhering to approthe workforce. priate standards of conduct. Through an Industry Collaboration Citi is also a member of the Banking integrated compliance risk management Standards Board (BSB) in the UK. framework, this group protects Citi by We have made a concerted effort to Together with more than 30 other setting standards; providing guidance, partner with key stakeholders on ways member firms, we support the BSB’s training and advice to our businesses that we can collectively improve the independent role to help rebuild trust regarding compliance risk; and driving culture of the banking industry as well and confidence across the UK banking ownership and accountability for managas corporate culture overall. In 2019, for industry by promoting high ethical and ing compliance risk in accordance with example, Citi was one of 181 companies professional standards for behavior and Citi standards across the firm. Managing whose chief executive officers signed the competence. We remain engaged with compliance risk is the responsibility of Business Roundtable’s new Statement on the BSB directly through our UK senior all of our employees and requires not the Purpose of a Corporation. As a signamanagement. Our Chief Country Officer only adherence to applicable laws, regutory, our CEO committed to lead Citi for for the UK has been a BSB board member lations, policies and relevant standards the benefit of all stakeholders: customers, since its inception. of conduct but also the promotion of 117 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices bribery-related concerns and to prompt investigations, where necessary. Leadership Standards Accountability Our culture is not just who we are and what we believe; it’s how we act in small, Sanctions Program everyday moments. We encourage all employees to demonstrate the behaviors of our Leadership Standards, which are the measurable skills, abilities and knowledge that Citi conducts business and operations all of us at Citi should exhibit to be successful leaders. Holding ourselves and each in compliance with applicable sanctions, other to these high standards is part of our culture and our commitment to operating laws and regulations, including those of the U.S. and other countries in which we in our clients’ best interests, driving economic value and minimizing risk. operate. We maintain a robust, risk-based We expect managers to lead by example and inspire their employees to live Citi’s valICRM Sanctions Program that applies ues. Every manager is responsible for creating a work environment free of discriminaglobally and is commensurate with our tion, harassment and retaliation. As role models, managers reinforce the importance global footprint. As a financial institution of following our Leadership Standards, Code of Conduct and Mission and Value Propoorganized in the U.S., Citi and our subsidiaries globally comply with applicable U.S. sition, as well as encourage employees to raise any concerns about potential legal sanctions requirements, among other or ethical issues. Managers also ensure concerns are properly resolved or promptly requirements. escalated through appropriate channels, promote awareness of all resources available for reporting concerns and neither engage in nor tolerate retaliation of any kind. Our enterprise-wide Sanctions Program promotes compliance with increasingly dynamic sanctions requirements. The program includes policies and procedures, risk category statement and business behavior and activity consistent annually — and in our Code of Conduct, tolerance thresholds, enterprise-wide with the values and conduct expectawhich summarizes our Anti-Bribery screening, annual risk assessments and tions outlined by our Mission and Value Policy. audits of sanctions control processes, Proposition, Leadership Standards and Citi complies with all applicable antiemployee training and a diverse team Code of Conduct. Through the work bribery laws and regulations, including of Compliance professionals stationed of a range of teams focused on Citi’s the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, around the world. anti-corruption efforts — including AntiBribery, Anti-Money Laundering (AML), the UK Bribery Act and the applicable Sanctions and the Ethics Office — we local anti-bribery laws of the countries Anti-Money Laundering work to counteract the many and varied in which we operate. Our Anti-Bribery Program threats of corruption facing the financial Program Statement expressly prohibits sector. Citi’s global Compliance organizabribery in any form for our employees, as Citi’s AML Program works to protect tion is headed by our Chief Compliance well as our suppliers. our clients, our franchise and the global Officer, who reports directly to our CEO financial system from the risks of money We have written policies, procedures and provides regular reports on the laundering and terrorist financing. and internal controls designed to comply performance of the compliance program, with anti-bribery laws. We conduct an The program centers on: including in regard to Anti-Bribery, Antiannual bribery risk assessment of all Money Laundering and Sanctions, to our • Prevention: Citi’s Global Know Your global business lines. The risk assessment Board of Directors or a committee of the Customer Program is the cornerstone addresses many areas of risk, including Board, as appropriate. of our AML Program, enabling us gifts and entertainment, hiring practices to effectively evaluate the potential and third-party relationships. Anti-Bribery Program risks associated with each client We provide our staff with anti-bribery relationship and ensure that we We continually enhance our Anti-Bribery training annually and supplement it with adhere to globally consistent policies Program with respect to the areas targeted training and communications and standards, customer risk scoring outlined in the Citi Anti-Bribery Program as needed. We give staff multiple ways, and onboarding. Statement — which is updated at least including the Ethics Hotline, to escalate 118 • Detection: We monitor transactions requirements at both the global and local to identify unusual or suspicious levels. In 2019, we merged our AML and transactions, behaviors or patterns ICRM teams to form one organization of activity across our global footprint. that encourages a culture of compliance, Our AML investigations unit reviews risk management and control across the transactions of new and existing clicompany. For more information on Citi’s ents across businesses and regions. AML Program, visit our website. • Reporting: We create, track and file Suspicious Activity Reports, Suspicious Transaction Reports and Currency Transaction Reports, as Citi Korea Sets High Bar required in many countries. for AML • Governance: Our enterprise-wide Every year, the Korean government and controls that govern the overall Combating the Illegal Korea Financial Intelligence Unit recognize program include global AML policies, Wildlife Trade processes, testing and training. Citi’s a financial institution for its outstanding contributions to enhancing AML proGlobal AML Program Head and Bank grams. In 2019, Citi Korea earned this Secrecy Act Officer is responsible for prestigious honor at the 12th annual AML Financial institutions play a critical overseeing the program, including apprising the Board of Directors and Day commemoration. Citi was recognized role in disrupting the flow of income generated by illegal wildlife trafficksenior management of AML initiafor establishing a dedicated AML moniing (IWT). Citi is a member of United tives, any significant deficiencies and toring team and introducing a risk-based for Wildlife’s Financial Taskforce, the reporting of suspicious activity. approach to maintain high standards in a collaboration between financial regulatory reporting. institutions and NGOs to fight IWT, Our AML Program includes more than which is a multibillion-dollar global 5,700 employees globally, including criminal enterprise. Throughout more than 490 designated AML Officers 2019, we issued a series of internal covering every Citi business, function publications focused on IWT — and geographic area. These specialists especially regarding elephants, partner with various functions, including rhinos and pangolins — to increase Compliance, Audit, Technology, and our awareness, identify red flags and institutional and consumer businesses, enhance our AML program at to provide effective enterprise AML risk multiple touchpoints, including assessment and to meet our AML-related client onboarding, transactional review and investigations. We also shared these red flags with relevant clients to help them identify IWT. In addition, Citi worked closely with The Royal Foundation and other financial institutions to develop a long-term strategic plan to mobilize the Financial Taskforce and develop goals for 2020 and beyond. 119 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices Number of Employees Who Completed Citi’s 2019 Anti-Money Laundering, Sanctions and Anti-Bribery Training (By Region)* 62,778 26,225 41,924 57,956 188,883 North Europe, Middle Latin Asia Total America East and Africa America Pacific Employees * This combined online training incorporates multiple anti-corruption efforts, including AML, sanctions and antibribery training. Numbers include all Citi staff who completed the 2019 training as of February 2020. (Employees and nonemployee workers have 30 days to complete it.) Improving the Client Experience for Embassy Banking In 2005, one of the largest banks in Washington, D.C., was forced to pay more than $40 million in criminal and civil fines for its failure to detect high-profile money laundering and possible terrorist financing via its embassy accounts for the countries of Saudi Arabia, Equatorial Guinea and Chile. The episode sent a clear message that banks working with embassies had to get serious about implementing strong antimoney laundering controls. Traditionally, embassies have executed Citi developed an approach allowing For our clients, the new approach meant payments independently and with limited embassy clients to utilize existing centralgreater transparency and reduced operatoversight from a central governing body, ized cash management platforms to ing costs. Australia, for example, previously allowing embassy officials to make indiexecute payments that enhanced oversight bought currency locally and sent it to its vidual transaction decisions. This operand transparency by their home governforeign embassies to manage. After the ating model leads to banks establishing ments, rather than operating independently implementation of new tools from Citi, the numerous relationships with separate or extensively with cash at the local level. Australian Department of Foreign Affairs entities around the world, making it more Implementing these tools mitigates the and Trade gained the ability to see every challenging to Know Your Customer (KYC), risk posed by our embassy clients, reduces one of its bank accounts and payments a regulatory requirement that mandates the administrative burden on KYC owners around the world, aggregated on a single that banks understand their clients, obtain around KYC periodic reviews and improves platform. detailed information about them and their the overall client experience. intended activity, and ensure that services are not being used for illegal activities. 120 Serving Our We deliver innovative, powerful solutions and fairly and comply with applicable laws, regulations and Citi policies. These for our customers to drive greater Customers and simplicity, convenience, control and teams also provide periodic testing Clients Responsibly insight. Digital and mobile are at the core of a simpler, better client and customer or monitoring of such materials and disclosures. Each relevant business experience, and our ongoing enhancemaintains a complaints management We have policies and systems in place to program to receive and respond to ments to our mobile app helped us to make sure we are always treating customconsumer concerns. achieve certification in 2019 from J.D. ers responsibly and fairly, as reflected Power. Learn more about how we work in our Code of Conduct and our internal checks-and-balances processes when to improve the digital experience of our Treating Customers Fairly clients in the Digital Innovation section. creating new products. Through Citi’s commitment to Treating We also provide our customers with Customers Fairly (TCF) and our Global Responsible Marketing timely resources and information related Consumer Fairness Policy, we strive to to safety and security. Our U.S. online earn and maintain the public’s trust by We are committed to providing clients Security Center enables customers to constantly adhering to the highest ethical with the right products and services learn about what Citi does to protect standards in conducting our business. We based on their needs, wants and prefthem and what they can do to protect aim to deliver products and services that erences, while adhering to all internal themselves against identify theft and provide value, clarity and dependability, policies and procedures as well as all other security risks. guided by the TCF principles that define banking laws and regulations. We take the our standards for our products and time to understand the unique financial Further, in an effort to contribute to services. requirements of each client and offer eliminating gender bias in marketing, Citi only products and services that meet is part of #SeeHer, a groundbreaking The Global Consumer Fairness Policy those needs. We work diligently to clearly movement launched by the Association of provides a framework for reviewing disclose all of the features and terms and National Advertisers (ANA) to eliminate consumer fairness concerns and conditions, including applicable fees and unconscious bias against women and girls a sustainable model for managing charges, for the products and services in advertising and media. Through this offered so that clients can select and partnership, we’re collaborating with the use the product or service best suited ANA to increase the accurate portrayal of to them. women and girls in media by 20 percent Citi’s Treating Customers Fairly by 2020 and leverage our scale to influAs part of our customer-centric approach ence positive change. Through a related Principles to communicating in a simple, straightcampaign, #SeeHerHearHer, we are forward manner, our Global Consumer using our influence to enable progress 1) Works as described Banking Branded Cards business for gender equality in the music industry. Consumers can predict how products and continues to deliver personalized videos Music plays a significant role in our services will work. to heighten customer comprehension television brand campaigns, and we now of key topics. In 2019, we developed a require the inclusion of female artists as 2) Appropriate cross-functional team to overhaul the part of the music search criteria for all TV Consumers can rely on Citi to offer videos across programs and formats to spots. appropriate products and services that ensure that they are fully accessible to meet their needs. our customers, including providing realThese initiatives are just some examples 3) Value time descriptive transcripts, embedding of our firm-wide commitment to ensuring closed captions and ensuring content that our activities are in the best Consumers receive value that is reasonreadability in line with Americans with interests of our clients. More broadly, ably related to the cost of the products Disabilities Act regulations. For new new products are approved by crossand services. cardmembers, we updated our personalfunctional committees that include 4) Ease of Understanding ized welcome videos to encourage digital senior executives from Risk, Legal, ICRM Consumers understand the terms and adoption and ensure that users have and other relevant units, supported by conditions of the products and services a clear understanding of features. For specialists from Fair Lending, as needed. (particularly limitations and exclusions). example, a personalized digital checklist Citi marketing materials are reviewed by was added to help users understand their our Compliance and Legal departments digital self-service tools. to ensure that we communicate clearly 121 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices emerging risks. The policy covers all As part of the program, Global Consumer discrimination against actual or prospecaspects of the consumer product and Banking employees are required to tive clients on the basis of race, sex services lifecycle, including new product complete annual TCF training to ensure (which encompasses gender as well as development, marketing, sales (includthey understand how to identify issues sexual orientation and gender identity), ing variable incentive compensation), of fairness and how fairness influences religion, disability or other prohibited underwriting and onboarding as well as real-world results. In 2019, more than factors. This commitment is backed all other stages. There are established, 90,000 Citi employees around the world by training, processes, controls and formalized escalation processes to completed the course. We also have a oversight to prevent discrimination and Business Practices Committees that range of measures in place to monitor minimize disparate impact. facilitate consistent, timely and approprisales practices, including auditing, ate identification, analysis and escalation mystery shopping and suitability metrics True to our commitment to responsible of potential consumer fairness and that assess client risk profiles against finance, we also hold an annual Fair and reputational and franchise risk issues. In the risk profile of the investment. When Inclusive Banking Offsite with senior relation to designing variable incentive appropriate, we proactively contact management from across the company plans, we consider a number of factors, delinquent clients, basing the time and to deepen their understanding of fair including whether plans align with our frequency on their credit risk profile lending and accessibility. Building TCF principles. For example, we leverage and previous payment performance. We on efforts at the 2018 offsite, during client satisfaction metrics, where availensure that all contact strategies are which our CEO challenged participants able, along with other product-based effectively vetted for privacy and fairness to outsmart their unconscious biases, metrics, to incentivize achieving business considerations before implementation. participants in 2019 learned from leading results that adhere to internal policies internal and external experts how to and our Code of Conduct. We routinely In the U.S., fair lending practices are a embed inclusion and protection from evaluate incentive plans, training content, key component of our commitment to discrimination into current strategic controls, monitoring and oversight in treating customers fairly. Our U.S. Fair priorities. order to maintain a sales force that Lending Policy establishes the guiding delivers on Citi’s commitment to serving principles and minimum standards for As the external environment and our our customers with fairness, value, clarity fair, equitable and nondiscriminatory business strategies continue to evolve, and dependability. access to credit. Further, it prohibits we work to continue to update our 122 understanding of key discrimination risks customer transactions under which Citi we disclose our U.S. political contriand our approach to preventing discrimiwill only engage in a transaction where butions on our Corporate Governance nation risks in our business strategies, as there is a high degree of certainty that webpage. That page also includes well as in our product and service design any tax aspects will be accepted by the extensive disclosure about our practices and delivery. respective taxing authorities. pertaining to political contributions and lobbying activities, as well as a regularly Beginning in 2018, the Tax Cuts and Taxation Policies Jobs Act of 2017 fundamentally changed updated list of our significant trade and business associations. Our disclosures and Standards the method of taxation of international income earned by Citi. We continue to and contributions are overseen by the Nomination, Governance and Public apply the same consistent, transparent Citi operates in nearly 100 countries Affairs Committee of our Board of and responsible approach to tax compliand strictly abides by all tax laws in the Directors. ance and governance outlined in this U.S. and throughout the world. We are a report. For more information on how current income taxpayer, both within and taxation impacts Citi, see page 113 of our What’s Ahead outside the U.S. Our tax profile is consis2019 Form 10-K. tent with the locations of our business As consumers remain distrustful of instioperations, and our review and escalation tutions in the wake of breaches of trust in processes enable us to adhere to high Public Policy numerous sectors, including banking, we standards of compliance with applicable must stay ever-vigilant to ensure we act tax laws. We engage directly, and indirectly with integrity and transparency in all that through trade associations, with governwe do. This commitment starts at the top, We emphasize strong internal controls ments and elected officials around the and we will continue to focus on engagand transparency with global tax authoriworld to advocate for public policies that ing senior executives to reinforce the ties and share information relevant to our support the interests of our company, importance of ethics and transparency tax profile. We supplement this transparclients and employees in the countries for all employees. We will also continue ency with additional country-by-country and regions where we operate. Guided by to collaborate with others in our industry reporting, which is required under the our Political Activities Statement, which and beyond to address ethical and risk Organisation for Economic Co-operation ensures compliance with all applicable issues, such as illegal wildlife trafficking and Development’s action plan to address laws and regulations, we promote policies and bias in marketing. base erosion and profit shifting. Our and positions on issues such as trade, tax policy is overseen by our Chief Tax cybersecurity, data localization, tax Officer, who reports to the Chief Financial and financial reforms. Our Government Officer. Tax policies and related matters Affairs team members complete annual are reviewed by the Audit Committee of compliance training, conducted by the Board of Directors. outside experts, on campaign finance, lobbying and gifts/entertainment rules. Citi complies with reporting and withholding requirements imposed globally Under U.S. Federal Election Commission on financial institutions in connection rules, Citi’s Political Action Committee with customer transactions that these pools the voluntary contributions of eligiinstitutions intermediate. We have impleble employees to support U.S. political mented systems and processes to comply candidates and campaigns that support with the Foreign Account Tax Compliance the financial industry and complemenAct, and we are in compliance with the tary pro-business policies. This support Common Reporting Standard in all appliallows us to take an active role in our cable countries where local implementing country’s political process, promote our guidance has been issued. Similarly, we business goals and strengthen relationhave a firm-wide policy applicable to ships with U.S. policymakers. Annually, 123 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices Page 125 2019 Sustainable Progress Strategy Scorecard Page 127 GRI Content Index Page 141 Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Index Page 142 United Nations Global Compact Index Page 144 United Nations Guiding Principles Reporting Framework Index Page 148 Assurance APPENDICES 124 2019 Sustainable Progress Strategy Scorecard Environmental Finance Our $100 Billion Environmental Finance Goal: To finance and facilitate $100 billion over 10 years toward activities that reduce the impacts of climate change and create environmental solutions Goal Metric By 2019 Progress Environmental $100 billion in environmental finance activity 2023 $164B finance goal Environmental Total avoided GHG emissions 11.7M (mt) impact tracking* Social impact Jobs supported by renewable energy project finance and public finance activity 198K jobs tracking* (includes direct, indirect and induced jobs) Annual riders on transit system projects 18.2B rides People serviced by water-quality projects 95M people Families serviced by affordable housing activity 6.7K * These potential impacts represent the estimated positive environmental and social benefits of a subset of our environmental finance transactions. Environmental and Social Risk Management (ESRM) Manage environmental and social risks and impacts associated with client transactions and our financial products and services Goal 2019 Progress ESRM Policy • Implemented global coal-fired power Sector Standard; declined project-related financing for new coal capacity continuous • Updated and expanded ESRM due diligence under coal mining Sector Standard improvements Internal • Trained more than 600 employees on ESRM policies and procedures through a combination of classroom and training virtual trainings • Integrated climate risk information into ESRM Policy trainings Portfolio-level • Conducted portfolio review of power clients’ GHG reporting, targets and low-carbon transition plans analysis of • Developed climate-related risk questionnaire for carbon-intensive sectors high-risk sectors • Conducted agribusiness portfolio review to understand best practices for managing deforestation risk Monitoring • Tracked climate risk developments through engagement with regulators, clients and other stakeholders of emerging • Advised bankers and clients on emerging sustainable finance products, such as green bonds and sustainability risks and trends linked loans, as well as evolving market criteria and expectations regarding the structure of these products Building global • Collaborated with approximately 40 banks in the second phase of the UNEP FI TCFD pilot project to enhance capacity the methodologies, tools and scenarios for assessing the potential financial impacts of transition and physical climate risks on bank loan portfolios • Co-led biodiversity working group of the Equator Principles (EP) Association, which led to a new EP requirement to promote increased biodiversity data sharing as part of project environmental assessments 125 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices 2019 Sustainable Progress Strategy Scorecard (continued) Operations Minimize our impacts across Citi’s entire portfolio of 7,700 owned and leased facilities Goal Metric By 2019 Progress Environmental 100% use of renewable electricity 2020 86% footprint for facilities globally* 30% reduction in energy consumption 2020 35% (compared with 2005 baseline) 30% reduction in water consumption 2020 35% (compared with 2005 baseline) 10% of water used coming from 2020 6% reclaimed or recycled sources 60% diversion rate of waste to landfill 2020 63% (compared with 2005 baseline) 33% of global real estate portfolio 2020 27% LEED-certified * Contracted amount of renewable energy for delivery in 2020 Supply Chain Work with our suppliers to ensure that they meet high environmental and social standards Goal Metric By 2019 Progress Establish supply chain policies: Policies finalized and 2019 • Sustainable supply chain policies have been drafted and • Paper and paper products implemented discussed internally. Discussions will continue in 2020 about how to implement these policy positions. • IT hardware and e-waste disposal • Travel and logistics Update Statement of Statement updated and 2019 • Statement updated and disseminated Supplier Principles disseminated Integration of Supplier Principles Supplier Principles integrated 2019 • Citi’s Requirements for Suppliers, which references the Supplier into master contracts into 100% of master contracts Principles, has been incorporated into our master contract for suppliers template for suppliers and will be incorporated into contracts as they are renewed. Corporate Responsibility 100% of suppliers complete the 2019 • We rolled out the CRQ to more than 30% of all of our suppliers, Questionnaire (CRQ) rolled out CRQ and then made the decision to focus on the top tier suppliers to all regions based on spend. Of those top 100 suppliers, 74% completed the CRQ in 2019. Internal/external training 100% of Enterprise Supply 2019 • 90% of ESC employees have completed training Chain (ESC) employees complete training 100% of suppliers 2019 • 90% of suppliers completed training complete training 126 GRI Content Index We prepared this report in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. We also reported on many disclosures beyond the Core reporting option, including disclosures from the Financial Services Sector Supplement. The following index provides readers with references for where they can find information in this report and other public documents addressing GRI disclosures relevant to our business. Please visit the GRI website for the full text of the disclosures and other information on the GRI reporting framework. Disclosure Disclosure Title Reporting Reference or Response Number Status GRI 101: Foundation 2016 [GRI 101 Does not include any disclosures] GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-1 Name of the organization Fully Citigroup Inc. 102-2 Activities, brands, products, Fully • Citi at a Glance and services • 2019 10-K pages 4-5 102-3 Location of headquarters Fully 388 Greenwich Street, New York, NY 10013 102-4 Location of operations Fully • Citi at a Glance • Citi Website – Countries and Jurisdictions 102-5 Ownership and legal form Fully • 2019 10-K page 4 102-6 Markets served Fully • Citi at a Glance • 2019 10-K pages 4-8 102-7 Scale of the organization Fully • Citi at a Glance • 2019 10-K pages 4-8 102-8 Information on employees and Fully Citi may engage external service providers who may be responsible for performing other workers noncore business activities, or nonemployee resources who are employed by an external third party but support Citi processes. These nonemployee resources could be working under Citi supervision or be working under the supervision of an external third party in the third party’s facility. Citi may engage external service providers or nonemployees for a variety of different business purposes, including project-based work for a defined period of time, specialized/niche skill sets that are not readily available, or professional and outsourced services. There are no significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment). • Talent and Diversity > Citi’s Global Workforce 102-9 Supply chain Fully • Operations and Supply Chain > Responsible Sourcing 102-10 Significant changes to the Fully • 2019 Annual Report organization and its supply chain For the Materiality Disclosures Service, GRI Services reviewed that the GRI content index is clearly presented and the references for Disclosures 102-40 to 102-49 align with appropriate sections in the body of the report. 127 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices Disclosure Disclosure Title Reporting Reference or Response Number Status 102-11 Precautionary Principle Fully As discussed in the respective sections of this report, we evaluate and address risks or approach as part of our Environmental and Social Risk Management (ESRM) efforts. Our ESRM Policy prohibits activities we believe pose risks to us, our clients and our stakeholders. This may include taking precautionary actions. 102-12 External initiatives Fully • CDP • RE100 • Equator Principles • Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil • International Finance Corporation’s • Task Force on Climate-related Environmental and Social Performance Financial Disclosures Standards • UN Environment Programme Finance • International Finance Corporation’s Initiative Environmental, Health and Safety • UN Global Compact Guidelines • UN Guiding Principles on Business • International Labour Organization’s Core and Human Rights Conventions • UN Sustainable Development Goals • Poseidon Principles • UN Universal Declaration of Human • Principles for Responsible Banking Rights • Natural Capital Declaration • Wolfsberg Principles 102-13 Membership of associations Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > Stakeholder Engagement at Citi • Environmental Finance • Environmental and Social Risk Management > Policy Implementation • Operations and Supply Chain > Resource Use and Environmental Impacts • Ethics and Culture > Industry Collaboration • Talent and Diversity > LGBT+ Equality and Rights • Citi Political Activities Statement Trade Associations 102-14 Statement from senior Fully • Letter from Our CEO decision-maker 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and Fully • Letter from Our CEO opportunities • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > ESG Governance at Citi • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context • Citi’s Sustainable Progress Strategy • 2019 10-K pages 46-60 102-16 Values, principles, standards, Fully • About This Report and norms of behavior • Ethics and Culture • Citi Corporate Governance 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and Fully • Ethics and Culture > Ethics and Culture at Citi concerns about ethics • Ethics Hotline 102-18 Governance structure Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > ESG Governance at Citi • Citi Corporate Governance • 2020 Proxy Statement pages 28-37 102-19 Delegating authority Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > ESG Governance at Citi • Board Charters • 2020 Proxy Statement pages 46-50 102-20 Executive-level responsibility Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > ESG Governance at Citi for economic, environmental, • Board Charters and social topics • 2020 Proxy Statement pages 46-50 128 Disclosure Disclosure Title Reporting Reference or Response Number Status 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > ESG Governance at Citi economic, environmental, • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > Stakeholder Engagement at Citi and social topics • Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights • Human Rights > Continuous Learning • Ethics and Culture > Public Policy • 2020 Proxy Statement pages 46-50 102-22 Composition of the highest Fully • 2020 Proxy Statement pages 32-37 governance body and its committees 102-23 Chair of the highest Fully The Chairman of the Board is a nonexecutive, independent director. governance body • 2020 Proxy Statement page 28 102-24 Nominating and selecting the Fully • Nomination, Governance and Public Affairs Committee Charter highest governance body • 2020 Proxy Statement pages 46-50 102-25 Conflicts of interest Fully • 2020 Proxy Statement pages 25, 41, 96 102-26 Role of highest governance Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > ESG Governance at Citi body in setting purpose, • 2020 Proxy Statement page 21 values, and strategy 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > ESG Governance at Citi governance body • 2020 Proxy Statement pages 10-11 102-28 Evaluating the highest Fully • Corporate Governance Guidelines page 6 governance body’s performance • 2020 Proxy Statement pages 46-50 102-29 Identifying and managing Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > ESG Governance at Citi economic, environmental, • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > Stakeholder Engagement at Citi and social impacts • Environmental and Social Risk Management > Policy Implementation • Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions • Risk Management Committee Charter • Nomination, Governance and Public Affairs Committee Charter • 2020 Proxy Statement pages 28-37 102-30 Effectiveness of risk Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > ESG Governance at Citi management processes • Risk Management Committee Charter • Nomination, Governance and Public Affairs Committee Charter 102-31 Review of economic, Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > ESG Governance at Citi environmental, and social topics • 2020 Proxy Statement page 34 102-32 Highest governance body’s role Fully • Executive Vice President, Global Public Affairs in sustainability reporting 102-33 Communicating critical Fully • Ethics and Culture > Managing Compliance Risk concerns • Citi Code of Conduct • 2020 Proxy Statement page 43 102-35 Remuneration policies Fully • Talent and Diversity > Fair Employment Practices • Personnel and Compensation Committee Charter • 2020 Proxy Statement page 67-70 102-36 Process for determining Fully • Talent and Diversity > Fair Employment Practices remuneration • Personnel and Compensation Committee Charter • 2020 Proxy Statement page 67-70 129 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices Disclosure Disclosure Title Reporting Reference or Response Number Status 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement Fully • Talent and Diversity > Our Diversity Priorities in remuneration • Personnel and Compensation Committee Charter 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > Stakeholder Engagement at Citi 102-41 Collective bargaining Fully • Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees agreements 102-42 Identifying and selecting Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > Stakeholder Engagement at Citi stakeholders • Human Rights > Continuous Learning • Ethics and Culture > Industry Collaboration 102-43 Approach to stakeholder Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context engagement • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > Stakeholder Engagement at Citi • Human Rights > Continuous Learning • Digital Innovation > Developing Solutions with Customer Feedback 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > Stakeholder Engagement at Citi • Environmental and Social Risk Management > Policy Implementation • Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights • Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions • Ethics and Culture > Industry Collaboration 102-45 Entities included in the Fully • 2019 10-K pages 4-5 consolidated financial statements 102-46 Defining report content and Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context topic Boundaries 102-47 List of material topics Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context 102-48 Restatements of information Fully • Environmental Finance > Impact Data • Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Performance for Operations 102-49 Changes in reporting Fully There are no significant changes from the previous reporting period. 102-50 Reporting period Fully This report covers fiscal and calendar year 2019. 102-51 Date of most recent report Fully April 2019 102-52 Reporting cycle Fully Annual 102-53 Contact point for questions Fully Global Public Affairs regarding the report Citigroup Inc. 388 Greenwich Street New York, NY 10013 citizenship@citi.com 102-54 Claims of reporting in Fully This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. accordance with the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index Fully • GRI Content Index 102-56 External assurance Fully We secure external assurance annually for data related to our reporting on the Equator Principles, transactions covered by Environmental and Social Risk Management reviews, and environmental data for our operations. • Assurance 130 GRI Disclosure Reporting Reference or Response Standard Number and Title Status Economic performance GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context Management material topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > ESG Governance at Citi approach and its components • 2019 10-K pages 6-8 103-3 Evaluation of the Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > ESG Governance at Citi management approach • 2019 10-K pages 6-8 GRI 201: 201-1 Direct economic value Fully • 2019 10-K pages 6-8 Economic generated and distributed Performance 2016 201-2 Financial implications Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > Citi’s Support for Climate Action and other risks and • Environmental Finance > Completing Our $100 Billion Environmental Finance Goal opportunities due to climate • Environmental and Social Risk Management > Climate-Related Risk change • Operations and Supply Chain > Managing Climate Risk in Our Operations • Finance for a Climate-Resilient Future: Citi’s TCFD Report • 2019 10-K page 71 201-3 Defined benefit plan Fully • Citi Benefits Handbook obligations and other retirement plans Market presence GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context Management material topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management Fully • Citi’s Value Proposition approach and its components • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > ESG Governance at Citi • 2019 10-K pages 4-8 103-3 Evaluation of the Fully • Citi’s Value Proposition management approach • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > ESG Governance at Citi • 2019 10-K pages 4-8 GRI 202: 202-1 Ratios of standard entry Fully We provide competitive levels of compensation that meet or exceed local minimum Market Presence level wage by gender compared wage requirements. Competitive wages and benefit programs may vary according to 2016 to local minimum wage country and/or location. Most employees are hired locally. 202-2 Proportion of senior Fully Most employees are hired locally. When hiring for senior management, we may management hired from the consider qualified candidates from across the globe. local community Indirect economic impacts GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context Management material topic and its Boundary • Inclusive and Resilient Communities Approach 2016 • Environmental Finance 103-2 The management Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > ESG Governance at Citi approach and its components • Inclusive and Resilient Communities • Environmental Finance > How We Reached Our Goal 103-3 Evaluation of the Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > ESG Governance at Citi management approach • Inclusive and Resilient Communities • Environmental Finance > Environmental and Social Impacts Achieved Through Our $100 Billion Goal 131 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices GRI Disclosure Reporting Reference or Response Standard Number and Title Status GRI 203: 203-1 Infrastructure Fully • Inclusive and Resilient Communities > Innovative Local Government and Community Indirect investments and services Change Agents Economic supported • Inclusive and Resilient Communities > Infrastructure Impacts 2016 • Inclusive and Resilient Communities > Affordable Housing and Homeownership • Environmental Finance 203-2 Significant indirect Fully • Citi’s Value Proposition economic impacts • Inclusive and Resilient Communities • Environmental Finance > Environmental and Social Impacts Achieved Through Our $100 Billion Goal Anti-corruption GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context Management material topic and its Boundary • Ethics and Culture Approach 2016 103-2 The management Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > ESG Governance at Citi approach and its components • Ethics and Culture > Ethics and Culture at Citi • Ethics and Culture > Managing Compliance Risk 103-3 Evaluation of the Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > ESG Governance at Citi management approach • Ethics and Culture > Ethics and Culture at Citi • Ethics and Culture > Managing Compliance Risk GRI 205: 205-1 Operations assessed for Fully • Ethics and Culture > Managing Compliance Risk Anti-corruption risks related to corruption • Anti-Bribery Program Statement 2016 205-2 Communication and Partially • Ethics and Culture > Ethics and Culture at Citi training about anti-corruption • Ethics and Culture > Managing Compliance Risk policies and procedures • Anti-Bribery Program Statement Anti-competitive behavior GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context Management material topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > ESG Governance at Citi approach and its components • 2019 10-K pages 54-57, 276-282 103-3 Evaluation of the Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > ESG Governance at Citi management approach • 2019 10-K pages 54-57, 276-282 GRI 206: 206-1 Legal actions for antiFully • 2019 10-K pages 54-57, 276-282 Anti-competitive competitive behavior, anti-trust, Behavior 2016 and monopoly practices Energy GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context Management material topic and its Boundary • Finance for a Climate-Resilient Future: Citi’s TCFD Report Approach 2016 103-2 The management Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > Citi’s Support for Climate Action approach and its components • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > ESG Governance at Citi • Operations and Supply Chain > Resource Use and Environmental Impacts • Citi’s Sustainable Progress Strategy 103-3 Evaluation of the Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > Citi’s Support for Climate Action management approach • Operations and Supply Chain > Resource Use and Environmental Impacts • 2019 Sustainable Progress Strategy Scorecard 132 GRI Disclosure Reporting Reference or Response Standard Number and Title Status GRI 302: 302-1 Energy consumption Fully • Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Performance for Operations Energy 2016 within the organization • Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Impact Report 302-3 Energy intensity Fully • Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Impact Report 302-4 Reduction of energy Fully • Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Performance for Operations consumption • Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Impact Report Emissions GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context Management material topic and its Boundary • Finance for a Climate-Resilient Future: Citi’s TCFD Report Approach 2016 103-2 The management Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > Citi’s Support for Climate Action approach and its components • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > ESG Governance at Citi • Operations and Supply Chain > Resource Use and Environmental Impacts • Citi’s Sustainable Progress Strategy 103-3 Evaluation of the Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > Citi’s Support for Climate Action management approach • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > ESG Governance at Citi • Operations and Supply Chain > Resource Use and Environmental Impacts • 2019 Sustainable Progress Strategy Scorecard GRI 305: 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) Fully • Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Performance for Operations Emissions 2016 GHG emissions • Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Impact Report 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope Fully • Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Performance for Operations 2) GHG emissions • Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Impact Report 305-3 Other indirect Fully • Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Impact Report (Scope 3) GHG emissions 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Fully • Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Impact Report 305-5 Reduction of Fully • Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Performance for Operations GHG emissions • Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Impact Report Effluents and waste GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context Management material topic and its Boundary • Operations and Supply Chain > Resource Use and Environmental Impacts Approach 2016 103-2 The management Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > ESG Governance at Citi approach and its components • Operations and Supply Chain > Resource Use and Environmental Impacts • Citi’s Sustainable Progress Strategy 103-3 Evaluation of the Fully • Operations and Supply Chain > Resource Use and Environmental Impacts management approach • 2019 Sustainable Progress Strategy Scorecard GRI 306: 306-2 Waste by type and Fully Citi did not generate any hazardous waste during the reporting period. Effluents and disposal method • Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Performance for Operations Waste 2016 • Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Impact Report 133 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices GRI Disclosure Reporting Reference or Response Standard Number and Title Status Supplier environmental assessment GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context Management material topic and its Boundary • Operations and Supply Chain > Responsible Sourcing Approach 2016 103-2 The management Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > ESG Governance at Citi approach and its components • Operations and Supply Chain > Responsible Sourcing • Citi’s Sustainable Progress Strategy 103-3 Evaluation of the Fully • Operations and Supply Chain > Responsible Sourcing management approach • 2019 Sustainable Progress Strategy Scorecard GRI 308: 308-1 New suppliers that were Fully • Operations and Supply Chain > Supplier Engagement and Evaluation Supplier screened using environmental • 2019 Sustainable Progress Strategy Scorecard Environmental criteria Assessment 2016 Employment GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context Management material topic and its Boundary • Talent and Diversity Approach 2016 103-2 The management Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > ESG Governance at Citi approach and its components • Talent and Diversity > Our Diversity Priorities 103-3 Evaluation of the Fully • Talent and Diversity > Our Diversity Priorities management approach GRI 401: 401-1 New employee hires and Fully • Talent and Diversity > Citi’s Global Workforce Employment employee turnover 2016 401-2 Benefits provided to Fully • Talent and Diversity > Workforce Well-Being full-time employees that are not • Citi Benefits Handbook provided to temporary or parttime employees Training and education GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context Management material topic and its Boundary • Talent and Diversity > Development and Retention Approach 2016 103-2 The management Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > ESG Governance at Citi approach and its components • Talent and Diversity > Development and Retention 103-3 Evaluation of the Fully • Talent and Diversity > Development and Retention management approach GRI 404: 404-1 Average hours of Fully • Talent and Diversity > Learning and Evaluation Training and training per year per employee • Talent and Diversity > Global Employee Training 2019 Education 2016 404-2 Programs for upgrading Fully • Talent and Diversity > Development and Retention employee skills and transition assistance programs 404-3 Percentage of Fully • Talent and Diversity > Learning and Evaluation employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 134 GRI Disclosure Reporting Reference or Response Standard Number and Title Status Diversity and equal opportunity GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context Management material topic and its Boundary • Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights Approach 2016 • Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees • Talent and Diversity 103-2 The management Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > ESG Governance at Citi approach and its components • Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights • Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees • Talent and Diversity > Our Diversity Priorities • Talent and Diversity > Fair Employment Practices 103-3 Evaluation of the Fully • Talent and Diversity > Our Diversity Priorities management approach • Talent and Diversity > Fair Employment Practices GRI 405: 405-1 Diversity of governance Fully • Talent and Diversity > Citi’s Global Workforce Diversity bodies and employees • Board of Directors and Equal • 2020 Proxy Statement page 29 Opportunity 2016 Freedom of association and collective bargaining GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context Management material topic and its Boundary • Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees Approach 2016 103-2 The management Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > ESG Governance at Citi approach and its components • Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees • Talent and Diversity > Fair Employment Practices 103-3 Evaluation of the Fully • Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees management approach • Talent and Diversity > Fair Employment Practices GRI 407: 407-1 Operations and suppliers Fully • Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees Freedom of in which the right to freedom Association of association and collective and Collective bargaining may be at risk Bargaining 2016 Child labor GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context Management material topic and its Boundary • Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights Approach 2016 • Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions 103-2 The management Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > ESG Governance at Citi approach and its components • Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions • Citi Requirements for Suppliers • Citi Statement of Supplier Principles • Citi Statement on Human Rights 103-3 Evaluation of the Fully • Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions management approach GRI 408: 408-1 Operations and suppliers Fully We have not identified any operations as having significant risk for incidents of child Child Labor 2016 at significant risk for incidents labor. Our business overall is not at high risk because of the nature of work in the of child labor financial services industry. In addition, we do not directly source high-risk agricultural commodities, conflict minerals or any other raw materials, goods or services in significant amounts from suppliers in high-risk jurisdictions. 135 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices GRI Disclosure Reporting Reference or Response Standard Number and Title Status Forced or compulsory labor GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context Management material topic and its Boundary • Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights Approach 2016 • Human Rights > Extending Respect for Human Rights Through Our Suppliers and Partners • Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions 103-2 The management Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > ESG Governance at Citi approach and its components • Human Rights > Extending Respect for Human Rights Through Our Suppliers and Partners • Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions 103-3 Evaluation of the Fully • Human Rights > Extending Respect for Human Rights Through Our Suppliers and Partners management approach • Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions GRI 409: 409-1 Operations and suppliers Fully We have not identified any operations as having significant risk for incidents of forced Forced or at significant risk for incidents or compulsory labor. Our own business operations are not at high risk because of the Compulsory of forced or compulsory labor nature of work in the financial services industry; however, we have flagged institutional Labor 2016 clients where due diligence indicates the possibility of some occurrence of forced labor or compulsory labor and have taken appropriate mitigating steps. In addition, while we do not directly source high-risk agricultural commodities, conflict minerals or other raw materials in significant amounts from suppliers in high-risk jurisdictions, we have identified EMEA-based suppliers that, based on their sector and geography, are more at risk for the occurrence of forced labor or human trafficking than other suppliers in other sectors and geographies. We have prioritized our engagement with those higherrisk suppliers to further mitigate potential risk. • Human Rights > Extending Respect for Human Rights Through Our Suppliers and Partners Rights of indigenous peoples GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context Management material topic and its Boundary • Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights Approach 2016 • Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions 103-2 The management Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > ESG Governance at Citi approach and its components • Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights • Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions 103-3 Evaluation of the Fully • Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions management approach GRI 411: 411-1 Incidents of violations Fully • Human Rights > Transactions Reviewed Under Citi’s Statement on Human Rights Rights of involving rights of indigenous Indigenous peoples Peoples 2016 136 GRI Disclosure Reporting Reference or Response Standard Number and Title Status Human rights assessment GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context Management material topic and its Boundary • Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights Approach 2016 • Operations and Supply Chain > Responsible Sourcing 103-2 The management Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > ESG Governance at Citi approach and its components • Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights • Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees • Human Rights > Extending Respect for Human Rights Through Our Suppliers and Partners • Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions • Citi Statement on Human Rights • Citi Requirements for Suppliers • Citi Statement of Supplier Principles 103-3 Evaluation of the Fully • Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees management approach • Human Rights > Extending Respect for Human Rights Through Our Suppliers and Partners • Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions • Operations and Supply Chain > Responsible Sourcing GRI 412: 412-1 Operations that have Fully • Environmental and Social Risk Management > Policy Implementation Human Rights been subject to human rights • Human Rights > Transactions Reviewed Under Citi’s Statement on Human Rights Assessment reviews or impact assessments • Operations and Supply Chain > Responsible Sourcing 2016 412-2 Employee training Fully • Environmental and Social Risk Management > Enhancing Our Training on human rights policies or • Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees procedures • Citi Code of Conduct 412-3 Significant investment Fully • Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening Local communities GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context Management material topic and its Boundary • Inclusive and Resilient Communities Approach 2016 • Environmental Finance • Environmental and Social Risk Management • Operations and Supply Chain 103-2 The management Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > ESG Governance at Citi approach and its components • Inclusive and Resilient Communities • Environmental Finance • Environmental and Social Risk Management > Our ESRM Policy • Operations and Supply Chain > Employee Engagement 103-3 Evaluation of the Fully • Inclusive and Resilient Communities management approach • Environmental Finance > Environmental and Social Impacts Achieved Through Our $100 Billion Goal • Environmental and Social Risk Management > Policy Implementation • Operations and Supply Chain > Employee Engagement 137 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices GRI Disclosure Reporting Reference or Response Standard Number and Title Status GRI 413: 413-1 Operations with local Partially • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > Stakeholder Engagement at Citi Local community engagement, impact • Inclusive and Resilient Communities Communities assessments, and development • Environmental and Social Risk Management > Policy Implementation 2016 programs • Human Rights > Continuous Learning 413-2 Operations with Fully • Environmental and Social Risk Management > Policy Implementation significant actual and potential • Environmental and Social Risk Management > Monitoring the Changing Risk Landscape negative impacts on local • Operations and Supply Chain > Supplier Engagement and Evaluation communities Financial FS13 Access points in lowFully • Inclusive and Resilient Communities > Financial Inclusion Services Sector populated or economically • Digital Innovation > Customer-Centric Solutions Supplement disadvantaged areas by type FS14 Initiatives to improve Fully • Inclusive and Resilient Communities > Financial Inclusion access to financial services for • Human Rights > Financial Access for Survivors of Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking disadvantaged people Supplier social assessment GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context Management material topic and its Boundary • Operations and Supply Chain > Responsible Sourcing Approach 2016 103-2 The management Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > ESG Governance at Citi approach and its components • Operations and Supply Chain > Supplier Policies • Citi’s Sustainable Progress Strategy 103-3 Evaluation of the Fully • Operations and Supply Chain > Supplier Engagement and Evaluation management approach • 2019 Sustainable Progress Strategy Scorecard GRI 414: 414-1 New suppliers that were Fully • Operations and Supply Chain > Supplier Engagement and Evaluation Supplier Social screened using social criteria • 2019 Sustainable Progress Strategy Scorecard Assessment 2016 Public policy GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context Management material topic and its Boundary • Ethics and Culture > Public Policy Approach 2016 103-2 The management Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > ESG Governance at Citi approach and its components • Ethics and Culture > Public Policy • Citi Political Activities Statement 103-3 Evaluation of the Fully • Ethics and Culture > Public Policy management approach • Citi Political Activities Statement GRI 415: 415-1 Political contributions Fully • Citi U.S. Political Contributions Public Policy 2016 138 GRI Disclosure Reporting Reference or Response Standard Number and Title Status Marketing and labeling GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context Management material topic and its Boundary • Ethics and Culture > Serving Our Customers and Clients Responsibly Approach 2016 103-2 The management Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > ESG Governance at Citi approach and its components • Ethics and Culture > Serving Our Customers and Clients Responsibly 103-3 Evaluation of the Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context management approach • Ethics and Culture > Serving Our Customers and Clients Responsibly GRI 417: 417-1 Requirements for product Fully • Ethics and Culture > Serving Our Customers and Clients Responsibly Marketing and and service information and Labeling 2016 labeling Customer privacy GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context Management material topic and its Boundary • Digital Innovation > Safeguarding Data and Protecting Customer Information Approach 2016 103-2 The management Fully • Digital Innovation > Safeguarding Data and Protecting Customer Information approach and its components • Citi Code of Conduct • Citi Online Privacy Statement • Citi Security Center 103-3 Evaluation of the Fully • Digital Innovation > Safeguarding Data and Protecting Customer Information management approach GRI 418: 418-1 Substantiated complaints Fully • Digital Innovation > Safeguarding Data and Protecting Customer Information Customer concerning breaches of Privacy 2016 customer privacy and losses of customer data Socioeconomic compliance GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context Management material topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > ESG Governance at Citi approach and its components • Ethics and Culture > Managing Compliance Risk • Ethics and Culture > Serving Our Customers and Clients Responsibly • 2019 10-K pages 56-60 103-3 Evaluation of the Fully • Ethics and Culture > Managing Compliance Risk management approach • Ethics and Culture > Serving Our Customers and Clients Responsibly • 2019 10-K pages 56-60 GRI 419: 419-1 Non-compliance with laws Fully • 2019 10-K pages 56-60 Socioeconomic and regulations in the social and • 2019 Annual Report Compliance 2016 economic area 139 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices GRI Disclosure Reporting Reference or Response Standard Number and Title Status FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR SUPPLEMENT Product Portfolio GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context Management material topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > ESG Governance at Citi approach and its components • Inclusive and Resilient Communities > Financial Inclusion • 2019 10-K pages 6-15 103-3 Evaluation of the Fully • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > ESG Governance at Citi management approach • Inclusive and Resilient Communities > Financial Inclusion • 2019 10-K pages 6-15 Financial FS6 Percentage of the portfolio Fully • 2019 10-K pages 6-15 Services Sector for business lines by specific Supplement region, size (e.g. micro/SME/ large) and by sector FS8 Monetary value of Fully • Environmental Finance > Completing Our $100 Billion Environmental Finance Goal products and services • Environmental Finance > Environmental and Social Impacts Achieved Through Our $100 designed to deliver a specific Billion Goal environmental benefit for each • 2019 Sustainable Progress Strategy Scorecard business line broken down by purpose 140 Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Index The following table indicates where readers can find information that addresses the TCFD requirements, either in this report or other publicly available documents. Disclosure Report Section or Other Documentation Governance a) Describe the Board’s oversight of climate• Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > ESG Governance related risks and opportunities. • Nomination, Governance and Public Affairs Committee Charter, page 3 b) Describe management’s role in assessing • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > ESG Governance and managing climate-related risks and opportunities. Strategy a) Describe the climate-related risks and • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > Citi’s Support for Climate Action opportunities the organization has identified • Environmental Finance over the short, medium and long term. • Environmental and Social Risk Management > Climate-Related Risk • Citi’s Sustainability Website • Citi’s Environmental and Social Policy Framework • Finance for a Climate-Resilient Future b) Describe the impact of climate-related • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > Citi’s Support for Climate Action risks and opportunities on the organization’s • Environmental Finance businesses, strategy and financial planning. • Environmental and Social Risk Management • Citi’s Sustainability Website • Citi’s Environmental and Social Policy Framework • Finance for a Climate-Resilient Future c) Describe the resilience of the organization’s • Finance for a Climate-Resilient Future strategy, taking into consideration different climate-related scenarios, including a 2°C or lower scenario. Risk Management a) Describe the organization’s processes for • Environmental and Social Risk Management identifying and assessing climate-related risks. • Citi’s Sustainability Website • Citi’s Environmental and Social Policy Framework b) Describe the organization’s processes for • Environmental and Social Risk Management managing climate-related risks. • Operations and Supply Chain • Citi’s Sustainability Website • Citi’s Environmental and Social Policy Framework c) Describe how processes for identifying, • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global assessing and managing climate-related risks Context are integrated into the organization’s overall • Environmental and Social Risk Management risk management. • Operations and Supply Chain > Managing Climate Risk in Our Operations • 2019 10-K pages 69 and 294-295 • Citi’s Environmental and Social Policy Framework Metrics and a) Disclose the metrics used by the • Environmental Finance Targets organization to assess climate-related risks • Environmental and Social Risk Management and opportunities in line with its strategy and • Operations and Supply Chain > 2020 Goals risk management process. • Citi’s Environmental and Social Policy Framework b) Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2 and, if • Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Performance for Operations appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse gas • Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Impact Report emissions, and the related risks. c) Describe the targets used by the • Operations and Supply Chain > 2020 Goals organization to manage climate-related risks • Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Performance for Operations and opportunities and performance against targets. 141 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices United Nations Global Compact Index This report serves as our 2019 communication on progress for the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). Citi joined the UNGC in 2010, and we continue to embed the Compact’s 10 principles across our business and report on activities related to human rights, labor issues, the environment and anti-corruption. UNGC Principle Report Section or Other Documentation Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect • Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights the protection of internationally proclaimed human • Citi Code of Conduct rights; and • Citi Statement on Human Rights Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit • Environmental and Social Risk Management > Policy Implementation in human rights abuses. • Environmental and Social Risk Management > Monitoring the Changing Risk Landscape • Human Rights • Citi Statement on Human Rights Labor Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom • Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees of association and the effective recognition of the • Citi Requirements for Suppliers right to collective bargaining; • Citi Statement on Human Rights Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced • Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights and compulsory labor; • Human Rights > Extending Respect for Human Rights Through Our Suppliers and Partners • Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions • Citi Requirements for Suppliers • Citi Statement of Supplier Principles • Citi Statement on Human Rights Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; • Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights and • Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions • Citi Requirements for Suppliers • Citi Statement of Supplier Principles • Citi Statement on Human Rights Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in • Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees respect of employment and occupation. • Human Rights > Extending Respect for Human Rights Through Our Suppliers and Partners • Citi Code of Conduct • Citi Requirements for Suppliers • Citi Statement on Human Rights 142 UNGC Principle Report Section or Other Documentation Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > Citi’s Support for Climate Action precautionary approach to environmental • Environmental and Social Risk Management > Policy Implementation challenges; • Environmental and Social Risk Management > Climate-Related Risk Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote • Environmental Finance greater environmental responsibility; and • Operations and Supply Chain Principle 9: encourage the development and • Environmental Finance diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against • Ethics and Culture > Managing Compliance Risk corruption in all its forms, including extortion • Anti-Bribery and Corruption Program and bribery. • Citi Code of Conduct Citi supports the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact as an important part of its business strategy and ethical culture. Our participation in this important initiative, which binds signatories from around the world to a common set of principles of responsibility, reinforces our commitment to corporate citizenship and sustainability.” — Michael L. Corbat, Chief Executive Officer 143 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices United Nations Guiding Principles Reporting Framework Index We have included information and disclosures in this report aligned with the United Nations Guiding Principles reporting framework. This reflects our support of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and our commitment to transparency and accountability regarding our human rights-related activities and policies. The following table indicates where readers can find information that addresses the framework requirements, either in this report or other publicly available documents. Section of the Framework Report Section or Other Documentation Part A: Governance of Respect for Human Rights Policy commitment A1 What does the company say publicly about its commitment to respect human rights? A1.1 How has the public commitment been • Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights developed? A1.2 Whose human rights does the public • Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights commitment address? • Citi Statement on Human Rights A1.3 How is the public commitment • Ethics and Culture > Code of Conduct disseminated? The following documents, which state Citi’s commitment to respect human rights and our expectations about the commitment of others, are posted publicly: • Citi Code of Conduct • Citi Requirements for Suppliers • Citi Statement of Supplier Principles • Citi Statement on Human Rights Embedding respect A2 How does the company demonstrate the importance it attaches to the implementation of its human rights for human rights commitment? A2.1 How is day-to-day responsibility for human • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > ESG Governance at Citi rights performance organized within the • Environmental and Social Risk Management > Policy Implementation company, and why? • Human Rights > Human Rights Due Diligence in Client Transactions • Operations and Supply Chain > Responsible Sourcing • Digital Innovation > Safeguarding Data and Protecting Customer Information A2.2 What kinds of human rights issues are • Human Rights > Our Salient Human Rights Risks discussed by senior management and by the Board, and why? A2.3 How are employees and contract workers • Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees made aware of the ways in which respect • Ethics and Culture > Code of Conduct for human rights should inform their • Citi Code of Conduct decisions and actions? A2.4 How does the company make clear in its • Environmental and Social Risk Management > Policy Implementation business relationships the importance it • Human Rights > Extending Respect for Human Rights Through Our Suppliers places on respect for human rights? and Partners • Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions • Operations and Supply Chain > Responsible Sourcing • Citi Requirements for Suppliers • Citi Statement of Supplier Principles A2.5 What lessons has the company learned • Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees during the reporting period about • Human Rights > Extending Respect for Human Rights Through Our Suppliers achieving respect for human rights, and and Partners what has changed as a result? • Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions 144 Section of the Framework Report Section or Other Documentation Part B: Defining the Focus of Reporting Statement of salient B1 State the salient human rights issues • Human Rights > Our Salient Human Rights Risks issues associated with the company’s activities • Human Rights > Salient Human Rights Risks: Stakeholder Impacts and business relationships during the • Human Rights > Human Rights Due Diligence in Client Transactions reporting period. • Citi Statement on Human Rights Determination of B2 Describe how the salient human rights • Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights salient issues issues were determined, including any input from stakeholders. Choice of focal B3 If reporting on the salient human rights This report provides a breakdown of our human rights due diligence for geographies issues focuses on particular geographies, several salient risks at the project level and a separate breakdown of explain how that choice was made. our due diligence of these and other environmental and social risks at a regional level for purposes of fulfilling the transparency requirements of the Equator Principles. • Human Rights > Transactions Reviewed Under Citi’s Statement on Human Rights • Environmental and Social Risk Management > 2019 Projects Covered by the Equator Principles Additional severe B4 Identify any severe impacts on human impacts rights that occurred or were still being addressed during the reporting period, but which fall outside of the salient human rights issues, and explain how they have been addressed. Part C: Management of Salient Human Rights Issues Specific policies C1 Does the company have any specific policies that address its salient human rights issues and, if so, what are they? C1.1 How does the company make clear the • Environmental and Social Risk Management > Enhancing Our Training relevance and significance of such policies • Environmental and Social Risk Management > Piloting a Policy Chat Bot to those who need to implement them? • Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees • Operations and Supply Chain > Supplier Engagement and Evaluation • Citi Code of Conduct • Citi Requirements for Suppliers Stakeholder C2 What is the company’s approach to engagement with stakeholders in relation to each salient human rights issue? engagement C2.1 How does the company identify which • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > Stakeholder Engagement at Citi stakeholders to engage with in relation to • Human Rights > Engaging Stakeholders each salient issue, and when and how to do so? C2.2 During the reporting period, which • Human Rights > Financial Access for Survivors of Modern Slavery and Human stakeholders has the company engaged Trafficking with regarding each salient issue, and • Human Rights > Calling for Inclusion of Refugees why? • Human Rights > Engaging Stakeholders C2.3 During the reporting period, how have • Human Rights > Financial Access for Survivors of Modern Slavery and Human the views of stakeholders influenced the Trafficking company’s understanding of each salient • Human Rights > Calling for Inclusion of Refugees issue and/or its approach to addressing it? • Human Rights > Engaging Stakeholders 145 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices Section of the Framework Report Section or Other Documentation Assessing impacts C3 How does the company identify any changes in the nature of each salient human rights issue over time? C3.1 During the reporting period, were there • Human Rights > Identifying Human Rights Risks in Transactions any notable trends or patterns in impacts related to a salient issue and, if so, what were they? C3.2 During the reporting period, did any severe impacts occur that were related to a salient issue and, if so, what were they? Integrating findings C4 How does the company integrate its findings about each salient human rights issue into its decision-making processes and taking action and actions? C4.1 How are those parts of the company • Our Approach to Creating Positive Impact > ESG Governance at Citi whose decisions and actions can affect the • Environmental and Social Risk Management > Policy Implementation management of salient issues, involved in • Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions finding and implementing solutions? C4.2 When tensions arise between the • Environmental and Social Risk Management > Policy Implementation prevention or mitigation of impacts • Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions related to a salient issue and other • Operations and Supply Chain > Supplier Engagement and Evaluation business objectives, how are these tensions addressed? C4.3 During the reporting period, what action • Human Rights > Financial Access for Survivors of Modern Slavery and Human has the company taken to prevent or Trafficking mitigate potential impacts related to each • Human Rights > Extending Respect for Human Rights Through Our Suppliers salient issue? and Partners • Human Rights > Transactions Reviewed Under Citi’s Statement on Human Rights • Talent and Diversity > LGBT+ Equality and Rights Tracking C5 How does the company know if its efforts to address each salient human rights issue are effective in practice? performance C5.1 What specific examples from the reporting In 2019, we identified risks of impacts to Indigenous Peoples, security period illustrate whether each salient risk and worker accommodations in client transactions. We took steps to issue is being managed effectively? mitigate the risks of those impacts or otherwise declined involvement in those transactions or ceased our relationships with those clients. • Environmental and Social Risk Management > Policy Implementation • Human Rights > Applying Our Policies to Protect Human Rights and Reduce Risk 146 Section of the Framework Report Section or Other Documentation Remediation C6 How does the company enable effective remedy if people are harmed by its actions or decisions in relation to a salient human rights issue? C6.1 Through what means can the company • Human Rights > Reporting Mechanisms for Stakeholders receive complaints or concerns related to • Ethics and Culture > Escalating Business and Ethical Concerns each salient issue? • Citi Code of Conduct • Citi Requirements for Suppliers C6.2 How does the company know if people feel • Human Rights > Reporting Mechanisms for Stakeholders able and empowered to raise complaints • Ethics and Culture > Voice of the Employee or concerns? • Ethics and Culture > Spotlight on Ethics • Ethics and Culture > Escalating Business and Ethical Concerns C6.3 How does the company process • Human Rights > Reporting Mechanisms for Stakeholders complaints and assess the effectiveness of • Ethics and Culture > Voice of the Employee outcomes? • Ethics and Culture > Escalating Business and Ethical Concerns • Citi Code of Conduct C6.4 During the reporting period, what were • Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights the trends and patterns in complaints or • Human Rights > Identifying Human Rights Risks in Transactions concerns and their outcomes regarding each salient issue, and what lessons has the company learned? C6.5 During the reporting period, did the • Human Rights > Providing Access to Remedy company provide or enable remedy for any actual impacts related to a salient issue and, if so, what are typical or significant examples? 147 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices Assurance Greenhouse Gas and Environmental Data Verification Statement Number UK.PRS.VOL.INV.0100.2019/2019/03/20 The inventory of greenhouse gas emissions and environmental data in the period 1st January 2019 – 31st December 2019 for Citigroup, Inc. 388 Greenwich Street New York, NY,10013 has been verified in accordance with ISO 14064-3:2006 To represent a total amount of: 23,289 tCO2e of GHG emissions Scope 1 593,611 tCO2e of GHG emissions Scope 2 (location based) 359,748 tCO2e of GHG emissions Scope 2 (market based) 616,900 tCO2e of total GHG emissions Scopes 1 and 2, based on Scope 2 location-based emissions 126,228 tCO2e of GHG emissions Scope 3 1,310.60 GWh of electricity consumption 45.51 GWh of district heating and cooling 71.46 GWh of natural gas and LPG 31.53 GWh of fuel oil and diesel 10,611 metric tonnes of waste diverted from landfill 36,370 metric tonnes of total waste 4,061,356 cubic meters of potable water consumed 274,727 cubic meters of non-potable water consumed The inventory of Greenhouse Gas emissions has been verified as meeting the requirements of the WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol – A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard For the following activities Banking and Finance Lead Assessor: Clare Robertson Technical Reviewer: Paulomi Raythatha Signed: Pamela Chadwick Business Manager SGS United Kingdom Ltd Verification Statement Date: 31/03/2020 This Statement is not valid without the full verification scope, objectives, criteria and conclusion available on pages 2 to 5 of this Statement. GP5024 Issue 4 148 Schedule Accompanying Greenhouse Gas and Environmental Data Verification Statement Number UK.PRS.VOL.INV.0100.2019/2019/03/20 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF VERIFICATION PROCESS SGS has been contracted by Citigroup, Inc. for the verification of direct and indirect carbon dioxide (CO2) equivalent emissions and environmental data as provided by Citigroup, Inc., 388 Greenwich Street, New York in their GHG Assertion in the form of a Management Assertion covering CO2 equivalent emissions and environmental data. STATEMENT OF INDEPENDENCE AND COMPETENCE The SGS Group of companies is the world leader in inspection, testing and verification, operating in more than 140 countries and providing services including management systems and service certification; quality, environmental, social and ethical auditing; sustainability report assurance and greenhouse gases verification. SGS affirms our independence from Citigroup Inc., being free from bias and conflicts of interest with the organization, its subsidiaries and stakeholders. The assurance team was assembled based on their knowledge, experience and qualifications for this assignment, and comprised Lead Verifiers in Greenhouse Gases and Environmental Data Reporting. ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES The management of Citigroup, Inc. is responsible for the organisation’s GHG and environmental data information system, the development and maintenance of records and reporting procedures in accordance with that system, including the calculation, determination and reporting of GHG emissions and environmental data information. It is SGS’ responsibility to express an independent verification opinion on the GHG emissions and environmental data as provided in the Citigroup, Inc. Assertion for the period 1st January 2019 – 31st December 2019. As independent auditors to Citigroup Inc. our work was conducted based on current best practice in independent verification and in accordance with SGS policies regarding impartiality and independence. SGS has no conflict of interest in relation to providing these services to Citigroup Inc. SGS conducted a third-party verification following the requirements of ISO 14064-3: 2006 of the provided CO2 equivalent and environmental data assertion during the period December 2019 to March 2020. The assessment included a desk review with remote verification conducted at SGS offices. The verification was based on the verification scope, objectives and criteria as agreed between Citigroup, Inc. and SGS and presented in the RFP issued 21st October 2019 LEVEL OF ASSURANCE The level of assurance agreed is a limited level of assurance. 149 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices SCOPE Citigroup, Inc. has commissioned an independent verification by SGS of reported CO2 equivalent emissions and environmental data arising from their activities, to establish conformance with the requirements of the WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol for CO2 equivalent emissions and the principles of completeness, transparency, accuracy, consistency and relevance for environmental data, within the scope of the verification as outlined below. Data and information supporting the CO2 equivalent and environmental data assertion were historical and estimated in nature and proven by evidence. This engagement covers verification of emissions from anthropogenic sources of greenhouse gases and other environmental data included within the organisation’s boundary and meets the requirements of ISO 14064-3:2006. • The organisational boundary was established following the operational control approach. • Title or description of activities: Banking and Finance. • Location/boundary of the activities: Global • Physical infrastructure, activities, technologies and processes of the organisation: Data Centres, Offices, Operation Centres, Retail Services, and Retail non-serviced facilities. • GHG sources, sinks and/or reservoirs included: Scope 1 Stationary combustion in owned, leased and sub-leased locations. (transportation fleet, fugitive and refrigerant emissions are excluded from the inventory); Scope 2 – Purchased electricity and district heating and cooling; Scope 3 – Business Travel (air and rail) • Types of GHGs included: CO2, N2O, CH4. • Directed actions: none. • Types of environmental data included: electricity consumption, district heating (steam & chilled water), natural gas consumption, fuel oil consumption, waste diverted from landfill, total waste and water (potable and non-potable) consumed • Intended user of the verification statement: Internal and external stakeholders. OBJECTIVE The purposes of this verification exercise are, by review of objective evidence, to independently review: • Whether the CO2 equivalent emissions and environmental data are as declared by the organisation’s assertion • That the data reported are accurate, complete, consistent, transparent and free of material error or omission • The implementation of Citigroup, Inc systems & procedures for the management and reporting of environmental data and the calculation of greenhouse gas emissions. 150 CRITERIA Criteria against which the verification assessment is undertaken are the requirements of the WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol (for CO2 equivalent emissions only), the GHG Inventory and environmental data methodology as defined by Citigroup, Inc., and the principles of completeness, transparency, accuracy, consistency and relevance. MATERIALITY The materiality required of the verification was considered by SGS to be below 10%, based on the needs of the intended user of the GHG and environmental data Assertion CONCLUSION Citigroup, Inc. provided the GHG and environmental data Assertion based on the requirements of the WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol, the Citigroup, Inc. methodology and the principles of completeness, transparency, accuracy, consistency and relevance. The GHG and environmental data information for the period 1st January 2019 – 31st December 2019 disclosing: 23,289 tCO2e of GHG emissions Scope 1 593,611 tCO2e of GHG emissions Scope 2 (location based) 359,748 tCO2e of GHG emissions Scope 2 (market based) 616,900 tCO2e of total GHG emissions Scopes 1 and 2, based on Scope 2 locationbased emissions 383,037 tCO2e of total GHG emissions Scopes 1 and 2, based on Scope 2 marketbased emissions 126,228 tCO2e of GHG emissions Scope 3 1,310.60 GWh of electricity consumption 45.51 GWh of district heating and cooling (steam & chilled water) 71.46 GWh of natural gas and LPG 31.53 GWh of fuel oil and diesel 10,611 metric tonnes of waste diverted from landfill 36,370 metric tonnes of total waste 4,061,356 cubic meters of potable water consumed, and 274,727 cubic meters of non-potable water consumed are verified by SGS to a limited level of assurance, consistent with the agreed verification scope, objectives and criteria. SGS’ approach is risk-based, drawing on an understanding of the risks associated with modelling GHG emission information and the controls in place to mitigate these risks. Our examination included assessment, on a sample basis, of evidence relevant to the voluntary reporting of emission and environmental data information. SGS concludes with limited assurance that there is no evidence to suggest that the reported CO2 equivalent and environmental data assertion is not materially correct and is not a fair representation of GHG and environmental data and information based on the calculation methodologies utilised. 151 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices We planned and performed our work to obtain the information, explanations and evidence that we considered necessary to provide a limited level of assurance that the CO2 equivalent emissions and environmental data for the period 1st January 2019 – 31st December 2019 are fairly stated. This statement shall be interpreted with the CO2 equivalent and environmental data assertion of Citigroup, Inc. as a whole. Note: This Statement is issued, on behalf of Client, by SGS United Kingdom Ltd, Rossmore Business Park, Inward Way, Ellesmere Port, Cheshire, CH65 3EN (“SGS”) under its General Conditions for GHG Validation and Verification Services.The findings recorded hereon are based upon an audit performed by SGS. A full copy of this statement and the supporting Assertion may be consulted at Citigroup, Inc., 388 Greenwich Street, New York, NY 10013. This Statement does not relieve Client from compliance with any bylaws, federal, national or regional acts and regulations or with any guidelines issued pursuant to such regulations. Stipulations to the contrary are not binding on SGS and SGS shall have no responsibility vis-à-vis parties other than its Client. 152 ASSURANCE STATEMENT SGS REPORT ON CITIGROUP INC.’s “CITI’S 2019 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT”, SECTION “2019 PROJECTS COVERED BY THE EQUATOR PRINCIPLES” NATURE AND SCOPE OF THE ASSURANCE/VERIFICATION SGS was commissioned by Citigroup Inc. to conduct an independent assurance of the “Citi’s 2019 Environmental, Social and Governance Report”, section “2019 Projects Covered by the Equator Principles”. The scope of the assurance, based on the SGS Sustainability Report Assurance methodology, included the data in accompanying tables, contained in this report. The information in the “Citi’s 2019 Environmental, Social and Governance Report” of Citigroup Inc. and its presentation are the responsibility of the directors and the management of Citigroup Inc. SGS has not been involved in the preparation of any of the material included in the “Citi’s 2019 Environmental, Social and Governance Report”. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the text, data, graphs and statements within the scope of verification with the intention to inform all Citigroup Inc.’ stakeholders. The SGS protocols are based upon the internationally recognized Assurance Standard ISAE 3000. This standard follows differing options for Assurance depending on the context and capabilities of the Reporting Organization. This report has been assured at a limited level of scrutiny using our protocols for evaluation of content veracity and the alignment to the Equator Principles III and the internal policies and procedures of Citigroup Inc. The assurance comprised a combination of pre-assurance research, interviews with relevant employees; documentation and record review and the evaluation of the report for the alignment to the Equator Principles III. STATEMENT OF INDEPENDENCE AND COMPETENCE The SGS Group of companies is the world leader in inspection, testing and verification, operating in more than 140 countries and providing services including management systems and service certification; quality, environmental, social and ethical auditing; sustainability report assurance and greenhouse gases verification. SGS affirms our independence from Citigroup Inc., being free from bias and conflicts of interest with the organization, its subsidiaries and stakeholders. The assurance team was assembled based on their knowledge, experience and qualifications for this assignment, and comprised a Lead Assuror for Sustainability Reporting and Equator Principles, Lead Verifier in Greenhouse Gases, and Principal Auditor registered with IRCA (International Register of Certificated Auditors) in Environmental, Quality, Occupational Health & Safety, and Social Systems. ASSURANCE OPINION Based on the methodology described and the verification work performed on the “Citi’s 2019 Environmental, Social and Governance Report”, section “2019 Projects Covered by the Equator Principles”, we did not observe any circumstance that made us believe that the information and data 153 Citi 2019 ESG Report Contents Our Approach to ESG Solutions for Impact How We Do Business Appendices contained within is inaccurate, unreliable, or does not provide a fair and balanced representation of Citigroup Inc.’ activities in 2019. The assurance team is of the opinion that the Report can be used by the Citigroup Inc.’ Stakeholders. We believe that Citigroup Inc. has chosen an appropriate level of assurance. CONCLUSIONS WITH REGARDS TO EQUATOR PRINCIPLES III REPORTING DATA FOR 2019 In our opinion the “Citi’s 2019 Environmental, Social and Governance Report” reported information of the EP implementation, detailed at the section “2019 Projects Covered by Equator Principles” is presented in accordance with the Equator Principles III, Annex B “Minimum Reporting Requirement” (the Reporting Criteria). SGS based this opinion in the review of Citi’s internal documents, including guides, standards, procedures, manuals, spreadsheets, and a sample of EP-covered financial products and their respective EP checklists and Independent Reviews. Citigroup Inc. reported information is aligned to the EP Reporting Criteria requirements as follows: • Public Reporting of the EP-covered financial products separately: Project Finance Advisory Services, Project Finance Loans, Project-Related Corporate Loans and Bridge Loans • The loans were categorized as A, B or C, dependent on the environmental and social risks posed. • Total number of Project Finance Loans and Project-Related Corporate Loans that reached Financial Close during the reporting period (2019) • The Project Finance Loans and Project-Related Corporate Loans were broken down by: Sector, Region, Country Designation, and whether an Independent Review has been carried out or not. • Independent review is required for A projects and, for B projects when needed. There was only one project category A and the Independent Review was provided. Some of the projects category B also had an Independent Review conducted. • The EP transactions were over the threshold of 10 million USD for the Project Capital Cost required in the Equator Principles III for project finance loans, and over 100 million USD for Project-Related Corporate Loans. Signed: For and on behalf of SGS Ursula Antunez de Mayolo Corzo SGS Lead Sustainability Report Assuror 03rd April, 2020 www.sgs.com 154 © 2020 Citigroup Inc. Citi, Citi with Arc Design and Citibank are trademarks and servicemarks of Citigroup Inc. (and its affiliates) and are used and registered throughout the world.
