Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability Report 2019 | 1 TABLE OF CONTENTS ABOUT THIS REPORT 1. About this report 3 2. Statement of Continued Support for the UN Global Compact 3 Impax Asset Management LLC, the New Hampshire-based investment adviser to Pax World Funds, is committed to achieving the highest standards of responsible business practice. To that end, we have 3. About us 4 publicly published sustainability data since we became a signatory to the UN Global Compact in 2010 and, in March a. Overview of Impax Asset Management 4 2014, we published our first sustainability report. 4. Mission & Value Statement 5 5. Addressing Global Sustainability Challenges 6 This report covers the activities of Impax Asset Management LLC for calendar year 2019 and not those of our parent company or affiliated entities. Throughout this report, we refer to Impax Asset Management LLC as “Impax LLC,” and to a. Environmental, social and governance (ESG) integration 6 the mutual funds we manage as “Pax” or “Pax World Funds.” b. Engagement 6 c. Proxy voting 7 d. Montréal Carbon Pledge 7 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT 6. Governance 7 a. Sustainability Governance 7 Impax LLC is pleased to share our 2019 Sustainability Report and our UN Global Compact i. CSR Committee and responsibilities 8 Communication on Progress with our stakeholders. The combined report reviews our progress as an asset manager committed to the transition to a more sustainable global economy and as a business that seeks to b. Investment Process Governance 8 operate in a manner consistent with our investment beliefs. In addition, the report identifies actions we have taken during i. Sustainability Policy Committee and responsibilities 8 the reporting period to implement the UN Global Compact principles in each of the four issue areas—human rights, labor, c. Corporate Governance 8 environment and anti-corruption. i. Governance of management company 8 I am pleased to reaffirm our support of the UN Global Compact. Thank you for taking the time to read our report. ii. Governance of mutual fund trust board 8 7. Environmental Impact 9 Sincerely, a. Environmental policy statement 9 b. GHG emissions chart 10 c. Other environmental data chart 10 d. Waste reduction 11 8. Diversity & Inclusion 11 Joseph F. Keefe a. Diversity hiring policy 11 President b. Pay equity report/employee demographic data 12 Impax Asset Management LLC c. Promoting family-friendly workplaces 13 9. Employees 13 a. Overview of benefits 13 b. A Best Place to Work 2019 13 10. Community Involvement 14 a. Overview of partnership with NH Charitable Foundation 14 i. Philanthropic Committee and responsibilities 14 11. Memberships & Affiliations 15 12. Commitment to our customers 16 13. Appendix 17 a. UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 17 b. KPI chart 20 c. Certificate for water offsets 21 d. Certificate for carbon offsets 22 Sustainability Report 2019 | 2 Sustainability Report 2019 | 3 ABOUT US MISSION STATEMENT & VALUES Mission Statement Impax Asset Management LLC, investment adviser to the Pax World Funds, is a specialist asset manager To generate superior, risk-adjusted investment returns from opportunities arising from the transition to a focused on the risks and opportunities arising from the transition to a more sustainable economy. All Pax more sustainable economy for clients with a mediumto long-term horizon. portfolios, including active equity, fixed income and smart beta, integrate environmental, social and governance (ESG) analysis into security selection and portfolio construction. We also seek to create positive social and environmental To make a contribution to the development of a sustainable society, particularly by supporting or undertaking relevant impact through shareholder engagement, proxy voting and public policy advocacy on issues ranging from climate research and engaging or collaborating with others. change to gender inequality. To provide a stimulating, collaborative and supportive workplace for our staff. We believe that: • Capital markets will be shaped profoundly by global sustainability challenges, particularly climate change, Values: environmental pollution, natural resource constraints, demographic and human capital issues such as diversity, inclusion and gender inequity.  Be the solution Our core focus and motivation is to offer solutions. It defines the investment approach we offer our clients, • These trends will drive growth for well-positioned companies and create risks for those unable or unwilling the contribution we make to the broader global community and the attitude we bring to work each day. to adapt. • Fundamental analysis that incorporates long-term risks, including ESG factors, enhances investment  A passion for excellence We are passionate about our mission and our work. We strive for excellence in everything we do. We hold decisions. ourselves to high standards and trust each other to share these aspirations and contribute to the results. We invest in companies that are: • Well-positioned to benefit from the transition to a more sustainable global economy.  All voices valued We make better decisions if we are diverse and inclusive. All voices are welcomed and all voices are heard. We aspire to a dynamic culture that embraces change and inspires the evolution of new ideas. We offer: • A well-rounded suite of investment solutions spanning multiple asset classes seeking superior riskadjusted returns over the medium to long term.  Doing better together We believe we can do far more, far better, working together as a team. True collaboration means treating others as we want to be treated. We value and respect our colleagues, clients and partners, their families We seek: and the wider community. We are all interconnected and cannot hope to succeed alone. • Higher quality companies with strong business models that demonstrate sound management of risk.  Building a common future We have a responsibility to promote prosperity while protecting the planet. We are committed to sustainable development and to stewarding our environmental and societal impact for the benefit of current and future generations. Sustainability Report 2019 | 4 Sustainability Report 2019 | 5 ADDRESSING GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY CHALLENGES ADDRESSING GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY CHALLENGES, continued We seek to invest in companies that are well-positioned to benefit from the transition to a more Pax World Funds Proxy Voting sustainable global economy. Across our portfolios, we construct investment universes utilizing proprietary For more than 30 years we have used proxy voting as a way to make our shareholders’ voices heard. Monitoring corporate tools, including the Impax Sustainability Lens, Impax Sustainability Score and Impax Gender leadership Score, that we behavior and using shareholder voting to influence business practices can often be more effective than simply selling a believe help us identify higher opportunity / lower risk subsectors and companies to invest in. Our investment process also company’s stock. utilizes environmental, social and governance (ESG) integration, company and issuer engagement and proxy voting guided by our belief that capital markets will be shaped profoundly by this sustainability transition. Our voting decisions are made internally based on our custom Proxy Voting Guidelines, and we publicly disclose our votes for both upcoming and past meetings. In 2019, we voted 973 meetings with more than 14,300 proposals. You can also view ESG Integration our 2019 Form N-PX (Annual Report of Proxy Voting Record) for Pax World Funds Series Trust I and Pax World Funds ESG refers to investment methodologies that embrace sustainability factors as a means of helping to identify companies Series Trust III. with superior business models. During the reporting period, we voted against proposals put forth by management 43% of the time, primarily around ESG factors offer portfolio managers added insight into the quality of a company’s management, culture, risk profile director elections due to concerns about board diversity, and we voted in favor of all of the climate and diversity-related and other characteristics. By adding this increased level of scrutiny associated with ESG analysis, we seek to identify shareholder proposals—33 in total—that we were eligible to vote on in 2019. companies that: Montréal Carbon Pledge As signatories of the Montréal Carbon Pledge, we committed to measuring and publicly disclosing the carbon intensity of ARE BETTER MANAGED AND ARE our investment portfolios on an annual basis. ARE LEADERS IN THEIR INDUSTRIES MORE FORWARD-THINKING First, we used carbon intensity data from MSCI for each company held in our equity portfolios, which is determined by dividing its reported or estimated greenhouse gas emissions by its revenue. Then we calculated a weighted average carbon ARE BETTER AT ANTICIPATING MEET POSITIVE SUSTAINABILITY intensity using portfolio weights as of December 31, 2019. Finally, we compared the weighted average carbon intensity of each AND MITIGATING RISK STANDARDS fund with the weighted average of the carbon intensity of each fund’s benchmark index. We excluded our two fixed income strategies from this analysis due to a lack of sufficient, accurate information on carbon intensity in those investment universes. As of December 31, 2019, seven Pax World Funds—the Large Cap Fund, the Small Cap Fund, the ESG Beta Quality Fund, the ARE FOCUSED ON THE LONG TERM ESG Beta Dividend Fund, the Pax Global Opportunities Fund, the Pax Ellevate Global Women’s Leadership Fund and the Pax MSCI EAFE ESG Leaders Index Fund—have a weighted average carbon intensity that is below their benchmark indexes.* To view our ESG Policy, click here. The Pax Global Environmental Markets Fund’s carbon intensity is above its benchmark. We note that the Fund is a thematic strategy investing in companies that are developing innovative solutions to resource challenges, including key areas such as Engagement energy efficiency and renewable energy, and that measuring the Fund’s carbon intensity does not consider the net carbon Shareholders want the companies in their portfolios to perform well, create value and have impact. By engaging with the footprint of the Fund, which includes the carbon emissions avoided by using the products and services offered by the companies held in Pax World Funds, we help ensure they are attuned to the risks and opportunities presented by the companies in the Fund. Additional details about the positive net carbon footprint of the Fund can be found here. transition to a more sustainable global economy, which we believe will help them create long-term value for investors. How We Engage: GOVERNANCE  Shareholder resolutions and company dialogues We directly engage with our portfolio companies and issuers, including meeting with management teams Impax LLC is committed to the highest standards of ethics, business integrity and corporate governance. and filing shareholder resolutions when we see opportunities for companies to adopt higher standards of As the adviser to Pax World Funds, we have a fiduciary responsibility to the funds’ shareholders. To that corporate responsibility. end, our corporate governance practices are designed to establish and preserve accountability and transparency, while avoiding conflicts of interest (or even the appearance of conflict). Although the interests of our shareholders always  Collaborative and public policy engagements come first, we also believe that we have a moral and ethical obligation to our employees, suppliers and the communities We team up with other investors to catalyze progress on critical environmental, social and governance issues. in which we operate. In 2019, Pax had 204 engagement contacts with 159 companies. These contacts included direct letters and shareholder The following sections describe the various governance structures for Impax LLC: proposals as well as our involvement in collaborative engagements with other investors in which we played a significant role. We view these larger collaborative efforts as a way to expand our reach and influence beyond what we own in our portfolios and believe that they play a critical role in advancing a wide range of sustainability topics. To view our Engagement Report, click here. *Source: Factset, data as of 12/31/2019. Sustainability Report 2019 | 6 Sustainability Report 2019 | 7 GOVERNANCE, continued ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Sustainability Governance Environmental Policy Statement Impax LLC is committed to managing our own operations in a sustainable manner. Currently, Impax LLC’s sustainability Impax LLC recognizes the importance of environmental stewardship. Our products seek to invest in efforts are overseen by our CSR Committee. Members represent various departments throughout the company, including companies with sustainable business models, of which environmental commitment plays a large role. Recognizing that senior management. The CSR Committee is responsible for our sustainability-related initiatives, reporting and conducting our own operations impact the communities and environments in which we operate, Impax LLC strives to hold ourselves periodic employee training on the company’s environmental policies and procedures and developing ways to reduce Impax to the same standards that we expect of the companies in our portfolios. As part of this commitment, we seek to conduct LLC’s environmental footprint. business in a way that minimizes our environmental footprint while enhancing stakeholder value for our customers, employees, suppliers and communities. For 2019-2020, the CSR Committee’s priorities included: (1) a refreshment of our internal diversity and inclusion benchmark and to provide feedback on several proposed diversity initiatives, (2) developing a company-wide low-carbon In support of this policy, Impax LLC will endeavor to: catering policy, (3) researching and recommending actions to procure renewable energy for our business operations in Portsmouth, New Hampshire, and (4) building on previous successes of volunteer programs to engage more employees.  Measure, analyze and reduce our contributions to global climate change and consumption of resources, Investment Process Governance including energy, water, materials and more Impax LLC has created a Sustainability Policy Committee that oversees the integration of ESG considerations into our investment process, including the review of our exclusionary criteria and emerging sustainability trends or issues that may  Offset our energy and water use to aid in the development of alternative energy and the restoration of arise from time to time. freshwater ecosystems Standing members of the committee include our President, Joe Keefe, our Chief Compliance Officer, John Boese, and our  Procure goods and services from suppliers who demonstrate sound environmental practices SVP for Sustainable Investing, Julie Gorte. Members of the investment management and sustainability research teams regularly participate in meetings.  Support initiatives and public policies that seek to promote the long-term conservation of our natural resources Corporate Governance The mutual funds we manage are held in two business trusts established in Massachusetts (Pax World Funds Series Trust I  Engage employees on reducing their environmental impact at work, at home and while traveling through and Pax World Funds Series Trust III). The trusts are each overseen by an eight member board of trustees. Six of the eight periodic training and educational opportunities trustees on each board are independent, including the chairman of both boards, John Liechty, who is a non-executive, independent member of the board.  Communicate progress on environmental initiatives to stakeholders 2019 Board of Trustees Pax World Funds Series Trust I and Pax World Funds Series Trust III  Monitor emerging environmental issues as they pertain to our operations and adjust our environmental strategy as needed  Support initiatives and public policy that seek to promote the long-term conservation of our natural resources (left to right): Adrian Anderson, Anne Goggin, D’Anne Hurd, Nancy Taylor, John Liechty, Cynthia Hargadon, Lindsey Brace Martinez, Joseph Keefe Five of the trustees of the boards of both Pax World Funds Series Trust I and Pax World Funds Series Trust III are women, and their nominating committee charters provide: “In considering and evaluating candidates, (a) the Committee shall strive to achieve and maintain diversity of membership on the Board, including (but not limited to) diversity of race, gender, culture, thought and geography, which the Board believes are key attributes of a well-functioning board.” Sustainability Report 2019 | 8 Sustainability Report 2019 | 9 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT, continued ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT, continued Impax LLC is committed to carbon neutrality by offsetting the carbon emitted as a result of our business operations, Waste Reduction including business travel, office energy use and employee commuting. Impax LLC purchases offsets to aid in the Impax LLC’s existing environmental policies and programs include measures to minimize the use of office supplies, development of alternate energy and/or to retire the offsets resulting in a net reduction of carbon. including paper, glass, metal, plastic and batteries, and recycle what we do use. We prefer the use of digital marketing and advertising as a way to reduce paper consumption and other related environmental impacts. When choosing which marketing materials to print, we favor those that have longer shelf lives. Additionally, we seek to print only what we need using sustainably sourced paper and less toxic alternatives to conventional petroleum-based ink products. 700.00 Tonnes CO2e Impax LLC Total AUM $6.0 600.00  Impax LLC has undertaken composting at its Portsmouth, New Hampshire, office. Using the services of a $5.0 local company, Mr. Fox Composting, we are composting items such as food scraps, sugar packets, coffee grounds and filters, paper towels, teabags and tea, flowers and floral trimmings and wax paper liners. 500.00 $4.0 400.00  Impax LLC purchases new computers from Dell, typically, and participates in the company’s “plant a tree” offset program. We use various vendors to recycle reusable computer components and other electronic $3.0 devices. 300.00 200.00 $2.0  In 2019, we installed water filters on all kitchen taps, which eliminated multiple standalone water coolers located at our Portsmouth office building. This initiative was spearheaded by our CSR Committee, which is tasked with developing ways to reduce Impax LLC’s environmental footprint. 100.00 $1.0 0.00 $DIVERSITY & INCLUSION 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Impax LLC is an equal opportunity employer and follows a policy of administering all employment decisions and personnel actions without regard to age, sex, gender identity and expression, sexual ENVIRONMENTAL DATA 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 orientation, race, color, marital status, pregnancy, physical or mental disability, genetics or genetic information, family health history, religion, national origin, veteran status, or any other category protected under applicable federal, state or Total GHG Emissions from Business Operations (M/T) 394.00 424.00 437.00 481.00 616.00 local law. Total Electricity Consumption from Business Operations In December 2019, we updated our policy regarding diversity in the hiring process to read as follows: 91.03 79.24 73.79 81.12 85.18 (‘000 kWh) Total Natural Gas Consumption from Business Operations 3616.00 3751.00 3286.06 4316.71 4049.30 (Therms) Impax encourages women and minorities to apply to job openings and endeavors to post Total Water Consumption from Business Operations positions in areas that may attract a diverse candidate pool. The company strives to take 83.13 75.49 78.60 69.56 77.21 affirmative actions to enhance the job opportunities for minority group members and women. (‘000 gallons) To that end, it is company policy that, absent unusual circumstances, all open job positions In addition, for several years, we have also offset the water consumed at our business operations in Portsmouth, NH. In must have at least two (2) women and/or minorities in the finalist pool. 2019, we consumed about 77,000 gallons of water. To offset our water footprint, we purchase water restoration certificates through the Bonneville Environmental Foundation. The certificates represent 1,000 gallons of water restored on a And, all interviews for the finalist pool of candidates must have at least two (2) women and/or company’s behalf and directly contribute to the recreational and ecological vitality of freshwater ecosystems. minority interviewers. 10 | Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability Report 2019 | 11 DIVERSITY & INCLUSION, continued DIVERSITY & INCLUSION, continued Pay Equity Data/Employee Demographic Data Promoting Family-Friendly Workplaces Impax LLC conducts an annual gender pay equity survey. The results of that survey are in the table below. In any company There is evidence that family-friendly workplaces can deliver good financial results, as well as simply being the right way as small as Impax, a disparity may arise in pay equity due to the compensation of one or two individuals, and those to conduct business. In 2016, Impax expanded its paid parental leave policy from eight weeks of paid leave to 12 weeks of differences may arise due to variations in qualifications and responsibilities. paid leave. The policy includes paid leave for new parents, which applies to maternity, paternity, adoption and foster care placement. The leave may be taken any time during the child’s first year of life (or adoption, or foster placement) and may be taken intermittently so that our employee, and their partner/spouse, can organize their time off in a way that maximizes PAY EQUITY/GENDER DIVERSITY DATA 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 their time with their child. # of Employees 55 49 51 58 59 Since 2008, employees have used our parental leave policy a total of 30 times upon the birth, adoption or foster care placement of a child—15 men used the leave 23 times and five women used it seven times. Gender Diversity (% Female) 45% 41% 47% 45% 46% Pay Equity Ratio (Female/Male) EMPLOYEES Executives 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% Portfolio Managers 96% 0% 79% 95% 76% Impax strives to provide its employees a friendly, collegial, professional work environment. In addition to a Senior Managers 71% 84% 83% 71% 82% competitive compensation package, health insurance and retirement benefits, Impax offers employees the following programs: Managers 98% 96% 91% 96% 103% Analysts 104% 91% 103% 177% 133% • Matching Donations Through the Impax Asset Management LLC Charitable Fund, employees receive Professional Staff 95% 96% 96% 101% 106% matching donations of up to $250 per year to nonprofit organizations. Sales Representatives* N/A N/A N/A 96% 104% • Volunteer Program Employees receive four days of paid time off per year to volunteer individually or in groups in the communities where they live and work. Impax employees participate in an annual United Impax’s pay equity survey had historically included only an analysis of base salary and did not include incentive Way Day of Caring local community project. compensation. In 2018, we updated our methodology to include total compensation. Further, we note that the data reported is raw data—the difference between what men and women earn on average—which has not been adjusted for • Paid and Unpaid Family and Medical Leave* Impax LLC offers a generous family and medical leave region, tenure, education level, performance or any other drivers of pay. policy, including up to 12 weeks paid leave for new parents. • Hybrid/Electric Vehicle Program* Employees who purchase or lease a hybrid gas-electric or all–electric vehicle receive a lump sum cash payment of $2,000 for a new vehicle and $1,000 for a used vehicle. 46% OF OUR TOTAL WORKFORCE 46% OF OUR SENIOR MANAGEMENT ARE WOMEN TEAM ARE WOMEN • Adoption Reimbursement* Employees may receive up to $5,000 per child for eligible adoption expenses. *NOTE – Benefits with a * are available to regular employees working a minimum number of hours per week or who have obtained a minimum level of years of service. 46 % 46 % % In 2019, Impax LLC was named the #12 Best Company to Work for in New Hampshire, marking the third year in a row we have been included in this ranking. 12 | Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability Report 2019 | 13 COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT MEMBERSHIPS & AFFILIATIONS Impax LLC has established an employee committee to help administer our corporate giving. The priorities Through Impax LLC, we also partner with numerous organizations to promote gender equality, address of the committee include supporting organizations that prioritize (1) women’s empowerment, (2) climate change and advance the field of sustainable investing. environmental protection/conservation, and (3) the needs of the greater New Hampshire seacoast area, such as help with substance abuse/addiction or food and fuel assistance, among others. The committee also considers strategic long-term giving and meeting immediate needs of our community. The committee works with the NH Charitable Foundation in its Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) – Aims to help investors integrate ESG administration of the Impax Asset Management LLC Charitable Fund. considerations into investment decision-making and supports sharing best practices in active $104,868 ownership. Investor Network on Investor Network on Climate Risk (INCR) – Partners with investors worldwide to advance investment opportunities and reduce material risks posed by sustainability challenges such as Climate Risk (INCR) global climate change and water scarcity. Impax LLC donated $104,868 for the fiscal year that ended 9/30/2019 The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) – An independent organization holding the largest $15,500 database of corporate climate change information in the world. US SIF (The Forum for Sustainable and Responsible Investment) – A U.S.–based membership association promoting sustainable, responsible and impact investment. Impax LLC matched $15,500 of employee donations in 2019 Ceres – A nonprofit sustainability organization working with the most influential investors and companies to build leadership and drive solutions throughout the economy. $1,085 Thirty Percent Coalition – A unique and groundbreaking national organization committed to having women, including women of color, hold 30 percent of board seats across public companies. Impax LLC matched $1,085 of employee donations to a family in need through Seacoast Family Promise during the holiday Women’s Empowerment Principles – The UN Women’s Empowerment Principles are a set of season in 2019 practical guidelines that businesses can use to promote gender equality in the workplace and the community. 241 Northeast Investors’ Diversity Initiative – A coalition of institutional investors committed to increasing gender, racial and ethnic diversity on corporate boards to maximize returns and safeguard shareholder value. Impax LLC employees volunteered 241 hours during business hours in 2019 Climate Action 100+ – An investor-led initiative aimed at encouraging the world’s largest 202 corporate greenhouse gas emitters to improve governance on climate change, emissions and climate-related financial disclosures. ShareAction Investor Decarbonization Initiative – A collaborative, global initiative working to massively increase demand for—and delivery of—renewable energy. Impax LLC employees self-reported 202 volunteer hours during non-business hours in 2019 14 | Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability Report 2019 | 15 COMMITMENT TO OUR CUSTOMERS APPENDIX Impax LLC is committed to providing excellent service to its shareholders, clients and customers. To 1: UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS accomplish that, Impax strives to provide shareholders, clients and customers with tools to access information about their accounts, report complaints or problems, and protect their privacy, and to report on our Statement of Continued Support by Impax LLC’s President: performance with respect to those principles. See page: 3 Impax LLC has established the following policies: Description of Actions: Human Rights (Principles 1-2) Assessment, Policy & Goals  Assure that all client interactions are monitored for satisfaction on a regular basis and that problems Impax LLC embraces the values of responsibility, respect, honesty, compassion and fairness throughout our interactions receive appropriate attention. with shareholders, employees, business partners and our community. We believe this includes the basic human rights of our employees and other stakeholders.  Assure that reports on customer satisfaction are compiled at least quarterly and any significant or ongoing Implementation issues are brought to the attention of senior management. Impax LLC has developed policies and procedures to ensure our employees are provided with a safe work environment and are protected from workplace harassment and discrimination, including sexual harassment, physical violence and  Assure that all customer inquiries receive an appropriate response within a reasonable period. bullying.  Protect customer privacy as described in our Privacy Policy. We also will monitor any problems related to In addition, human rights issues are also recognized as a material issue across our investment universe and their privacy and respond accordingly. consideration is incorporated into our investment process. Measurement of Outcomes In 2019, all staff were required to participate in awareness training titled “Combatting Slavery & Human Trafficking.” Description of Actions: Labor (Principles 3 6) Assessment, Policy & Goals Impax LLC strives to provide its employees a friendly, collegial, professional work environment. Impax is an equal opportunity employer; we embrace diversity as a guiding principle as well as an investment concept. Implementation Impax is an equal opportunity employer and follows a policy of administering all employment decisions and personnel actions without regard to age, sex, gender identity and expression, sexual orientation, race, color, marital status, pregnancy, physical or mental disability, genetics or genetic information, family health history, religion, national origin, or veteran status, or any other category protected under applicable federal, state or local law. As part of our investment process, labor, or human capital, is recognized as a material issue across our investment universe. Specifically, we consider diversity, equal opportunity, gender empowerment, workplace health and safety, and employee relations when considering new and re-evaluating existing holdings in our investment portfolios. Further, one of our thematic investment strategies was the first broadly diversified mutual fund that invests in the highest-rated companies in the world for advancing women through gender-diverse boards, senior leadership teams and other policies and practices. Research indicates that companies with more women in leadership have higher returns on capital, greater innovation, increased productivity and higher employee retention and satisfaction. Measurement of Outcomes We believe that gender inequality is one of the most significant human capital issues of our time. To advance this belief, in December 2019, we updated our policy regarding diversity in the hiring process to require that, absent unusual circumstances, all open job positions must have at least two (2) women and/or minorities in the finalist pool and that all interviews for the finalist pool of candidates must have at least two (2) women and/or minority interviewers. 16 | Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability Report 2019 | 17 APPENDIX, continued APPENDIX, continued Description of Actions: Environment (Principles 7 9) Description of Actions: Anti-corruption (Principle 10) Assessment, Policy & Goals Assessment, Policy & Goals Impax LLC recognizes the importance of environmental stewardship throughout our business. Recognizing that our own Impax LLC is committed to the highest standards of ethics, business integrity and corporate governance. As the adviser to operations impact the communities and environments in which we operate, we strive to conduct business in a way that Pax World Funds, we have a fiduciary responsibility to the funds’ shareholders. To that end, Impax’s corporate governance minimizes our environmental footprint while enhancing stakeholder value for our customers, employees, suppliers and practices are designed to establish and preserve accountability and transparency, while avoiding conflicts of interest (or communities. even the appearance of conflict). It is the policy of Impax to support and encourage recycling programs (office waste, electronic waste, food waste, etc.), Impax has established policies regarding issues such as anti-money laundering (AML), insider trading, communications water conservation and energy conservation. All employees are expected to actively participate in the organization’s (social media and public correspondence), whistleblowing and the so-called “pay-to-play” rule, which refers to various conservation activities. arrangements by which investment advisers may seek to influence the award of advisory business by making or soliciting political contributions to the government officials charged with awarding such business, among others. Implementation In addition to being a material issue integrated in our investment process, Impax will endeavor to: Implementation In support of this policy, Impax will endeavor to periodically review all relevant policies with Impax employees, including  Measure, analyze and reduce our contributions to global climate change and consumption of resources, but not limited to policies regarding AML, insider-trading, communications (social media and public correspondence), including energy, water, materials, etc. whistleblowing and the so-called “pay-to-play” rule. Measurement of Outcomes  Offset our energy and water use to aid in the development of alternative energy and the restoration of Impax LLC conducts required annual and ongoing compliance training for all employees: freshwater ecosystems  Procure goods and services from suppliers who demonstrate sound environmental practices • In August 2019, all staff were required to participate in compliance and cybersecurity training related to the aforementioned policies.  Support initiatives and public policies that seek to promote the long-term conservation of our natural resources • In November 2019, employees were invited to a “Lunch and Learn with Compliance” for a session about insider trading.  Engage employees on reducing their environmental impact at work, at home and while traveling through periodic training and educational opportunities  Communicate progress on environmental initiatives to stakeholders  Monitor emerging environmental issues as they pertain to our operations and adjust our environmental strategy as needed  Support initiatives and public policy that seek to promote the long-term conservation of our natural resources Impax LLC is committed to carbon neutrality by offsetting the carbon emitted as a result of our business operations, including business travel, office energy use and employee commuting. Impax LLC purchases offsets to aid in the development of alternate energy and/or to retire the offsets resulting in a net reduction of carbon. In addition, to offset our water footprint, we purchase water restoration certificates through the Bonneville Environmental Foundation. The certificates represent 1,000 gallons of water restored on a company’s behalf and directly contribute to the recreational and ecological vitality of freshwater ecosystems. Measurement of Outcomes Information regarding our efforts to manage our environmental impact is found in the “Environmental Impact” and “KPI” section of this report. We have also provided certificates of our carbon and water offsets in this appendix. 18 | Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability Report 2019 | 19 APPENDIX, continued APPENDIX, continued 2: KPI CHART 3: CERTIFICATE FOR WATER OFFSETS KEY PERFORMANCE METRICSRonme 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF THE MANAGEMENT COMPANY Total GHG Emissions from Business Operations 394.00 424.00 437.00 481.00 616.00 (M/T) Total Electricity Consumption from Business 91.03 79.24 73.79 81.12 85.18 Operations (‘000 kWh) Total Natural Gas Consumption from Business 3616.00 3751.00 3286.06 4316.71 4049.30 Operations (Therms) Total Water Consumption from Business Operations 83.13 75.49 78.60 69.56 77.21 (‘000 gallons) PAY EQUITY/GENDER DIVERSITY DATA # of employees 55 49 51 58 59 Gender Diversity (% female) 45% 41% 47% 45% 46% Pay Equity Ratio (Female/Male)* Executives 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% Portfolio Managers 96% 0% 79% 95% 76% Senior Managers 71% 84% 83% 71% 82% Managers 98% 96% 91% 96% 103% Analysts 104% 91% 103% 177% 133% Professional Staff 95% 96% 96% 101% 106% Sales Representatives* N/A N/A N/A 96% 104% COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT DATA Employee Volunteer Hours 174 173 147 128 241 Corporate Donations** $144,691 $95,820 $25,385 $126,868 $104,868 Employer Matching Donations $ 13,390 $13,070 $14,305 $14,435 $16,585 *Impax LLC’s pay equity survey has historically included only an analysis of base salary and did not include incentive compensation. In 2018, we upgraded our methodology to include total compensation. **2019 data reflects the FY ended 9/30/2019. 20 | Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability Report 2019 | 21 APPENDIX, continued 4: CERTIFICATE FOR CARBON OFFSETS THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK 22 | Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability Report 2019 | 23 You should consider a fund’s investment objectives, risks, and charges and expenses carefully before investing. For this and other important information, please obtain a fund prospectus by calling 800.767.1729 or visiting www.impaxam.com. Please read it carefully before investing. An investment in the Pax World Funds involves risk, including loss of principal. Impax Asset Management LLC, formerly Pax World Management LLC, is investment adviser to Pax World Funds. Separately managed accounts and related advisory services are provided by Impax Asset Management LLC, a federally registered investment adviser. ALPS Distributors, Inc. is not the distributor for Impax Asset Management’s separately managed accounts. Copyright © 2020 Impax Asset Management LLC. All rights reserved. Pax World Funds are distributed by ALPS Distributors, Inc. Member FINRA. ALPS Distributors is not affiliated with Impax Asset Management LLC. CONTACT INFORMATION IMPAX ASSET MANAGEMENT 30 Penhallow Street, Suite 400 Portsmouth, NH 03801 800.372.7827 paxfunds@impaxam.com www.impaxam.com PAX009209 (5/21) 24 | Sustainability Report 2019
