SUSTAINABILITY REPORT LETTER FROM CEO HERMANN In last year’s letter to shareholders, I discussed why the “care-why” culture is instrumental to the success of our company. People who “care-why” demonstrate a passion for their profession, their customers and their company. Boozt has been built by people with this SUSTAINABILITY mindset. This mentality is also what enables us to lead the progress towards a more responsible industry. This is important to us, and this is important to our customers. Our REPORT customers should shop with us knowing they support a responsible company that takes real action towards contributing to a more sustainable future. Local anchoring is key to minimise the footprint of an e-commerce business. This goes especially for fashion with the high return rates. Having a fulfilment centre located close to the customer and ideally in only one location to avoid intra-company shipments is instrumental for a low impact. As a result, we have been able to achieve an industry-leading low 300g CO2 distribution emission per distributed order including returns, which corresponds to This report constitutes our GRI report and UN Global Compact driving 2.6 kilometres in a new car. In other words, our optimised business model shows that Communication on Progress, as well as our statutory sustainability report. the “public transportation” of goods to the consumer is having a significantly lower impact The GRI Index can be found on: than traditional brick and mortar stores. https://www.booztfashion.com/responsibility/sustainability-reports Although we strive to minimise the impact of our operations through first-mover investments in innovative energy-efficient fulfilment solutions, the major environmental impact in our Our vision.................................................................................................................................... 38 Our focus areas........................................................................................................................ 39 industry still lies within the production phase. As we don’t produce ourselves, we focus on Our role in the fashion supply chain.................................................................................. 42 building relationships with high quality brands that focus on producing better quality and Our House.................................................................................................................................. 46 longer-lasting items, which we believe is the most sustainable solution. Our People................................................................................................................................ 58 Our Partners............................................................................................................................. 66 At the end of the day, we just want to make sustainable choices easy. We want our Our Selection............................................................................................................................ 72 customers to shop their favourite brands with no second thoughts as they know we take Our future actions................................................................................................................... 78 our responsibility very seriously. Whether that is buying a conventional brand or shopping in our rapidly growing sustainable fashion category. We cannot change the industry alone. However, we are committed to inspiring positive change through our actions such, as partners and by making it easier for our customers to find and choose sustainable fashion. We also welcome legislative action in the form of a CO2 tax to accelerate the drive towards a more sustainable industry. Hermann Haraldsson, CEO He r m a n n Ha r a l d ss on THIS REPORT IS PUBLISHED APRIL 16, 2020 36 Boozt AB / Annual Report 2019 Boozt AB / Annual Report 2019 37 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR VISION OUR FOCUS AREAS Our vision is to use our local Nordic position and our technology platforms to make sustainable choices easy for our customers and our partners. OUR HOUSE OUR PEOPLE By taking responsibility for our direct and indirect footprint on the value chain, and empowering people to act consciously, we strive to build a more sustainable future for fashion. We want to provide the best possible customer We want to make it easy for our people to do good. experience, while conducting our operations in an economically, socially and environmentally A strong company culture and intelligent We have a strong and well-established tradition of always Our responsibility vision is very much aligned with who we responsible way. investments enable our people to contribute striving to be a fair and responsible business. We recognise are as a business. We strive to take responsibility wherever positively to the environment and the community. the need to address the social and environmental challenges and whenever it is possible in the supply chain while staying We are taking responsibility for the footprint of within the fashion industry, and that emphasis must be on mindful of the challenges that come with being part of our operations. Reducing the footprint we have taking responsibility for our impact. With the influence we changing an industry. To help guide us on our journey, we through our carbon emissions, energy, waste and have as a leading player on the market, we can push for have concentrated our efforts into four main focus areas: packaging. a more sustainable industry by setting standards for more Our house, Our people, Our partners, and Our selection. responsible practices. We must work together to improve Anchored in our ‘care-why’ culture and ethical standards, the quality and transparency in the supply chain, including these areas allow us to adopt a holistic approach when respect for human rights, fair labour conditions, as well taking responsibility for our direct and indirect impact on the ‘CARE WHY’ CULTURE as reducing the environmental impact from production fashion supply chain. and operations. We are dedicated to delivering great fashion to our To achieve our vision we will act strategically, leveraging our customers, through high-tech solutions and a curated OUR PARTNERS OUR SELECTION leading position in the Nordics and strong local influence, selection of fashion brands. In this pursuit, sustainability is along with our competence within technology and innovation. a crucial building block for our long-term business success, By making responsible choices in all areas of our business, ensuring that we meet the needs of our customers and We want to inspire our partners to make a positive We aim to make sustainable choices easy for our we can reduce the direct footprint of our local operations, the industry. Our aspiration is that our actions will always impact on the value chain. customers through transparency and technology. while also engaging our partners in the journey to becoming reflect our desire to do good. With the help of a clear a more sustainable fashion industry. vision and open communication, we intend to amplify our By partnering with key stakeholders, sharing our We are building the largest Nordic sustainable efforts and share best practices that can influence a more knowledge and best practice, we aim to encourage fashion selection based on accredited sustainable industry. a more sustainable industry certifications and industry standards. 38 Boozt AB / Annual Report 2019 Boozt AB / Annual Report 2019 39 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT HOW BOOZT GROUP AIMS TO ACHIEVE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS 9, 12 & 17. Reporting requirements Materiality assessment Goal 9. Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialisation and foster Making responsible choices that have a positive impact on Based on our materiality analysis, this report focuses innovation. the industry requires a solid foundation in science-based on the most important sustainability issues and includes • Power our operations with renewable energy research, strong partnerships and a clear understanding of the economic, social and environmental topics we have • Promote innovation and new technical solutions within our own operations where we can make the greatest impact. With this report, prioritised. Within sustainability, materiality refers to the • Promote and engage in innovative distribution alternatives we use the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) as a reporting areas of heightened concern from internal and external • Upgrade and retrofit existing infrastructure to make the industry more sustainable. guideline to improve the quality of our sustainability reporting. stakeholders compared to relevant environmental, social We believe the GRI standards provide a solid framework for and governance issues. Our material issues, viewed Read more about our strategy with this principle on page 46-57 analysing and focusing our sustainability efforts. alongside our value chain, demonstrate focus areas where Goal 12. Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns. we can develop more programs directly targeting the areas • Empower consumers to make more sustainable choices In 2018, we became a signatory of the UN Global Compact. of greatest impact. • Work with brand partners to improve traceability in the supply chain With this commitment, we set the intention of adopting and • Advocate for longevity by extending the lifecycle of products adapting innovative ways to integrate the Ten Principles In 2018, we undertook our first materiality analysis. This • Responsible use of resources within our own operations to establish a more sustainable business. This means is reviewed and updated continuously through internal operating in such a way as to promote and respect human assessments and dialogues with partners, customers, and Read more about our strategy with this principle on page 46-57, 66-71, 72-77 rights and fair labour conditions, engage in the development external stakeholders. Based on this analysis, we identified of environmentally friendly technologies and prevent the focus areas where we can make the biggest difference: corruption in all forms. It also includes taking action to deliver Optimising our local operations, empowering our employees, Goal 17. Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable on the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and we are engaging our partners, and curating our sustainable development. committed to aligning our business goals with them. This has selection. This has served as our blueprint for adopting the • Use our position as a leading player in the Nordics to share best practices with the industry been the focus of our 2019 sustainability initiatives and this Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and upholding the • Engage in new partnerships from other industries report serves as our Communication on Progress (COP). Ten Principles that are most relevant and interconnected to • Strengthen our collaboration with our brand and distribution partners to reduce environmental impact our business in leading action towards more responsible and circular business models. While we feel many of the SDGs Read about our strategy with this principle on page 46-57, 66-71, 72-77 include important bearings for supporting our contribution to sustainable development, the most relevant development goals we have chosen to address are SDGs 9, 12 and 17. Managing sustainability an economically, socially and environmentally responsible We are committed to conducting our business responsibly, way in all areas of business. The greatest assets in our with the highest possible standards of ethics, openness, sustainability effort are our people. A strong company culture, and transparency to build trust with our stakeholders and based on the values of Trust, Freedom, and Responsibility, establish accountability. The strategic responsibility for our reinforced with intelligent investments, enables our people sustainability strategy lies with Management which is then to contribute positively to the environment, the business implemented by our Sustainability team. Through close and the community. By offering continuous training and collaboration between the Sustainability team and other professional opportunities, we want to provide opportunities departments across the Boozt Group, we work together to for our employees to utilise their knowledge, passion, and execute our sustainability efforts. Continuously reviewing skills to imagine new sustainable solutions and contribute to our materiality analysis helps us to ensure that we act in our vision. 40 Boozt AB / Annual Report 2019 Boozt AB / Annual Report 2019 41 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR ROLE IN THE FASHION Boozt Group makes up only a small part of the whole fashion model on the environment. New research from the 2019 supply chain. As a retailer without any own production, report “Environmental assessment of Swedish clothing SUPPLY CHAIN we do not have a direct impact on the production of the consumption” by RISE (Research Institutes of Sweden) goods we sell. However, we proactively take responsibility shows the impact of the transportation of the customer for the indirect impact we have on our network of business back and forth from the physical store. When we compare partners that operate in other parts of the supply chain. this data with the impact of our ecommerce model, the Through our leading position in the market, we have the carbon footprint is significantly lower than when shopping ability to inform, innovate, and communicate a strategy with in a physical store in Sweden. While we will always strive to our brand and distribution partners as well as educate and lower the footprint of our operations, the true environmental impart knowledge to our customers about the changing impact of the e-commerce model next to the brick and industry landscape. mortar shop is still hard to pinpoint and greater data should be collected and compared. Therefore, we wish to use our We believe that on the journey towards reducing the positioning in the Nordic market to partner with researchers impact of our operations and contributing to a sustainable that can help provide a better understanding of this topic supply chain, we need correct and comprehensive based on empirical findings. Brand information about the ramifications of the e-commerce Webshops collaboration Packaging A pair of jeans sold in Sweden total CO2eq emission by distribution method* 14 Fulfilment Curated & Returns 12 ~16% 10 ~1% CO2eq Production & 8 Manufacturing Delivery 6 4 Raw materials 2 Design 0 Product use Distribution by Boozt Distribution through phycical store & care Emissions from lifecycle of garment (production to disposal excluding customer distribution method) Emissions from distribution to the customer INDIRECT IMPACT *Data sourced from the 2019 report “Environmental assessment of Swedish clothing consumption by RISE (Research Institutes of Sweden) The distribution emission data for a physcial store is based on the carbon footprint per item bought from the average user transportation to the store. This is a mix of DIRECT IMPACT non-emitting transportation, public transportation and personal car transportation. Emission from lighting and heating of the physcial store is not included in the distribution through physcial store . Emission per item from Boozt is derived by dividing the emission per order (314g) with average items per order (2.8) 42 Boozt AB / Annual Report 2019 Boozt AB / Annual Report 2019 43 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Boozt Group value chain both initially online and then offline. Any items that cannot Our value chain allows us to deliver great fashion and sell are ultimately donated. exceptional shopping experience for our customers. It outlines our three main business areas and the flow of Our three business segments, Boozt.com, Booztlet.com products within the Boozt Group ecosystem. Although and Other (physical stores), reflect the Nordic online only a small part of the larger fashion supply chain, our apparel market growth opportunities while enabling us Boozt value chain is where we have the most immediate to make responsible choices in the way we handle our direct impact on our footprint. This is where we can inventory and claims. Excess stock from Boozt.com is ensure that we are running a responsible and efficient given a new opportunity to sell on Booztlet.com and items business, one that leads by example and will hopefully with minor defects are being sold at high discounts in inspire throughout the greater supply chain. our physical Booztlet store. We also partner with brands to support their inventory clearance which we purchase The Boozt Group is not a fast-fashion company. Our at discounted prices. This enables our brands to use our strategy is to offer a large curated selection of premium platforms as a responsible alternative for handling their brands with a strong focus on quality products that are excess inventory. made to last. And we want to make sure that all items ultimately end up with our customers, who will prolong In terms of our online platforms, they are all hosted on the lifespan of the item and minimise waste. Taking Google Cloud servers, run entirely on renewable energy responsibility for the direct impact of our value chain, we from one of the world’s most energy-efficient facilities in extend the products´ life cycle across all of our platforms. St. Ghislain, Belgium. This means that products have multiple chances to sell, IN SEASON Mid-to-premium fashion for the Nordic customer OFFPRICE Responsible handling of prior season stock from brands and Boozt.com BOOZTLET LAST RESORT OUTLET PHYSICAL STORE Items that did not sell online or goods with minor defects 44 Boozt AB / Annual Report 2019 Boozt AB / Annual Report 2019 45 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR HOUSE We want to provide the best possible customer experience while conducting our operations in an economically, socially and environmentally responsible way. We are taking responsibility for the footprint of our operations. Reducing the footprint we have through our carbon emissions, energy, waste, and packaging. At the core of everything we do is our house. Our house we have the greatest control to innovate smarter product encompasses all parts of our business and enables us flows while also having a direct impact on our footprint are to deliver an outstanding shopping experience to our with our head office in Hyllie and our fulfilment centre in customers. As this is where we have the most direct impact Ängelholm. Whether its packaging materials, warehouse on our footprint, it is essential we find smarter product flows technologies or the way we transport our goods, we can in our operations. Smarter product flows is best articulated seek more efficient and inventive use of resources through through the use and discovery of processes within our these two facilities. To further our focus on modernisation daily operations which are more effective, efficient and and development, we invested in the Boozt Innovation sustainable. For example, shortening processing times Lab in 2019. The Boozt Innovation Lab will allow us to stay for customer orders, utilising renewable energy, finding at the forefront of cutting-edge innovation that can help the optimal solution for our Boozt.com and Booztlet.com transform our business and the industry. shipping bags and lowering CO2 emissions. Data-driven decisions As a Nordic company with a leading position in the market, We work continuously to optimise our operations and we believe that much of our success lies in keeping our improve efficiency. One of the main focuses of 2019 was to operations local. Based on our location, we can optimise gather data about the impact of our operations. Creating a deliveries to customers, create strong brand networks and comprehensive overview of our business allows us to better engage our local community. Our investments to handle understand where to focus our responsibility efforts. We all shipments and returns in our local fulfilment centre partnered with a company that has developed a platform to in Ängelholm, Sweden has also contributed to more collect and manage sustainability data to obtain an ongoing environmentally-friendly delivery patterns. It enables us to collection of metrics to deepen the insight into our footprint. keep the carbon emissions per distributed order at 0.3 Our goal is to make it easier for our customers and us to kg/ CO2e. This low number is the result of our decision to track progress and understand the areas to address and handle shipping and returns locally. reduce our environmental footprint. Being innovative is essential to us. Innovation helps us Through the system, we track the environmental performance to continue optimising our house to ensure the longevity of our facilities and have processes in place for a regular of our business and the environment. The areas where and ongoing collection of energy and emissions metrics. In 46 Boozt AB / Annual Report 2019 Boozt AB / Annual Report 2019 47 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT terms of greenhouse gas emissions, it can be broken down Returns Data privacy customers and safe data storage has always been at the into three Scopes. Scope 1: Emissions are direct emissions One of the afflictions of running an e-commerce business is To prepare for the EU’s General Data Protection Regulation forefront of our platform department’s agenda. Our data from owned or controlled sources. Scope 2: Emissions are handling returns. A key focus for us has been to decrease (GDPR) that was implemented in 2018, we rigorously retaining time is between 3-7 years and is explained in the indirect emissions from the energy we use for our business the number of unnecessary returns to lower the CO2 combed through our data in 2017. With the introduction of Terms & Conditions and Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) operations, our headquarter and our fulfilment centre. emissions from transportation pick-ups and deliveries GDPR, all systems were examined on top of the launch of on our webshops. To ensure our customers understand Scope 3: Emissions are all indirect emissions (not included as well as the amount of materials used for repackaging processes to define data usage and procedures. how their data is being used, they are able to access in scope 2) that occur in our value chain which include items. Lowering returns will also support the sustainability detailed information about how long we save data and shipping to our customers including returns and business of the business model from an economic perspective. We sign data processing agreements (DPAs) with anyone for what specific purpose. Customers can also request a travels. Our scope 1 emissions amount to approximately 89 Decreasing the number of returns is tricky, however, we've we send any data to. This agreement stipulates how data copy of their data. No substantiated complaints concerning tons of CO2e from leased cars. Scope 2 emissions amount established that a large percentage of returns is often due is managed, stored and used. To this day, we also maintain breaches of customer privacy were received in 2019. to 0 tons of CO2 e. For scope 2, all energy and heating used to the unpredictable sizing of a brand’s collection. We strive our own rigorous security processes, transparency with our in our fulfilment centre and headquarter is from renewable to eliminate the obvious mistakes when selecting a size by sources, including the energy we do not produce ourselves. improving our size guide. An example of this is our recently For example, the electricity we purchase at the fulfilment launched machine learning-based size recommendation centre is from hydropower that is 100% renewable and tool. We also recently introduced a fair use clause which environmentally declared according to the EPD R system*. means that we can “pause” customers who show no intention of keeping the items they purchase. These customers have The digital footprint of our business is offset as all servers repeatedly placed unusually large orders, only to return all are hosted via the Google Cloud Platform, which is run or almost all items or return several times on a large scale. 100% on renewable energy. Scope 3 emissions relate With this effort, we aim to contribute and encourage more to distribution partners and domestic and international responsible shopping behaviour within e-commerce. business travel which collectively amounts to an estimate of 2,020 ton CO2 e for 2019. By implementing our new data collection system, we can continuously track and measure data to aid in understanding the footprint of our operations and give us tangible data to work with to reduce it. We are REDUCING RETURNS THROUGH also on-boarding our distribution partners to use the system, MACHINE LEARNING allowing us to keep track of their development and push for positive change. In 2019, we received carbon data from our Through system developments and partnerships distribution partners representing 97% of our orders. with our brands, we are working on creating size predictions for our customers. Using machine learning technology, we have been able to collect information about customer size choices and returns to suggest the best size option available. This will GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS METRIC TONS CO2 help customers make the right sizing decision, EQUIVALENT (T CO2E) ' independent of whether they have made previous SCOPE 1 89 ' purchases in this category. Our aim is to bring technology and fashion together to create the best SCOPE 2 0 customer experience and reduce size related returns. SCOPE 3 2,020 1* Environmental Product Declarations (EPD) System is a global programme for environmental declarations based on ISO 14025 and EN 15804 48 Boozt AB / Annual Report 2019 Boozt AB / Annual Report 2019 49 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Fulfilment Centre automation. It allows us to test the latest advancements and Local and innovative, the Boozt Fulfilment Centre (BFC) developments in robot technology in our facilities. The first represents one of the most significant stops on a product’s example of this was the introduction of the new Blackline journey to our customer’s door. Since the BFC became version of the AutoStore robots currently running on our operational, we have continued to optimise the quality, grid as the first site of scale in the world. reliability, and sustainability of our fulfilment centre. In 2019, attention was placed on further engagement with our We strive to keep our operations local and all our returns distributors in new-energy-projects, greater investments in are handled in our fulfillment centre in Ängelholm, Sweden. newer technologies and advancing the build-out of selfIn 2019, we further optimised our processes in the return sufficient energy to optimise how we manage our energy area at the fulfilment centre supported by best practice consumption. process optimisation from new management. Also, the implementation of a new prediction model contributed Our R&D partnership with AutoStore and automation to us being able to compete with outsourcing options service partner Element Logic safeguard our position at the for return handling by lowering the costs associated with forefront of warehouse automation. We have maintained returns. Strategic partnerships have also continued to keep our ambition to create an e-commerce supply chain cluster us competitive. Many of the staff at the fulfilment centre, for centred around our local operations in Ängelholm. The example, are employed through our immigration integration new R&D partnership represents an organic step as part project which helps refugees enter the Swedish job market. of our combined journey to constantly improve warehouse 50 Boozt AB / Annual Report 2019 Boozt AB / Annual Report 2019 51 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Energy sourcing Packaging A critical part of Boozt’s goal has always been to scale up Our customers want to receive the right-sized, recyclable the use of renewable energy. At 42,000 m2, our fulfilment packaging materials that minimise waste and ensure centre remains the largest building within our operations damage-free and intact delivery. As we look for more circular and demands the highest energy consumption. We rely options for packaging solutions, the impact of packaging is fully on clean energy sources to power our services to a core area of focus for the Boozt Group. The conversation our customers. As a Green Building certified facility, our about what constitutes an environmentally better option fulfilment centre operations are driven by energy-efficient remains complex. However, the role of packaging remains and modern technology. The 2018 installation of solar panels relevant to online businesses. Despite it constituting a small on the roof brought us a step closer to being completely part of the overall impact of a garment’s lifecycle, packaging energy self-sufficient. The solar panels contributed 8% of provides opportunities to discover more sustainable the total energy consumption at BFC in 2019. alternatives. Since the beginning, we have always sought more eco-conscious alternatives to plastic packaging (the Total energy consumption for the BFC, our office in Hyllie preferred material within the industry). THE BOOZT FULFILMENT CENTRE and leased cars amounted to approximately 1500 MWh for 2018. In 2019, our total energy consumption increased to The first Boozt.com bag in 2012 was made from 50% Key features of our environmentally optimized facility 1700 MWh. This energy increase can be explained by more recyclable plastic. Over the years we continued to output from our robots due to a higher number of orders. An improve the composition of the bag. First, by increasing increase of 13%, well below the net revenue growth of 23% the percentage of recycled plastic and then in 2018 we RUNS ON 100% RENEWABLE ENERGY, INCLUDING ENERGY SOURCED FROM OWN SOLAR PANELS. GREEN-BUILDING CERTIFIED. compared to 2018, demonstrates the leverage on energy set an ambitious target to introduce bags composed of consumption from our business model and investments. fossil-free material. In collaboration with a packaging FULLY AUTOMATED WITH THE LARGEST AUTOSTORE INSTALLATION IN THE WORLD. Any energy we do not produce is from renewable sources supplier, we developed Boozt.com bags made of 100% such as wind, water and solar. Through studying our energy biodegradable food waste. Unfortunately, there were POSITIONED LOCALLY IN THE NORDICS TO MAXIMIZE SPEED OF DELIVERY AND MINIMIZE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT patterns, we are continuously improving and learning to challenges with recycling, as the adoption of recycling optimise the efficiency of our operations to uncover energyopportunities for bio-degradable bags progressed slower saving opportunities. than anticipated. Currently, the industrially compostable facilities in the region which the Boozt Group operates Waste management & recycling lack the proper infrastructure, including the necessary For both our business and customers, we are persistent structures for proper post-consumer collecting, sorting in our effort to eliminate waste across our operations. The and composting. Therefore, compostable material may recycling process of all packaging material from inbound end up in the recycling stream of plastic, decreasing the deliveries is handled through efficient sorting systems at the quality and recyclability of the end product. Due to this, we Boozt Fulfilment Centre. Recycled materials consist mainly have decided to suspend the use of biodegradable bags of paper, wood, and plastic. Thanks to a close partnership and hope to reintroduce them once the proper handling with a local waste management facility, we reached our facilities become available. goal of recycling 85% of our waste in 2018. In 2019, this close partnership enabled us to recycle 100% of our waste. In 2019, we addressed the issues with the biodegradable bag However, not everything can be recycled. Any remaining and will continue our long-term research for more circular non-recyclable materials are burned for energy recovery in and sustainable material for our Boozt.com bags. Our aim is one of two certified centres in Sweden. Looking ahead, we to provide proof of concept for our industry partners when know this is not our final stop. We will continue to explore testing new packaging solutions. During 2020, we will shift ways to reduce and reuse our material resources before to 100% recycled, Blue Angel certified, plastic material for recycling to extend a material’s life cycle and close the loop our shipping bags. We have also maintained the dialogue on the waste within our operations. 52 Boozt AB / Annual Report 2019 Boozt AB / Annual Report 2019 53 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT with our partners searching for possible ways to reduce the prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse by 2030. Based use of polybags and the need to utilise new raw materials. on the efforts previously described, we are already close Our shipping boxes are also made of a single material to reaching this goal now. By sharing what knowledge from 100% FSC certified paper to ensure full traceability we have learned across our industry, our partners can and recyclability. We have been working with the packing benefit from our experience which we believe can amplify material supplier on various projects around the circularity the impact. of our boxes. Our focus on circularity within our packaging integrates with our goals to meet SDG 12 and implement We will continue to challenge ourselves and explore its targets to significantly reduce waste generation through smarter packaging solutions. HISTORY OF THE BOOZT BAG 2012 2017 2018 2020 From the start we have made We improved the composition of We introduced our 100% biodeDuring 2020, we will shift to responsible choices about how the material used in the Boozt. gradable bags. In collaboration 100% recycled, Blue Angel cerwe choose to package our procom bags. The recyclable matewith a packaging supplier, Boozt. tified, plastic material for our ducts. The first Boozt.com bag rial increased from 50% to 80% com bags were made compleshipping bags. We are also in diwas made from 50% recyclable recyclable plastic and resulted tely from biodegradable food alogue with our packaging partplastic a decisions taken back in less waste and lighter weight waste. The material used was ners to explore possible ways when recycling options for pacduring transportation. MATER-BI from the international to reduce the use of polybags kaging were still not part of the leader in bioplastic NOVAMONT and the need to utilise new raw conversation. and biodegradable and commaterial postable according to European standard EN13432. *color and design of the bag to be decided 54 Boozt AB / Annual Report 2019 Boozt AB / Annual Report 2019 55 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Distribution We aim to optimise the efficiency of our distribution in partners to measure the emissions from shipping to our various ways, not only for customers to receive their orders customers. Regular reporting in collaboration with our in a timely and reliable manner, but also to reduce our partners provides us the opportunity to measure the impact environmental impact. Many of the sustainability issues that of our operations as well as benchmark and set goals for we prioritise at Boozt are enhanced through partnerships continuous improvement. and collaborative initiatives that minimise CO2 emissions in the supply chain and other local impacts. Through this collaboration, we were able to calculate the estimated carbon emissions per order delivered including We work with a variety of vendors to provide our customers returns, which amounted to 0.3 kg/ CO2 e. The low result with distribution alternatives that satisfy each delivery is only possible due to investments in the optimisation of need. We strive to give customers the ability to select our local distribution patterns. This involves a selection of more environmentally-friendly alternatives, such as electric climate compensated delivery options and efficient returns car delivery and climate compensated options. Despite transportation in a closed-loop centred around our one being dependent on the progress within our distribution local fulfilment centre. We are proud to share this result partner’s operation, we endorse this agenda and share it as it reflects the value of investing in local operations and with our partners. In 2019, we worked with our distribution resource-efficient solutions. INDUSTRY LEADING LOW CO2 EMISSION OF ~300G PER ORDER This is equivalent to: • Driving ~2.6 km in your new car* • ~0.095% of the annual carbon footprint of clothing consumption for the average Swede** • ~0.0029% of the annual carbon Closed loop transportation footprint for the average Swede*** with local return handling Headquarters OUR HOUSE AIMS TO ADDRESS THE FOLLOWING SDGS: In the spring of 2019, our head office moved to Eminent, the first building in the Nordics to be certified by WELL. The International WELL Building Institute (IWBI) is a globally GOAL 9. Build resilient infrastructure, recognised building standard focused on human health promote inclusive and sustainable “Public transportation” and wellness in workplaces. This new facility fosters a industrialisation and foster innovation from local fulfilment centre positive working environment including features such as a massage room and a play area for parents to bring their kids GOAL 12 . Ensure sustainable when needed. Eminent is also environmentally certified consumption and production patterns. with Miljöbyggnad Gold level, a Swedish environmental certification for sustainable buildings by the Sweden Green GOAL 17. Strengthen the means of Building Council. This certification guarantees a reduction implementation and revitalize the of energy consumption by 25% compared to conventional global partnership for sustainable *Source: https://www.eea.europa.eu/data-and-maps/daviz/average-emissions-for-new-cars-5#tab-chart_1 (0.314kg CO2 eq / 0.120 Co2 eq) buildings. development. **Source: Environmental assessment of Swedish clothing assumption (0.314kg CO”eq/11.000kg CO2eq) ***Source: Environmental assessment of Swedish clothing assumption (0.314kg CO”eq/330kg CO2eq) 56 Boozt AB / Annual Report 2019 Boozt AB / Annual Report 2019 57 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT “In our view it is the ‘care-why’ that marks Business ethics – anti-corruption & bribery Our anti-corruption, insider and procurement policies the difference between the ordinary and OUR PEOPLE guarantee that business is conducted ethically. These the exceptional” Hermann Haraldsson policies outline our various positions on preventing and prohibiting corruption and bribery in accordance The three pillars of trust, freedom, and responsibility make with local legislation where we operate as well as up our fundamental beliefs and provide the core values significant international regulatory regimes and laws with that we measure ourselves against in our daily work. extraterritorial reach such as the UK Bribery Act and the US These pillars are explained in our HR policy, emphasised Foreign Corruption Practices Act. These policies include during employee onboarding and remain available on our never-acceptable practices and monitoring activities to We want to make it easy for our people to do good. A strong company culture and intelligent investments enable online learning management system to all staff. support the prevention of corruption, bribery, and conflicts our people to contribute positively to the environment and the community. of interest. • TRUST. Be it financial or other non-financial prosperity measures, there is a direct correlation between the level of We are aware of the inherent risk that individuals in our trust in a society and the amount of wealth – be it financial operations or through interaction with us may breach legal or other non-financial prosperity measures. We believe the requirements and our ethical principles related to antisame holds true for companies. Trust at Boozt is based on corruption and business ethics. Anti-corruption policies are An organisation is only as great as the people that work Culture and values mutual respect and confidence, having the same goals, communicated to all brands and business partners through within it. Our people have a central role in our responsibility sharing the same motivations and ultimately, sharing our buying and merchandising department. Amongst efforts. It is through their passion, hard work, and creative common interests. Therefore, a core belief at Boozt is that the never accepted practices is the strict prohibition to thinking that our responsibility vision comes alive. We by relying on each other, we make everyone stronger. accepting or offering purchase discounts, commissions, will continue to support and create opportunities for our Trust means that everyone feels secure and when we feel bonuses or kickbacks from our brands for a personal gain. people’s development. Therefore, continuously improving secure, we can unfold our creativity and competencies. The policies also detailed specific restrictions regarding the conditions for a healthy and efficient workplace is private purchases by employees from our suppliers/ always a priority. Trust • FREEDOM. Individuals can reach their fullest potential brands for private use or consumption, at below-market when they have the freedom to act and solve daily tasks prices. Likewise, our anti-corruption policy establishes In 2018, we conducted our first annual company-wide “CARE-WHY” in their own, unique way. Our people don’t really like being that our employees must not accept gifts or any other employee survey. The results provided the basis for the CULTURE told what to do, and they want the freedom to make their compensation as there is a possibility that these may be new survey platform, BooztUs, which launched in 2019. own decisions, to learn, to be themselves and to suggest perceived to improperly influence business decisions. The The goal is to make it easier for employees to instantly new ways of thinking and doing. We believe in having full anti-corruption policy also expresses typical situations in and anonymously share their thoughts regarding the Freedom Responsibility freedom as long as we act in Boozt’s best interest. which gifts from suppliers can be considered to be a means company culture, how teams are managed and the overall to influence business decisions. direction of the company. With questions now being sent • RESPONSIBILITY. Freedom comes with responsibility. We on a monthly basis, the participation rate for the survey want our people to take responsibility for the customer’s Our position on corruption is conveyed through our has increased to 80% (72%). Providing the opportunity for interests, Boozt’s interests, and for each other. In our learning management system. To ensure communication of our people to frequently offer their feedback and opinions Our company culture lays the foundation for everything we experience, by acting responsibly and with accountability, the internal code of conduct to all levels of the company, means they will have more of an immediate influence do and all the decisions we make. Central to our culture we can achieve the kind of freedom to which we aspire in all employees sign a document acknowledging its receipt. over the work environment. The answers serve as a basis is the ‘care-why’ mindset. It is not only about knowing, our daily lives. To further emphasise the code of conduct, staff are given a for management to make informed decisions about our but also caring. Being curious about why things are the learning module within the LMS accompanied by a quiz. No people's well-being and take the necessary actions to way they are, choosing to act and going the extra mile for substantiated complaints of corruption or anti-competitive ensure that we are providing a healthy company culture the customer, the company, and each other. We believe a behaviour were reported in 2019. that stimulates the effectiveness and motivation of each strong company culture enables our people to contribute team and individual. positively to the environment and the community. 58 Boozt AB / Annual Report 2019 Boozt AB / Annual Report 2019 59 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Whistleblower policy Talent outreach Our whistleblower policy was adopted with the aim of During 2019, we focused on expanding and improving encouraging a transparent business environment where current activities such as people development, community we operate profitably while maintaining good ethics. outreach, and future talent. These activities included We are committed to the handling and reporting of any speaking at various career and networking exhibitions and wrongdoing. The whistleblower channel is available to hosting tech events at our head office to foster and inspire all employees to report any illegal activity or violations to the future growth of IT students. Other events included local the code of conduct or other policies we have. Beyond tech talks and network events open to the public in both communicating our policies to our staff through learning Denmark and Sweden. Our HR department has also taken modules via the LMS, all documents are readily available part in local mentoring programs for career development via an online employee folder. Extra training material as well as talent outreach. on how and when to use the whistleblower channel has been included in our new employee training programs. Employee onboarding The whistleblower channel supported by an external We believe integration is a key component to employee supplier is used to support such reporting, and all cases retention. All new hires undergo an 18-module digital are reported to the Chairman of the Board of Directors. No onboarding program to get a basic understanding of cases were reported in the whistleblower channel in 2019. policies and procedures within the company. For additional onboarding support, half-day orientations are hosted by Employee growth members of senior management and HR. During these Our success at Boozt is a product of our talented, sessions, new employees get an introduction to the Boozt hardworking people and the various skills and energy Group, our culture and values, and an introduction to our they bring to the table. Knowing this, we strive to create a departments. This is also an informal space for our new working environment that provides opportunities for their employees to meet each other and for candid discussions continuous development to amplify our business and on any questions from the onboarding program. sustainability goals. To continue growing as a company, we must invest in the growth of our people. We believe in giving freedom and responsibility for BOOZT CODING ACADEMY personal career development by offering our people As a technology company, it is critical for every employee opportunities to develop themselves professionally within to feel comfortable and confident using our IT systems. the company. We promote internal hires and encourage We rely on systems that have been developed solely individuals to apply for internal positions when they feel in-house, therefore granting us the ability to change ready to take the next step in their career or to explore and modify our technology to accommodate our other areas of the business. In this way, we can retain needs. As everyone is not comfortable or confident in critical talent and skills in the business while allowing our programming, we offer the Boozt Coding Academy. The people to evolve and challenge themselves. Boozt Coding Academy is an opportunity for employees to enrol in a two-month course to learn the basics of To improve internal systems and initiate further activities coding. We know not everyone wants to become a for employee development, we deployed an online programmer, but we still aspire for our employees to be learning management system (LMS). By making learning curious, challenge themselves and always strive towards tools easy and accessible, we empower our people to professional growth. constantly seek new knowledge and self-development opportunities. We believe this is the key to employee satisfaction. 60 Boozt AB / Annual Report 2019 Boozt AB / Annual Report 2019 61 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OVERVIEW OF BOOZT NUMBERS GENDER DISTRIBUTION 136/235 5/2 5/1 TOTAL, ALL EMPLOYEES GROUP MANAGEMENT BOARD MEN WOMEN AGE DISTRIBUTION TOTAL, ALL EMPLOYEES GROUP MANAGEMENT BOARD 190 171 5 3 3 2 10 UNDER 30 30-50 OVER 50 30-50 OVER 50 30-50 OVER 50 371 34 TOTAL NUMBER OF AVERAGE AGE 33 NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES NATIONALITIES 62 Boozt AB / Annual Report 2019 Boozt AB / Annual Report 2019 63 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Fostering diversity & equality Health and safety The purpose of our occupational health and safety (OHS) We believe that the core strength of our company is the Boozt is committed to contributing to the creation of management system is to identify, assess, follow-up and diversity of our backgrounds. At 33 nationalities, we healthier and happier employees. We feel investing in develop working environmental goals to mitigate risks for all acknowledge our differences, but still, share the same the wellbeing of our people will lead to more positive workers. Risk assessments are documented and assessed goals. Additionally, we emphasise the work/life balance and sustained work output and retention. Our HR-policy by management. A review of the Boozt OHS system is also at Boozt. Parental leave for both men and women is an covers occupational health and safety, as well as employee conducted on an annual basis by the management and intrinsic part of our company. Our people have the ability wellbeing. To cultivate and maintain a nourishing working board. These results form the basis for the yearly OHS plan. to combine part-time parental leave with part-time work. environment, we perform continuous risk assessments and We register the occurrence of any and all accidents. For Even though we prefer people to be in the office to nurture use experts in the field to help evaluate risks and set plans. severe accidents, which need to be reported to authorities our company/family bond, we support if our staff want in accordance with regulations, no incidents or accidents to occasionally work from home or if they need time off Occupational safety at our headquarters were reported in 2019. to recharge. Healthy and safe workplaces are a top priority. Any assessed risks related to the working environment are managed Occupational safety at the Fulfilment Centre We strongly believe in and actively support women’s through a systematic approach to occupational health The safety of the working staff at the fulfilment centre is and men’s equal rights in terms of employment, working and safety (OHS). Risks at our head office include health essential to our operations, and we aim for zero occupational conditions and professional development. There are no risks due to poor ergonomics, lighting or ventilation, and injuries. All working conditions and environmental differences in terms of professional roles, recruitment, also psychosocial risks, such as from stress. All employees hazards are carefully considered. The fulfilment centre training and remuneration levels which can be explained who manage personnel are required to go through OHS encompasses the most modern standards for excellent by gender. training by external facilitators. The training includes work air quality, lighting, safety and cleanliness. The greatest environment regulations, systematic occupational health threat posed at the fulfilment centre is the risk of fire. Fire and safety, organisational and social work environment prevention is managed systematically, with documented and rehabilitation. continuous safety rounds being performed and worker training. Other risks related to the work environment include physical risks, mainly in the handling of products and product returns, and also psychosocial risks, such as stress-related to repetitive tasks and prolonged standing. The most common work-related injury is shoulder pain from recurring work. To prevent the high potential for workrelated incidences, we conduct frequent risk analyses and have been focusing on rotating the type of work the staff operates daily. This includes the addition of new routines and processes, integrating new equipment and making were able to get medical evaluation and advice, including adjustments to static tasks. In 2019, no injuries were occupational health, on a weekly basis from an inhouse reported in the fulfilment centre. primary care doctor. Employees also have the opportunity to get company-supported massages at the head office. Employee health & wellbeing We believe this has helped us to detect more cases and The aim is to reduce sick-leave and loss of revenue offer approved rehabilitation plans and/or dedicated caused by reduced productivity, while also encouraging arrangements for any employees in need of extra health and improving the quality of life for the company’s support. The Boozt Group is then informed and advised employees. In 2018, 18 employees (7.2%) were on sick on the necessary steps that should be taken to modify leave for more than 14 days. In 2019, 22 employees (6.5%) any stressors within the work environment. This external were on sick leave for more than 14 days, a slight decrease company is responsible for maintaining the confidentiality in percentage compared to 2018. In 2019, our employees of any disclosed information. 64 Boozt AB / Annual Report 2019 Boozt AB / Annual Report 2019 65 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Declaration of Human Rights and the conventions of the way to use our technology expertise to systematically International Labour Organization (ILO). Suppliers must collect, review and share information. Transparency in meet all legal requirements and regulations in operating the supply chain is a long-term commitment. Recognising countries. this commitment, we will continue pushing for more OUR PARTNERS Supply chain transparency information about the supply chain in 2020, including facilitating data. We remain dedicated to working with We believe the greatest challenge and opportunity for our brand partners to create the most efficient way change in the fashion supply chain is within data. The to gather information and work across the fashion information we are able to share with our customers supply chain. is only as good as the data we can gather from our We want to inspire our partners to make a positive impact on the value chain. brand partners. As consumer behaviour changes and By partnering with key stakeholders, sharing our knowledge and best practice, the demand for better-made products in terms of we aim to encourage a more sustainable industry. environmental and social impact increases, so does the need for relevant and transparent information. For us, this means taking proactive approaches to improve product data, developing sustainability guides for customers Collaboration across the value chain is key to achieving The process of becoming more involved with our brands and increasing targeted communication. To achieve full TIER 1 industry-wide transformation in sustainability. Our teams involves addressing many of the issues within the fashion transparency of the whole supply chain requires close ASSEMBLY work to develop partnerships with our brands and industry. There is a need for quality and transparency in collaboration with our brand partners. Assembly and manufacturing of final product. distributors to communicate our standards and help the supply chain, including respect for human rights and our partners build their capacity. We also believe in fair labour conditions, and addressing the environmental Our 2018 brand questionnaire has evolved into a more the opportunities they present to improve and build a impact from production. In 2018, we initiated a brand systematic way of collecting and analysing information at TIER 2 competitive advantage. partner survey to understand the environmental and both the brand and product level in terms of responsible social issues our brand partners are facing. The objective business practices and supply chain transparency. In MANUFACTURING Production of all the sub-components needed for In 2019, we have expanded on our effort from 2018 to of the brand partner survey was to open a channel of 2019, we worked with more than 200 brand partners to final assembly and manufacturing. promote sustainable fashion. This year, we reviewed and communication with our targeted partners to address both develop dedicated data templates that would make it updated our strategy, created stronger partnerships and the environmental and social issues in their supply chain. easier to share information about materials certifications focused on curating our selection of Nordic brands leading During 2019, we optimised the way we systematically as well as supply chain transparency through Tier 1-2-3-4. with sustainability. Our aim is to support brands that focus collected information from brands. TIER 3 on sustainable materials, quality production and design Our business processing management team, in RAW MATERIALS PROCESSING Raw materials are processed into yarn, leather etc. for the longevity of products. As part of our responsibility Human rights risks in the apparel and fashion industry partnership with our sustainability team, collect and This include spinning, dyeing, weaving. vision, we will maintain support for our brand partners on have been well documented over the years. There has process this information to share it with our customers. their sustainability journey, helping them set milestones been growing pressure on brands and manufacturers to We asked brands to supply the names and addresses of and track their progress. improve control of their supply chain. As a retailer, we the factories they were using for the different production strive to ensure that any products and goods sold have stages, encouraging accountability as well as traceability TIER 4 From the initial design stage to the creation of the final been produced under safe and fair working conditions. of their products. While information regarding Tier 1 is RAW MATERIALS PRODUCTION Extraction and or farming of primary materials used product, our buying and merchandising teams work We adopted a supplier code of conduct in 2017 with the somewhat easier to collect, only a limited amount of our in production such as cotton, animal, metals mining. closely with our brands to source better materials. Aligned purpose to state and communicate minimum requirements brands have been able to provide information about their with our core business, we collaborate with local Nordic for suppliers, including respect for human rights and Tier 2 and only a few were able to share full traceability. brands to create sustainable collections exclusive to Boozt decent working conditions. In 2019, we updated the Boozt Group. These collections concentrate on sustainable Group Code of Conduct for Suppliers to increase the Supply chains are complex and difficult to trace. We will materials and production. Our first collections launched in focus on our brand partners’ compliance. The standards continue the dialogue to locate the easiest and best AW 2019, with upcoming collections for 2020. set out in the document are based on the UN Universal 66 Boozt AB / Annual Report 2019 Boozt AB / Annual Report 2019 67 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Partnerships Boozt Collabs reached 14% and will increase to 52% in We achieve many of the sustainability issues we prioritise our SS20 collection. We strive to provide knowledge at Boozt through collaborations where we seek mutually and exposure to brands that may be at the beginning of beneficial partnerships. In 2019, we focused on taking their journey, motivating them to work more actively with strategic steps to support our data collection from brands sustainability. For this reason, we do not solely collaborate with the aim of motivating brands to become more with sustainable brands. We put a lot of focus on brands engaged with sustainability. that are interested in exploring how they can work more actively with sustainability and believe we can provide a Brand collaborations meaningful positive influence here. Our buying and merchandising teams collaborate with Nordic brands to create sustainable collections. This The Danish and Swedish Fashion Ethical Charter provides a unique opportunity to work closely with our As a supplier of fashion, we acknowledge our role in the brand partners to develop proof of concept for sustainable fashion industry as it relates to the treatment of models materials and motivating brands to incorporate sustainability used in our campaigns. In 2018, we became a member in their collections. of the Danish Fashion Ethical Charter and the Swedish Fashion Ethical Charter. The purpose of these charters and our commitment is to ensure the well-being of the DOUBLING THE NUMBER OF SUSTAINABLE BOOZT COLLABS models within the Danish and Swedish fashion industry. The charters require the adherence of rules in the form of health checks, age limits, healthy diets and wages Community engagement for the models and are signed by a broad coalition of We use our size and reach as one of the leading online stakeholders within the industry. As a signatory, we are AW19 SS20 retailers in the Nordics to support a number of charities committed to abiding by these rules to ensure the well8 16 and causes within society that have a positive social being of models. As we work with many models, Boozt impact. For the fifth year in a row, Boozt Group has Group seeks to contribute to raising awareness of mental brought together a strong team to raise awareness about illnesses and influencing positive attitudes in fashion, cancer prevention and research. Since 2015, our brand media and, society. collaborations have raised SEK 4.5 million through the 14%* 52%* sale of the official Knæk Cancer t-shirt. In 2019 alone, we have raised SEK 1 million for this important. All monies raised go toward the prevention, research, and support OUR PARTNERS AIMS TO ADDRESS THE FOLLOWING SGDS: for patients and relatives. We are grateful to everyone *percentage of Boozt Collabs for season fulfilling that has been involved in the project and appreciate the our sustainability criteria sustained support. We will continue to partner with well GOAL 12 . Ensure sustainable known Nordic fashion brands to bring greater awareness consumption and production patterns. One of the results of our strengthened partnerships with and support Knæk Cancer campaign. our brands has been the launch of our Boozt Collabs. The Boozt Collabs present an opportunity for us to collaborate on exclusive or limited collections for our customers. GOAL 17. Strengthen the means of This gives us a powerful tool to create a positive impact, implementation and revitalize the encourage behavioural change and push the sustainable global partnership for sustainable agenda forward. In AW2019, the percentage of sustainable development. 68 Boozt AB / Annual Report 2019 Boozt AB / Annual Report 2019 69 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT TAKING AN ACTIVE ROLE IN THE NORDIC FASHION ECO-SYSTEM We take our role leading role in Nordic fashion seriously. We want to help innovative and upcoming brands with a platform to reach the Nordic customers. An example is our participation in the Next Level Award from the Danish industry organisation for fashion, Dansk Mode & Textil, where an upcoming brand or designer is awarded with a prize and an order from Boozt.com. Another ambition is to make the fashion world accessible for all people, exemplified by our open-for-all opening show of the Copenhagen Fashion Week, which is the largest event during the week. We have a longstanding partnership with Copenhagen Fashion Week and in 2019, we participated in the sustainability fashion talks during the AW19 fashion week, highlighting brands and issues focusing on sustainable fashion innovation. We have also become part of Copenhagen Fashion Week’s newly appointed Sustainability Advisory Board, supporting the change towards a more sustainable industry. Together with other experts from the industry, Boozt will act as a knowledge partner and sounding board to help determine how the fashion week can drive change and motivate brands to work more actively with sustainability. Boozt fashion show at Copenhagen Fashion Week SS20. Largest show during the week and only show open for the public. 70 Boozt AB / Annual Report 2019 Boozt AB / Annual Report 2019 71 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT LEDNINGENS RAPPORT OUR SELECTION We aim to make sustainable choices easy for our customers through transparency and technology. Building the largest Nordic sustainability selection based on accredited certifications and industry standards. We aim to keep the customer front and centre of meet our industry-leading standards of sustainability. It is everything we do. Hence our goal to provide effortless important to us that shopping sustainably is made easy for user experience combined with relevant and reliable our customers and that they can trust that the products we information about products. Thanks to our local position in have curated have a positive impact on the environment the Nordics and the market where we operate, we partner and community. with local brands that are driving the movement within the fashion sector. Through brand and industry knowledge Sustainable fashion partners, we can build a framework to better navigate our With our sustainable category, we highlight brands changing industry. that emphasise sustainability and support those at the beginning of their journey. Thanks to our local position in Doing good and making responsible choices lies at the the Nordics and the market where we operate, we partner heart of our organisation. We want our customers to feel with brands that are driving the movement to produce more confident that when they buy from us, they know that responsibly within the fashion sector. Through the selection they are shopping with a responsible business. From the and content available, we can offer customers high-quality, investments taken to run on 100% renewable energy in timeless designs and reliable information to shop with our environmentally-friendly fulfilment centre to working confidence according to the values that matter the most to with our brands to ensure transparency, fair treatment and them. In 2019, we updated the category in terms of filtering responsible production in the supply chain, we want our options and information on a product level. This has made customers to rest assured. it easier for customers to identify and discover sustainable alternatives. Our focus is to improve the user experience More and more of our customers are becoming curious for our consumers when shopping for our sustainable about sustainable fashion and how they can contribute to selection. making a positive impact on the environment. As a part of the fashion industry, together with our brands, we strive to We have a curated selection of products from more than 160 take our consumers on a journey towards more sustainable brands as part of our sustainability category. All selected fashion consumption. We have curated one of the largest products must fulfil our criteria* for what constitutes a sustainability selections in the Nordics, with products that sustainable product. A strong focus on quality exists in *Boozt current sustainability criteria: fabrics included in our sustainable category are according to Textile Exchange Preferred Fabrics list with our 50% requirement for material composition (minimum 50% material content lyocell, flax linen, hemp, Lenzing Viscose, Lenzing TM Ecovero, Lenzing Tencel, Birla Viscose, Econyl, FSC Viscose, paper), organic cotton (minimum of 50%), recycled material (minimum 50% polyester, cotton, nylon, wool, down feathers, rubber), Better Cotton (minimum of 50%), eco-processing (Bluesign, OEKO-TEX Made in Green) Certifications we currently include: Nordic Ecolabel, Fairtrade, Global Organic Textile Standard (GOTS), Global Recycled Standard (GRS), EU Ecolabel, Responsible Down Standard (RDS), Responsible Wool Standard, Leather Working Group 72 Boozt AB / Annual Report 2019 Boozt AB / Annual Report 2019 73 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT all that we offer to our customers and is no less true for standards provided by already existing guidelines, industry our sustainable selection. We have set industry-leading standards, and research*. standards as the foundation for our sustainable category in terms of material composition and better manufacturing Animal welfare policy processes. We are continuously working on improving our As sellers of animal-derived products, we have a criteria according to the evolving industry standards. Data responsibility to uphold animal welfare within our supply transparency is a challenge for all multi-brand retailers. chain. Since 2016, we have declared ourselves fur-free Through automating processes, strong relationships and in cooperation with Swedish and Danish animal rights ongoing communication with our brand partners, we strive organisations, Djurens Rätt and Anima. We are aware of the to improve the quality of data and information accuracy to challenges the fashion industry faces with regard to animal better capture what is needed. welfare and the ethical issues surrounding the wellbeing and treatment of animals. Our product management team Requirements for the category were set in 2018 and further methodically inspects all materials when product data is developed in 2019. Our sustainability requirements are received from the brands. We have not sold any goods being constantly reviewed to inspire change. We want which violate our fur policy on our sites, nor have we sold to increase traceability and promote consciously made any items with prohibited materials. The inspection controls products. Each product must be made of either sustainable are therefore considered to be effective. We are working materials or have sustainable certifications. This means all on strengthening systematic preventive controls to further styles are made from more than 50% organic, recycled or strengthen internal control. low environmental impact materials, and/or accredited by internationally recognised certifications. Having a minimum Environmental policy requirement of 50% sustainable material content in the We conduct a yearly follow-up of our direct environmental products is one example of where we are leading in our impact and have initiated mapping and measuring of criteria. Requirements for the sustainable category and indirect impacts. Through our environmental policy, we guidelines for data sharing are available in our B2B platform aim to reduce our direct environmental impact and raise to ensure transparency with all of our brand partners. awareness among vendors and partners of our existing Knowledge sources that have been used in setting our policies concerning any environmental impacts and to requirements are according to industry benchmarking and encourage them to adhere to these principles. ORGANIC LOW-IMPACT RECYCLED FAIRLY MADE Less synthetic fertilizers used Smarter use of resources Reduces the need for new Respectful of human rights and in farming and chemicals through production of the raw materials. And upcycling animal welfare issues. during production garment as creative recycling of unconventional products. * Textile Exchange “ Preferred Fibers & Materials Benchmark Report 2018”; Higg Materials Sustainability Index (MSI); G. Sandin “Environmental assessment of Swedish clothing consumption six garments, sustainable futures.” Mistra Future Fashion 2019. 74 Boozt AB / Annual Report 2019 Boozt AB / Annual Report 2019 75 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Fair use As part of our efforts to lead the change toward a more The fair use clause, however, helps us engage in a dialogue responsible industry, we have updated the Boozt Terms & with the few of our customers who for example, repeatedly Conditions regarding returns with a fair use clause. The fair place unusually large orders and return all or almost all use clause allows us to pause those customers we suspect items. have no intention of keeping the (often many) items they purchase and thus exploit our high service levels We take a co-responsibility to look after the environment of free shipping and return. This is a first important step and reduce our environmental impact whenever possible. in eliminating unnecessary returns, which we have seen We hope to influence our industry peers to similar solutions Shopping with confidence significantly increase over the last two years. to this increasing issue for the e-commerce business model. Part of our responsibility vision is to use our position different sustainable materials, internationally recognised and competences to make sustainable choices easy certifications and better manufacturing process that serve This update is in line with our aspirations for more sustainable OUR SELECTION AIMS TO ADDRESS THE FOLLOWING for our customers. Our customers should feel confident as the criteria for our sustainable edit. business practices, both in relation to environmental impact SDGS: that through their Boozt purchase, they are supporting a and in terms of longevity of the business so we can continue GOAL 12 . Ensure sustainable business that makes responsible choices in all parts of Going forward we will work on cross-over communication offering our customers the best shopping experience and consumption and production patterns the value chain. Providing information about the impact of to all of our platforms to increase customer awareness and outstanding customer service. materials and production processes, empowers customers inspire interest in sustainable fashion. In the first half of GOAL 17. Strengthen the means of to make more educated decisions about the products they 2020, we will extend our communication reach to social A Boozt cornerstone is our 30-day offer of free returns. implementation and revitalize the buy. This means actively informing our customers of the media via weekly sustainability posts. This is an opportunity The vast majority of our customers shop thoughtfully and global partnership for sustainable latest initiatives that promote a sustainable fashion industry to engage with our customers on a valuable topic as well only ship goods when needed. We fully understand that a development. and sharing any knowledge that we acquire through as to facilitate engagement. During 2019, we laid the product may have a different size/fit than expected or that a research, materiality analysis, and best practices. groundwork for our Boozt Care Guide initiative that will customer changes their mind and therefore wants to return launch in 2020. We aim to guide our customers on how to a purchase. In 2019, we created greater awareness of our sustainable best care for their products to both lengthen the lifespan products and the new sustainable edit. Dedicated of a garment while also having a positive impact on the marketing email campaigns and onsite placements were environment. The Boozt Care Guide will be communicated aimed to inspire customers toward more sustainable through various channels ensuring that we reach our large choices. These emails also included information about the customer base across all platforms. WHAT IS “FAIR USE” Background: • Significant increase in extreme return behaviour with little or no intention to keep items from a small group of customers • 1% of customers represents 12% of returns Implementation: • “Fair use” policy implemented in November 2019 based on an algorithm assisted by a fair use “task force” • Some 9,000 customers put on pause corresponding to less than 0.5% of customer base Impact: • Lower return rate beneficial for the environment and sustainability of business model • More seasonal items available for customers • Quicker response time in customer service • Negative impact on net revenue 76 Boozt AB / Annual Report 2019 Boozt AB / Annual Report 2019 77 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT AUDITOR’S REPORT ON THE STATUTORY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR FUTURE ACTIONS To the general meeting of the shareholders in Boozt AB (publ), corporate identity number 556793-5183 This is a translation of the Swedish language original. In the events of any differences between this translation and the Swedish original the latter shall prevail. Engagement and responsibility With our position as the leading e-commerce player in the alternatives. Going forward we will set higher standards It is the Board of Directors who is responsible for the statutory sustainability report Nordics, we have the opportunity to shape our sector by for our sustainable category to further, encourage brands for the year 2019 on pages 36-78 and that it has been prepared in accordance with setting standards for more responsible practices. Within into actively working within sustainability and expanding the Annual Accounts Act. our operations, we will continue to focus on circularity, our sustainable fashion offering. beginning with our packaging choices, pushing forward The scope of the audit our agenda by collaborating with our brands and Our strong focus on circularity, automation, and Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard distribution partners. Through our partnerships, the goal renewable energy enable us to leverage our knowledge RevR 12 The auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability report. This is to create a platform for collaboration within the industry, and position to lead the way. We are dedicated to re-think means that our examination of the statutory sustainability report is substantially to empower innovation and sharing our technology and re-imagine ways to improve current business models different and less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International expertise to accelerate change. Furthermore, we aim to towards circularity and create closer relationships with Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We continue with our mission to create awareness around our consumers. We have come a long way and remain believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinion. brands leading the sustainability movement and act as motivated to do more. Exploring circular business models knowledge partners to brands that are at the beginning within the fashion industry is key in helping redefine the Opinion of their journey. The ultimate goal is to motivate brands life cycle of a garment and giving apparel multiple lives. A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. to introduce more sustainable materials in their mainline The rapidly changing consumer behaviour and awareness collections. demands that the industry rethink it’s traditional linear Malmö April 16th 2020 `take, make, dispose` economic model. Deloitte AB We believe that educated customers become ethically conscious shoppers. Thus, we intend to further We see the rise in the availability of shared closets and educate consumers by sharing our knowledge on more second-hand clothing resale to represent the starting Didrik Roos sustainable material choices and encouraging sustainable point for brands and retailers to explore circularity in Authorized Public Accountant consumption practices across our business platforms. extending longevity as well as close the loop in fashion. As With our sustainable category, we aim to offer a curated a tech-company operating within the fashion industry, we selection of products that meet our high criteria to help are excited to combine the sustainability and technology our customers discover and empower sustainable dimensions to shape a better industry. 78 Boozt AB / Annual Report 2019 Boozt AB / Annual Report 2019 79
