Sustainability Report 2019 Our goal is to create good and sustainable conditions for companies and individuals while preserving responsible business and creating lasting commercial and social benefit. Integrating responsible business throughout the value chain In its role as a commercial law adviser, Vinge occupies a our clients. Accordingly, it is critical that we train and prominent position both in the business community and promote the development of our colleagues in relation to society at large. The aim of our sustainability work is to sustainability issues and thereby integrate a sustainability create good and sustainable conditions for companies and perspective into the advice provided by Vinge. This also individuals while preserving responsible business and allows Vinge to address a broader spectrum of risks and, lasting commercial and social benefit. furthermore, manage risks associated with our suppliers from a sustainability perspective. For Vinge, pursuing responsible and sustainable enterprise means acting ethically, encouraging good stakeOur sustainability work is based on internationally holder relations, acting as a responsible employer and accepted standards for responsible enterprise. Since 2018, contributing to a well-functioning society. We believe that we have been a member of the UN Global Compact and this provides long-term business and social benefit that otherwise comply with the OECD Guidelines for Multinaaffects both the organisation and individuals. tional Enterprises, the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, the European Convention on Human Vinge’s sustainability work is grounded in our busiRights as well as other relevant legal frameworks. ness – to provide legal advice of the highest quality to Sustainability Report © Advokatfirman Vinge KB 2020 1 Vinge’s sustainability work in practice We take into account the 2030 Agenda and the UN’s of knowledge, which facilitates the implementation of Sustainable Development Goals in our advisory role and the UN’s global Sustainable Development Goals. Our strategic sustainability work. All of the 17 Sustainable societal commitment is based upon co-operations Development Goals can be relevant in relation to our where we consider, in light of our competence and advice and in our internal sustainability work. However, expertise, that we can contribute to the growth and on the basis of our own operations, we have identified development of society, organisations and individuals. the following goals where we consider that we have the greatest influence: Our Code of Conduct summarises the ethical principles applicable to all of our employees. In order to clarify • Goal 3 Good health and well-being: We focus on certain aspects of the Code of Conduct, we have adopted providing a good work environment and endeavour specific policies and procedures in various business to ensure that our employees have good health and functions. well-being. The issue concerning health is focused on our systematic work environment efforts in consultaOur sustainability work is divided into three focus areas tion with our safety representatives at Vinge’s offices which reflect our principal impacts. Our focus areas are: and we regularly work with activities and efforts which promote health. (1) advising clients (2) internal sustainability work • Goal 5 Gender equality: For us, it is self-evident that (3) social responsibility everyone is given the same conditions to succeed and be successful in their work and we thus conduct active When providing advice, we integrate issues linked to gender equality work. We endeavour to achieve an human rights, working conditions, the environment and even distribution of gender equality within all practice climate as well as anti-corruption. In this way we can groups, project groups and other forms of co-operation offer a broader perspective to our clients and thereby and we have a stated objective to increase the number minimise the risks associated with their business operof female partners. ations. We also strive to ensure that our advice does not negatively affect people or the environment. • Goal 8 Decent work and economic growth: We strive to ensure that our employees have good employment Internally, we focus our sustainability work on employterms and conditions and create the preconditions for ees, business ethics, regulatory compliance as well as a good work environment where the employees can on the environment. In order to be a long-term partner develop on the basis of their individual circumstances. for our clients, in addition to us being a leading business law firm, we create the conditions for a sound work • Goal 13 Climate action: We strive to reduce our environment where our employees can develop based negative impact on the environment and focus our on their individual circumstances. We also need to take environmental and climate work on the supply chain into account the environmental impact of our offices, in and on the goods and services that we purchase, the conjunction with travel as well as in conjunction with transportation of these goods, business trips by our purchasing. Vinge does so while maintaining the highest employees and how we utilise our business premises, standards of business ethics. which are the areas where we consider that we have the greatest influence. Our social commitment involves co-operative efforts in • Goal 16 Peace, justice and strong institutions: which we can contribute our skills and expertise to the Through our operations we work in order to promote growth and development of society, organisations and legal security. During 2019, we have further strengthindividuals. ened the practice group Corporate Crime & Compliance which advises on, among other things, anti-­corruption In order to acquire a greater understanding of our assoand internal investigations in order to satisfy the ciates’ and clients’ priorities as regards sustainability, we increasing demand for advice within these areas. will have a dialogue concerning which issues within the area of sustainability which we consider to be the most • Goal 17 Global partnership: We co-operate with important in order to adapt our internal sustainability other actors regarding, among other things, exchange work and our advice in accordance with these priorities. Sustainability Report © Advokatfirman Vinge KB 2020 3 ” As a member of the UN Global Compact, we are committed to complying with our obligations in relation to these principles and see a positive way forward in our sustainability work. Sustainability Report © Advokatfirman Vinge KB 2020 1 A word from the Managing Partner At Vinge, we regard responsible enterprise as a prerequisite to achieving longterm success and in order to be able to give our clients a first-class level of service. Accordingly, for us at Vinge, acting responsibly, ethically and being a role model involves adopting a holistic approach in our operations and advisory activities. In order to achieve a greater degree of influence, we place considerable focus on building and implementing working processes which promote the sustainability perspective in several parts of our operations – both in relation to our advice and our internal work. In furtherance thereof, we have formed an internal steering group with the task of actively conducting Vinge’s sustainability work. This increases our possibilities to make proactive efforts both in relation to our employees, human rights, the environment and climate as well as business ethics. At Vinge, we view it as strategically important to train and develop our employees in relation to sustainability issues. This also gives us the possibility to integrate a sustainability perspective into our advice. Our decision to further strengthen our internal training function within sustainability issues is a part of this work. One process which we view as particularly significant is the establishment of Vinge Pulse – our employee survey where we actively follow our most important resource, i.e. our employees. A genuine commitment from our employees is an important issue in order for us to be able to provide advice of the highest quality. Maria-Pia Hope During the year, we have also updated our environmental Managing Partner policy and implemented a new Code of Conduct for suppliers, both of which have clarified and strengthened our position in this respect. As a member of the UN Global Compact, we are committed to complying with our obligations in relation to these principles and see a positive way forward in our sustainability work in accordance with the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. This sustainability report is our Communication on Progress. Sustainability Report © Advokatfirman Vinge KB 2020 5 Advising clients Our advice is based on both regulatory and international Steering documents regimes such as the UN Guiding Principles on Business Vinge’s Code of Conduct for employees is the main and Human Rights and the OECD Guidelines for Multinasteering document that addresses our responsibilities tional Enterprises, the European Convention on Human and working methods. Issues concerning human rights Rights as well as other relevant legal frameworks. We are also addressed in the Code of Conduct for suppliers. assist clients by providing regular, tailor-made advice on In addition to the Code of Conduct, we also work on the matters pertaining to sustainability, the identification of basis of the IBA Practical Guide on Business and Human sustainability risks in transactions and investigations and Rights for Business Lawyers and the Swedish Bar Associacrisis management. tion’s recommendations on implementing the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, which are For Vinge, it is essential that we integrate the sustaina­ based upon the guidelines issued by the IBA (Internability perspective into our advice in every business area. tional Bar Association). We help clients manage risks linked to sustainability and to take responsibility in relation to these issues. As a Identified risks part of this trend, Vinge has also strengthened the expert practice group, Corporate Crime & Compliance, consistThe risks associated with providing advice can involve ing of experts from, among other things, anti corruption, the full spectrum of sustainability issues. It is thus criminal law and internal investigations, and strengthessential to integrate the sustainability perspective in our ened the inter office co operations in relation to compliadvice. The risks can be very different depending on the ance issues. industry, country of operation and the complexity of the client’s operations. We have a responsibility to ensure that the client is aware of the potential risks and to propose solutions for counteracting any negative impact on people and the environment. Sustainability Report © Advokatfirman Vinge KB 2020 6 ” For Vinge, it is essential that we integrate the sustainability perspective into our advice in every business area. Measures implemented during the year Objectives for the coming year and results During 2020, we will integrate issues concerning human During 2019, we have further strengthened the practice rights and labour rights, anti-­corruption and other group Corporate Crime & Compliance which, among other sustainability issues in our advice to clients within things, works in relation to anti-corruption and internal various legal areas, not least in order to comply with the investigations in order to meet the growing demand for guiding rules and the Code of Conduct of the Swedish services in these areas. As a part of integrating these Bar Association to the requisite extent. In order to be aspects into all business areas, this practice group works in able to integrate sustainability issues into our advice, it close co-operation with other practice groups at the firm is often relevant to conduct a dialogue with our clients and the inter-office co-operation regarding compliance on priorities within the sustainability area. Accordingly, issues has been strengthened during the year. During internal training concerning the UN Guiding Principles the year we have also participated in the UN Forum on for Business and Human Rights and other relevant legal Business and Human Rights in Geneva in order to monitor frameworks will be held for all practice groups on the developments in relation to business and human rights. basis of the issues which are relevant within the scope Vinge’s Code of Conduct has been implemented internally of Vinge’s advisory services. During the year, we will through various forms of internal training. offer training regarding the Code of Conduct in order to emphasise the continuing importance thereof. Sustainability Report © Advokatfirman Vinge KB 2020 7 Internal sustainability work Our employees We have noted that we have good results in areas such as Our approximately 450 employees constitute the basis for work environment, commitment, loyalty and leadership, Vinge’s development and success. A high level of experbut we also see room for improvement in relation to the tise and genuine commitment on the part of our employarea of health. ees are essential to our success in providing advice of the highest quality to our clients. Our method of working by An equal opportunities workplace free attracting, developing and engaging our talented indifrom discrimination viduals is thus constantly in focus with us, as well as our We believe in a workplace where each and every person work in creating equal conditions for our employees to has the possibility to reach their full potential. We view perform to their full potential. differences as an asset which we can benefit from in our business and in meetings with our clients. In order to obtain a more detailed picture of what our employees value in their work situation, as well as how At Vinge: they experience their working day and their possibilities • the operations shall be free from discrimination at Vinge, during 2019 we introduced a new form of regular employee surveys. Through Vinge Pulse, which • all employees shall have equal rights and opportunities we have chosen to call the tool, all managers regularly in relation to their work and development possibilities receive a view of their employees experience of the work • in 2020, 50% of all elected partners over the last five environment, their health, commitment, loyalty and years shall be women leadership. The results of these surveys are transparent, • no one shall feel discriminated against on the basis of and each employee has access to his or her practice any of the discrimination grounds group’s results. The underlying notion in relation to Vinge • no one shall feel harassed or bullied at the workplace in Pulse is that issues which relate to the employee's own any form whatsoever work situation are followed in real time in order to be able to act proactively and together. Each survey is followed • no one shall feel discriminated against in the recruitment process or in conjunction with appointments up within the individual practice group and joint relating to service functions and positions, irrespecmeasures are produced based on the group’s results. The tive of whether this constitutes an internal or external inter-­office result is followed up and measured centrally recruitment in Vinge’s management group. Sustainability Report © Advokatfirman Vinge KB 2020 8 • differences in salary or employment terms and conIn 2019, we won for the seventh year in a row the award ditions which are based on any of the discrimination European Women in Business Law Awards as the firm in grounds shall not exist Sweden which has succeeded best in its equal opportunities work. For us, it is quite self-evident that everyone is The aforementioned objectives are followed up by us regugiven ideal opportunities to succeed and be successful in larly in our Vinge Pulse, our annual salary review as well their work. All things being equal, we strive for a gender as in the internal operation forum, consisting of employbalance in each practice group, project groups and other ees from different parts of the organisation. Among other forms of co-operation. This is also reflected in our manthings, we have a co-ordination group where we identify agement positions and executive bodies. The composition and discuss risks in our operations as well as agree upon of our board of directors is three women and six men. In what active measures need to be taken in order to reduce the management group, the distribution is four women risks of discrimination and to promote diversity and equal and five men. Of our three local managing partners, two opportunities at the workplace. Our active measures are are women and one is a man. While we note that we have documented annually in our Policy and Plan for Equal a relatively even gender distribution at every level among Opportunities which is communicated to the entire firm our associates, the majority at the partner level consists of via our intranet and which is also available in its entirety men. Accordingly, we have a specific goal of increasing to all employees. In addition to the co-ordination group, the percentage of female partners and our target is that 50 we also have reference groups within both the lawyers’ per cent of the newly elected partners during the period organisation and the business support organisation where 2015 – 2020 will be women. To date, the figure for the we regularly raise issues connected to gender equality and period is 41 per cent women and 59 per cent men. equal opportunities. VingePuls results 2019 Commitment Health Leadership 73 59 72 Loyalty Employee offering Working environment 79 83 73 Sustainability Report © Advokatfirman Vinge KB 2020 9 Gender distribution, women and men: Women 61,5% Men 38,5% All Lawyer organisation Vinge Women 59% 41% Men in total 239 in total 455 Women Men Women 61,5% Men 58% Junior 42% Senior 38,5% associate associate Lawyers* Lawyers** in total 116 in total 91 Men 15% Women 25% Partners Business support in total 72 in total 144 75% Men 85% Women * new employees, junior associate, associate ** senior associate, manager, senior manager Sustainability Report © Advokatfirman Vinge KB 2020 10 In our effort to maintain an organisation characterised by take measures. In the practice groups where we have seen diversity and gender equality, we always take into a decreased outcome in relation to health-related issues, account the demography of the group when recruiting. In the issues have been discussed within the group common those cases where we have an uneven distribution in measures have been developed. Examples of measures terms of age, background, experience, personality or which have been implemented have been to clarify how gender, we strive to identify candidates who can contri­ and when communications by email shall occur within bute to a greater diversity to the organisation. If we have the group, expectations of availability outside working several candidates for a position, we will choose the hours and presence at the office. The health issue is also candidate who contributes to our diversity, all other the focus of our systematic work environment work in qualifications being equal. consultation with our safety representatives at Vinge’s offices and we regularly provide health-promoting activiHealth and work-life balance ties and events. The role of a consultant occasionally entails a high tempo and delivery requirements with short deadlines, someDuring 2019, together with our co-operating partner the thing which can entail a risk from a health perspective if Swedish Olympic Committee, we have created an overall it results in stress or lack of time to recover. It is thus of the concept in order to promote health, well-being and utmost importance that a person’s workload and worksolidarity for all of our employees. The concept, which ing hours are monitored and that measures are taken encourages both the physical and mental health, is called when necessary. Accordingly, we monitor the workload Vinge Strong. The contribution includes a varied range on a weekly basis, and someone is designated in each of sporting and health initiatives which have been made practice group who bears responsibility for allocating available to all employees, irrespective of their personal work and establishing work teams on the basis of staff circumstances. In addition to this, our employees are availability. This prevents uneven workloads due to offered health contributions, subsidised massage as well the fact that we can follow up to ensure that colleagues as regular health checks where both their physical and have the resources required in the form of support, time psychological health are measured and quantified. Our and expertise. Flexible working hours and modern, health checks are performed via our corporate healthhigh-quality technology and tools that enable flexible care provider with which we have a close co-operation working allow our employees to exercise greater influand the possibility, where required, to engage expertise ence over their own work situation. It is equally imporwithin the area of rehabilitation and health. All of our tant that our managers serve as good role models and employees are also offered voluntary health insurance support the employees in creating a sustainable working which provides access to healthcare, conversational life. ­therapy and rehabilitation. As a result of the fact that we follow up our employees' A learning organisation experience of health, stress and workload through Vinge A high level of competence and good preconditions for Pulse, we also have better opportunities to quickly idenproviding services and advice of the highest quality are tify signals concerning any injurious circumstances and decisive for our operations. All employees are accordAttendance % 2016 2017 2018 2019 98% 98,2% 98,3% 98% Sustainability Report © Advokatfirman Vinge KB 2020 11 ingly afforded opportunities for skills development, not dents at the universities with which we co-operate. As a least through our own Vinge Academy, our internal result, we were placed in first place in Prospera’s annual training function for all employees. During the year, we survey among law students. We actively strive to establish have employed a Learning and Development Manager contacts with law students early on and to display our in order to further strengthen our internal professional practice and our employees. Through Vinge Week, our training and work in relation to strategic and continuous student network Vinge Talent, lectures, work experience learning. In order to strengthen the function, a Learning days and various co-operative arrangements with student and Development Co-ordinator has also been employed associations, we create many opportunities for contacts at the beginning of 2020. The academy’s content and with students. In addition, we offer extra work in our talform are under further development and 2020 will see the ent pool, student thesis clerkships and a summer internintroduction of further internal training and programmes. ship programme. During the summer months of 2019, we New formats for learning have begun to be implemented had a total of 35 summer interns at our various offices, and digitalised possibilities have been investigated. several of whom have thereafter already been employed to start during 2020. In addition to the internal training programmes there are also ideal opportunities to participate in external training During 2019 we have continued our efforts to strengthen and conferences, both nationally and internationally. our employee offering by clarifying our identity, our culture and what distinguishes us as an employer. We have The specific individual competence requirements are further developed a concept for law students, which is identified in conjunction with performance and follow-up one of our primary candidate groups, in order to identify reviews which occur on a six-monthly basis between the the core of our employer brand – the possibility to be manager and employee in question. yourself, the possibility to develop and the possibility to influence your work. The initiative, which was introduced at the beginning of 2019, and which entails that the By way of supplement to traditional training, our employmost recent employee has a seat at a management group ees are also offered the opportunity to participate in an meeting will continue since it is appreciated by both our internal rotation programme, a programme for foreign management group and our new employees. The possisecondments as well as secondments at our clients, which bility for our new employees to meet key persons, obtain leads to valuable experiences that broaden perspectives an insight into strategic discussions which are underand provide new knowledge. taken and the possibility for our management to acquire the perspective of our new employees, means that the Access to our colleagues’ expertise and the possibility of arrangement acts as a source of mutual exchange of inforlearning from each other remains the greatest source of mation and strengthens innovation and transparency knowledge. Noteworthy examples of the opportunities for where our strategic decisions are taken. knowledge exchange include mentorships, internal semi­ nars, workshops as well as inter-office practice groups The fact that organisations with committed employees and expert practice groups. Our employees also have the have higher profitability, better productivity and more possibility to enhance their competence by being given satisfied customers is well known. If we manage to extensive responsibility at an early stage for both client maintain a long-term high commitment of our employees work and the supervision of more junior colleagues. who enjoy their work, develop and contribute to the success of the firm, then we will succeed in our business. Attractive employer We have therefore chosen to place commitment in focus Attracting talent and keeping the best employees continue for our internal sustainability work, something which is to have a high priority in our business plan for longregularly measured in our Vinge Pulse surveys. From an term profitability and sustainable operations that meet already high level of index 73, the aim for 2020 is to reach our established, high quality standards. Today’s efforts the index 75. In order to fulfil this, it is of the utmost to acquire talent is palpable. During 2019, we succeeded importance that our managers continue to deliver, and well in our efforts to cultivate relationships with stuthrough their leadership support, our employer brand. Sustainability Report © Advokatfirman Vinge KB 2020 12 During 2019 we have thus maintained leadership training their new positions they also become our clients. As a for our managers within both the legal and business means of keeping in contact with our alumnae as well support organisation in order to afford the opportunity for as to highlight Vinge as the starting point of an exciting additional competence in how the leadership can career outside the firm, we have also offered a number strengthen and support our employee offering. In our new of alumnae the opportunity to come and talk about their Vinge Pulse survey, we also follow up on how well we journey from Vinge and beyond into enterprise during deliver our employee offering and note that our employees the course of 2019. We are just as proud of those lawyers confirm that our employee offering is both a true and who are trained by us but chose other routes as we are of palpable factor in day-to-day-work. In relation to those those employees who choose to stay with us. issues which relate to the core of our offering, we also see high values. Suppliers The primary sustainability risks in our supply chain On 31 December 2019 we were a total of 455 employees concern both human rights and working conditions, as at Vinge (this figure does not include hourly employed, well as the environment and corruption. In terms of interns, fixed-term employees or consultants). Employee human rights and working conditions, the risks are the turnover during the year was 13.3 per cent, lower than greatest in the supply chain of goods such as IT equip2018 as well as 2017 in parallel with that we have expement, food, office furniture and office supplies, as well as rienced growth. In our business, the majority of the new in the provision of services such as maintenance of the employees are recent university graduates. For us, a premises and dry cleaning. The greatest environmental degree of employee turnover is natural in light of the fact impact is from suppliers of the aforementioned goods as that some will choose to start careers with us only to well as travel and transport service suppliers. During the move on. Others choose a long or even their entire career year, we have introduced a new Code of Conduct for with us. To have commenced your career at Vinge is used suppliers which clarifies the sustainability requirements and viewed as a merit in the industry and we often mainthat we impose, and we have performed an internal tain contacts with our alumnae. On many occasions, in mapping of our supply chains to identify where we should focus our attention in terms of follow-up and dialogue. In addition, we will develop procedures and processes for Employee turnover the evaluation of suppliers. 17,40% 15,70% 453 14,20% 13,30% Number of employees Employee turnover % 435 455 411 2016 2017 2018 2019 Number of Employee turnover % employees Sustainability Report © Advokatfirman Vinge KB 2020 13 Environment and climate Steering documents Objectives for the coming year We have continued our focus on environmental and In the selection of transportation and courier services climate work on the areas in which we have the greatest to and from the offices, we shall, to the extent possible, impact, i.e. the supply chain of the goods and services choose the best alternative based on environmental we buy, transportation of these goods, employee busiconsiderations. Our objective is that 75 per cent of mesness travel, and how we use our offices. This is described senger deliveries from us will occur by means of electric-­ in more detail in our Environmental Policy which was powered or fuel-free alternatives, as well as that 90 per updated during 2019. cent shall be climate-neutral. Identified risks When booking business travel, environmental considThere is a risk that transportation and couriers and goods erations shall be factored into the selection of the most and services will have a negative impact on the climate suitable means of travel on each occasion. Our objective and environment. We thus endeavour to choose suppliers is that during the year we will procure an intra-group with an express and demonstrated focus on environmenbooking system and, through communicated policies and tal issues. In conjunction with the design and managea systemised booking of climate-compensated air travel, ment of our business premises, risks can arise connected to thereby reduce our environmental footprint to a greater to the purchase of fittings, the choice of energy sources extent. A continued and increased emphasis on sorting as well as steering and operation of the premises. In addiand recycling of waste will result in alternative choices tion, it is essential that we plan and manage our recycling in respect of waste receptacles, purchases of recyclaand waste and ensure that we reduce the latter. As a ble articles or biodegradable single-use items. We will result of the refurbishment of our Stockholm office, we are continue to inform and encourage our employees to use working systematically with a thoroughly studied proall recycle fractions in our areas and require our property cess in order to ensure that we choose materials which owners to handle all recycling of corresponding fractions. satisfy the highest possible environmental certification. In conjunction with future procurements and purchase of fittings, we will endeavour to ensure that 75 per cent of all Measures implemented during the year office furniture shall fulfil an Environmental Marking as and results well as 50 per cent of the remaining fittings. In those cases We have continued the hunt for alternatives to vehiclewhere it is possible, we prioritise furniture which has bound business travel within our surrounding area. been produced from recycled material. We work on conThus, we have entered into an agreement with a supplier tinuously rendering more effective our energy use at the for electricity-driven shorter taxi journeys and purchased same time as we are steering towards renewable sources. electric bicycles. We have also updated our customers Our objective is to only use electricity from renewable profile with the traditional taxi companies in order to energy sources not later than 2025. In order to reach this primarily choose electricity-driven cars, whenever objective, we impose requirements on our suppliers in possible. In connection with our messenger firms, we conjunction with procurements in order to ensure a Good have also achieved 65 per cent electricity-driven or Environmental Choice. Our objective for 2020 is to reduce fossil-fuel free vehicles of 75 per cent climate-neutral the use of energy in our offices by 15 per cent. messenger deliveries from our offices. We have also co-ordinated the loading of good deliveries to the offices, The consumption of food affects the climate and we whenever possible. We focus on increased recycling and evaluate and constantly improve our own consumption of during the year we have increased the number fractions foodstuffs in order to reduce our negative environmental in our offices as well as further strengthened our impact. In our catering and restaurant operations, the purchase of recyclable articles as well as disposable items. objective is to climate-adapt our menus, among other things, by choosing locally produced or vegetarian alternatives as often as possible. We also endeavour to ensure that any excess food is given to others and is not thrown away. Sustainability Report © Advokatfirman Vinge KB 2020 14 Business ethics Business ethics are principally concerned with regulaMeasures implemented during the year tory compliance. Accordingly, we have systematically and results worked for many years to ensure that we adhere to rules During the year, we have updated our general risk assessapplicable to Vinge. This primarily involves continuously ment as regards the risk of Vinge being used for money informing and training employees and implementing prolaundering and financing of terrorism. Our employees cedures and processes to limit the risks of participating in have been trained in order to identify the risks through a undesirable actions, operations or transactions. series of short internet-based lectures. We encourage our employees to report violations or In addition, we have revised our guidelines governing suspected violations. We give reminders at regular the measures that we take in order to counteract money intervals concerning how this can be reported through laundering and financing of terrorism in our operations. our whistle-blower system, which allows the person This is primarily as a result of legislative amendments. who is submitting the report to remain anonymous. No incidents have been reported via the system since it We have also commenced work in relation to producing was introduced in 2017. a new course on money laundering and financing of terrorism, which is intended to replace the courses on the Steering documents subject which we use today. Vinge’s business ethics steering documents consist of both external regulations such as the Swedish Bar AssociObjectives for the coming year ation’s Code of Conduct and the Swedish Anti-Corruption During 2020, we will review our guidelines in order to Institute’s Enterprise Code (Code on Gifts, Rewards and ensure that we comply with the Swedish Anti-Corruption other Benefits in Business) as well as multiple internal Institute’s Enterprise Code. policies and guidelines. Examples of internal policies and guidelines include our Code of Conduct, ethical In accordance with our stated ambition in relation to the guidelines, rules for trading in shares and other financial last year, we have evaluated and found an electronic tool instruments, guidelines for combating money laundering, which would have the potential to render our internal financing of terrorism and corruption, the information data protection work more effective and help us to mainsecurity policy and guidelines for handling personal data. tain good data protection procedures. Accordingly, the objective during 2020 is to continue the work in identifyIdentified risks ing a tool which is suitable for our specific needs and, if Money laundering, financing of terrorism, circumvention possible, to implement this. of international sanctions and corruption are all forms of conduct which undermine sustainability, both within the During 2020, we have the ambition of launching courses social and the environmental areas. If we at Vinge fail in in anti-corruption and GDPR. our attempts to counteract such conduct, then at the same time we contribute to human rights not being maintained and that our environment and our climate are negatively affected. Sustainability Report © Advokatfirman Vinge KB 2020 15 Social responsibility Vinge advises clients in achieving successful transacAs far as society is concerned, we invest in long-term protions. We also assist socially beneficial organisations jects to disseminate knowledge, work for greater diversity achieve their goals. Our desire to contribute to a better in the Swedish legal system, and elevate inclusion on the society explains why we have contributed our knowledge Swedish labour market. to a number of different initiatives in order to support and develop organisations that steer society in a positive Our involvement with enterprise aims to support entredirection. preneurship, innovation and growth at home and in a global context. We thus co-operate with chosen actors in order to make a difference and to improve matters for both individuals, It is our view that people grow through commitment, enterprises and society. We do this by sharing knowledge, education, knowledge exchange and relationships. Where supporting social entrepreneurship and endeavouring to individuals are concerned, we want to create and dissemensure development of organisations and people. inate new knowledge and thereby enhance the conditions in which people can grow in academia, business, sports We have chosen to divide our social involvement into and other areas, both in Sweden and around the world. three main areas: society as a whole, enterprises and individuals. We are involved in social issues such as education and knowledge exchange, inclusion and individual development as well as to give the preconditions for people to grow. Sustainability Report © Advokatfirman Vinge KB 2020 16 ” Vinge’s Diversity Project has awarded 183 scholarships in the past 17 years. The goal is to contribute to greater diversity in the legal profession. Examples of projects Vinge co-operates with the Swedish Olympic Committee Vinge’s Diversity Project has awarded 183 scholarships in (SOC). The co-operation concerns areas in which our the past 17 years. The goal is to contribute to greater diverknowledge, expertise and experience benefit growing sity in the legal profession. We strive to broadly reach Swedish Olympic activities. These comprise rights and out in schools to disseminate knowledge about what it brand issues, contract law and company issues, among means to work as a lawyer and support the ambition to others. The SOC’s ambitions and values match our own study, and to study law in particular. We also support law activities well, as the SOC and Vinge both strive to students by offering mentors and preference for summer contribute to individuals being able to develop and grow associate positions at Vinge. through knowledge, competence and expertise. We support local entrepreneurs and start-ups, as well as Based on the results and our stakeholders’ expectations, we global organisations. In our co-operation with Ashoka, will further focus on our social benefit involvement with we assist social entrepreneurs who drive change in the the aim of contributing to taking long-term responsibility. global community. SSE Business Lab is an initiative in entrepreneurship and innovation and fully in line with Vinge’s ambitions to support our domestic labour market. Our own initiative, Vinge Growth, is an endeavour that offers companies with a strong growth ambition guidance in every area of business law. Sustainability Report © Advokatfirman Vinge KB 2020 17
