GYP PROPERTIES Message from our Board Of Directors LIMITED 03 Corporate | 2020 Profile this Report 07 REPORT SUSTAINABILITY 05 About Our Approach to Sustainability 09 Material Topic Disclosures 19 Social Impact 30 GRI Standards Content Index 33 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 1 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED | 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CONTENTS 03 Message from our Board 19 Material Topic Disclosures of Directors Economic Performance Anti-Corruption 05 Corporate Profile Emissions Environmental Compliance Occupational Health and Safety 07 About this Report Diversity and Equal Opportunity Board Statement Customer Health and Safety Reporting Framework Customer Privacy Reporting Scope and Period Socioeconomic Compliance Access Feedback 30 Social Impact 09 Our Approach to Sustainability 33 Global Reporting Initiative External Initiatives and Memberships Content Index Sustainability Governance and Methodology Stakeholder Mapping and Engagement Material Topics and Organisational Goals 2 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED | 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Message from our Board of Directors Dear Stakeholders, Welcome to our 2020 Sustainability Report. Covid-19 has been the pivotal aspect of the year and has transformed the way we live, work and gather. With the pandemic’s global economic impact and cases rising daily, no one is spared and the vulnerable are impacted disproportionately. Governments around the world have deployed policies in a bid to support people and businesses, and as discussed in our Annual Report, we believe that the effects of the pandemic are expected to continue to be felt for some time more. Our hearts go out to everyone struggling and we would like to take the opportunity to thank all healthcare workers and essential services providers around the world for their selflessness, and for helping others during this time. As the world slows down, Covid-19 has prompted an increase in cybercrime, a setback in our efforts to reduce single-use plastics, and has given rise to personal protective equipment found in our rivers and ocean; in contrast, it has also led to a decline in daily carbon emissions and air pollution. Research has revealed a plethora of emerging trends, from the acceleration of digitisation; to changes in the way we travel; to demand for green policies. It has brought to light the concept of a green recovery, and we have seen the world’s interest in impact investments accelerate. Amid all these changes, we are also certain that the pandemic will have an impact on building use and space design in response to changing needs. 3 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED | 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT In our ever-increasing volatile, uncertain, complex and ambiguous world, radical transparency is becoming more and more critical and as such, the Group is continuously working to improve disclosure. This document includes detailed information about issues material to our business and demonstrates our commitment to improving our sustainability management, and we look towards coming out of this crisis stronger than before. Not only does this document serve the purpose of keeping our stakeholders up to date with the Group’s strategy and performance, but is also an essential management tool to identify and mitigate risk, and address operational inefficiencies. Now more than ever, the Group is committed to ensuring strength in our operations and governance, and to deepening our strategies of carbon neutrality and supporting social causes. We thank all our stakeholders for journeying with us, and wish you all the very best in the year to come. Mah Bow Tan Andrew Tay Gim Chuan Outgoing Chairman Incoming Chairman Stanley Tan Poh Leng Ng Tiong Gee Chief Executive Officer Director Pang Yoke Min Loo Wen Lieh Director Director 28 October 2020 4 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED | 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE GYP Properties Limited (“GYPP”, “the Company” or “the Group”) is a real estate company with assets under management of S$185 million as at 30 June 2020. With our vision of being an industry leader that delivers projects that owners and users value, the Group focuses on driving financial performance and sustained growth for our stakeholders, by embracing long-term value creation. Headquartered in Singapore, the Group is operational in Singapore and New Zealand and has a portfolio of 303,051 sqm of land, comprising commercial, retail and residential assets. GYPP leverages Singapore’s innovative development experience by combining expertise in multi-layered hubs and community living with New Zealand’s strong consideration for materials and the environment. Our property portfolio includes Braddell House in Singapore; Remarkables Residences in Queenstown, New Zealand; as well as Bellfield Estate and Pakuranga Plaza in Auckland, New Zealand, the latter of which is being re-developed into the new Pakuranga Precinct. The Group was listed on the Singapore Exchange in 2004, and is a member of the Singapore Green Building Council and a signatory to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. In 2019, GYPP launched “Gift of Home”, a social impact programme with a focus on addressing homelessness. For more information about our property portfolio, financial review and shareholder information for the financial year, please refer to our 2020 Annual Report. Key figures for the financial year ended 30 June 2020 may be found on the next page. 5 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED | 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT S$ REVENUE 8.6M 2.2M 0.2 M ADJUSTED S$ PROFIT ADJUSTED S$ AFTER E B I T D A* TAX * 0.28% Adjusted Return on Equity * PROPERTY PORTFOLIO SIZE S$ 185.3 M S$ 67.4M Net Assets S$ 28.3M MARKET CAP * Excludes non-cash fair value loss on investment properties of S$7.3 million. Note: Market capitalisation is based on the closing share price on 30 June 2020. Shares in issue (excluding treasury shares) was 274.9 million as at 30 June 2020. 6 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED | 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT THIS REPORT BOARD STATEMENT REPORTING FRAMEWORK The Group’s 2020 Sustainability Report is set out on a “comply This Sustainability Report has been prepared in accordance or explain” basis in accordance with the Singapore Exchange with the Global Reporting Initiative (“GRI”) Standards 2016: Securities Trading Limited (“SGX-ST”) Listing Rules 711A and Core option. Issued by the Global Sustainability Standards 711B, and Practice Note 7.6 of the Listing Manual. In addition Board, the GRI Standards are widely used around the world to disclosing GYPP’s impact on the economy, the environment and provide businesses and organisations a framework to and society for stakeholders; sustainability reporting has measure, understand and communicate critical sustainability become an essential tool for management’s discussion and issues on environmental, economic and social impact to decision-making. With sustainability being a key component stakeholders. In accordance with the GRI Standards, a of the Company’s wider strategy to create long-term value for GRI Content Index is included at the end of this report for a all our stakeholders, the Group is committed to continuous summary of all disclosures reported and their relevant page improvement. The material topic disclosures and relevant numbers. From time to time, we may also look to additional policies and goals for the Group have been identified by the frameworks for reference, such as the SASB Standards by Sustainability Committee and approved by the Board of the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board that provides Directors, which oversees the management and monitoring industry-specific financially material issues. of these impact areas, takes them into consideration in the determination of the Group’s strategic direction, and approves the Group’s Sustainability Report. 7 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED | 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT REPORTING SCOPE AND PERIOD Reports, which can be found on our corporate website; more information is provided below. Published no later than 30 November each year, this report covers sustainability performance across the Group, which includes our wholly-owned subsidiaries in Singapore and New Zealand, ACCESS and our businesses in property investment, development As part of our efforts to reduce our environmental footprint, and management. In-scope properties include Remarkables no hard copies of this Sustainability Report have been printed. Residences in Queenstown; Bellfield Estate and Pakuranga Plaza You may visit the SGX website or the Investor Centre at in Auckland; as well as Braddell House in Singapore. All entities www.gypproperties.com to access this Sustainability Report. included in the Group’s consolidated financial statements have been included in this report – please refer to pages 148 to 149 of our 2020 Annual Report for details of these entities. Although the data and information provided in this report is not externally FEEDBACK assured, the report has been prepared with the requisite due If you have any comments, questions or suggestions, please diligence and the Group may seek external assurance in the email sustainability@gypproperties.com. We welcome and value future. The reporting period is prepared based on GYPP’s financial feedback from our stakeholders as it enables us to improve our year, which covers 1 July 2019 to 30 June 2020. The most policies, processes and performance, as well as enhance the recent previous report was published on 30 November 2019. To accuracy, completeness and coverage of our reporting. better understand our sustainability strategy and performance, we encourage stakeholders to refer to previous Sustainability 8 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED | 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY EXTERNAL INITIATIVES AND MEMBERSHIPS Below are externally-developed initiatives to which the Group subscribes and endorses. UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL DEVELOPMENT GOALS COMPACT In 2015, all 193 Member States of the United Nations adopted The United Nations (“UN”) Global Compact asks companies to a plan to achieve a better future for all. The 17 Sustainable embrace, support and enact a set of core values in the areas Development Goals (“SDGs”) and 232 related indicators are of human rights, labour standards, the environment and antithe United Nation’s blueprint for a more sustainable future corruption. GYP Properties is a signatory to the Ten Principles and focuses on ending poverty, protecting the planet and of the UN Global Compact and this document serves as our ensuring that all people enjoy peace and prosperity by 2030. Communication on Progress. The Ten Principles of the UN Global As business cannot thrive in a world of poverty, inequality, Compact are derived from the Universal Declaration of Human unrest and environmental stress; it is our vital interest that the Rights, the International Labour Organisation’s declaration on 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development is delivered. As Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, the Rio Declaration such, the Group uses the 17 SDGs as a guide to ensure that on Environment and Development, and the United Nations as an organisation, we are doing our part to contribute towards Convention Against Corruption. We are committed to meeting this global vision. these fundamental responsibilities and to adopt these principles as the foundation of our corporate values. 9 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED | 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT HUMAN RIGHTS EMPLOYERS’ PLEDGE OF FAIR Principle 1: EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES Businesses should support and respect the protection of In 2019, GYPP endorsed the Employer’s Pledge of Fair internationally proclaimed human rights; and Employment Practices, which signals the Group’s commitment to be fair and abide by the Tripartite Guidelines on Fair Principle 2: Employment Practices. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. The Tripartite Guidelines on Fair Employment Practices, formulated by the Tripartite Alliance for Fair and Progressive LABOUR Employment Practices, sets out fair employment practices for adoption by employers and is supported by the Singapore Principle 3: Ministry of Manpower, the National Trades Union Congress Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the and the Singapore National Employers Federation. The five effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; principles of Fair Employment Practices are: Principle 4: 1. Recruit and select employees on the basis of merit the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; (such as skills, experience or ability to perform the job), and regardless of age, race, gender, religion, marital status Principle 5: and family responsibilities, or disability. the effective abolition of child labour; and 2. Treat employees fairly and with respect and implement Principle 6: progressive human resource management systems. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and 3. Provide employees with equal opportunity to be occupation. considered for training and development based on their strengths and needs to help them achieve their full potential. ENVIRONMENT 4. Reward employees fairly based on their ability, performance, contribution and experience. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to 5. Abide by labour laws and adopt the Tripartite Guidelines environmental challenges; on Fair Employment Practices. Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and BUSINESSES AGAINST SHARK FIN Principle 9: In 2017, Singapore was identified as the world’s second-largest encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally trader of shark fins. While sharks are apex predators and play friendly technologies. a crucial role in maintaining the health of marine ecosystems, shark populations are being decimated by overfishing, with both targeted and incidental catches contributing to ANTI-CORRUPTION fishery decline. According to the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (“IUCN”), a quarter of the world’s sharks Principle 10: and rays, and one third of pelagic (open ocean) sharks and rays, Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, are threatened with extinction. To do our part to protect sharks including extortion and bribery. and show our support for responsible corporate dining policies, the Group is a signatory of the WWF-Singapore Businesses Against Shark Fin pledge and has in place a companywide ban that prohibits the procurement of shark fins and other shark products at both internal and hosted events. 10 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED | 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT EKOS CARBON FRIENDLY solutions across the entire building and construction value chain. Through its green building product and green building CERTIFICATION services labelling programmes, SGBC sets high standards GYPP is certified Carbon Friendly with New Zealand social and benchmarks for green building solutions both locally enterprise Ekos, and uses a combination of carbon credits and regionally to help build more sustainable cities for better and Renewable Energy Certificates (“RECs”) in our carbon living. As Singapore’s representative on the World Green management strategy. GYPP has achieved this certification Building Council, SGBC actively contributes to the global green by offsetting 313.45 metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent building movement by sharing expertise and knowledge during (“tCO2e”) of our scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions. Carbon credits international conferences and events. purchased by the Group through Ekos create self-sustaining forest carbon projects that are certified, and projects are developed to deliver additional environmental and social benefits to communities, such as improving water quality, SINGAPORE BUSINESS resilience to erosion, sustainable incomes and gender equality. Carbon credits purchased by the Group fund forest FEDERATION conservation efforts in the Pacific Islands that create measured, The Group is also a member of the Singapore Business reported and verified carbon benefits. Revenue from the sale Federation, the apex business chamber championing the of these carbon credits helps fund the establishment of these interests of the Singapore business community in the areas forest carbon projects, forest conservation services within of trade, investment and industrial relations. It represents these project areas such as pest and weed control, as well 27,200 companies, as well as key local and foreign business as replacing lost income from the landowner that would have chambers. The federation serves three key functions: the come from farming or logging the same land. bridge between Singapore’s business community and the Government; the business community’s representative in building bilateral, regional and multi-lateral relationships; and a key provider of capability-building initiatives and services for SINGAPORE GREEN BUILDING Singapore businesses. COUNCIL GYP Properties is a member of the Singapore Green Building Council (“SGBC”), a non-profit organisation that forges public-private partnerships to foster innovative industry 11 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED | 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE AND METHODOLOGY At GYPP, we are committed to continuously challenging includes financial, operational, compliance and IT controls, ourselves on our sustainability journey and improving our as well as risk management policies and systems. The Audit business practices and management. The Group firmly believes Committee assists the Board by providing oversight of risk that good corporate governance is critical for long-lasting management and reviews the adequacy and effectiveness of trust with stakeholders. As such, the Board and management the Group’s risk management systems and internal controls. of GYPP regularly validate our business processes to maintain Additionally, the Audit Committee is also responsible for best practices and ensure sustainability across the Group’s reporting its observations to the Board on any matters under operations. We believe that conducting business with integrity its purview and making recommendations where appropriate. and commitment at all levels and establishing a transparent, accountable and equitable system increases the value of the Company and its value to our shareholders. For more In FY2018, a Sustainability Committee was set up to improve our information about our corporate governance and Board of sustainability performance, strengthen the Group’s direction, Directors, please refer to our 2020 Annual Report as follows: and enhance our existing Enterprise Risk Management • Our Board and its Committees, pages 29 to 31, 36; Framework to include our environmental and social impacts. In addition, our Corporate Marketing function was expanded to • Corporate Governance Reports, pages 38 to 51; include responsibility for Sustainability, wherein the Corporate Marketing & Sustainability function works with the various • Our nomination and selection processes, pages 42 to 43; business units to implement the sustainability strategy, reporting to the Sustainability Committee. The Sustainability • Processes to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and Committee reports to the Audit Committee and provides managed, and how they are disclosed, pages 38 to 48; updates on sustainability activities. Significant risks and impact • Process for determining remuneration, page 44; areas identified are assessed, managed and monitored within the Group’s risk management framework. • Remuneration policies for the Board of Directors and senior executives, pages 44 to 46; and • Related party disclosures, page 144. The Group continuously reviews its business and operational activities to ensure emerging risks, including environmental, In GYPP’s Enterprise Risk Management Framework, the social and governance (“ESG”) impact areas, are being management team is responsible for implementing specific considered for proper assessment, monitoring and reporting objectives, strategies, guidelines and day-to-day risk as appropriate. The Group seeks to minimise and safeguard management activities, as well as maintenance and making potential adverse effects on the Group’s financial performance recommendations to the Board. The Board has overall and where relevant, implements suitable measures to control responsibility to ensure accurate financial reporting for the and mitigate identified risks. Group, as well as effectiveness of internal controls. The latter 12 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED | 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Board of Directors Audit Committee Sustainability Committee Corporate Property Property Finance, Property Marketing & Management Management HR & IT Development Sustainability SG NZ Figure 1: The Group’s sustainability governance structure. With the Board as the Group’s highest governance body, reports core of what our business does, with all areas of the business are regularly disseminated and meetings are held as required to buying into it. Adopting an effective methodology to assess our develop and enhance their collective knowledge of sustainability sustainability practices not only allows us to identify key policies issues. Performance criteria in renumeration policies for the and performances, but also allows consistent and meaningful Board and senior executives are not currently explicitly attached reporting for more reliable tracking and understanding. to environmental and social objectives; nevertheless, as a Group we believe that sustainability needs to be embedded at the 13 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED | 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY METHODOLOGY PLAN AND SCOPE ENGAGE REPORT STAKEHOLDERS COLLECT ASSESS DATA MATERIALITY Figure 2: The Group’s internal framework to assess and evaluate our ESG practices. 14 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED | 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STAKEHOLDER MAPPING AND ENGAGEMENT The first step to managing the Group’s impact areas is the analysis of our value and supply chains. Doing so allows us to articulate the Group’s activities, map our stakeholders and conduct targeted engagement around topic materiality. OUR VALUE CHAIN PROPERTY SALES & PROPERTY ACQUISITION CONSTRUCTION DEVELOPMENT LEASING MANAGEMENT Sourcing Research Procurement# Marketing# After sales# Deal structuring Business planning Site development# Sales / leasing# Property management Financing Consultant team Foundations# formation Building construction# Design# Site restoration# Permits / approvals# Project management Marketing# Pre-sales / pre-leasing# Figure 3: The Group’s value chain includes primary and support activities, carried out by in-house and external parties#. OUR SUPPLY CHAIN SALES & PURCHASERS, SUPPLIERS TRANSPORTATION BUILDERS TENANTS, LEASING VISITORS Figure 4: The Group’s supply chain, including both upstream and downstream activities. GYPP’s key stakeholders include Government agencies and regulators; purchasers, tenants and visitors; shareholders; local communities; consultants, builders and suppliers; non-profit organisations; banks; and our Board of Directors and employees. Both formal and informal channels of communication are used to engage with our stakeholders and understand issues important to them and our business. 15 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED | 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STAKEHOLDER MAPPING & ENGAGEMENT Frequency of Key Stakeholder Groups Communication goal Means of communication Communication topics communication Employees Enhance business Regular Meetings, emails, corporate Human resource performance, and updates, phone calls, management and recruit and retain talent company events, group Group operations and documents, staff appraisals, updates annual survey Board of Directors Improve governance Quarterly and as Board meetings, informal Corporate governance and develop Group required meetings, emails, annual and strategy, risks and direction survey, board papers, performance company events Government agencies Ensure alignment with As required Meetings, emails, phone Corporate governance and regulators national objectives calls, Annual & Sustainability and opportunities for Reports, corporate collaboration announcements Shareholders Maintain shareholder Annually and as Annual General Meetings, Group performance satisfaction required Extraordinary General and corporate updates Meetings, Annual & Sustainability Reports, corporate announcements, website, emails, social media, annual survey Purchasers, tenants Ensure satisfaction As required Meetings, emails, campaigns, Quality, design, and visitors with products and launch events, social media, conditions, safety, services website, posters amenities and services, sale/leasing of properties, materials and waste management Local communities Improve well-being of As required Meetings, emails, Safety, noise, project our local communities campaigns, social media, development and website events Consultants, builders Foster teamwork and Regular Meetings, emails, phone Commercial and suppliers deepen collaboration calls, website, Annual & opportunities and to promote learning, Sustainability Reports, data operations innovation and collection, official protocols improvement across such as tendering processes material impact areas and vendor assessments Non-profit Contribute to industry Quarterly and as Meetings, emails, phone Social impact and organisations and non-profit interests required calls, website, Annual & environmental goals Sustainability Reports, corporate announcements, social media, events Banks Financing activities Regular Meetings, emails, phone Business and calls, website, Annual & development Sustainability Reports, performance and corporate announcements, opportunities social media Figure 5: Mapping our stakeholders for more targeted engagement around topic materiality. In FY2020, there have been no significant changes to the Group’s size, structure, ownership or supply chain. This report draws upon the outcomes of stakeholder engagement processes used by the Group in its ongoing activities, as well as our annual surveys and data collected. The Group believes that the outcomes of the stakeholder engagement processes are consistent with the material topics included in this report. 16 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED | 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT MATERIAL TOPICS AND ORGANISATIONAL GOALS In addition to our stakeholder engagement detailed in the previous section, the Group has reviewed the GRI Standards in the context of our sustainability goals and where we are in our sustainability journey; observed regulations and best practice guidelines; researched sector specific key issues; and considered our contributions to the UN Sustainable Development Goals and other external initiatives and memberships. The resulting assessments are summarised below and reviewed on an annual basis by the Board to ensure continued relevance and responsible business practices. SUMMARY OF KEY ISSUES AND MATERIAL TOPICS UN Sustainable Business Area Key Issues Material Topics Development Goals Property Transparency and anti■ GRI 201: Economic performance Development corruption Quality of planning, design ■ GRI 205: Anti-corruption and construction Environmental stewardship ■ GRI 305: Emissions Workers' rights and ■ GRI 307: Environmental occupational health and compliance safety ■ GRI 403: Occupational health and safety Property Transparency and anti■ GRI 405: Diversity and equal Management corruption opportunity Health, safety and well■ GRI 416: Customer health and being of occupants safety Treatment of tenants and communities ■ GRI 418: Customer privacy Workers' rights and occupational health and ■ GRI 419: Socioeconomic safety compliance Environmental stewardship ■ Social impact Topic Boundary: ■ Internal ■ Internal & External Figure 6: Material topics identified after applying reporting and industry guidance, as well as incorporating inputs gathered from stakeholders. Topic Boundaries are a description of where the impacts occur for a material topic (i.e.“internal” or “internal & external”) and describe whether the Group contributes to the impacts through our own activities or as a result of our business relationships with other entities. 17 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED | 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUMMARY OF ORGANISATIONAL GOALS AND ACTIONS Organisational Goals Organisational Actions To be an effective, transparent and As a public-listed company on the Singapore Exchange, we strive to uphold high standards accountable organisation. in corporate governance and business ethics and target zero non-compliance. We continue to strengthen our property portfolio and work towards providing value to our investors; continually assessing and addressing potential market risks. The Group is a signatory to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact and has Group mechanisms and policies in place to communicate and manage our commitment to anti-corruption, including our AntiCorruption Policy, Anti-Corruption Compliance Commitment, Policy on Conflict of Interest, Fraud Risk Management Framework, Internal Code of Securities Dealings, Whistleblowing Policy and Responsible Supplier Commitment. To promote inclusive employment, We maintain a policy of providing equal opportunities to all our employees and believe that decent work and safe working attracting, developing and retaining a diverse workforce is important to operate successfully. environments in our organisation GYPP has endorsed the Employers’ Pledge of Fair Employment Practices, an initiative by the and supply chain. Tripartite Alliance for Fair & Progressive Employment Practices. Health and safety are of utmost importance to us – GYPP is diligent in following the relevant codes and management systems for health and safety, and we require suppliers to ensure safe working environments for their workers. To develop quality buildings We strive to always uphold high-quality planning, design and construction that result in desirable that minimise environmental communities. We adhere to environmental regulations and target zero non-compliance. The degradation; foster inclusive and Group supports the precautionary approach to managing risks and protecting the environment safe communities; and promote across our value chain, which means that where there are threats of serious or irreversible damage, resource and energy efficiency. lack of full scientific certainty is not used as a reason for postponing cost-effective measures to prevent environmental degradation. The Group is committed to reducing our environmental footprint and we encourage responsible practices and use of resources among our suppliers and tenants. In FY2020, the Group introduced our Responsible Supplier Commitment, which is a Code of Conduct we require of our suppliers and their supply chains. GYPP is certified Carbon Friendly with Ekos and uses a combination of certified carbon credits and Renewable Energy Certificates in our carbon management strategy. To build a company that has a The Group identifies opportunities to support local and other vulnerable communities pronounced social core and through donations, fundraising activities, volunteering and gifts in kind. We seek to address engaged employees, through the inequalities faced by these communities and work with passionate organisations to supporting communities and social help achieve shared goals. In 2019, we launched our keystone programme, “Gift of Home”, causes. to contribute towards addressing homelessness. In partnership with our first beneficiary, Singapore non-profit organisation billionBricks; for every home GYPP sells, the Group donates an innovative weatherHYDE shelter to a displaced or homeless family in the region. Figure 7: The Group’s organisational goals and corresponding actions are summarised in the table above. 18 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED | 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT MATERIAL TOPIC DISCLOSURES ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE GRI 201 This topic is relevant to UN SDG 8: Decent Work and Economic No awards, royalty holidays, financial assistance from Export Growth. Economic performance underpins the Group’s ability Credit Agencies, financial incentives or other financial benefits to conduct business, provide jobs and positively impact our were received by the Group; and no government is present in communities. In our 2019 and 2020 Annual Surveys, our the Group’s shareholding structure. shareholders and employees indicated Economic Performance to be a top priority for the Group. This impact area occurs within Despite the challenges faced, the Group earned revenue of the organisation as a direct result of business operations. S$8.6 million this year. Excluding non-cash unrealised fair value loss of S$7.3 million on our investment properties and GYPP has a dynamic management team with diverse skills unrealised foreign exchange losses of S$0.5 million, the Group across our Singapore and Auckland offices, who drive and would have posted a S$0.7 million net profit for FY2020. For implement GYPP’s business strategy. The management team more information about our economic performance this year, holds regular business meetings to update on performance please refer to the following: and discuss challenges. The Chief Executive Officer bears executive responsibility for the Group’s business direction and • Key Figures, page 6 of this report; operational decisions; and quarterly Board meetings led by the • Financial Review, pages pages 26 and 27 of our 2020 Board Chairman are held to discuss economic performance. Annual Report; and GYPP’s business strategy and property projects are reviewed regularly to respond to changing market conditions. The • Financial Statements, pages 62 to 150 of our 2020 Group’s management approach provides accountability and Annual Report. good corporate governance, and enhances business returns for stakeholders while mitigating unnecessary risks. ESG factors are increasingly vital for business continuity, with ESG performance linked to a sustainable return. Climate FY2020 represents a historic year marked by Covid-19, a change has the potential to generate substantive changes in situation that is still rapidly evolving and the world is coming our operations, revenue and expenditure, providing both risks to terms with. Like many businesses around the world, the and opportunities across a range of commercial impacts. Group’s operations and revenue streams were impacted by These include: lockdown periods, resulting in the halting of construction on our Queenstown and Bellfield projects; partial closure of our retail • Stranded assets – e.g. due to physical impacts of climate centre; and restrictions on access for our commercial tenants change or obsolete product design; providing non-essential services. A cost cutting exercise was • Productivity and employee engagement – e.g. attracting and undertaken, which included a 10% reduction of directors’ fees, retaining talent, particularly millennials who feel accountable as well as pay cuts for the management team ranging from for social issues related to environmental protection and 20-30% during this time. With government assistance packages social equality (Deloitte Millennial Survey, 2017); available, financial assistance received by the Group were: • Brand reputation – e.g. consumers feeling confident about a. Tax relief and tax credits, page 97 of our 2020 Annual purchasing our products; Report (Singapore tax incentives of S$2,000); • Business model – e.g. input price rises and regulatory b. Subsidies, page 91 of our 2020 Annual Report compliance costs; and (Singapore Jobs Support Scheme of S$62,000, New Zealand Wage Subsidy Scheme of S$66,000); and • Operational disruption – e.g. weather events affecting construction. c. Investment grants, research and development grants, and other relevant types of grant, pages 91 and 95 of our 2020 Annual Report (Singapore property tax rebates of S$61,000, Singapore Wage Credit Scheme of S$6,000). 19 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED | 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT As the Group’s portfolio predominantly comprises new The Group seeks to continuously bring stakeholders developments, we are able to manage risk by ensuring impacts more value with a focus on best practices and sustainable are appropriately reviewed and analysed; for instance, The development, which allows us to remain attractive to our Sustainability Accounting Standards Board recommends employees, shareholders, purchasers, tenants, visitors and physical impacts of climate change as a sustainability issue local communities. Moving forward, our focus is delivering that is likely to affect the financial condition of companies within business performance in a vulnerable and constantly changing the real estate sector in their SASB Materiality Map®. Physical world, with an emphasis on remaining nimble in these uncertain impacts include higher temperatures, rising sea levels, more times. The Group will continue to drive financial performance extreme weather events and change in rainfall patterns, which and deliver sustained growth for our stakeholders by embracing will impact the Group’s property development activities. These long-term value creation with a diversified property portfolio. risks, particularly flood risk due to rising sea levels, are considered As at 30 June 2020, GYPP has assets under management of during acquisitions and are managed by the management team S$185.3 million. We continue to believe that New Zealand is an that makes recommendations where appropriate. attractive and stable market with long-term growth potential. ANTI-CORRUPTION GRI 205 This topic is relevant to UN SDG 16: Peace, Justice and Strong conduct our business with the highest standards of integrity Institutions. As a signatory to the Ten Principles of the UN Global and honesty and we expect all staff to maintain the same Compact, we are committed to working against corruption in standards in everything they do. The Group has an antiall its forms, including extortion and bribery (Principle 10). The corruption policy in place approved by management and the Group believes that upholding an ethos of transparency and Audit Committee. The purpose of the management approach compliance is critical to being an effective and accountable is to mitigate risk of corruption within the Group, as well as the institution, and that high ethical standards are vital in building risk of becoming complicit in bribery, bribe solicitation and trust with stakeholders and maintaining a strong corporate extortion. reputation. Once again, our shareholders and employees indicated Anti-Corruption as a top priority for the Group in In order to communicate the Company’s commitment to our 2019 and 2020 Annual Surveys. This impact occurs both anti-corruption, as well as anti-corruption best practice and internally and externally – through our own activities, as well as compliance requirements, all employees are signatories to a result of our business relationships with other entities. an Anti-Corruption Compliance Commitment to educate and broaden awareness throughout the organisation. Our staff are The Group has in place an Enterprise Risk Management reminded of the importance of upholding the highest standards Framework wherein the management reports quarterly to the and are updated by the Group with relevant developments in Audit Committee which assists the Board in providing oversight international and local regulations where applicable. In line of risk management in the Company. The Audit Committee is with best practice, the Group requires employees involved in responsible for reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of a conflict of interest situation or in one which could potentially the Group’s risk management systems and internal controls, lead to a conflict of interest, to report the matter to the Company. including fraud risks. For more information about the Group’s Employees are also encouraged to report concerns about any risk management, internal controls and the Audit Committee, unethical or unlawful behaviour or any actions that may put the please refer to pages 46 to 49 of our 2020 Annual Report. The Group’s integrity at risk. Policies and mechanisms for seeking system of internal controls and risk management established advice about ethical and lawful behaviour are detailed in the by the Group provides reasonable, but not absolute, assurance Group’s Employee Handbook with blackout trading periods of that the Group will not be adversely affected by any event that GYPP shares also observed before results announcements. To can be reasonably foreseen as it strives to achieve its business promote responsible and secure whistleblowing, the Group has objectives. However, the Board also notes that no system of established a Whistleblowing Policy to provide a mechanism internal controls and risk management can provide absolute for staff of GYPP to report malpractices in the workplace to assurance against the occurrence of material errors, poor the appropriate person and for the necessary follow-up action judgement in decision-making, human errors, losses, fraud or to be taken. This mechanism facilitates malpractices being other irregularities. reported and dealt with in a timely and appropriate manner and protects genuine whistleblowers from any unfair treatment as a While no specific anti-corruption training has been received result of their reports. In FY2020, we introduced a Responsible by employees in the last financial year, select employees Supplier Commitment that requires new suppliers to accept attended training that included areas such as risk management and comply. On the next page is a summary of mechanisms and controls, including anti-corruption. At all times, we aim to and policies in place. 20 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED | 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Governance Anti-Corruption Policy GYPP adopts a zero-tolerance stance towards corruption and bribery. Employees are expected to conduct and carry themselves in a manner consistent with the values of GYPP, and are required to adhere to a Code of Conduct and observe ethical behaviour. Anti-Corruption Compliance Commitment All GYPP employees are signatories to an anti-corruption compliance commitment aimed at protecting the Company from corruption risks, as well as educating and broadening awareness throughout the Group. Policy on Conflict of Interest GYPP has a rigorous set of procedures to address any potential conflict of interest. All interested person transactions and situations of conflicted interest are subject to review by the Audit Committee, and all employees and major service providers must declare any potential conflicts of interest before entering into transactions. Fraud Risk Management Framework GYPP has a framework that sets out the principles and approach in a robust system of controls and procedures to manage fraud risks. The processes identify areas exposed to fraud and ensures they are clearly defined and incorporated in the Risk Profile Register. Internal Code of Securities Dealing GYPP has an internal code which prohibits Directors and executives of the Group from dealing in its shares while in possession of unpublished material or non-public price sensitive information in relation to such securities and during blackout trading periods. Whistleblowing Policy GYPP has a Whistleblowing Policy, which ensures that staff can raise any matters that cause them concern to their immediate supervisor (or in other instances, to the CEO, CFO, Corporate Marketing Director or the Audit Committee) with the knowledge that it would be taken seriously, be dealt with in the highest confidence, and be acted upon; while ensuring protection from possible reprisals and victimisation. Responsible Supplier Commitment GYPP has a Supplier Code of Conduct in place that defines the principles of ethical, social and sustainable development with which the Group adopts, and which we require that our suppliers and their supply chains comply. New suppliers are required to comply with its content and to promote compliance among its stakeholders, including its employees, agents, subcontractors and suppliers. The Group encourages its suppliers to set up Corporate Social Responsibility initiatives to take account of the social, environmental and economic impacts of their activities. Figure 8: Group mechanisms and policies in place to communicate and manage our commitment to anti-corruption. The Group’s anti-corruption policies have been communicated to No reported incidents of corruption have been reported and 100% of the Group’s Board of Directors (6 Directors in Singapore) as a result, no employees have been dismissed or disciplined and 100% of the management team (6 managers – 3 in Singapore, for corruption. No contracts with business partners were 3 in New Zealand); and 100% of employees have signed the terminated or not renewed due to violations related to Group’s Anti-Corruption Compliance Commitment (16 employees corruption. No fines, penalties, settlements or sanctions for – 9 in Singapore, 7 in New Zealand). The Group currently has non-compliance with laws and regulations have been awarded approximately 68 business partners (18% in Singapore, 82% in against GYPP in relation to any corruption or governance issue. New Zealand), wherein the Responsible Supplier Commitment GYPP targets to maintain zero incidents next year and into the has been communicated to 90% of current business partners. future. Acceptance of our Responsible Supplier Commitment is mandatory for all new suppliers engaged from FY2020; currently, 68% of all existing business partners have shown their support by accepting the Code of Conduct. 21 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED | 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT EMISSIONS GRI 305 This topic is relevant to UN SDG 13: Climate Action and SDG 7: Affordable and Clean Energy. As a signatory to the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact, we are committed to supporting a precautionary approach to environmental challenges (Principle 7), undertaking initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility (Principle 8) and encouraging the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies (Principle 9). With impacts already being felt around the world, climate change is no longer a distant threat. In 2015, 195 countries signed The Paris Agreement, the world’s first comprehensive binding climate agreement. A key aspect of the Paris Agreement includes a commitment to keeping the rise in global temperature well below 2°C above pre-industrial levels, and to strive to limit this to 1.5°C. As such, emissions is a material impact for GYPP and we are committed to reducing our carbon footprint. This impact occurs both internally and externally – through our own activities, as well as a result of our business relationships with other entities. The Group has a carbon management strategy that involves working with our relevant stakeholders to complete our greenhouse gas (“GHG”) inventory, reducing overall energy use, increasing the proportion of renewable energy consumption, and offsetting our GHG emissions. The purpose of the management approach is to reduce the Group’s carbon footprint, continuously improve on disclosure, and progress towards “net zero carbon”, as defined by the World Green Building Council. The Group reports using the financial consolidation approach and the calculations in this disclosure include CO2 (carbon dioxide), CH4 (methane) and N20 (nitrous oxide); The global warming potential (“GWP”) rates from the Fifth Assessment Report (“AR5”) have been used, along with the following calculation tools and emission factors: IPCC Greenhouse Gas Protocol GHG Emissions Calculation Tool v2.6; Greenhouse Gas Protocol Emission Factors from Cross-Sector Tools (March 2017); Singapore’s Energy Market Authority, updated 11 July 2018; and New Zealand’s Ministry for the Environment, A Guide for Organisations – 2019. The figure below shows the Group’s total annual GHG emissions in metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (“tCO2e”), and GHG emissions avoided using carbon footprint reduction instruments since FY2018. GHG Emissions (tCO2e) FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 Scope 1 17.69 1 8.22 7.83 Scope 2 329.22 316.75 34.692 Total Scope 1+2 Emissions after RECs 346.92 324.96 42.52 Scope 3 886.65 893.23 270.933 Total Scope 1+2+3 Emissions after RECs 1,233.57 1,218.19 313.45 Carbon offsets (70.00) (1,218.00) (313.45) Total GHG emissions after RECs and carbon offsets 1,163.57 0.19 0.00 Figure 9: The Group’s Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions; “RECs” stands for Renewable Energy Certificates. Due to rounding, numbers presented in this table may not add up precisely to the totals provided. Scope 1 Emissions are direct emissions from GYPP owned or controlled sources. This includes emissions from fuel used by our company owned vehicle and on-site combustion of fuel from an emergency generator at a GYPP managed property. As our emergency generator is only refuelled occasionally, GHG emissions are recorded in the year it is fuelled. Emissions have been calculated based on vehicle distance travelled and fuel log records. Scope 2 Emissions are indirect emissions from the generation of purchased energy for areas the Group controls/manages. This includes emissions from our offices and shared areas at GYPP managed properties (Braddell House and Pakuranga Plaza). Energy consumption has been obtained from our energy providers. Scope 3 Emissions are indirect emissions from other indirect sources that occur in our value chain. This calculation includes both domestic and international business air travel across the Group; as well as emissions produced by tenants at GYPP managed properties. This year, we expanded our boundary to include Scope 3 emissions from heavy equipment used during construction at Bellfield Estate. Only hired equipment has currently been included; additional data for non-hired equipment is currently unavailable to us and the Group has been unable to obtain similar information for construction at Remarkables Residences. Emissions have been calculated based on passenger distance and class travelled, as well as fuel reports provided by our civil engineer. 1 In FY2018, the Group was still distributing the final Yellow Pages Directories in Singapore. Our on-site emergency generator was refuelled this year, with no refuels in FY2019 and FY2020. 2 GHG emissions savings of 211.40 tCO2e from Braddell House were made using renewable energy certificates. 3 GHG emissions savings of 471.13 tCO2e from Braddell House were made using renewable energy certificates. In FY2020, our boundary was expanded to include Scope 3 emissions from hired heavy equipment used during construction at Bellfield Estate. 22 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED | 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT To demonstrate GYPP’s commitment to lowering our carbon footprint, the Group has aligned our carbon reduction goal with the World Green Building Council’s Net Zero Carbon Buildings Commitment. This Commitment challenges companies, cities, states and regions to reach Net Zero operating emissions in their portfolios by 2030. In addition to reducing overall energy use, GYPP utilises two widely used instruments – Renewable Energy Certificates (“RECs”) and carbon offsets. RECs are used to validate the consumption of electricity from renewable sources and are measured in terms of electricity units. Carbon offsets are used to represent the avoidance of greenhouse gas emissions through investing in environmental projects to balance out our carbon footprint and are measured in units of carbon dioxide equivalent. GYPP works with Singapore energy provider, Geneco (Seraya Energy) to obtain RECs from the Tradable Instruments for Global Renewables (“TIGRs”) Registry for Braddell House-related electricity consumption. The Group obtained RECs for 1,438,000 kWh of electricity consumed at Braddell House for the year. TIGRs was launched in 2016 by APX, Inc. in partnership with Sunseap, Singapore’s leading solar power developer; multi-national corporate buyers; and the Solar Energy Research Institute of Singapore. GYPP also works with New Zealand-based Ekos to offset our remaining Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions. Ekos is a social enterprise that grows and protects indigenous forests, delivering sustainable development outcomes in rural communities in Aotearoa-New Zealand and the Pacific Islands. Their carbon credits come from the growth of new forests and the protection of existing forests from logging, and all credits sold by Ekos are retired from the appropriate third-party registry. GYPP is certified Carbon Friendly with Ekos, which was achieved by offsetting 313.45 tCO2e. Greenhouse gas emissions intensity ratios for GYPP owned and managed properties since FY2018 are provided in the table below and take into consideration renewable energy certificates for Braddell House. GHG Emissions (tCO2e) FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 Braddell House, Singapore 70.90 67.39 0.00 Pakuranga Plaza, New Zealand 6.08 6.42 6.06 Figure 10: GHG emissions intensity ratios for Braddell House and Pakuranga Plaza. GYPP’s reduction plans are based on individual building targets and building managers are responsible for achieving their individual building targets and programmes. In FY2020, the Group’s operations were impacted by Covid-19 lockdown periods – resulting in travel restrictions, the partial closure of our retail centre, and restrictions on access for commercial tenants providing non-essential services – contributing to the reduction of emissions for FY2019 / FY2020. The table below shows the Group’s annual changes in emissions due to reduction initiatives and unforeseen circumstances. Annual Changes in Emissions (tCO2e) FY2017 / FY2018 FY2018 / FY2019 FY2019 / FY2020 Scope 1+2 Emissions not available (21.96) (282.44) Figure 11: The Group’s changes in Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions. The Group is working with our consultants and builders to incorporate Homestar rating elements – which include energy, health, comfort, water, waste and materials – into our design work, and expect to reach between six and nine stars. Homestar is a comprehensive, independent national rating tool by the New Zealand Green Building Council. A ‘6 Homestar’ rating or higher provides assurance that a house will be better quality – warmer, drier, healthier and cost less to run – as compared to a typical new house built to building code; and a ‘10 Homestar’ rating denotes a world leading home. To optimise the use of our buildings, we select the latest in energy-efficient lighting, heating and appliances. As Construction materials make up 60-80% of GHG emissions associated with the production of a building, the Group is exploring alternative materials and methods of construction to both reduce the embodied carbon of our buildings, as well as to reduce construction and demolition waste. 23 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED | 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE GRI 307 This topic is relevant to UN SDG 16: Peace, Justice and Strong air and water, via the Resource Management Act 1991 (‘RMA”). Institutions, SDG 11: Sustainable Cities and Communities and The RMA manages the use, development and protection SDG 15: Life on Land. As a signatory to the Ten Principles of of natural and physical resources in a way, or at a rate, which the UN Global Compact, we are committed to supporting a enables people and communities to provide for their social and precautionary approach to environmental challenges (Principle cultural well-being and for their health and safety, while at the 7) and undertaking initiatives to promote greater environmental same time: responsibility (Principle 8). By supporting the precautionary approach to managing risks and protecting the environment • Sustaining the potential of natural and physical resources across our value chain; where there are threats of serious or (excluding minerals) to meet the reasonably foreseeable irreversible damage, lack of full scientific certainty is not used needs of future generations; as a reason for postponing cost-effective measures to prevent • Safeguarding the life-supporting capacity of air, water, soil environmental degradation. and ecosystems; and Our shareholders and employees indicated Environmental • Avoiding, remedying or mitigating any adverse effects on Compliance to be a top priority for the Group in our 2019 the environment. and 2020 Annual Surveys. As a public-listed company on the Singapore Exchange, we strive to uphold high standards The Group considers the environment in our operations and in corporate governance and business ethics, including keeps up to date with best practices relevant to our business. compliance with environmental laws and regulations. The GYPP manages our developments and works with consultant Group also believes that environmental compliance is not only teams to deliver projects; and to ensure compliance, we work an important consideration for a strong corporate reputation, closely with our contractors and hire experts to lead the work but also helps to minimise financial and legal issues arising from where necessary. We take diligent care in adhering to the RMA non-compliance. For these reasons, environmental compliance standards and relevant regional standards, and we conduct is a material impact for GYPP. This impact occurs both internally regular reviews of policies and internal checks, as well as and externally – through our own activities, as well as a result of environmental impact assessments of our projects prior to our business relationships with other entities. construction to establish appropriate mitigation measures. The Group’s management approach is to comply with all applicable Our property portfolio is predominantly made up of assets in environmental laws and regulations; and to mitigate and New Zealand. With New Zealand’s heavy reliance on the natural remediate negative environmental impacts. The table below environment, the government promotes the sustainable shows the Group’s compliance record. management of natural and physical resources, such as land, FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 Total monetary value of significant fines ($) 0 0 0 Total number of non-monetary sanctions 0 0 0 Cases brought through dispute resolution mechanisms 0 0 0 Figure 12: The Group’s environmental compliance record. No fines or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws/or regulations were recorded in FY2020 and the Group targets to maintain this track record next year and into the future. 24 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED | 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY GRI 403 This topic is relevant to UN SDG 8: Decent Work and Economic suppliers adhere to and monitor OHS procedures. While our Growth and SDG 3: Good Health and Well-Being. This impact main contractors are responsible for their own OHS on-site occurs both internally and externally – through our own activities, during construction, we ensure that they have all applicable as well as a result of our business relationships with other procedures and reporting in place, and undertake random entities. The Group strongly believes in providing a safe working checks. Should any significant health and safety incidence environment across our business operations – not only is looking occur, management is informed and work-related incidents are after our people the right thing to do, but maintaining a good track investigated to identify the hazards, and determine corrective record is also important for our reputation, as well as minimising actions and improvements needed. financial and legal issues. For these reasons, occupational health and safety (“OHS”) is a material topic for GYPP. Due to Covid-19, the Group has implemented additional hygiene standards and precautionary measures at all controlled We comply to the relevant health and safety codes (New workplaces. These include complying with the relevant country Zealand’s Health and Safety at Work Act 2015 and Singapore’s requirements around safe distancing, using personal protective Workplace Safety and Health Act) which set out the principles, equipment as appropriate, conducting temperature checks duties and rights in relation to workplace health and safety in and assisting with contact tracing; increasing the frequency of each country, and have appropriate OHS management systems cleaning and disinfecting; introducing hand sanitiser stations in in place. These include ensuring the appropriate certifications high traffic areas; providing cleaning guidelines to retailers and and licenses are obtained to conduct our business operations. contractors; increasing security where needed; and providing a dedicated quarantine room, where relevant. On sites where we have control of both work and workplace, our teams review work activities on an ongoing basis to identify any Where the Group has no control over both work and workplace, new risks that need to be managed, conduct regular workplace GYPP has a responsibility to make efforts to prevent and inspections, put in place suitable control measures for potential mitigate negative OHS impacts that are directly linked to our hazards, and implement standard operating procedures to operations. GYPP’s Responsible Supplier Commitment defines ensure that employees are well-equipped and have the relevant the principles of ethical, social and sustainable development training to respond appropriately and safely. Staff are asked for which we require of our suppliers and their supply chains. From inputs during routine meetings on identifying health and safety FY2020, all suppliers are required to comply with its content and risks, and when choosing solutions. to promote compliance among its stakeholders. The code of conduct includes ensuring safe and healthy working conditions Where contractors are appointed, we ensure they are for employees; adequate personal safety equipment; employee selected based on our assessments and where relevant, the training on the main risks affecting OHS in the workplace; and recommendations of independent third parties. We provide that employees comply with the applicable safety rules and contractors with hazard information and control procedures regulations. where relevant, and maintain a “stop work” policy in the event there is reasonable doubt of safety. Should contractors The Group’s management approach is to mitigate injuries and encounter work-related hazards or hazardous situations, negative occupational health and safety impacts across our these are reported directly to the manager in charge and are value chain wherever possible. Below is a record of our safety addressed appropriately. All contractors are required to have performance based on incident reports provided by Group staff their own insurance in place. In order to prevent and mitigate and appointed contractors. negative impacts, we ensure that we are up to date with industry standards, reports and improvements; and that our Safety Performance FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 Property Development Number of workplace fatalities 0 0 0 Number of non-fatal workplace injuries 0 0 0 Number of minor first-aid injuries 0 13 4 Number of lost days 0 0 0 Property Management Number of workplace fatalities 0 0 0 Number of non-fatal workplace injuries 1 0 1 Number of minor first-aid injuries 3 1 3 Number of lost days 0 0 0 Figure 13: The Group’s safety performance record. 25 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED | 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY GRI 405 This topic is relevant to UN SDG 16: Peace, Justice and Strong implement fair and merit-based employment practices not Institutions, SDG 5: Gender Equality and SDG 10: Reduced only because it is the right thing to do, but also to increase Inequalities. As a signatory to the Ten Principles of the UN Global the prospect of finding the best person for the job. For these Compact, we are committed to the elimination of discrimination reasons, Diversity and Equal Opportunity is a material topic in respect of employment and occupation (Principle 6). The for GYPP and as such, our recruitment and performance Group has also endorsed the Employer’s Pledge of Fair assessments of employees are based on merit, work attitude, Employment Practices, an initiative by the Tripartite Alliance cooperation with other staff, as well as their efficiency and for Fair & Progressive Employment Practices, which signals our effectiveness of work. Our management approach is to provide commitment to be fair and abide by the Tripartite Guidelines equal opportunities to all our employees and avoid all instances on Fair Employment Practices. The five principles of Fair of discrimination at the workplace. Employment Practices are: In FY2020, the Group adopted a board diversity policy, which 1. Recruit and select employees on the basis of merit recognises the importance of having an effective and diverse (such as skills, experience or ability to perform the job), Board. The main objective of the policy is to have an appropriate and regardless of age, race, gender, religion, marital status balance of skills, experience, knowledge and other aspects and family responsibilities, or disability. of diversity (e.g. gender, age and nationality) on the Board to support the long-term success of the Group. Under the policy, 2. Treat employees fairly and with respect and implement the Nominations Committee is responsible for recommending progressive human resource management systems. to the Board the relevant practices to promote and achieve diversity on the Board. The Board is making progress on the 3. Provide employees with equal opportunity to be implementation of the board diversity policy and is placing considered for training and development based on their more emphasis on diversity when identifying persons for strengths and needs to help them achieve their full potential. appointment to the Board. The Group’s Board of Directors is 4. Reward employees fairly based on their ability, currently 100% male, of which 83.3% of Directors are over 50 performance, contribution and experience. years old and 16.7% is 30-50 years old. 5. Abide by labour laws and adopt the Tripartite Guidelines As at 30 June 2020, the Group has a total of 16 employees. on Fair Employment Practices. The information in this section covers employees of GYPP only and excludes consultants. While our corporate office activities, This impact area occurs within the Group as a direct result of facilities management and project management are conducted business operations. We believe that attracting, developing in house by employees, the Group uses external consultants and retaining a diverse workforce is important to operate and builders to deliver development projects. The Group does successfully. Operating in Singapore and New Zealand which not experience seasonal variations in employee numbers. are countries with diverse workforces, it is important that we GENDER LOCATION AGE <30 years >50 Years 3 employees 5 employees 19% 31% 56% TOTAL 44% 56% TOTAL 44% TOTAL 16 16 16 50% Female Male 9 employees 7 employees 100% permanent 100% permanent Singapore New Zealand 100% full time 86% full time 9 employees 7 employees 30-50 Years 0% part-time 14% part-time 100% permanent 100% permanent 8 employees Figure 14: The Group’s employees by gender, location and age. 26 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED | 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT We are committed to achieving gender equality through Ratio of the basic salary and remuneration of women to men for remuneration based on merit and the Group has a zero each employee category, by significant location of operation: tolerance policy for workplace discrimination, violence and harassment. The following information shows the ratio of basic • Management, Singapore – 0.556 salary and remuneration of women to men. As GYPP operates • Management, New Zealand – 0.807 in two countries, both locations have been deemed significant locations of operation and included in this disclosure. • Non-management, Singapore – 1.288 Ratio of the basic salary and remuneration of women to men for • Non-Management, New Zealand – 1.249 each employee category: No incidents of discrimination have been reported during the • Management – 0.614 period and GYPP targets to maintain zero incidents next year and into the future. The data in this section has been compiled • Non-management – 1.225 using information available to our Human Resources personnel, as well as employee surveys. CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY GRI 416 This topic is relevant to SDG 10: Good Health and Well-Being and Singapore; slip testing of floors; regular building safety and SDG 11: Sustainable Cities and Communities. The Group inspections, as well as obtaining our annual Building Warrants is committed to providing safe and healthy environments for of Fitness, where relevant. Management walkabouts are purchasers, tenants and visitors to enjoy. Furthermore, it is conducted regularly to provide an additional perspective within critical for our business and brand reputation that customers our properties of any issues that require attention and multiple are confident about purchasing our development projects staff and on-site contract staff are workplace first aid trained. In and visiting and using our premises. For these reasons, the event of a cardiac arrest, a regularly serviced defibrillator is Customer Health and Safety is a material topic for GYPP. This located in the office. Our management approach is to mitigate impact occurs both internally and externally – through our own risk of negative health and safety impacts for customers, and activities, as well as a result of our business relationships with enhance customer experience and enjoyment. other entities. Due to Covid-19, the Group has implemented additional 100% of GYPP’s property management and property hygiene standards and precautionary measures at our managed development businesses are regularly assessed for properties. These include complying with local requirements improvement, and the Group has established customer health around safe distancing, using personal protective equipment and safety policies in place. Our teams have identified potential as appropriate; increasing the frequency of cleaning and hazards, put in place mitigating control measures and set out disinfecting; introducing hand sanitiser stations in high traffic standard operating procedures, which ensure that employees areas; increasing security where needed; and where relevant, are well-equipped to respond appropriately and promptly conducting temperature checks, facilitating contact tracing, in case of incidents, and that they have the relevant training providing cleaning guidelines to retailers and contractors, and required to do so. We appoint contractors and suppliers that providing a dedicated quarantine room. have strong records, and we obtain the necessary licenses and certifications and carry out any necessary work to comply with In FY2020, we are pleased to record zero incidents of nonthe relevant health and safety codes (New Zealand’s Health and compliance concerning customer health and safety on our Safety at Work Act 2015 and Singapore’s Workplace Safety properties, and as such, no fines or warnings have been issued. and Health Act). We carry out regular fire alarm testing and We target to maintain this track record next year and into the future. evacuation trials overseen by relevant parties in New Zealand 4 Average basic remuneration of women in management divided by average basic remuneration of men in management. 5 Average basic remuneration of women not in management divided by average basic remuneration of men not in management. 6 For Singapore employees, average basic remuneration of women in management divided by average basic remuneration of men in management. 7 For New Zealand employees, average basic remuneration of women in management divided by average basic remuneration of men in management. 8 For Singapore employees, average basic remuneration of women not in management divided by average basic remuneration of men not in management. 9 For New Zealand employees, average basic remuneration of women not in management divided by average basic remuneration of men not in management. 27 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED | 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CUSTOMER PRIVACY GRI 418 This topic is relevant to UN SDG 16: Peace, Justice and The Group recognises the increased risk of cyberattacks Strong Institutions. With more time than ever spent online and and hence the impor tance of cyber securit y in the information being shared instantaneously, customer privacy Company. We endeavour to maintain, secure and ensure is an increasingly important issue that is related to mitigating legal and appropriate use of our information technology risk of personal information misuse, mishandling, identity theft (“IT”) infrastructure and systems at all times, and also and financial fraud. We believe that accountability and a good seek to enforce our IT policies, safeguard the integrity of track record are critical to building trust with stakeholders and computers, networks, data and all IT property interests. We maintaining a strong corporate reputation. For these reasons, have introduced appropriate administrative physical and Customer Privacy is a material topic to the Group and we are technical measures, such as up-to-date antivirus protection committed to doing our best to safeguard customer privacy. and encryption where appropriate, to secure personal data Our customers include visitors at our retail centre, tenants of used internally; and personal data used by our authorised our leased spaces and purchasers of our properties. As we third party service providers and agents is on a need-touse software platforms that interface with customer data, know basis only. As a result of Covid-19 and more employees engage third parties to support property sales and leasing, working from home, both global reports and internal logs and contract external security teams on our sites, this impact are showing that criminals are taking advantage of security occurs both internally and externally – through our own vulnerabilities, and increasing attempts to steal data and activities, as well as a result of our business relationships with cause disruption. In response, the Group rolled out unified other entities. endpoint management and enhanced threat protection software across the Company to further enhance IT security The Group aims to comply with the requirements of Singapore’s and also better manage phishing emails, malicious email Personal Data Protection Act 2012 (“PDPA”) and New Zealand’s attachments and malicious links in emails. The Privacy Act 1993, and has a Privacy Policy which provides information about how we collect, use and disclose personal The Group’s management approach provides good corporate data. This includes safeguarding personal data from unauthorised governance and accountability to maximise data protection access, collection, use, disclosure, copying, modification, and minimise risk of data privacy breaches and mishandling. disposal or similar risks; and we have internal measures in We are pleased to report zero complaints concerning place that address unnecessary retention of personal data and breaches of customer privacy and have no identified leaks, mechanisms to withdraw personal data. The Group recognises thefts or losses of customer data. We have had no fines and that no method of transmission over the Internet or method of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and/ electronic storage is completely secure. While security cannot or regulations. GYPP targets to maintain zero incidents next be guaranteed, we strive to protect the security of personal year and into the future. information and are constantly reviewing and enhancing our information security measures. 28 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED | 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE GRI 419 This topic is relevant to UN SDG 16: Peace, Justice and Strong Our management team is responsible for reviewing and Institutions and includes the Group’s overall compliance monitoring the Group’s policies and practices and any record, as well as compliance with specific laws or regulations material incidents of non-compliance are reported to the in the social and economic area. Compliance can relate to Board of Directors. The Group ensures good corporate accounting and tax fraud, corruption, bribery, competition, governance by observing best practices in compliance. As the provision of products and services, or labour issues, such a public-listed company on the Singapore Exchange, various as workplace discrimination, among others. This includes regulatory bodies have oversight of our operations and GYPP compliance with international declarations, conventions, is committed to conducting our business with integrity to and treaties, as well as national, sub-national, regional, safeguard the interest of all our stakeholders, both internal and and local regulations. The group believes that our overall external. In order to do this, our employees keep up to date compliance record, as well as compliance with specific laws on regulations and engage with the various authorities and or regulations in the social and economic area, is critical to experts as required. Regular checks are practised and we work being a responsible business. We believe that socioeconomic with experienced, knowledgeable and reputable consultants to compliance is also a fundamental requirement for building ensure works are compliant. By adhering to laws, regulations, trust with our stakeholders and maintaining our corporate guidelines and specifications relevant to our business, we reputation. As a signatory to the Ten Principles of the ensure that we build a strong and ethical reputation, and that UN Global Compact, we agree to embrace, support and we attract strong, like-minded partners and employees to enact a set of core values in the areas of human rights, work and grow with. We are pleased to report that there were labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption. For no complaints or incidents of non-compliance in FY2020, more information about how the Group manages specific and as such, there are no significant fines and non-monetary socioeconomic compliance issues, please refer to material sanctions for non-compliance with laws and/or regulations in topic disclosures Anti-Corruption, and Diversity and Equal the social and economic area. GYPP targets to maintain zero Opportunity. This impact occurs both internally and externally incidents next year and into the future. – through our own activities, as well as a result of our business relationships with other entities. The Group’s Enterprise Risk Management Framework and management approach ensure good corporate governance and accountability, and mitigate risk of non-compliance within the Group, as well as the risk of becoming complicit in human rights, anti-corruption and labour issues. 29 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED | 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SOCIAL IMPACT GYP Properties strongly believes that ‘having a soul’ is just as inequalities faced by vulnerable communities by providing important as creating economic value. We believe in building increased access to services and assets, and works with a company that has a pronounced social core and engaged like-minded organisations to help achieve these goals. We employees, through supporting communities and social believe that encouraging a giving culture nurtures empathy at causes. In alignment with UN SDG 10: Reduced Inequalities work and creates trust, engagement, as well as strengthens and SDG 1: No Poverty, the Group identifies opportunities to relationships. Joint experiences build bridges and creates contribute to society through donations, fundraising activities, psychological safety; and engaged employees are more likely volunteering and gifts in kind. GYPP looks to address the to feel connected to the Company. GIFT OF HOME X BILLIONBRICKS In 2019, the Group launched our keystone programme, “Gift from both hot and cold weather and offers women and children of Home”. As a real estate developer, we are passionate about privacy and a safe space. In June 2020 with the help of ABSbuilding inclusive and safe communities and with the provision of CBN Foundation, our first batch of weatherHYDE shelters were homes and places to connect at the heart of the GYPP business, delivered to vulnerable families who were severely affected by mud we have defined our operations to align our economic and societal flows in Barangay Buso-Buso, Laurel, Batangas in the Philippines. goals, and have chosen homelessness to be the Group’s main We hope these families and the community will recover soon, and cause area. According to The UN Refugee Agency and the Internal we look forward to seeing more shelters being distributed to serve Displacement Monitoring Centre, 25 million people lose their those in need. The Group would like to thank all our new home home every year. Unsheltered and exposed, many also lose their owners and our partners, billionBricks and ABS-CBN Foundation, lives with women and children being among the most vulnerable. for joining us in our mission of alleviating homelessness. Our first partnership under “Gift of Home” is with Singapore nonprofit organisation billionBricks. For every home GYPP sells, the Group donates an innovative weatherHYDE shelter to a displaced or homeless family in the region. Used most commonly as a refugee shelter or after a natural disaster strikes to help end poverty, billionBricks’ weatherHYDE is the world’s first reversible life-saving shelter that is insulated, which provides protection 30 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED | 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SOUTH CENTRAL COMMUNITY FAMILY SERVICE CENTRE The Group and our employees are passionate about fundraising campaign in support of low income families affected volunteering and have adopted South Central Community by Covid-19. 100% of funds from the #WeCareSG movement Family Service Centre (“SCC”) as our community partner in were distributed for basic needs, with priority given to families Singapore. SCC provides support to low-income and vulnerable with young children, single parents and the elderly. The Group families in the community. While giving support to families also donated masks to SCC and supported with logistics and who seek help in financial, social or relationship issues, SCC volunteers for delivery of additional masks and other items from also encourages community self-help and cooperation. This corporate donors to the vulnerable in the community. year, GYPP supported SCC with services in kind to launch a OTHER CONTRIBUTIONS Where possible, the Group lends a hand to support others. for children under the age of five. On the next page is a list of In Singapore, GYP Properties provides office facilities to the organisations and corresponding activities that we supported MILK (Mainly I Love Kids) Fund, a non-profit organisation that during the financial year at Pakuranga Plaza. We look forward to addresses the needs of children at risk. In Auckland, office further engagements in FY2021. facilities are provided to Plunket, a provider of support services 31 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED | 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Community Organisation Activity / Support Arthritis New Zealand Fundraising collection Auckland Council Community promotion Blind Foundation Fundraising collection Breast Cancer Foundation Fundraising collection Cancer Society Fundraising collection Canterbury New Zealand Business Association Walk a Mile fundraising collection Cystic Fibrosis Fundraising collection Girl Guiding New Zealand Fundraising collection Heart Foundation Fundraising collection Heart Kids NZ Fundraising collection Howick/Pakuranga Community Patrol Raising awareness Howick RSA Fundraising collection for Red Poppy Day Little Sisters of the Poor Fundraising collection Macleans College Student Market school based business studies activity where students make, market and sell their products to the general public New Zealand College of Chiropractic Social awareness about spinal health Pakuranga College Student Market school based business studies activity where students make, market and sell their products to the general public Pakuranga Rugby League Club Registrations Parkinsons New Zealand Fundraising collection Pest Free Howick Raising organisation awareness Red Puppy Appeal Fundraising collection Ronald McDonald Fundraising collection Salvation Army Fundraising collection Shen Yun Raising organisation awareness SPCA Fundraising collection Stroke Foundation Fundraising collection Totara Hospice Fundraising collection UNICEF Fundraising collection 32 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED | 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GRI STANDARDS CONTENT INDEX GRI Standard Disclosure Page / Responses GRI 101: Foundation 2016 GENERAL DISCLOSURE GRI 102: General Disclosures 102-1 Name of the organisation Page 5 2016 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services Page 5 102-3 Location of headquarters Page 5 102-4 Location of operations Page 5 102-5 Ownership and legal form Page 5 102-6 Markets served Page 5 102-7 Scale of the organisation Page 26 102-8 Information on employees and other Page 26 workers 102-9 Supply chain Page 15 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation Page 16 and its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach Page 18 102-12 External initiatives Pages 9 to 11 102-13 Membership of associations Page 11 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Pages 3 to 4 102-15 Key impacts, risks and opportunities Pages 17 to 18 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of Pages 9 to 10 behaviour 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns Pages 20 to 21 about ethics 102-18 Governance structure Page 13 102-19 Delegating authority Pages 12 to 13 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for Pages 12 to 13 economic, environmental and social topics 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, Pages 15 to 16 environmental, and social topics 102-22 Composition of the highest governance Page 12 body and its committees 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Page 12 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest Page 12 governance body 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting Pages 12 to 13 purpose, values, and strategy 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest Page 13 governance body 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, Page 12 environmental, and social impacts 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management Page 12 processes 33 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED | 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GRI Standard Disclosure Page / Responses GRI 101: Foundation 2016 GENERAL DISCLOSURE GRI 102: General Disclosures 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and Pages 12 to 13 2016 social topics 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in Pages 7 and 12 sustainability reporting 102-35 Remuneration policies Pages 12 and 27 102-36 Process for determining remuneration Page 12 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Page 16 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements None 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Pages 15 and 16 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Pages 15 and 16 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Pages 17 and 18 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated Page 8 financial statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic Page 17 Boundaries 102-47 List of material topics Page 17 102-48 Restatement of information Not applicable 102-49 Changes in reporting None 102-50 Reporting period Page 8 102-51 Date of most recent previous report Page 8 102-52 Reporting cycle Page 8 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the Page 8 report 102-54 Claims if reporting in accordance with the Page 7 GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index Pages 33 to 35 102-56 External assurance Page 8 MATERIAL TOPICS GRI 201: Economic 201-1 Direct economic value generated and Page 19 performance 2016 distributed 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and Page 19 opportunities due to climate change 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other Not applicable retirement plans 201-4 Financial assistance received from Page 19 government GRI 205: Anti-corruption 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to Page 20 2016 corruption 205-2 Communication and training about antiPage 20 corruption policies and procedures 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and Page 21 actions taken GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Page 22 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Page 22 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Page 22 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Page 23 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Pages 22 and 23 GRI 307: Environmental 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws Page 24 compliance 2016 and regulations 34 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED | 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GRI Standard Disclosure Page / Responses GRI 101: Foundation 2016 MATERIAL TOPICS GRI 403: Occupational health 403-1 Occupational health and safety Page 25 and safety 2018 management system 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, Page 25 and incident investigation 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and Page 25 communication on occupations health and safety 403-5 Worker training on occupational health Page 25 and safety 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational Page 25 health and safety impacts directly linked by business relationships 403-9 Work-related injuries Page 25 GRI 405: Diversity and equal 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and Page 26 opportunity 2016 employees 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of Page 27 women to men GRI 416: Customer health and 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety Page 27 safety 2016 impacts of product and service categories 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning Page 27 the health and safety impacts of products and services GRI 418: Customer privacy 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning Page 28 2016 breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data GRI 419: Socio-economic 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations Page 29 compliance 2016 in the social and economic area 35 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED | 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GYP Properties Limited Company Reg No. 200304719G 1 Lorong 2 Toa Payoh, Yellow Pages Building, Singapore 319637 | T. +65 6351 1000 I F. +65 6354 3828 I W. www.gypproperties.com 36
