2020 UN GLOBAL COMPACT communication on progress. MEMBER SINCE 2012 TABLE OF CONTENTS Letter of Support...............................................................3-4 Mission + Vision ................................................................5-6 Human Rights....................................................................7-8 Labor...................................................................................9-10 Environmental Policy......................................................11-12 Anti-Corruption...............................................................13-14 Who We Are ...................................................................15-16 Team Principles..............................................................17-18 Global Strategies..........................................................19-20 Key Strategies...............................................................21-22 Growing Partnerships..................................................23-24 Key Strategies.............................................................25-26 Zero Hunger..................................................................27-28 Health and Well-Being.................................................29-30 Quality Education.........................................................31-32 Gender Equality............................................................33-34 Water and Sanitation...................................................35-36 Work and Economic Growth.....................................37-38 Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure....................39-40 Reduced Inequalities..................................................41-42 Sustainable Cities........................................................43-44 Partnerships...................................................................45-46 Miyamoto International / Letter of Support LETTER OF SUPPORT Human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption are all global issues that need to be addressed—not only on paper, but through action. Each of these ideals is lived daily in our firm, from the commitment of our staff to the very operations and protocols of our business. At Miyamoto International, our mission is to “make the world a better, safer place.” As an earthquake and structural engineer who has traveled to dozens of disaster-stricken countries around the globe, including to Mexico City, Ecuador and Puerto Rico in recent years, I have seen firsthand the vital importance of upholding these principles—and the dangers of ignoring them. I have witnessed the destruction of human life due to structural failures that could easily have been prevented. With the Ten Principles in mind, Miyamoto undertakes initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility and adheres to transparent, sustainable business operations. The quality of human life around the globe can be improved by engineering safe communities and using the best technologies available to improve our built environments. Miyamoto fully supports the Ten Principles of the Global Compact and would like to join in your efforts to not only increase awareness of these vital global challenges, but implement change through the projects we pursue and the partnerships we build. Miyamoto gladly shares the Ten Principles with our sphere of influence, including partners, clients, and professional colleagues and project stakeholders. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of our strategy, culture, and daily operations, as well as engaging in collaborative partnerships and projects that advance the broader goals of the United Nations, particularly the Sustainable Development Goals. In closing, we are pleased to fully support the Ten Principles, and look forward to partnering with you to make the world a better, safer place. Sincerely, H. Kit Miyamoto, Ph.D.,S.E. President and CEO Miyamoto International Earthquake + Structural Engineers 4 Miyamoto International / Mission and Vision make the world a MISSION better, safer place. Make the world a better, safer place. VISION Be the undisputed global leader in earthquake strategies, high-performance engineering and project management. Take bold actions to fortify business, enrich communities and safeguard humanity. Positively impact society as a 1,000-person firm by 2025 with business units strategically positioned around the globe. 6 Miyamoto International / Human Rights HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Miyamoto International is a global earthquake and structural engineering firm that provides critical services to help sustain industries and communities around the world. Our passion to make the world a better, safer place has taken us to the epicenters of some of history’s largest disasters. From these disasters, we have gained valuable knowledge, which we bring to all our projects. Principle 2: Businesses should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Miyamoto International respects and upholds the protection of international human rights as set out in the United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labor Organization’s Fundamental Conventions and the Global Compact. Miyamoto will make this a criterion in the selection and management of its suppliers and contractors. we work to provide safety and shelter to people when they need it most. Displaced refugees in Ecuador 8 Miyamoto International / Labor LABOR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Miyamoto International recognizes and respects employees right to freely and voluntarily establish and join organizations of their own choice, while recognizing the right of the employee’s freedom of expression that does not unlawfully interfere with that right. Miyamoto supports employers that adopt non-discriminatory policies that support the employee’s right of association and to lawfully elect to be governed by collective bargaining, as set out in the United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labor Organization’s Fundamental Conventions, and the Global Compact. Miyamoto will strive to make this a criterion in the selection and management of its suppliers and contractors. Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. Miyamoto International respects and supports the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor as set out in the United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labor Organization’s Fundamental Conventions, and the Global Compact. Miyamoto will strive to make this a criterion in the selection and management of its suppliers and contractors. Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. Miyamoto International respects and supports the effective abolition of child labor as set out in the United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labor Organization’s Fundamental Conventions and the Global Compact. Miyamoto will strive to make this a criterion in the selection and management of its suppliers and contractors. Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Miyamoto International is an equal opportunity employer and does not discriminate against otherwise qualified applicants on the basis of race, color, creed, religion, ancestry, age, sex, marital status, sexual preference, national origin, disability or handicap, or veteran status. 10 Miyamoto International / Environmental Policy ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY Miyamoto International is committed to preserving our environment. Our mission to make the world better means that we engineer sustainable built environments around the globe, making this practice an integral part of our daily operations. In particular, it is our policy to uphold health, safety and environmental integrity in our business methods at all times. We will do so by adhering to the following principles: Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. We comply with all applicable laws and regulations. We implement programs and procedures to ensure compliance. Compliance with health, safety and environmental standards will be a key factor in program implementation, training, and reaching our goals to achieve sustainable built environments around the world. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility We will seek opportunities beyond regulatory compliance requirements to reduce risk to human health and the environment. We will employ management systems and procedures, such as disaster mitigation, to mitigate danger from structural failures that poses a threat. We will respond to emergency disasters, Green Building and seek out opportunities to rebuild sustainable communities in the event of Our team uses both EDGE and LEED® expertise to design durable and functional buildings and a disaster. We will look for ways to minimize risk to our own employees and to housing using renewable material resources. We will offer sustainable options and specify the the communities in which we operate by seeking out and employing the latest resource reuse content for a variety of available structural materials. We will make full use of our sustainable technologies and engineering methods available. extensive experience in evaluating and rehabilitating existing structures, maximizing the reuse Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of existing building shells. We will further our research and development for green products, of environmentally friendly technologies. LEED® or EDGE certified and net-zero structures. We will leverage existing and cutting-edge technologies to provide alternative, innovative, solutions to structural challenges. We will partner with building Communication systems experts on research and design to test and develop new innovations. We will communicate our policy commitments to our sphere of influence. We will measure and We commit to seeking out seismic technologies and implementing them into our review our progress on an annual basis, and continue to seek out opportunities to improve our projects, creating safe, more disaster resilient communities, minimizing our global principles and environmental performance. footprint, and maintaining environmental integrity. 12 Miyamoto International / Anti-Corruption ANTI CORRUPTION ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Miyamoto International prides itself on its commitment to make the world a better, safer place. This commitment builds on the values of our company and our employees. We pride ourselves on our integrity and we do not permit the misuse of entrusted authority for private gain or any other forms of corruption in any setting or on any level based on foreign jurisdiction laws and regulations or those governed by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Miyamoto International has a zero-tolerance policy and reserves the right to investigate, document and pursue any necessary legal action for corrupt acts carried out by any of its trustees, officers, staff, associates or stakeholders. Miyamoto International measures outcomes related to Anti-Corruption through our rigorous documentation, approval protocol and security systems in order to continually improve its financial and administrative systems, policies, and procedures to ensure transparency, accountability and compliance with applicable laws, rules, and regulations. our vision is to use the best practices in the world to provide effective financial management. 14 Miyamoto International / Who We Are WHO WE ARE PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT For us, an exemplary leader is someone who helps others achieve their personal best by finding As Principal, People Development (Human Resources), Lana common ground between group and individual goals. We believe that a group performs best Anest focuses on Miyamoto International’s biggest asset, its when its goals bring out the best from each member. people. Her mission is to attract, develop and retain outstanding talent for Miyamoto, providing them with the knowledge and Our staff members’ primary responsibility is to serve our clients. Our leaders serve the staff work environment to perform at their best. With over 20 years and make everyone’s job easier. Each leader works to position staff members to maximize their of experience in multiple industries both domestically and strengths. We give our staff the freedom to do their best work and enhance our process as a internationally, Lana leads Miyamoto’s overall human resource collaborative organization. strategy. FINANCE Sam is a leader versed in addressing the challenges of ‘globalizing’ firms. He is a CPA and holds a B.A. in both business accounting and economics from California State, Fullerton. As a member of the California Board of Accountancy and an executive board member of the Association for Corporate Growth, Sam is recognized by his industry peers as a financial visionary. DIRECTOR, INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMS Chief Executive Officer Sabine Kast is Director of International Programs at Miyamoto H. Kit Miyamoto, PhD, SE, is the CEO and a structural engineer for Miyamoto International, Global International. Sabine played a key leadership role in disaster Risk Miyamoto and a nonprofit organization, Miyamoto Relief; he also is a California Seismic response and recovery programs following the 2010 Haiti, Safety Commissioner. Under his leadership, more than 15,000 projects have been successfully 2015 Nepal, 2017 Mexico, 2018 Indonesia and 2020 Puerto completed worldwide. Known for innovative engineering, Kit Miyamoto has worked on many RIco earthquakes. She is a globally recognized leader in urban challenging projects that received industry recognition, including the Structural Engineers disaster risk reduction and policy. Association of California (SEAOC) Excellence in Structural Engineering Award. View Full Biography 16 Miyamoto International / Team Principles TEAM PRINCIPLES Collaborative teamwork at all times. Prompt, honest and direct communication with a passion for the Miyamoto mission is expected from each staff member. We focus on and maximize each staff member’s strengths. We do not have rigid job descriptions or positions because each of us is unique and each of us has something special to contribute to our mission. We work as an integrated team of specialists. No unnecessary management layers or titles. We eliminate any unnecessary bureaucratic paperwork. Leaders exist to serve others. Leaders serve the staff and make everyone’s job easier by removing roadblocks and building an effective team environment. All staff members are expected to enhance what we do. We consider opinions from all levels of staff at any location and rigorous debate is expected. We continually learn and grow as leaders, team members and professionals. Each of us is responsible for his or her own professional growth plan. Corporate is not an executive group, it is a leadership group. Corporate is not an executive group; it’s a leadership group. The Corporate team exists to serve and provide leadership so staff and offices are successful. An open-source communication strategy is used. 18 Miyamoto International / Global Strategies GLOBAL STRATEGIES Through a shared mission, vision, processes, projects and staff, we inspire strategic collaboration among all Miyamoto offices and businesses. As a globally renowned earthquake + structural engineering and project management company, we continue to focus on achieving our mission: make the world a better, safer place. Establish a global practice: We provide a standard process and monitor for business functions: High-Performance Engineering, Production, People Development, Communication, Finance and IT. Deliver optimal quality through production standards and QA processes: We establish the quality of the Miyamoto brand, regardless of where projects are executed. Engineering processes and highperformance engineering tools are shared globally through providing standards and working through projects together. We share talent globally to utilize the best available resources, optimize the cost and schedule to deliver projects. People Development is critical: We build a global culture, apply best human resources practices, coordinate recruiting, provide legal protection and foster professional growth opportunities for our staff. Communicate the Miyamoto brand and provide unified tools: The Communications team provides marketing tools and systems and monitors the development for each location to promote our brand. Provide financial system and benchmarks: The Finance team sets up the system and monitors for accrual and cash basis financial statements and projections for all locations, as well as standard financial metrics to use as benchmarks for assessing our performance. Use state-of-the-art IT system: We provide a strategic IT plan to each location to ensure the use of common tools to facilitate multi-office projects and enhance communications. 2015 Metro Manila 20 Miyamoto International / Key Strategies KEY STRATEGIES • Decentralize, coordinate and constantly evolve the company. • Open new offices where disaster mitigation and reconstruction activities are required by partnering with local firms or individuals. Our presence makes the community a better, safer place. • Focus on high-performance engineering that positions Miyamoto as a leader in industry, Innovation and Infrastructure (SDG 9) and leads to sustainable cities and communities (SDG 11). Deliver unique value that justifies the highest profitability, allowing us to continue our research into advanced technical solutions. • Commit to building a powerful brand that is known worldwide, through high-quality staff; innovative public relations; and consistent application of the Miyamoto name, graphic image and approach. • Be progressive, innovative and creative in the way that we lead our staff, work with strategic partners, and manage our company. • Be one company. We use and share resources, our workforce and expertise from office locations for optimal quality and costeffectiveness. • Be committed to having fun, and being a positive influence on the world and the communities we serve. Mexico City PREPARE trainings 22 Miyamoto International / Zero Hunger ZERO HUNGER RETURNING WATER TO SAVE LIVES In January 2020, Miyamoto’s nonprofit entity, Miyamoto Relief, assembled a team of engineers and humanitarians to travel to Ethiopia, where climate change and recently built hydroelectric dams on the Omo River have eliminated the floodwaters on which indigenous tribes rely for the irrigation of crops. Miyamoto Relief partnered with one of these tribes, the Kara, as well as the nonprofit organization Wild Philanthropy, to develop a technical solution to address the growing food insecurity. The team is helping to design, secure and install a solar irrigation pump that will transport water from the Omo River up to a 50+ acre community farm, which will feed almost half of the tribe. The solution is simple and sustainable. The farm is mere steps from the river, but because of the steepness of the riverbanks, the tribes need powerful pumps to get the water up to their crops. Solar pumps, maintained by trained Kara representatives and monitored remotely by engineers, are a simple, sustainable solution that can save lives and preserve the Kara’s way of life. 1500 people fed from restored farm irrigation The Omo River, Ethiopia 24 Miyamoto International / Health and Well-Being PANDEMIC-ADAPTED HEALTH + WELL-BEING TRAININGS AND INCLUSIVE HOUSING Cities are at the frontline of the COVID-19 response and are under immense pressure. In addition to rapidly expanding public health services, addressing economic stress, maintaining essential services and responding to disasters, city governments also need to work around the clock to develop forwardthinking plans for recovery – all while tax revenue plummets. Well-planned, well-connected cities can more easily adapt existing and novel services to provide for arising needs. In a moment of unprecedented global crisis, responses must also be unprecedented with new solutions and new players with cities at the forefront. Miyamoto produced recommendations for inclusive housing policies and developments in Mexico that address COVID challenges and underscore critical factors to mitigate overcrowding. Miyamoto has also adapted engineer and construction worker trainings to both virtual and COVID-safe in-person workshops in Ecuador, Mexico, Colombia, Bangladesh, Haiti and Trinidad and Tobago. 20+ trainings adapted for COVID safety protocols Jakarta Indonesia 26 Miyamoto International / Quality Education QUALITY EDUCATION SCHOOL SAFETY During Nepal’s Gorkha earthquake in 2015, over 9,000 schools were damage, including Shree Janavikash. The Ministry of Education demolished and rebuilt two of the school’s buildings that were severely damaged. Due to lack of space and funding, however, the school had no choice but to continue using the third building, though it put students’ lives at risk. Volunteer engineers from Miyamoto took up the project and completed a retrofit of the two-story building. The engineers partnered with the school’s administration, the National Reconstruction Authority and a team of engineering students from the U.S. California Polytechnic State University. With the damage assessments and retrofits complete, the school now proudly provides a safe learning space for 400 secondary school students in search of a better future. 400 students protected in the Shree Janavikash school Students at Shree Janavikash in Nepal 28 Miyamoto International / Gender Equality GENDER EQUALITY HOMEOWNERS LEARN SEISMIC-RESISTANT CONSTRUCTION TECHNIQUES An earthquake in 2016 devastated communities in coastal Ecuador and displaced 73,000 people. Since then, Miyamoto has conducted large scale construction training workshops that teach homeowners and semi-skilled construction workers in simple techniques that will make their homes more resilient to future shocks. The workshops are widely attended by female heads of households, and the field team purposely conducts outreach to increase women’s participation. By learning these essential skills, women can not only build safer homes, but they are also qualified for construction and masonry jobs. 300+ women trained in resilient construction Workshop participant in Jama, Ecuador 30 Miyamoto International / Water and Sanitation WATER + SANITATION PROTECTING VITAL WATER RESOURCES FROM DISASTER In September 2017, within a two-week period, Mexico experienced two major earthquakes. A state of emergency was declared and emergency assistance was mobilized for the earthquakeaffected sites. Miyamoto was engaged to provide technical support to the Federal Government of Mexico to conduct post earthquake physical assessments for water infrastructure (e.g. dams and water pipes). Miyamoto held a technical workshop for the Comisión Nacional del Agua (CONAGUA) on applied Japanese methodologies and technology with practical and cost-effective examples of evaluating and strengthening water pipes/ networks. Miyamoto conducted geotechnical analysis on a selected site and proposed countermeasures and recommendations for strengthening the infrastructure in order to protect vital water sources supplying Mexico City. 1 aqueduct evaluated for vulnerability + resilience Aqueduct in Mexico 32 Miyamoto International / Work and Economic Growth A NEW GENERATION OF ENGINEERS WORK + ECONOMIC Miyamoto is providing an opportunity for a new generation of Haitian engineers to expand their technical tools and step into an unprecedented role as the face of lifesaving building compliance systems for the communities they serve. The catastrophic earthquake in 2010 was largely an engineering disaster. Thousands of lives were lost in collapsed buildings that might have withstood the shock with proper building codes and engineering oversight. Miyamoto helped design the country’s first GROWTH ever plan check process, a system that ensures construction complies with the National Code of Haiti and internationally recognized codes and trained 100 selected engineers in its use. Engineers also received training in post-disaster damage assessments to support relief efforts in the event of another major earthquake. Equipped with new skills and motivated by the unforgettable tragedy, these engineers are redefining what their profession means. In October, Miyamoto was selected as an Unreasonable Impact company, recognized “We are a new generation for the firm’s potential to create at least 500 of municipal engineers, jobs in the next five years. supporting mayors to make the right decisions and bringing about change not only in municipalities, but 220+ engineers everywhere in the country,” completed damage said engineer Spicudine assessment training in Jolicoeuer . Haiti and Latin America An engineer takes a damage assessment certification course in Haiti 34 Miyamoto International / Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure INDUSTRY, INNOVATION GREEN AND RESILIENT INFRASTRUCTURE Miyamoto’s team specializes in analyzing critical lifeline infrastructure to determine the most feasible and impactful interventions that will save lives and help cities weather disasters. The firm’s experts help governments, clients and communities protect assets and invest in smart, long-term risk reduction strategies to reduce economic disruption and protect + INFRASTRUCTURE lives. The World Bank frequently engages Miyamoto to analyze infrastructure such as utility lines, aqueducts, airports, bridges, roads, buildings and coastal infrastructure. This work has been completed on a global and regional scales as well as within particular at-risk countries. In Bangladesh, Miyamoto engineers assessed infrastructure within a coastal economic zone to make recommendations for mitigating hazards that put business assets and workers at risk. Infrastructure analyzed in 25+ countries 36 Miyamoto International / Reduced Inequality REDUCED INEQUALITY INCLUSIVE HOUSING + INFRASTRUCTURE Miyamoto consistently works to ensure our programs are inclusive and actively work to reduce inequality. Our housing experts conduct policy analyses and provide recommendations for inclusive and sustainable housing development, including policies that address inequalities by gender, culture and land tenure status. Miyamoto developed a recommendation report entitled Infrastructures of Reception: How Public Infrastructure Can Support the Social Integration of Migrants and Refugees, which details global best practices that allow refugees to integrate into their new communities, design their own spaces and access resources essential for their well-being. 7 refugee facility types analyzed for best practices Refugees in Cox Bazaar, Bangladesh 38 Miyamoto International / Sustainable Cities SUSTAINABLE CITIES CITY-WIDE URBAN RESILIENCE Miyamoto works with city governments throughout the world to conduct vulnerability and risk assessments not only as a scientific basis for informed planning, but also to create a common understanding of risk that brings stakeholders together behind a shared goal of disaster preparedness. Miyamoto launched the USAID PREPARE program in 2015 to provide decision-makers, first responders and urban planners with a clear picture of the impact of an earthquake on their city. Our specialists collect and analyze hazard and exposure data to produce risk scenario tools that build mutual understanding through estimates of fatalities, displacement, and damage. The program has expanded to include Costa Rica, Colombia and Mexico, and this year added both Guatemala and Trinidad and Tobago. 3 countries with city-wide risk studies completed Mexico City Mexico 40 Miyamoto International / Partnerships PARTNERSHIPS PUBLIC-PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS Miyamoto works as one company to integrate global best practices with local priorities by sharing resources and expertise to deliver impactful programs. Our specialists consistently work throughout the world with local experts and partners to adapt lessons learned to unique and challenging environments. Miyamoto assembles multi-sectoral working groups and project teams to deliver results that reflect both technical rigor and humanitarian capacity building. Businesses are a critical partner for disaster risk reduction, response, and reconstruction. After a disaster, governments and relief agencies coordinate with businesses to supply aid, support life-saving distribution, remove debris and provide reconstruction materials, among other recovery services. Miyamoto works throughout Latin America and the Caribbean to integrate the private sector into disaster response strategies, such as debris management plans. In Indonesia, Miyamoto is now engaging small, medium and large businesses to improve business continuity planning while enhancing risk reduction. 7 countries with private sector partners engaged in disaster risk reduction planning projects Dr. Kit Miyamoto at a meeting after the 2010 earthquake in Haiti 42 miyamotointernational.com © Copyright 2020 Miyamoto International, Inc. Sacramento | Las Vegas | San Francisco | San Jose | Los Angeles | Orange County | San Diego | Reno | Washington, D.C. Puerto Rico | Uzbekistan | Costa Rica | Colombia | Haiti | Liberia | Italy | Turkey | India | Nepal | Thailand | Japan | New Zealand
