R E S I L I E N C E Sustainable 2018 Development Report MATERIALITY OUR WORK AWARDS AND ACCOLADES OUR COMMUNITIES OUR OPERATIONS ABOUT US CONTENTS Introduction INTRODUCTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 MATERIALITY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 We are pleased to introduce Both our clients and our employees are excited to see sustainable the 2018 Golder Sustainable development as a strategic priority of our company. Based on our OUR WORK . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 Development Report and to materiality survey, over 65% of our clients are highly focused on AWARDS AND ACCOLADES . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30 sustainable development practices and 88% of our employees share our efforts and progress. At CONNECTIED TO OUR COMMUNITIES . . . . . . 41 believe sustainability is a priority. With this, we have a strong Golder, sustainability is embedded foundation to execute our overall strategy for sustainable practices. OUR OPERATIONS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50 in every aspect of our longterm strategy. Our objective is This 2018 Sustainable Development Report provides a wealth of GOVERNANCE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60 to deliver sustainable solutions inspiration. We are pleased to report that our safety and health ABOUT US . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62 and work with our clients to meet performance has continued to improve, our carbon footprint shows GRI TABLE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63 their sustainability goals while steady reduction even with our increased headcount, and our community engagement is growing locally and globally driven by also reducing our impact on the commitment of our people. the environment resulting from operating our company. Our project work has been outstanding, ranging from living artificial dykes to phytoremediation of pesticide-contaminated soils, and from waste re-use and carbon savings through to successful design and construction in environmentally sensitive areas, and our support of the mining sector with guidelines and standards to accelerate sustainable development and operations. At Golder, we pride ourselves on having built a culture that thrives on challenges, and sustainability is one of the world’s most critical challenges facing businesses and communities today. Even as we celebrate our progress, we must continue to view sustainability as an aspirational goal. Like an athlete always looking to improve their best performance, we must also operate under the belief we can always do better, do more, and exceed expectations. GOLDER 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2 MATERIALITY OUR WORK AWARDS AND ACCOLADES OUR COMMUNITIES OUR OPERATIONS ABOUT US MATERIALITY Materiality: What our People Care About Each year Golder conducts a The results of the most recent materiality survey confirm that survey of employees representing grassroots support for operating our business in a sustainable a cross section of our workforce manner is unquestionable. and clients from the sectors “Our reputation and The results represented people from all our operating regions and at we serve to check-in on the all career stages, ranging from members of the Executive Committee differentiation with our issues that define their views of and Principals and Associates, through to Level 1 graduate recruits. sustainable development. Of those employees surveyed, 88% believe it is quite or extremely clients must start with important, that Golder operates as an environmentally sustainable our own commitments and socially responsible organization, minimizing waste, and the use of energy, water and other physical resources. to operate sustainably The results also demonstrated areas where Golder can improve, and promote a mindset encourage, and promote waste minimization efforts by leveraging of long-term efficient best practices from offices performing well in this area. We will work to determine what practical support can be provided to and sustainable help our people raise the bar in our internal effort to reduce our resource usage.” environmental footprint building on the positive attitude our people have towards this issue. Golder employee, 2018 Materiality Survey. GOLDER 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 3 MATERIALITY OUR WORK AWARDS AND ACCOLADES OUR COMMUNITIES OUR OPERATIONS ABOUT US MATERIALITY Employee Perspective Which of these groups do you belong to? Redmond Office An Environmental and Sustainable Development Committee has been active in Golder’s Redmond Which operating group are you part of? office (Washington, US) for almost a decade, improving internal procedures to reduce waste and energy consumption, promoting internal sustainability How important is it to you that and environmental awareness, coordinating How important is it to you Golder effectively minimizes to have an active waste How important is it that Golder local community outreach events, and liaising waste (energy, water and physical resources) in all minimization effort at the manages its supply chain? with Golder’s sustainable development technical office level? aspects of its operations? community. Their efforts are impressive, having been 1% recognized by King County each year since 2012 2% <1% 1% in the Best Workplace for Waste Prevention and 4% 3% 9% Recycling award, reaching Honor Roll status in 2016 15% 17% 35% for receiving this award for five consecutive years. 39% 49% The League of American Bicyclists has endorsed the measures in place in Redmond to encourage 39% 41% cycling to work, granting Bicycle Friendly Business 43% Bronze Certification for 2015 – 2019. The Redmond team has also celebrated and highlighted the intent of Earth Day for over a decade by volunteering and participating in various planting, removal, or restoration events. In 2018, the Committee gained the EnviroStars Green Business Certification for the Redmond office. ® EARTHDAY.ORG GOLDER 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 4 MATERIALITY OUR WORK AWARDS AND ACCOLADES OUR COMMUNITIES OUR OPERATIONS ABOUT US MATERIALITY Golder Sweden – Sustainable Office Exemplar Six of the 17 UNGC sustainable development goals have direct relevance to the way we operate our business. Golder offices in Sweden have sourced their energy from 100% Ensure healthy lives and Ensure incisive and equitable renewable sources and have recycled promote well-being for quality education and plastics, paper, cardboard, metal, all at all ages. promote lifelong learning glass, and toner cartridges for over This speaks to opportunities for all. 10 years. Employees have led this our internal HSSE This links to our ongoing approach and these requirements commitments and the support for professional are now embedded in the contractual programs and initiatives development and in-house arrangements with landlords as a designed to continually learning opportunities, and our matter of course in Sweden. improve HSSE outcomes. support for education through the Golder Trust for Orphans. The Stockholm Office Lighting Motion Detectors Achieve gender equality Promote sustained, While Golder’s Stockholm office was extensively renovated a decade ago and empower all inclusive and sustainable women and girls. economic growth, full and and a number of improvements were made to minimize the environmental This connects to the productive employment and footprint, in recent years further action was taken to minimize our footprint. diverse profile of decent work for all. This included remodeling individual offices and replacing them with an our organization and As an independent employeeopen plan concept, designed to achieve a more effective use of space. our recognition of its owned company the future Golder also collaborated with the builders to rebuild the existing lighting inherent value. sustainability of Golder is an system (instead of replacing them) and install centralized motion detectors internal business imperative that can individually adjust light depending on motion and monitoring of and is reflected in the lights from incoming sunlight and other sources, making sure we only use attention of our Board. lighting when people are actively working in specific office areas. There is also a “main switch” so the last person to leave shuts off all lights. Ensure sustainable Peaceful and inclusive consumption and societies for sustainable production patterns. development, provide The Swedish PHEV and BEV Charging Stations Our actions to reduce access to justice for all Since 2007 the Swedish operation has systematically replaced company waste and carbon and build effective and and office pool cars to those running on renewable energy instead demonstrate our accountable and inclusive of petrol and diesel. Today, 60 % of the cars in the fleet are plug-in commitment this goal. institutions at all levels. hybrids (PHEV) and battery electric vehicles (BEV). The remainder run This relates to our focus on BioEthanol, BioEthane and diesel (a legal requirement for vehicles in on anti-bribery and antimines, tunnels and on some sites). Since 2018 all offices in Sweden have corruption, and the effort charging stations available. made to educate our people about these issues and their prevention. GOLDER 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 5 MATERIALITY OUR WORK AWARDS AND ACCOLADES OUR COMMUNITIES OUR OPERATIONS ABOUT US MATERIALITY Client Perspective With thousands of clients across the mining, oil and gas, manufacturing, “As an international leading consultancy, The primary impact Golder has infrastructure, and power sectors who each have their own sustainable Golder should lead and not follow. To on sustainable development goals, our contribution to sustainable development is substantial. This report serves as a snapshot of the scale and diversity that end, don’t fall to politically correct/ development is through the work we of the innovative ways we help our clients achieve more sustainable trendy sustainability initiatives but pursue project outcomes. do for our clients, and champion programs, approaches and what we can Two-thirds of our clients surveyed confirm that their organization is help them achieve. highly focused on sustainable development practices and initiatives, and outcomes that make actual scientific with more than half reporting that this focus has increased over the past difference for the environment and the 12 months. The main internal drivers of this position were community and shareholder expectations, and regulatory frameworks. All respondents communities impacted by the projects strongly agreed or agreed that the quality of their projects was enhanced by including sustainable development measures. involved.” Golder client, 2018 Client Materiality Survey. How would you describe your organization’s focus on sustainable development practices and initiatives? Has your organization’s focus on sustainability changed over the last 12 months? Which of these issues is most important to your sustainability efforts? GOLDER 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 6 MATERIALITY OUR WORK AWARDS AND ACCOLADES OUR COMMUNITIES OUR OPERATIONS ABOUT US MATERIALITY The following seven UNGC Sustainable Development Goals are most relevant to the work we do Client Perspective with our clients. Developing a Tool to Measure Environmental Impact Affordable and Clean Energy: Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all. Ernströmgruppen, a private industrial conglomerate based in Sweden, is comprised of 25 individual Golder’s work in clean energy spans the globe, see pages 24-27 for a snapshot of our contribution. companies focused on HVAC, energy, electro, and marine applications— none of which can be considered Industry, Innovation, and Infrastructure: Build resilient infrastructure, promote environmentally hazardous. Sustainability is a significant inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation. issue for Ernströmgruppen and since their business Golder’s investment in innovation is outlined on page 28. philosophy links value to generational continuity, environmental responsibility is of utmost importance. Ernströmgruppen identified a need to better understand Sustainable Cities and Communities: Make cities and human settlements and quantify its environmental impact and wanted to inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable. generate ideas about how to reduce its negative effects. An urban renewal project in Copenhagen is detailed on page 13. Golder sustainability professionals worked with Ernströmgruppen to develop a simple tool to classify medium-sized companies from an environmental awareness Responsible Consumption and Production: Ensure sustainable consumption and perspective. The “Ernströmgruppen Eco Screening Tool,” production patterns. launched in mid-2018, is the result of this work. While Golder’s involvement in a circular economy project is detailed on page 32. it is not intended to replace or compete with the major environmental certifications, it does provide a clear overview of environmental factors in business operations Take urgent action to combat Climate change and its impacts allowing for an increased awareness of where a company A project to create living dykes to combat coastal degradation is detailed on page 9. could focus their resources to improve environmental outcomes. Ernströmgruppen will also use the environmental classification to help evaluate future acquisitions. Life Below Water: Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine In an intelligent and forward-thinking decision, resources for sustainable development. Ernströmgruppen has made this tool freely available, asking only for feedback from users so that it might be further A project to shift the paradigms in the decision making context for water quality management in South Africa is detailed on page 18. improved. It can be downloaded from www.ernstromgruppen.com. Life on Land: Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial Ake Eriksson, Associate and Senior Advisor, Kristina Wetterhorn, ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, and halt and Environmental Consultant, Karolina Flemstrom, Group Manager Corporate Environmental Services and Risk, all from Golder Sweden worked with reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss. Ernströmgruppen to develop the assessment tool. Preserving habitat is the focus of a project detailed on pages 17 and 23. GOLDER 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 7 MATERIALITY OUR WORK AWARDS AND ACCOLADES OUR COMMUNITIES OUR OPERATIONS ABOUT US OUR WORK In the past two years, we’ve seen some progress in action on climate change, as well as a fundamental shift in the thinking of many of our most prominent business leaders and institutions. Recently the American Business Roundtable released a new a set of purpose statements, one of which is “Supporting the communities in which we work. We respect the people in our communities and protect the environment by embracing sustainable practices This focus on communities and the environment is a fundamental shift from across our business.” the rationale that dominated the late 1990s. Today’s business leaders are more focused on creating value for stakeholders through environmental stewardship – the new word for this change is coined ‘inclusive capitalism’. The primary impact Golder has on sustainable development is through the work we do for our clients, and what we can help them achieve. Those individual projects add up to a substantial contribution, because we work with thousands of clients across manufacturing, infrastructure, power, mining, and the oil and gas sectors, supporting each to achieve its own sustainable development goals. Our consultants strive to create sustainable solutions. They value being part of an organization that is invested in a sustainable future. They also want to see Golder recognized as a provider of sustainable solutions to clients in the markets we serve. If we, as individuals or organizations, can increase global awareness and translate awareness into action, we can make a difference. GOLDER 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 8 MATERIALITY OUR WORK AWARDS AND ACCOLADES OUR COMMUNITIES OUR OPERATIONS ABOUT US OUR WORK | PROJECT PROFILES Living Dykes to Stem the Impact of Changing Sea Levels A living dyke has been designed for a Living dykes are designed to move and self-heal in suitable surface that can be colonized with flora and client in British Columbia, Canada, to response to high water and waves, reacting to storm fauna allowing decimated ecosystems to recover support sustainable coastal communities events so that the crest elevation of the highest point and thrive because the design builds habitat as well by creating more dynamic structures can rise as the dune is modified by storm activity. It as protection. mimics natural shorelines which have a long history for flood protection. Living dykes are While there are thousands of examples of these of changing over time to meet changes in sea level, dune-beach systems that imitate natural systems worldwide, artificial living dykes whereas a fixed dyke will either work or fail, but nature and respond to changing sea have been successfully created to stem the impact of cannot re-heal if it fails. levels, providing lower cost solutions storm activity on the Gulf Coast of the US, enabling to managing coastal flooding, the The living dyke concept works on building defences the preservation and restoration of sea turtle nesting alternative often being to progressively out of materials that are mobile or can change over grounds. Living dykes are being trialled in the Low time (sands, gravel and dune grasses) as opposed Countries of Europe (Denmark and The Netherlands) increase the height of static to being built out of rocks which are static. The with restoration of coastal dune-marsh ecosystems or fixed dykes. footprint of a living dyke provides an ecologically to provide flood defences. This concept has not yet been applied in the Pacific Northwest; our design is being adapting to work in the northern waters. Rowland Atkins, Principal and Senior Geomorphologist from our Victoria (Canada) office is the project director working with a team of coastal engineers and landscape architects to progress the design to the construction phase. The image on the left shows an area subject to wave erosion and coastal flooding and on the right a design analog for a living dyke concept consisting of foredune and beach berm developed adjacent to and in response to a flood control outfall. GOLDER 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 9 MATERIALITY OUR WORK AWARDS AND ACCOLADES OUR COMMUNITIES OUR OPERATIONS ABOUT US OUR WORK | PROJECT PROFILES Investigating Air Quality Developing a Model to Inform Future Growth Many cities around the world are in economic transition, moving from reliance on heavy industrial and manufacturing industries to those that are immersed in creativity and knowledge, fostering the development of advanced technology, education and research. The port-city of Hamilton (Canada), positioned on the western end of the vast Lake Ontario and well-known as a “Steel City” for its massive steelworks and accompanying industrial infrastructure, is in the midst of an economic transition of its own. Over the past decade or so, Hamilton’s steel industry has transformed into hightech industry with a dramatic reduction in its environmental footprint. As the city and its industries transition into a high-tech future, there is continuous pressure to improve the city’s air quality and an urgency to realize Hamilton’s vision to be the best place to raise a child and age successfully and improved air quality is an important part of Hamilton’s future. In a forward-thinking decision, the City of Hamilton and the Hamilton Industrial Environmental Association jointly commissioned Golder to develop a model that will help the city to better plan its future. These efforts were supported by a steering committee comprising members from other stakeholders including Hamilton Health, regulatory agencies and environmental and citizen-based groups. Helping to address the complex question of air quality, Golder assisted Hamilton to develop the Hamilton Airshed Modelling System (HAMS). The objective was to understand what contributes to Hamilton’s air quality to support the City to make decisions on urban growth including housing, transportation, and greenspace. Elevated view of the city if Hamilton on the shore of Lake Ontario in Canada. GOLDER 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 10 MATERIALITY OUR WORK AWARDS AND ACCOLADES OUR COMMUNITIES OUR OPERATIONS ABOUT US OUR WORK | PROJECT PROFILES Until recently, information of a detailed, granular accumulating data that allows them to develop nature was simply unavailable. The data points policies based on strong science, to underpin measuring air quality were too few to build a reliable future growth. Further, with changes in climate, picture that could help point to sources of pollution. Hamilton can look into the future and simulate what Computer-based models were not able to handle conditions will be like. complexities such as the influence of topography and Discussions have started with the City of Hamilton bodies of water, and the available computers had to simulate a number of “what if” scenarios. The trouble crunching large data sets. modelling system will be updated every five years, The increased speed of computers and the arrival including weather data, to reflect population changes of multi-processors has allowed these models to as well as land use to ensure its currency as the City simulate conditions at a far more granular level. As changes over time. an example, until recently, the entire City of Hamilton Anthony Ciccone, Principal and Vice President would have been modelled as one grid cell, now Infrastructure and Power from Golder’s Toronto there are about 900 cells. More importantly, the (Canada) office and Jayna Kelly, Climate Change and science in the models has improved to allow the Air Quality Specialist from the Mississauga (Canada) calculations to be completed at this deeper level. office, jointly developed the Hamilton Airshed Having reliable, comprehensive and detailed Modelling System. information on the diverse elements that affect air quality can help planners understand pollution sources, such as transportation routes including rail rights of way, highways, ports or airports. The City can plan development so that sources of pollution are less of a threat to residents and sensitive receptors, GOLDER 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 11 MATERIALITY OUR WORK AWARDS AND ACCOLADES OUR COMMUNITIES OUR OPERATIONS ABOUT US OUR WORK | PROJECT PROFILES Clever Design Minimizes the Footprint of Landfill Golder’s expertise In regional Queensland (Australia) a clever design, drawing upon in geotechnical Golder’s expertise in geosynthetics and soft soils, has almost engineering and doubled the predicted life of a landfill. The majority of waste from the local Rockhampton community was disposed of at the Lakes environmental Creek Road Landfill, a site that was fast approaching the approved science is delivering regulatory capacity. The initial project brief from the client, the improvements in Rockhampton Regional Council, indicated a 20-year extension waste management to the life of the landfill through vertical expansion. Following a for many review of the geotechnical data, Golder identified several risks, clients worldwide. including the presence of very soft soils beneath the existing landfill footprint having the potential to significantly reduce landfill capacity, requiring further site investigations, testing and analysis of the subsurface materials. Through innovative design, Golder was able to develop a Rockhampton landfill cell A under construction geotechnical monitoring and waste filling program which extended the landfill site capacity to over 33 years. Golder’s geotechnical more truck movements on an already heavily utilised road would skills and superior knowledge of soft soil engineering is a major have increased the carbon footprint for the Council and the costs factor in assessing the feasibility of the site, along with an advanced to ratepayers to cover long distance haulage. Council revenue from understanding of the use of geosynthetic materials. With the the landfill and jobs would have been lost. Instead, Council will gain application of new liner materials, and using specific techniques to around AU$250 million through gate fees over the life of the facility manage the soft soils, the vertical expansion of the landfill became a which can be used to fund and enhance other community services viable option. in the region. Golder’s design, which has been adopted by the Council, Work commenced on construction of the vertical landfill expansion has resulted in considerable gains for the community and the in early 2018. Nigel Ruxton, Associate and Design Group Leader environment. The use of vertical expansion with geosynthetic from the Brisbane (Australia) office is the project manager and materials to significantly reduce leachates entering ground water a Registered Professional Engineer of Queensland during the is an improved outcome for the environment. The alternative to Construction phase. The landfill design team included Fred Gassner the vertical expansion was to transfer waste from Rockhampton (project director), Krystle-Rae Biram, Sven Waurich, Morgan Midgley to Gladstone, a city some 110km away by road, which would have and Prathama Igor. been a significant impost for the local community. Substantially GOLDER 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 12 MATERIALITY OUR WORK AWARDS AND ACCOLADES OUR COMMUNITIES OUR OPERATIONS ABOUT US OUR WORK | PROJECT PROFILES Urban Renewal in Suburban Copenhagen The densely populated residential area of Golder’s investigation of the indoor climate in the Preparation for the demolition started in early 2018 Brøndby Strand Parkerne near Copenhagen in buildings revealed the presence of polychlorinated and demolition of the buildings is expected to Denmark is about to be transformed through a biphenyl (PCBs), an organic chlorine compound. Once commence in 2020. Golder will plan for the handling large-scale urban renewal project. widely used in building materials for their durability, and management of hazardous materials, local we now know PCBs are harmful to human health. As traffic and logistical issues, and optimize recycling More than 4,000 people call the 3,200 apartments in a result, and part of the plan, about 10% of the total and reuse of materials. An Environmental Impact Brøndby Strand Parkerne home. The dwellings, built number of family dwellings will be demolished. Assessment has been requested by the local in the late 1960s and early 1970s using prefabricated municipality to cover the demolition exercise and concrete elements, are decaying and an urban Our team will manage the demolition to minimize future use of the site and this will be undertaken by renewal plan is being developed by the cooperative impacts on the environment and the use of resources. Golder. The aim is to minimize the environmental housing societies who own the properties. Golder is The project involves environmental investigations of impact of dust, noise and vibrations, and on ground the environmental consultant for the project which the buildings and identification and quantification of water and biodiversity in the local area. Golder will includes field studies, baseline studies, calculations hazardous materials in the building fabric, planning of make recommendations as to whether the site can be and analysis of environmental impacts and various demolition work taking into consideration the safety used as a public recreation area or if further action engineering services. of people in the locale, surrounding buildings and needs to be taken if new housing is to be built on site. infrastructure, some of which are located only eight meters away from the demolition site. The social aspect of the renewal is also important given the impacts to the community and Golder will have input into the social impact studies. Demolishing these buildings will impact families, residents, and businesses. By 2025, it is expected that the dwellings considered environmentally inadequate will be gone and replaced with a combination of new accommodation and recreational spaces. Niels Strufe, Environmental consultant from the Copenhagen (Denmark) office, is managing this project for Golder and is supported by many people in the local office who are contributing environmental, geotechnical and planning expertise. GOLDER 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 13 MATERIALITY OUR WORK AWARDS AND ACCOLADES OUR COMMUNITIES OUR OPERATIONS ABOUT US OUR WORK | PROJECT PROFILES Road Upgrade Preserves Historic Bridge for Community Use The historic 128-year-old Chandler Highway The Chandler Highway Upgrade habitat, which is home to a range of aquatic species Bridge over the Yarra River is one of the most Project involves the construction of a including the notoriously shy platypus. Piles were notorious traffic bottlenecks in the inner suburbs of new six lane, 200-meter-long bridge bored instead of driven to reduce noise and vibration Melbourne, (Australia). Around 4,400 vehicles cross sitting alongside the existing heritage impact to residences in proximity, including a bridge, designed to alleviate the rehabilitation hospital and guide dog training center. the two-lane bridge each day, including 200 heavy significant transport problem while at vehicles, coming off a major four-lane highway The original bridge has been converted into a walking the same time improving the amenity en-route to the suburbs. The existing heritage-listed and cycling shared use path linking existing routes of the location for the benefit of the 137-meter-long steel bridge was initially constructed along the river, including the elimination of a 70-step surrounding community. The impact of as a rail crossing and later converted to use for rise that gives users unimpeded access to other the development on bridge users was vehicles as part of the Chandler Highway. riverside routes, a significant benefit for people who a major challenge for this project, as use the pathways for recreation and to commute to was environmental protection of the and from the city. river and its environs. Managing the environmental impacts to the existing The improved shared-use path network required a landscape of the river, heritage series of retaining walls, underpasses and elevated bridge, and local community required structures to achieve the project objective of a clever design and environmentally maximum native vegetation and tree retention. A sustainable solutions. ‘bioretention’ system was also constructed with retaining walls for stormwater treatment prior to being Golder has been an integral part discharged into the river. Overall, the project has of the project team throughout been successfully executed with the environmental the investigation, design, and now protection and management integrated in the design construction phases of the project, and construction. contributing our expertise as the principal geotechnical consultant Bing Lee, Principal Geotechnical Engineer, from the to achieve the best outcome for the Melbourne (Australia) office was the Design Lead for project. Now nearing completion, the the Chandler Highway Upgrade. Sri Srithar (Principal) bridge is designed to have a longer was the Project Director, Andrew Russell (Associate) center span with staggered abutments the Project Manager, and supported by Project and piers to avoid construction near Engineers Supun Mendis and Tom Dorrington. the riverbank and disturbance to local Earthworks on the banks of the Yarra River in suburban Melbourne (Australia) GOLDER 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 14 MATERIALITY OUR WORK AWARDS AND ACCOLADES OUR COMMUNITIES OUR OPERATIONS ABOUT US OUR WORK | PROJECT PROFILES Using Plants to Decontaminate Soil and Groundwater in Hawaii In an award-winning project that commenced over Golder was brought in by DMFP to work with them two decades ago, Golder has helped property to find a better way to achieve their remediation owner Del Monte Fresh Produce (Hawaii) Inc (DMFP) objectives. The solution was to use living plants to find a sustainable solution to a significant soil and remove contaminants from soil and groundwater. A groundwater contamination problem, helping to tropical leguminous tree, Koa Haole, was selected as meet sustainability goals, reduce carbon impact, a phytoremediation agent. The year-round growing and save money. conditions, and the availability of this tree on Oahu, made it a particularly attractive option to pursue, and Ethylene dibromide (EDB) and 1,2-dibromo-3one that ultimately saved DMFP around US$2.5M by chloropropane (DBCP) had been widely used by the negating the cost of transportation of contaminated agricultural sector before being banned by the US soil to the US mainland. Environment Protection Agency in the early 1980s. These compounds were applied as a soil fumigant to While phytoremediation is a well-established control destructive microscopic worm-like nematodes technology, this project broke new ground due that attack crops such as pineapples, bananas and to the type of contaminants being remediated. potatoes on a DMFP site in Oahu, Hawaii. Phytoremediation has often been used to deal with various organic compounds and metals, its DMFP, a global producer of fruit and vegetables and application on EDB and DBCP was not proven and an organization committed to sustainability, wanted was an innovative use of this technique. to remediate soil and groundwater impacted by EDB and DBCP on this site. An initial remediation proposal Testing by the University of Washington determined involved transporting contaminated soil by ship to that Koa Haole could fully degrade EDB to bromide mainland US for treatment as there was no approved ion, and Golder worked with the property owner treatment facility on Oahu. This option was both to develop a pilot-scale test site on location, costly (a USD3.5 million exercise) and would create a starting in 1998. high carbon footprint impact through transportation and incineration. Koa Haole is used as a phytoremediation agent for EDB and DBCP contamination. GOLDER 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 15 MATERIALITY OUR WORK AWARDS AND ACCOLADES OUR COMMUNITIES OUR OPERATIONS ABOUT US OUR WORK | PROJECT PROFILES The pilot-scale test ran for two years, With EDB and DBCP being in widespread use for proving the idea successful. The decades to fight nematode infestations in many trees were found to be effective in locations, finding a way to remediate soil and water remediating the contaminated soil impacted by these compounds efficiently and and groundwater. Soil contaminant cost-effectively using phytoremediation will help to concentrations were reduced to provide a sustainable remediation approach for other be below residential standards, similar projects. and leachate water below drinking Golder and DMFP received the 2018 American water standards. Council of Engineering Companies (ACEC) Based on the success of the pilot of Washington’s Best in State Gold Award for test and with the approval of the US Uniqueness and/or Innovative Application of New or Environmental Protection Agency Existing Techniques for our work on this project. (EPA), Golder and DMFP implemented Gary Zimmerman, Principal and Practice Team a full-scale project which has now been Leader from the Redmond (US ) office has been in operation since 2008. Recent data working on the DMFP project since 1996 and been indicates that this phytoremediation Project Manager since 2004. He is supported by system has successfully treated over Jeremy Clark, and Stacey Brionez. 18 million liters (4.7 million gallons) of groundwater to concentrations that were better than drinking water standards and more than 760 cubic meters (1000 cubic yards) of soil have been remediated. GOLDER 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 16 MATERIALITY OUR WORK AWARDS AND ACCOLADES OUR COMMUNITIES OUR OPERATIONS ABOUT US OUR WORK | PROJECT PROFILES Innovative CSG Project Design to Protect Vulnerable Species in Australia In outback Australia, Golder has undertaken a comprehensive environmental impact assessment for a proposed Coal Seam Gas project in Queensland’s Bowen Basin. The proposal includes the staged development of over 200 coal seam gas wells covering an area of some 700km2, a project with a 40-year life span designed to produce up to 100 terajoules of gas per day for domestic and export LNG markets. Our client’s application for a petroleum lease Golder’s work has culminated in an innovative Mervyn Mason, Principal Ecologist, Daniel requires such an assessment, the results of which blueprint of optimum well locations, gathering Potter, Senior Ecologist, James Comley, Principal have enabled sustainability principles to be lines and other infrastructure that reduces the Environmental Scientist, and Sarah Duarte, Senior incorporated into the feasibility design of the project potential impacts of the project and protecting the Environmental Scientist, all from the Brisbane infrastructure and allowing the client to carefully environmental values identified through our research. (Australia) office jointly led this work. Associate and manage the unique environmental challenges in this Environment Team leader, Lochlan Gibson, was the part of Australia. project director. Multiple studies were required to assess possible impacts and devise the mitigation controls required to balance environmental, social and commercial outcomes for the client, involving ecology, surface and groundwater, stakeholder engagement, GIS, air and noise, and waste teams, over a 12-month period. Golder’s assessment resulted in the identification of threatened ecological communities and two vulnerable species, the Koala and the Ornamental Snake. GOLDER 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 17 MATERIALITY OUR WORK AWARDS AND ACCOLADES OUR COMMUNITIES OUR OPERATIONS ABOUT US OUR WORK | PROJECT PROFILES Developing Risk-based Guidelines for Domestic Water Use in South Africa South Africa is a water-stressed country. Less than a year ago Cape Town, a city of almost four document reflects the scientific knowledge at the time it was million people, was weeks away from a water crisis that would see municipal supplies being produced, the scientific understanding of the complexity of water switched off and residents queuing for a daily ration of water, possibly the first major city in the ecosystems and adaptive management processes have evolved world to run out of water. Saved by strong winter rains, the water emergency highlighted the leading to new approaches to managing water quality. A national precarious nature of the water supply in that country, one that is subject to high variability in review of water quality guidelines in South Africa undertaken seasonal rainfall patterns and is unevenly distributed across the country. Increased urbanisation in 2008 concluded that these guidelines should support site and a higher demand from both industrial and domestic users add to the severity of the problem. specificity and be risked-based, a departure from the prevailing Several of the catchments within South Africa are under pressure both in terms of current supply approach where a predetermined water quality outcome was not meeting demand and deteriorating water quality. the defining factor in applying the guidelines. This often resulted in an assessment of fitness for use which was either too lenient Ensuring acceptable water quality that is fit-for-use is as much of a priority as adequately or too stringent managing water availability to meet water demands and supply requirements. Sustainable decisions on fitness for use in a complex, constantly changing environment of limited water Golder was appointed to assist the Water Research Commission to resources requires sound technical guidance. develop a new set of guidelines for domestic water use, a riskbased approach that provided an accurate assessment of fitness The 1996 South African Water Quality Guidelines have been used by water quality managers for use with respect to associated hazards and an acceptable risk and water resource managers for more than two decades as a primary source of information to framework that facilitates the sustainable use of water resources support decision-making regarding the fitness for use of water resources. While the guideline based on a site-specific approach. These risk-based water quality guidelines, which were developed over a two-year period in 2017 and 2018, are now being reviewed by the Commission represent a paradigm shift in the decision making context for water quality management and in how water quality guidelines are used and applied in South Africa underpinning sustainable water resource use. Priya Moodley, Water Resource Scientist from the Johannesburg (South Africa) office was the Project Leader, supported by Lee Boyd (Water Resource Scientist, South Africa), Nirvishee Juggath (Water Resources Engineer, South Africa), Givarn Singh (Junior Water Resources Engineer, South Africa) and Trevor Coleman, Principal (South Africa) as the Project Director. Dr Bettina Genthe, CSIR, South Africa, also contributed to this project. GOLDER 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 18 MATERIALITY OUR WORK AWARDS AND ACCOLADES OUR COMMUNITIES OUR OPERATIONS ABOUT US OUR WORK | FOCUS ON MINING Leadership in Sustainability: Mine Closure and Mine Water Stewardship Golder has a long history of working closely Working with the ICMM Mine Closure Toolkit with the mining sector stemming from the In 2018, Golder organized and facilitated a mine In 2007, the ICMM published a comprehensive very origins of our company in Canada nearly water stewardship workshop over a two-day period and ground-breaking mine closure toolkit which 60 years ago. Today our mining work spans in London on behalf of the ICMM. The workshop was widely recognized and adopted by the mining the globe, supporting our clients’ needs focused on three key water sustainability issues community for its best practice approach. Some 10 across the full lifecycle of a mining operation, facing stakeholders today: years later, the ICMM called upon Golder to help from exploration and development, through • innovations in valuing water update this guidance to ensure that it promotes operating years, and ultimately into closure and • multi-stakeholder collaboration and novel standards and practices that have evolved and land rehabilitation. partnerships, and improved over this time in the areas of post closure • alternative models for delivery and financing of land use and the social transition for mining Golder’s technical support for our mining clients water projects. operations and the impacts on communities. The covers the entire spectrum of our services, updated document, finalized in 2018 and published with particular focus on mine waste and water Participants engaged in cross-sector sharing and in early 2019, provides a comprehensive approach management, tailings storage, mine stability and dialogue to dissect opportunities and constraints to closure planning and management throughout the geotechnical issues, environmental issues, mine that underpin business decisions on water mining lifecycle. closure, and remediation. Our expertise is often stewardship. More than 40 global mining, oil & gas, called upon by mining industry organizations, like finance community, and NGO leaders attended the the International Council on Mining & Metals (ICMM) workshop, involving participants from our largest and by international non-government bodies like the client organizations (Rio Tinto, BHP, Freeport, Anglo International Organization for Standardization (ISO), American, Teck, and NewmontGoldcorp). Scot who seek to inform and guide businesses with best Foster, Golder’s Mining Client Program Director, practice principles and approaches. and Mike Lelliott, Principal Hydrogeologist from our London office, led the creation and delivery of the ICMM workshop. GOLDER 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 19 MATERIALITY OUR WORK AWARDS AND ACCOLADES OUR COMMUNITIES OUR OPERATIONS ABOUT US OUR WORK | FOCUS ON MINING Mine Closure Checklist for the New Mining Standard for the APEC Mining Task Force International Standards Organization Through its Mining Task Force, the Asia Pacific Golder professionals are assisting the International Standards Organization to Economic Cooperation (APEC), a 21-nation prepare a mine closure terminology standard. This is a new standard for the ISO community, issued a mine closure checklist for the and Golder has taken the role of international project leader, leading a committee governments of member nations. through a complex process that must be relevant in multiple jurisdictions and local regulatory environments. The resulting terminology standards will apply to widely According to APEC some 70% of all mining output varied operating conditions, from the arctic to the deserts of northern Africa and is produced and consumed in APEC member the tropical climes of Indonesia. This piece of work commenced in 2013 and is economies, resources that are vital to a wide range expected to be published in 2020. of industries including construction, transportation, digital infrastructure, food production and healthcare. Preparing for a Post-mine Future The pursuit of sustainable mining practices drives the policy agenda of the Mining Task Force. While There are there are over 100 active and inactive mines in the remote and the checklist is designed to support regulatory vast Pilbara region of northwest Australia, ranging from those controlled by frameworks and bridge the gaps in the variability multinationals to the smaller juniors. The Pilbara Development Commission has of practice across the region to support developing turned its attention to how these sites might be used productively at the end of nations to meet economic goals, it is not meant their mine life with a long-term project focusing on a 50-year forward project. to do so at the expense of other important Consideration for the future include regional development goals and economic sustainability measures. diversification with possible uses including pastoral leases, irrigated agriculture, https://www.apec.org/Publications/2018/03/Minerenewable power generation, tourism, and aquaculture in an area about the Closure---Checklist-for-Governments size of Spain. We are helping the Commission to prepare a development framework that would support such activities, a process that involves multiple government agencies and balancing competing priorities to achieve workable solutions. These projects exemplify the ongoing leadership role Golder plays on the global stage in helping our mining clients address their most complex sustainability challenges through a rare combination of technical excellence and business insight. GOLDER 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 20 MATERIALITY OUR WORK AWARDS AND ACCOLADES OUR COMMUNITIES OUR OPERATIONS ABOUT US OUR WORK | FOCUS ON MINING Reclaimed Mine Supports Species at Risk In a long-abandoned mine in a remote location Two permanent engineered bat cupolas and a bat The fabrication and installation of these structures in northern Ontario, and important bat habitat for gate were designed and constructed with reference was one of the first bat-friendly rehabilitation species-at-risk, Golder has designed an innovative to specific load requirements that account for the solutions to be constructed by a private enterprise solution that protects both people and wildlife from dead weight of structure, snow loading, tree impacts in Ontario, successfully meeting regulatory the dangers of abandoned mine hazards. and vehicle traffic. Stainless steel was used for its requirements, protecting bat habitat and the public’s longevity and rust resistant properties, and the safety by preventing inadvertent access into the Silver mining at the historic Edison Mine property cupolas have been anchored to bedrock. A further underground mine workings. ceased in 1907 after a few years of operation, leaving five standalone mine hazards were backfilled with eight unprotected physical mine hazards on site. To Paul Palmer, Mine Engineering & Stability Division Leader from the locally sourced material. Toronto (Canada) office was the Project Director, with Mine Closure mitigate the risks associated with the abandoned Specialist Project, Josip Balaban from the Mississauga (Canada) facilities and support the bat habitat, Eaton office, Project Manager and Field Supervisor. Corporation, the mine owners, engaged Golder to find a solution to achieve both objectives. The Ministry of Natural Resources and Forestry (MNRF) identified the underground mine workings as a potential refuge for bats and designated the mine workings as protected habitat for speciesat-risk. A number of bat species are at-risk across Ontario due to white nose syndrome, and their habitats need protection to assist in their recovery. This classification required that the three physical mine hazards connected to the underground workings were to be preserved and left open, which meant existing rehabilitation practices could not be applied. Fencing the site was the most viable solution but would still require Eaton to monitor the site in perpetuity. A unique engineered rehabilitation solution for these three surface openings that prevented human entry to the hazards, but still allowed bat habitat to remain, was required. A further complicating factor was the logistical challenge of constructing these structures in a location only accessible by boat and helicopter. Bat refuge at the historic Edison Mine in northern Ontario, Canada GOLDER 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 21 MATERIALITY OUR WORK AWARDS AND ACCOLADES OUR COMMUNITIES OUR OPERATIONS ABOUT US OUR WORK | FOCUS ON MINING Reviewing Occupational Hygiene Engineer of Record at El Soldardo Protecting employees from ill health that could be For the past five years Golder has fulfilled the role of Engineer of Record at Anglo American’s caused by their work environment is a core business El Soldado mine in Chile. Mining began on this site in the 1840s and currently around 12,500 requirement and one that directly relates to an tonnes of copper ore is produced each day. Golder as Engineer of Record is responsible for organization’s ability to sustain their workforce. the safety of the five tailings dams on the mine site. Our work includes the design of monitoring Best practice in this area necessitates a process of systems, geotechnical investigations, stability analysis, seismic risk assessment and dam breach continuous improvement and Golder has undertaken analysis. We are currently supporting Anglo American in the permitting of a further expansion of one such review for global gold producer Barrick the tailings dam which will give another 10 years of mine life, protecting the livelihoods of 1000+ Gold Corporation. people, an important result for Anglo American who are committed to working with their local communities to achieve better health, education and employment outcomes. Over a 16-week period in 2018, Golder conducted a comprehensive occupational health and hygiene audit and gap analysis covering all facets of occupational health and hygiene for their 10 operated sites in Canada, US, Caribbean, Middle East, Australasia and Africa. Barrick has relied on Golder’s expertise to analyze each operating environment to identify gaps and improvement opportunities based on known best practice and will use the findings to adjust their policies and processes and to inform future audits for the benefit of their people and their business. Bryan Wilson, Associate and Senior OH&S Specialist, Courtney Gendron, Occupational Hygienist, Katia Rivera, Industrial Hygienist, Rob Stoyanoff, Senior Industrial Hygienist, and Evan Jones, Senior EHS Consultant, all from various Canadian offices, collaborated on this project. The El Torito tailings dam at El Soldado Mine, Chile: water reclaim pond and barges, wet beach and sand wall in the distance. GOLDER 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 22 MATERIALITY OUR WORK AWARDS AND ACCOLADES OUR COMMUNITIES OUR OPERATIONS ABOUT US OUR WORK | FOCUS ON MINING Sustainable Development Outcomes Drive Approval for an Amazon Mining Project Sustainability outcomes that reach beyond regulatory requirements and standard Over this time, Golder has supported our client through procedures is the intent of the proponents of a major greenfield potash project stringent approval pathways requiring multiple government located in the environmentally sensitive junction of the Amazon and Madeira agencies at state and federal levels, undertaken detailed Rivers in Brazil. Potash is widely used as a fertiliser in Brazil where soils typically environmental studies, and social impact assessments. lack the nutrients that support healthy plant growth. The size of the potash deposit Interactions with traditional people who have lived in in in Autazes is significant and is expected to reduce Brazil’s need to import this the area for centuries has been a feature of this work. The product—critical to the agriculture economy in that country. livelihoods of these communities are protected by law and they will benefit from the investment in the mine through For the past six years, Golder has played a key role in helping Potassio do Brasil employment, education, and support for the local economy. navigate the complex regulatory process that will enable this project to proceed. The location of the potash deposit is characterized by populations of traditional Aerial mapping has enabled a detailed assessment of the of communities, sites of archaeological importance, and significant biodiversity that the site, part of which is seasonally flooded by the Amazon needs to be preserved and protected. and Maderia Rivers. The Golder team has helped Potassio do Brasil select an optimal mine site on high ground to avoid flooding, and the positioning of the elevator shaft giving access to the potash deposit some 800 meters below the surface. The project master plan, which includes a 12 km road connecting the mine and processing plant with the Madeira river port for the transportation of potash, avoids areas of archaeological significance and minimizes the project’s footprint on habitat of protected species. The project received its preliminary license in 2017, a significant milestone. Gaining a construction license is the next step in the development of the mine for Potassio do Brasil. Alexandre Pena is the Project Director, Leandro Jardim Arruda (M.Sc.) the Project Manager, and they are supported by Lucio Cadaval Bede (PhD), the Project’s Senior Biodiversity Specialist, Daniel Corrêa (M.Sc.), Senior Geographer, and by a multidisciplinary team from the Belo Horizonte office in Brazil. GOLDER 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 23 MATERIALITY OUR WORK AWARDS AND ACCOLADES OUR COMMUNITIES OUR OPERATIONS ABOUT US OUR WORK | RENEWABLES Renewables on the Rise Across the globe renewable energy is at the center of the transition to External Panel for the Canadian Centre for Climate a less carbon-intensive and more sustainable sources of energy. The Services benefits from Golder expertise renewables sector has grown rapidly over recent years, buoyed by cost reductions achieved on the back of the investment in solar photovoltaics The Canadian Centre for Climate Services (CCCS) was and wind power, making these technologies more commercially attractive. established in late 2018 to help Canadians to adapt and increase their resilience to climate change and support the implementation of the Pan-Canadian Framework on Clean The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) established by the United Growth and Climate Change. The CCCS is intended to be Nations (whose remit is to provide the world with an objective, scientific view of Canada’s source of reliable climate information, data, and tools climate change and its political and economic impacts) reported in 2018 that the and provide training and support to help Canadians understand effort to tackle climate change must be accelerated at scale in order to limit global their current and future climate vulnerabilities, risks, and temperature rises, an urgent reminder that global warming poses a grave risk opportunities. to our planet. Sean Capstick, Principal and Senior Air Quality and Climate In their 2018 report, the International Energy Agency forecasts that the share of Change Specialist from the Toronto (Canada) office, has been renewables contributing to global energy demand over the next five years will appointed to the CCCS external advisory panel to provide reach 12.4% by 2023, a 20% increase on current levels. The fastest growth is expert advice for the development of the Canadian Climate anticipated in the electricity sector, with renewables expected to meet almost 30% Information Portal. The portal of power demand in 2023, up 24% from 2017, and contributing more than 70% of will leverage other online climate global electricity generation growth. Solar photovoltaics, wind, hydropower, and analytics systems from CCCS bioenergy will all contribute to this outcome. partners providing climate Golder is making a substantial contribution to this growing sector, providing data and tools with analytic a range of environmental, geotechnical and design services to hundreds of functionality to help strengthen renewable projects worldwide. national and regional capacity to guide decision-making that will help Canada adapt to climate change. GOLDER 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 24 MATERIALITY OUR WORK AWARDS AND ACCOLADES OUR COMMUNITIES OUR OPERATIONS ABOUT US OUR WORK | RENEWABLES Renewables across the globe Over the past five years Golder has provided expert advice to hundreds of renewable energy projects across the world supporting the development of over 20,000MW from renewable sources. These include wind, solar, hydro and waste to energy projects replacing the use fossil fuels with sustainable alternatives. EUROPE NORTH AMERICA ASIA AFRICA SOUTH LEGEND AMERICA Wind Solar AUSTRALASIA Hydro Waste to energy GOLDER 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 25 MATERIALITY OUR WORK AWARDS AND ACCOLADES OUR COMMUNITIES OUR OPERATIONS ABOUT US OUR WORK | RENEWABLES Supporting Enel Green Power to Strengthen Sustainable Improving On-site Circular Economies Energy Generation With three billion new consumers expected to enter the global Enel Green Power, a long-term client Italian multinational renewable energy producer, has looked market by 20301 and the resultant demand for goods and services, to Golder to help them make their energy business operate in a more sustainable manner. As a there is little doubt that the linear model of our industrial economy producer of energy from renewable sources, EGP’s commitment to sustainability is absolute, and (take, make, waste) is not sustainable. The notion of the circular looking inwards to improve their own sustainability performance reflects their central ethos. An economy where resources, waste, and emissions are minimized by employee contest held in 2018 revealed hundreds of opportunities to operate their sites more closing or narrowing energy and material usage loops, is gaining sustainably and with over 1200 wind, hydro, geothermal, solar, and biomass operating sites in 29 momentum. The World Economic Forum predicts that the transition countries, the potential impact was substantial. towards a circular economy is estimated to represent a $4.5 trillion global growth opportunity by 2030 and has invested in this activity The catalog of improvement opportunities garnered from the ideas of employees was the through the establishment of PACE, the Platform for Accelerating starting point for Golder’s involvement in this project. Our task was to expand on this work and the Circular Economy. look outwards to identify practices that could be adopted and adapted by EGP. This was an extensive desktop and field work exercise for Golder, a world-wide scan of competitors practices During 2018 Golder worked on a project for global energy company and published research. Golder was also able to tap into its own internal network, reaching Eni to improve the circular economy at two separate operations, a out globally to colleagues for ideas and examples. In the first screening, over 120 potential green refinery in Venice (formerly producing hydrocarbon-based improvement opportunities were identified by Golder. Enel have selected 18 of these and in a products that was upgraded in 2014 to produce biofuels from second phase of work, Golder took a deep dive investigation into each of these. vegetable-based oils and fat) and a fuel deposit close to Torino. Golder consultants Emanuele Bobbio, Marcello Ciancaglioni, Roberto Mezzalama all from Golder analyzed the current performance of each operation the Turin (Italy) office, and Adriana Fagone from the Padova (Italy) office worked on this focusing on water, resource, and energy use, waste production project together. and impacts on biodiversity, identifying further actions that Eni can implement to improve the green refinery performance in terms of circularity. Feasibility studies have been undertaken for six of the recommendations made by Golder and are currently being considered by the client for their adoption on the sites. 1 W  orld Economic Forum Report, Towards the circular economy: Accelerating the scale-up across global supply chains Golder consultants Nicola Antonicelli, Emanuele Bobbio, Lorenzo Fassino and Roberto Mezzalama all from the Turin (Italy) office, Stefania Magnani and Carlo Zaffaroni from the Milan (Italy) office, and Paola Bottega, Silvia Cestaro and Federico Rizzo from the Padova (Italy) office worked on this project together. 26 MATERIALITY OUR WORK AWARDS AND ACCOLADES OUR COMMUNITIES OUR OPERATIONS ABOUT US OUR WORK | RENEWABLES ASIA Renewables in Australia Australia is known as a “land of drought and flooding rains”. This climate variability A 2018 report by the Clean Energy Council of presents design challenges for large scale solar farms when combined with Australia details record investment in the renewable expansive soils that are prevalent over much of the continent. By tapping into our energy sector of US$9billon in 2017. 450MW watts leading experts, Golder has developed design methodologies that reduce the of large scale solar, and 547MW of wind capacity depth of foundations needed to support solar arrays by around 20%. The reduction was added in 2017, bringing total generation in steel and mechanical effort needed to install the foundations not only equates capacity to 4816MW, contributing to approximately to a significant dollar saving but also a major reduction in the carbon footprint 17% of Australia’s electricity generation. Over the of the project. past five years Golder has contributed expertise to multiple renewable projects in Australia which together have the capacity to generate over 3000 MW of power or enough to power 1.8 million average Australian households*, and save 15 million tonnes of greenhouse gas emissions.** Through our comprehensive and contemporary understanding of the renewables market, we’ve provided developers and contractors with a range of permitting, ground engineering and environmental services, helping to bring many projects to life. We have helped clients select sites, seek development approvals, and have undertaken Environmental and Social Impact Assessments in support of their projects. Golder is also involved with the design of many projects where our geotechnical input has In Tasmania, Golder’s geotechnical expertise has resulted realized significant material savings for developers, in an optimal foundation design for over 30 wind turbine reducing project costs and CO2 impact. AUSTRALASIA foundations. This has translated into project cost savings in the order of AU$500,000 through reducing the amount of concrete required by 1200 tonnes and steel by 50 tonnes, with a resultant positive CO2 impact of * Based on a typical Australian customer type consuming over 520 tonnes. 5000kWh of electricity annually, AEMC 2018 Residential Electricity Price Trends Review. ** Calculated using the NSW Wind Farm Greenhouse Gas Savings Tool. GOLDER 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 27 MATERIALITY OUR WORK AWARDS AND ACCOLADES OUR COMMUNITIES OUR OPERATIONS ABOUT US OUR WORK | INNOVATION Investing in Innovation Golder invested in a program aimed at The framework for Golder’s innovation program encourages partnerships with supporting innovation in all its forms in 2018. industry, academia, and clients to develop real-world solutions. Golder’s Technical This is an important initiative for Golder; not Communities (communities of consultants linked by their specialist skills) serve only is the ability to innovate a crucial aspect as incubators to test and cross-fertilize ideas and generate new concepts as improvements to the services we provide to clients. of technical excellence, it is also key to our ability to deliver a more sustainable future in Four projects were funded through the Innovation Program in 2018: partnership with our clients. • A collaborative research and • A pit lake water sampling method development project for remediating using aerial drones solving perand polyfluoroalkyl substances several HSSE challenges relating (PFAS) contamination in soil to dangerous access to pits, and water. PFAS have become of working on water, and potential increasing concern around the exposure to hazardous substances globe due to their widespread while in the pit. use in a wide range of industrial • Using machine learning models to processes and products creating optimize mine material management, a legacy of contamination and a helping mining clients manage their potential risk to human health and materials more efficiently through the environment, and an unexpected the entire mine life cycle. liability for numerous businesses and governments. • A new approach to the assessment of the potential for tailings dam breaches, an operational and enterprise risk faced by the mining sector which can have sudden and sometimes catastrophic human, environmental and Photo courtesy of Denver Water economic impacts. Pit lake water sampling using drone technology GOLDER 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 28 MATERIALITY OUR WORK AWARDS AND ACCOLADES OUR COMMUNITIES OUR OPERATIONS ABOUT US OUR WORK | TECHNICAL EXCELLENCE GTEC – Golder’s first technical excellence conference Golder is known for technical excellence – a foundational element of our organizational identity. In 2018, Golder held its inaugural technical excellence conference (GTEC) to further cultivate and advance this position at a global scale. “My takeaway was just how inter-connected Golder has 26 specific Technical Communities that support the work of we really can be. Not just on the work that our consultants through networking, sharing ideas and best practices, and we do but the knowledge we have to work collaborative problem solving. GTEC takes this a step further by bringing together a cross-section of people from our technical communities in a single forum, on bigger, better more innovative projects. focused on showcasing innovative practices and examples of technical and clientWhen you start talking to people who are in focused excellence. different disciplines, and geographic locations Over 320 submissions were made to the organizing panel, a strong indication a spiderweb of knowledge forms and you of the internal support for this initiative and the value it brings to Golder. After a rigorous review process, 80 submissions were accepted and eventually presented realize what a great suite of services we offer at the inaugural GTEC conference which was attended by over 200 people from our clients.” across our organization. Daley Clohan, Vancouver, Canada GTEC will become a regular feature on the Golder calendar, promoting knowledge sharing and collaboration, and continually strengthening our Technical Communities of practice and supporting the long-term sustainability of our organization. “The variety, strength and breadth of Golder’s offer was readily evident from the insights into colleague’s work in delivering technical excellence and the promotion and monetization of innovation.” Henlo du Preez, British Columbia, Canada GOLDER 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 29 MATERIALITY OUR WORK AWARDS AND ACCOLADES OUR COMMUNITIES OUR OPERATIONS ABOUT US AWARDS AND ACCOLADES Portageville Bridge Replacement ERA Award of Merit 2018 Golder served as the geotechnical be cut upwards of 120-feet into the Construction of the new Genesee Arch Engineer-of-Record for the river gorge sidewalls, significantly Bridge is an engineering marvel, made Portageville Bridge Replacement constraining and complicating bridge possible by meticulous consideration Project, located in western New York construction, as any activity could to its foundation design. For Golder State, which received an “Award of not adversely impact the river or this was a decade-long project and Merit” from the New York division of park. As a result, the new bridge was is an example of how we can bring Engineering News Record (ENR), an constructed utilizing cantilevered together a diverse, collaborative integrated media platform providing construction methods. team (including staff from 13 offices construction industry analysis, data, across the US and Canada) to deliver Foundation design required extensive opinions, and news. technical ingenuity and practical geologic/geotechnical assessments, solutions to complex challenges. The new bridge (renamed the Genesee and a detailed subsurface exploration Arch Bridge) is the first steel arch program. Golder personnel rappelled Bob Stetkar Principal from the Bristol bridge built since the 1940s for the down the river gorge sidewalls (US) office was the Project Director. US railroad industry and is a central to develop a comprehensive Mark McNeilly, Principal (Newark, connector on the railway’s Southern understanding of ground conditions. US) was the Project Manager, and Tier Line, between Binghamton and Jay Smerekanicz, Associate, from Impacts to wildlife within Letchworth Buffalo. Following a comprehensive the Manchester, (US) office was State Park required careful study, it was determined that a new the Lead Geologist / Engineering consideration. The project team bridge was needed to improve Geologist on the Portageville Bridge closely monitored a nearby American train movements along the rail line, Replacement Project. Eagle nest, a protected species. Tree which were restricted to speeds clearing activities were limited to the less than 10-miles-per-hour, due period between late fall and early to bridge’s age (built in 1875) and spring to protect and minimize impacts deteriorating condition. on the roosting habitat associated The new steel arch bridge spans the with a local population of bats. The Genesee River Gorge, which runs old bridge was demolished and pier through Letchworth State Park, often foundations in the river below were referred to as the “Grand Canyon removed, restoring the river to its of the East”. Design of the new natural, unobstructed condition. bridge required that its foundations GOLDER 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 30 MATERIALITY OUR WORK AWARDS AND ACCOLADES OUR COMMUNITIES OUR OPERATIONS ABOUT US AWARDS AND ACCOLADES Institution of Civil Engineers – George Stephenson Gold Medal Dr Martin Cross, Technical Director, based in roads. Further studies are being carried out to Dr Martin Cross, Technical Director from the Leeds the Leeds (UK) office was awarded the George determine the overall CO2 per tonne saving relating to (UK) office specializes in geotechnical engineering Stephenson Gold Medal by the Institution of Civil lorry movements on the project. and engineering geology. He is passionate about Engineers for his paper entitled, “Wallasea Island what can be gained from the clever application of The recycled excavation material has been used to Wild Coast Project, UK: circular economy in the circular economy models and is currently working raise land levels at Wallasea by approximately 1.5m built environment”, published in the Proceedings on a new project relating to the reuse of tunneling and an innovative flood defense system incorporating of the Institution of Civil Engineers Waste and material from the Western rail access tunnel to new seawalls to protect vulnerable coastal areas from Resource Management. Heathrow Airport, London, UK. The plan is to reuse flooding has also been designed into the project. this material to restore a gravel quarry at the site of Dr Cross’ paper detailed the work he undertook as Partnering with the nature conservation charity, the the main shaft of the tunnel near Heathrow Airport. Project Director on the Wallsea Island Wild Coast Royal Protection of Birds (RSPB,) was a key part of Project. It is a ground-breaking conservation and Crossrail’s sustainability policy. The RSPB hopes the engineering project creating Europe’s largest wetland new nature reserve will see the return to England of nature reserve, transforming 670ha of farmland lost breeding populations of spoonbills and Kentish back to its original coastal marshland habitat of Plovers, as well as increasing already internationally saltmarsh, mudflats and lagoons, and re-establishing important flocks of avocet, dunlin, red-shank and lost populations of various wetland birdlife species. lapwing, along with Brent geese, wigeon and The island was reclaimed from the sea by Dutch curlew in the winter months. The creation of these engineers centuries ago but was finally ploughed new habitats is designed to contribute towards UK flat 20 years ago to allow intensive wheat and biodiversity action plan targets and help mitigate the rapeseed farming. losses of these habitats elsewhere in Essex where Construction excavation materials from the Crossrail they are under increasing threat because of climate project in London have been reused in the Wallsea change and rising sea levels. Island project, a high-value conservation scheme, This is a project that exemplifies the principles providing benefits for both people and wildlife. In underpinning the circular economy, moving from a total, 98% of excavated material from the project in system of waste to one of ‘endless resourcefulness’, London has been recycled and reused, with almost a model which presents a viable investment option half being shipped to Wallasea Island – more than 3 to successfully tackle environmental priorities, drive million tonnes. A total of 2400 shiploads of material performance, innovation and competitiveness while were delivered, removing the requirement for Aerial view of Wallasea Island with reclamation works underway. stimulating economic growth and development. 150,000 haulage lorry movements from London’s GOLDER 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 31 MATERIALITY OUR WORK AWARDS AND ACCOLADES OUR COMMUNITIES OUR OPERATIONS ABOUT US AWARDS AND ACCOLADES Golder wins Circular Construction Challenge Golder, together with Stark and Solum, was one of they become an attractive and natural choice for three winners of the Circular Construction Challenge, designers and craftsmen, thereby contributing to a an innovative competition set by Realdania, a paradigm shift towards increased circularity in the philanthropic organization dedicated to improving construction sector. So far five major contractors quality of life for the people of Denmark focusing on will provide access to waste collection at their the impact the built environment has on the fabric of construction sites. everyday lives. The team received EURO130,000 (USD 150,000) Golder’s entry GENTRÆ – Circular Alternative: to implement a prototype of this business model Reused timber in large-scale retail sale is specifically and over the course of the coming year the circular designed to address timber waste created by value chain will be analyzed to achieve optimal the building industry in Denmark. Each year environmental, social and economic outcomes. approximately 55,116 tonnes of timber is used The idea for recycling timber originated with Golder, for temporary construction activity on building Stark and Solum. Maria Ekblad from the Golder sites. Timber used for guardrails, toe board stairs, Copenhagen office has been appointed supported framework panels, and plywood hoardings are by strategic partners; entrepreneurs Jensen A / S, Maria Ekblad (right) of Golder was appointed as project disposed of as combustible waste less than six C.G. Jensen A / S, Adserballe & Knudsen A / S, NCC, leader, supported by Louise Askear-Hune of STARK GROUP, months after being used on site. and Morten Standlod (center) of Solum. Enemærke and Petersen A / S, legal aid, Horten, and This waste timber makes an ideal product from a logistic support from WasteApp. circularity perspective. The volumes disposed of as waste are significant, it has a short life span and is not significantly changed during use or exposed to hazardous substances. GENTRÆ will collect timber from constructions sites, sort and repackage the wood at Solum, Denmark’s largest waste recycling operator, and then resell the material via building supply company STARK. The GENTRÆ proposition is that by making recycled products available alongside conventional building materials, GOLDER 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 32 MATERIALITY OUR WORK AWARDS AND ACCOLADES OUR COMMUNITIES OUR OPERATIONS ABOUT US AWARDS AND ACCOLADES Dr Hisham Mahmoud named EFCG CEO of the Year T ​ op Supplier to Golder CEO, Dr Hisham Mahmoud, was named CEO of the Year (2018) by the the Mining Industry Environmental, Financial, Consulting Group (EFCG), a leading global advisory focused on consulting, engineering and construction sectors. EFGC present Market research company PhiBrand this award each year to a CEO who has demonstrated outstanding leadership has recognized Golder as a top in the industry. supplier to the mining industry in Chile in a performance-based Dr Mahmoud has been a participant in EFCG’s CEO Conference for nearly a annual ranking exercise in the decade and is a regular panelist on several key topics impacting the consulting engineering category. industry. In 2018, Dr Mahmoud participated in the CEO panel for large companies alongside leaders from Stantec, HDR, CDM Smith, Ramboll, Jacobs, and SWECO, and moderated the Employee Ownership session. EFCG’s President Paul Zofnass was direct in his assessment of Dr Mahmoud’s Deloitte Platinum Best industry leadership. “We selected Dr. Mahmoud based upon his extraordinary Managed Company Award leadership in the key executive positions he has held over the last two decades. Deloitte recognized Golder as a Specifically, his leadership and impact on Golder’s performance since he Best Managed Company for the took over three years ago as Golder’s first externally appointed CEO has 19th consecutive year. It is also the been nothing short of tremendous, creating a lot of value in a short period of 12th consecutive year that Golder time,” says Zofnass. “While it is easy to focus solely on the financial success has been designated Platinum Elite of the business, we realize that such performance improvement is impossible status, assigned to companies that without significant cultural alignment, which in our view only comes from strong maintain their Best Managed status leadership, starting with the CEO.” for seven years or more. Golder was selected from amongst the best-inclass companies with revenues over $15 million demonstrating strategy, capability and commitment to achieve sustainable growth. GOLDER 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 33 MATERIALITY OUR WORK AWARDS AND ACCOLADES OUR COMMUNITIES OUR OPERATIONS ABOUT US AWARDS AND ACCOLADES Canadian Brownfields Network (CBN) Brownie Awards The Brownie Awards recognize the organizations and individuals who work to rehabilitate brownfield sites that were once contaminated, under-utilized and undeveloped to create productive residential and commercial projects, helping to grow healthy communities across Canada. Golder received the 2018 RENEW: Development at the Community Scale Award for the Greystone Village Development Project in Ottawa, Ontario; was recognized as part of the winning team on the Bentway Project in Toronto, Ontario that won the REINVEST: Financing, Risk Management and Partnerships Award; and was short-listed in the REMEDIATE: Sustainable Remediation and Technical Innovation category for the Avenir Centre Sustainable Remediation Project in Moncton, New Brunswick. Greystone Village Development Project in Ottawa, Ontario The Greystone Village project was awarded LEED ND v4 SILVER certification in 2018, the first project in Ontario to achieve this designation and one of only three other projects within Canada. Located in the Old Ottawa East neighbourhood that is rich in history and nature, Greystone Village is a 26-acre master planned community being developed in three phases by the Regional Group a Golder client for more than 20 years. It had been used for institutional purposes since 1876, and some buildings on the site have heritage designation. Once complete, Greystone Village the community will comprise 950 homes, retail, and recreational spaces. Golder supported this award-winning project with geotechnical engineering, environmental site assessment, site remediation, natural environment and was excluded from the remediation effort, which archaeology services, from its embryonic stages through to detailed design would have disrupted the existing tree cover and and construction. adversely affected shoreline aquatic habitat. Bedrock removed from the City of Ottawa Light Rail Transit Working closely with the local community association and other public groups, the tunnel was reused and compacted as engineered project realises practical and measurable environmental strategies and solutions fill to provide foundations for low rise building including sustainable site development and landscape design, preservation of construction, thereby not using new aggregate the historic Deschatelets buildings and Grand Allee entrance feature, priority for resources and having to truck them large distances pedestrians and access to transit and the Ontario’s multi-use pathway network. from quarries to the site; surplus soils from other With Golder’s guidance, the riverbank slope and adjacent parkland corridor area projects in the city were also used for backfill. GOLDER 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 34 MATERIALITY OUR WORK AWARDS AND ACCOLADES OUR COMMUNITIES OUR OPERATIONS ABOUT US AWARDS AND ACCOLADES Remedial Action Plan for Avenir Centre Golder worked with the City of Moncton in New Brunswick Canada The greenhouse gas impact of site development activities was to develop a Remedial Action Plan detailing the necessary risk significantly reduced by minimizing the amount of impacted management measures for the construction of the Avenir Centre, a soil removal from the site and the associated treatment at, and CAN91.5million recreation facility on an abandoned site in the heart transportation to, a landfill recycling facility. of the downtown area. The facility itself will also have environmental benefits with a design that is more than 45% more energy efficient than the National Energy Code and meeting Green Globes Standards. GOLDER 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 35 MATERIALITY OUR WORK AWARDS AND ACCOLADES OUR COMMUNITIES OUR OPERATIONS ABOUT US AWARDS AND ACCOLADES Two Engineering Excellence Awards for Golder from the American Council of Engineering Companies (Washington, US) The Best in State Gold Award for Unique or Innovative Applications was won by the Del Monte Fresh Produce (Hawaii) Inc phytoremediation project. You can read more about the project on pages 15-16. Gary Zimmerman and Joseph Xi accepted the Best in State Gold Award The Arrivé Tower project in downtown on behalf of Golder. Seattle received a Bronze Award for Unique or Innovative Applications. Golder used advanced 3D modelling technology normally associated with mapping subsurface structures for the mining industry to create an optimal shoring design for the tower. Using this method, and with in-depth knowledge of construction practices, Golder’s 3D approach took advantage of the specific dimensions of the site to realistically shoring loading that resulted in a significant saving on construction materials, a welcome cost and CO2 Reda Mikhail and Ali Khoja accepted the Bronze Award. Attending the awards banquet was Josh Hanson, Jim Johnson, Alan Keizur, Ali Khoja, Jim Kleppe, reduction for the project. Reda Mikhail, Margie Pryor, Cathy Smith, Joseph Xi and Gary Zimmerman.​ GOLDER 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 36 MATERIALITY OUR WORK AWARDS AND ACCOLADES OUR COMMUNITIES OUR OPERATIONS ABOUT US AWARDS AND ACCOLADES Above and Beyond Award for Nikki Delude Roy Nikki Delude Roy, Group Leader and Senior Geologist, from the New Hampshire (US) office received the New Hampshire Business and Industry Association’s “Above and Beyond” award for her contributions to the BIA’s Manufacturing and End Users Policy Committee. The award is given annually to individuals who have demonstrated extraordinary service and commitment to BIA’s mission to “promote a healthy business climate and robust economic future for New Hampshire.” CalGeo Volunteer of the Year Award – Lindsey Angell Lindsey Angell, Senior Project Engineer from Golder’s Sacramento (US) office was named CalGeo’s inaugural Volunteer of the Year in recognition of outstanding service and leadership as the President of their Sacramento Emerging Professionals Group. CalGeo is California’s only professional organization committed to unifying, strengthening and advancing the geotechnical consulting industry. Lindsey has been involved with CalGeo for four years, the past two serving as Vice President of the emerging professional’s group. Under Lindsey’s leadership, membership of the group has grown and Lindsey plays a key role in the professional development of young engineers. Lindsey is clearly community minded: she also organizes teams for the annual Eppie’s Great Race, a no-swim triathlon held in the Sacramento area. 2018 marks the fourth year that Golder competed in the event, raising funds for Therapeutic Recreation Services, a Sacramento County program serving people of all ages with special needs and developmental disabilities. GOLDER 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 37 MATERIALITY OUR WORK AWARDS AND ACCOLADES OUR COMMUNITIES OUR OPERATIONS ABOUT US AWARDS AND ACCOLADES 2018 Vancouver Future Leader Honor for Saurabh Saini Geotechnical Society Award The American Industrial Hygiene Association (AIHA) to Dr Upul Atukorala selected Saurabh Saini from the Golder’s Singapore office to participate in its prestigious 2018 Future Dr Upul Atukorala, Principal, Senior Leaders Institute. Geotechnical Engineer from the Vancouver (Canada) office is the Saurabh is a Senior Industrial Hygiene Consultant recipient of the 2018 Vancouver and is a part of the industrial hygiene services team Geotechnical Society Award which in Asia. He is a Certified Industrial Hygienist and is a is given each year to a member member of the AIHA organization and the Singapore who has made a significant Occupational and Environmental Health Society. Saurabh Saini presenting to clients contribution to the Society, and the practice of geotechnical or geoenvironmental engineering. EBC Ascending Leader Award – Danielle Sylvia Danielle Sylvia, Environmental Engineer (Manchester, New Hampshire) received the 2018 Environmental Business Council of New England (EBC) Ascending Leader Award. The award recognizes young professionals in the energy and environmental sectors demonstrating exceptional leadership and industry involvement early in their careers. Danielle was recognized for her team leadership at Golder and active presence on the EBC Ascending Professionals Committee. Pictured: Paul Sutton (Senior Consultant), Danielle Sylvia (Environmental Engineer) & Alistair Macdonald (Senior Program Leader and Principal)​ Dr. Atukorala receiving his award from Roberto Olivera, Geotechnical Engineer GOLDER 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 38 MATERIALITY OUR WORK AWARDS AND ACCOLADES OUR COMMUNITIES OUR OPERATIONS ABOUT US AWARDS AND ACCOLADES Australian Geomechanics Society – Don Douglas Youth Fellowship Geotechnical Engineer Nikki Manche, from the Brisbane (Australia) office has been awarded the prestigious Australian Geomechanics SocietyDon Douglas Youth Fellowship. This award is given to the author of the most outstanding paper from Australia at the Australian New Zealand (ANZ) Young Geotechnical Professionals​​ Conference. The award went to Nikki for her paper “The use of early-works embankments in soft soil areas to optimize detailed design: Gateway Motorway Case study”. Nikki is the third consecutive Golder professional to receive the fellowship, and the sixth winner from Golder of the nine times the award has been given. All six recipients of the fellowship are still with Golder. Su Kwon Tan ARC Linkage Grant to Build a Brick for the Future Su Kwong Tan, Senior Geotechnical Engineer from the Perth (Australia), is one of three partners working on a project that has been awarded an ARC Linkage Grant by the Australian Research Council. ARC Linkage Grants are designed to promote national and international collaborative research focused on Australia’s national science priorities. Su Kwong and his project partners have designed an interlocking brick system that is resistant to seismic activity. The grant will fund the research and development work of a PhD student at Curtin University (Western Australia) to advance the product to commercial production. This project will have significant impact on construction technology for the benefit of earthquake prone countries such as Indonesia, PNG, New Zealand, and East Timor. Nikki Manche, Geotechnical Engineer, receiving her award from Nigel Ruxton, Associate, the 2017 recipient of the same award. GOLDER 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 39 MATERIALITY OUR WORK AWARDS AND ACCOLADES OUR COMMUNITIES OUR OPERATIONS ABOUT US AWARDS AND ACCOLADES Tom Peters Memorial Mine Reclamation 2018 Victor Milligan Award Winners Industry Award Named after Victor Milligan (1929 2009), one of the founders of The Ontario Chapter of the Canadian Land Golder Associates, the Victor Milligan Award is an internal award Reclamation Association (CLRA) recognized given to the best technical paper published by a Golder employee Golder’s work on the the bat-friendly progressive in a given year and open to ground engineering practitioners in rehabilitation of the historic Edison Mine, via the Tom any Golder office worldwide. Victor was recognized worldwide for Peters Memorial Mine Reclamation Industry Award. his expertise in geotechnical engineering and served as president These awards honor Tom Peters a founding member of Golder from the early 1960s until the early 1980s, after which he of the CLRA. See page 21 for more information continued as Chairman of the Board. about this project. Daniel King and Joel Gniel are Golder’s 2018 Victor Milligan Award Winners. Daniel, Senior Geotechnical Engineer, and Joel, Geotechnical Engineer both work out of Golder’s Melbourne (Australia) office and co-authored their paper “Load-transfer platform behaviour in embankments supported on semi-rigid columns: implications of the ground reaction curve” with Abdelmalek Bouazza and Ha H. Bui at Monash University (Melbourne) and R. Kerry Rowe at Queen’s University (Ontario, Canada). The paper was published in the Canadian Geotechnical Journal and was selected as one of the “Editor’s Choice” papers by the publication. ​​ Project leads Paul Palmer & Josip Balaban receiving the Tom Peters award. Joel Gniel and Daniel King GOLDER 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 40 MATERIALITY OUR WORK AWARDS AND ACCOLADES OUR COMMUNITIES OUR OPERATIONS ABOUT US CONNECTED TO OUR COMMUNITIES Orlinda Dineyazhe recognized by Navajo Nation Environmental Protection Agency Golder is deeply connected Project Site Engineer Orlinda More than 60 volunteers showed up on to communities worldwide Dineyazhe, based out of Golder’s St. the clean-up day, disposing of 60 cubic through our work as engineers Louis (US) office, was nominated for meters of trash, 300 tyres, and 18 liters an Environmental Excellence Award of used motor oil from the area. and scientists and through by the Navajo Nation Environmental our giving which is focused Dumping is a frustrating problem Protection Agency (NNEPA). Orlinda on applying our skills and on the Reservation and there is no organized a huge clean-up effort time to education, community landfill or trash pick-up service. While in her home community of Blue enhancement, conservation and residents can pay for this service, most Canyon—located on the Navajo disaster recovery. people on the Reservation can’t afford (DINE’) Reservation, approximately the fees, hence the illegal dump sites. 160 kilometers north-east of Flagstaff, Arizona. Orlinda hopes to influence a change in behavior by appealing to the resident’s The Navajo Nation is the largest Native love of their country and respect for American territory in the United States nature. She can see that much can covering 71,000 square-kilometers be achieved when everyone works of land in north-eastern Arizona, together. There are plans in place to south-eastern Utah, and northmake this an annual event and Orlinda western New Mexico. is currently planning the next campaign Having lived in Blue Canyon for more in the Blue Canyon area. than 30 years, Orlinda was concerned about the amount of waste being dumped along Blue Canyon Road—a Orlinda Dineyazhe beautiful and sacred five-kilometer stretch of red rock canyons, pinyon trees and sagebrush, and stepped in to act. Orlinda organized a community clean-up for the area on Labor Day in 2017, after a call out for volunteers in the local Navajo Times newspaper. GOLDER 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 41 MATERIALITY OUR WORK AWARDS AND ACCOLADES OUR COMMUNITIES OUR OPERATIONS ABOUT US OUR COMMUNITIES | LOCAL COMMUNITIES lo derves G Gi Each year Golder employees around the world initiate activities to raise funds for local community organizations. Here is a small sample of this good work. Festive Jumpers for Save Adopt a Family Program Supported by Local Offices the Children Golder people from the London and Sudbury (Canada), offices have both supported Adopt a Golder’s Bourne End team wore their Family Programs. The Community Living London program matches organizations like Golder with favorite festive jumpers for Save the families who need support. These families have at least one child in the home with an intellectual Children’s Christmas Jumper Day, disability and require some help over the holiday period. In Sudbury, Golder supports the raising funds for disadvantaged and YWCA’s program. vulnerable children across the world. GOLDER 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 42 MATERIALITY OUR WORK AWARDS AND ACCOLADES OUR COMMUNITIES OUR OPERATIONS ABOUT US OUR COMMUNITIES | LOCAL COMMUNITIES Jacksonville Golf Day Makes Dreams Come True The Jacksonville (US) office hosted their annual Client Appreciation Golf Tournament in March 2018 raising $3,500 for Dreams Come True, a local nonprofit organization supporting children with life-threatening illnesses. They are a community minded bunch in Jacksonville, also supporting the Stuff-the-Bus initiative collecting school supplies in Duval County so children in need can start the year with the supplies they need. Octubro Rosa Shines a Light on Breast Cancer in Brazil during Breast Cancer Month Colleagues from Golder’s Brazil office turned out in solidarity with people in the community who are affected by breast cancer and to raise awareness about this disease by dressing in pink, a worldwide symbol of the fight against the disease. Team from Tampa Golder Peru Annual Annual Giving Collection Supports Each year Golder’s team from Tampa, Teenagers in Need Florida, support two local not for Every year the team in Lima (Peru) profit organizations, the Metropolitan collects donations of warm clothing, Baseball Competition to Support the Sick Kids Foundation Ministries and Crisis Center of Tampa, toiletries, and non-perishable food to in Ontario donating food, clothes, toys, and items help people in need. The Don Bosco for personal hygiene at Christmas Foundation, which shelters children The Golder Boulders took on their rivals for a friendly game of baseball to raise and Thanksgiving. and teenagers in need during the frost funds for Ontario’s Sick Kids Foundation. In 2018 this annual event raised $5000 to season, was the recipient of these advance scientific research into childhood illnesses. donations in 2018. GOLDER 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 43 MATERIALITY OUR WORK AWARDS AND ACCOLADES OUR COMMUNITIES OUR OPERATIONS ABOUT US OUR COMMUNITIES | LOCAL COMMUNITIES Eat My Lunch in Golder Employees Donate New Zealand Sleeping Bags People in the Auckland New Zealand Heather Jackson, Senior Project office regularly buy their lunch from GIS Analyst from the Portland (US) the Eat My Lunch organization. It is a office mobilized her office to support buy one, give one free transaction. a sleeping bag drive organized by For every lunch purchased, a free a local non-profit which assists low lunch is given to a young person in income senior citizens to find and need. In the three years since it was secure safe, affordable housing. One in established over one million lunches every five people living on the streets have been distributed this way, the of Multnomah County is aged 55 or impact being felt in improved learning older, and while it is unacceptable and social interactions in schools that any citizen is living on the street across the country. the 13 sleeping bags rated down to 0°F donated by the Golder Portland team provide some comfort during the cold Northwest winter while the local Growing a ‘mo for community grapple with the affordable Men’s Health housing crisis. Golder teams in Australia grew beards Obliteride – Riding for a Reason and mustaches during Movember Cliff Knitter, Principal and Practice Leader from the Redmond (US) office, helping to raise funds to support men’s and his wife Karen (pictured above) rode in the 80 km Obliteride, an health. Over $5K was raised in total, event that supports cancer research at the Fred Hutchinson Cancer including Melbourne Principal Peter Research Center in Seattle. The Hutch, as it is fondly known, is widely Brown’s personal tally of AUD2,000. acknowledged as one of the leading cancer research centers in the world. Supported by his colleagues, the 2018 event was Cliff’s third Obliteride, helping to raise over US $2.5M for medical research. GOLDER 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 44 MATERIALITY OUR WORK AWARDS AND ACCOLADES OUR COMMUNITIES OUR OPERATIONS ABOUT US OUR COMMUNITIES | LOCAL COMMUNITIES The Redmond Office have Adopted a Road Rivers Alive in Georgia Golder’s Redmond office is part of the Adopt-A-Road program in King County, Golder’s Atlanta (US) office has supported the Rivers Alive stream clean-up Washington and have volunteered on multiple clean up events each year for the initiative for the past 12 years. Georgia’s annual volunteer waterway clean-up event past four years. targeting all waterways in that State including streams, rivers, lakes, beaches, and wetlands. The aim is to involve the community in the preservation of Georgia’s Golder adopted a 1.5 mile stretch of roadway in 2015 to become part of the King water resources and in 2018 the clean-up event was at the John Homestead Park County Adopt-a-Road program. In the spring and fall each year since, a Golder in the upper Chattahoochee River watershed. Approximately 20 Golder people crew has worked to remove litter from the county roads and improve the quality of and their families gathered to pull non-native invasive vegetation, remove trash, the environment in the greater Redmond community. The most recent event was and maintain trails. in the northern Spring. The team begins each cleanup effort with a safety tailgate meeting and discuss the hazards of working alongside a road, program policies, what types of trash they would not pick up (dead animals, drug paraphernalia), how they would communicate and travel, and hydration. The team are passionate volunteers who care about the community they live in and want to keep it green and healthy. They are rewarded by the “thumbs up” and “thank you’s” from runners, bikers and drivers along the route and by seeing the stretch of roadway left in a more pristine condition. Golder Brazil Donates Equipment to Local University Golder Brazil donated 29 Tigrinus camera traps, used for photographing animals in the wild, to a local university. The equipment was no longer in use by Golder but will be very handy for the students and researchers at the Biological Science Institute of Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais. Photo from left to right PJ Nolan, Aaron Rydecki, Joseph Miller, and Peter Fahringer GOLDER 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 45 MATERIALITY OUR WORK AWARDS AND ACCOLADES OUR COMMUNITIES OUR OPERATIONS ABOUT US OUR COMMUNITIES | LOCAL COMMUNITIES Community Recognition Golder Young Graduates Program: Raising Awareness about Urban for Golder in Queensland, Nokuphila Fun Day Watershed Management Australia Volunteers from Golder’s South African Young In Newfoundland, Canada, Golder supports the Golder was nominated for the Graduates Group from the Midrand, Pretoria, Quidi Vidi Rennie’s River Development Foundation, Queensland Volunteering Awards in and Florida offices took some time out of their an organization established to provide leadership recognition of the Brisbane office’s regular work schedules to spend a morning with in urban watershed management and operate long-term involvement with the first and second grade students at the Nokuphila The Fluvarium, a public center for environmental restoration of Cubberla Creek. It’s School in Tembisa. education, delivering environmental education a project that commenced in 2010 programs to over 12,000 school children annually. The program included many fun activities including as part of Golder’s 50th birthday face-painting, a photo booth, soccer, and novelty celebration with Golder volunteers and races, but importantly, two short educational their families working to restore and presentations covering personal hygiene and water Supporting Client Initiatives maintain native plant species along conservation were part of the event. The children Golder staff from the Florida (US) office supported the creek, helping to re-establish and were enthusiastic participants in the discussion about client Duke Energy with their “Duke Energy In Action” maintain the ecological health of the water as a vital resource. month where employees spend time volunteering Cubberla-Witton catchment in the in their community. During the month of March each inner-western suburbs of Brisbane. year Duke Energy aim to undertake 31 community activities, one for each day of the month. Golder lent their support to a habitat restoration project at a property within the Lake Wales Ridge Wildlife and Environmental Area, near Auburndale Florida. The state-owned property is managed by the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission. Together with Duke Energy, Bok Tower Gardens, and Green Horizons Land Trust, Golder helped to restore biodiversity to the habitat by removing exotic species, improving the area for pollinators, and improve the scrub lupine habitat. Tree planting along Cubberla Creek in suburban Brisbane, Queensland, Australia. Face painting at Nokuphila fun day GOLDER 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 46 MATERIALITY OUR WORK AWARDS AND ACCOLADES OUR COMMUNITIES OUR OPERATIONS ABOUT US OUR COMMUNITIES | LOCAL COMMUNITIES Volunteers Tim Mullings, Associate, from Rowland Atkins, Principal and Geomorphologist from the Victoria (Canada) the Whitby (Canada), office, office, volunteers each year to direct an undergraduate applied geoscience volunteers at Durham College project at the University of Victoria British Colombia for 4th year students, to teach the procedures of an the objective being to show students how to apply what they have learned to environmental soil sampling lab a real-world problem. 2018 marks the fifth year that Golder has volunteered using soil cores collected for as a sponsor. Since 2016, Rowland has also given an Applied Geoscience this purpose by Golder’s local lecture at Camosun College to help students connect their studies to construction division. employment prospects. Employees from Golder’s Victoria Lynse Stafford, Senior Project (Canada) office are involved in In the wake of the 7.0 Environmental Scientist, from four local educational institutions magnitude earthquake that the Horseheads (US) office, Camosun College, Northern participated in the Habitat struck Anchorage, Alaska Lights College, Yukon College, for Humanity Womens’ Build and University of British Columbia in December 2018, John in Chemung County in May in the Okanagan, supporting Thornley, an Associate 2018. Golder contributed indigenous students pursuing and one of Golder’s senior USD500 in recognition of post-graduate studies. her substantial efforts on this geotechnical engineers, community project. volunteered as an Earthquake Engineering Research Gyula Danko, Leader of the Institute Reconnaissance Nuclear Group in Budapest (Hungary) volunteers at the Co-Lead to coordinate with Miskolc University, Faculty of Institute members and other Hydrogeology as a member of organizations and agencies the evaluation committee at on the assessment and the final examination of BSc and MSc students. recovery effort. GOLDER 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 47 MATERIALITY OUR WORK AWARDS AND ACCOLADES OUR COMMUNITIES OUR OPERATIONS ABOUT US OUR COMMUNITIES | GOLDER TRUST FOR ORPHANS 15 Years of Support This year marked the 15th year the Golder Trust for Orphans (GTO) has led philanthropic programs that make a difference in the communities in which we live and work! As an employee-driven, corporate Established in 2003 by Golder social responsibility initiative of Golder, the GTO employees, the Golder Trust measures success by how our donations can break for Orphans works to empower the cycle of poverty and change mindsets in order African communities to develop to provide opportunities to improve the quality of sustainable solutions that improve life of vulnerable children. the lives of vulnerable children. We measure the impact of our work via two main metrics: survive and thrive. Survival impacts are immediate and are defined by how GTO donations contribute directly to helping vulnerable children and their families survive in the near-term. Thrive impacts represent a more long-term view and are defined by how GTO donations contribute to improving the quality of life for a generation, providing hope and a better future in a stronger community. Ultimately, our goal is to build more sustainable communities. GOLDER 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 48 MATERIALITY OUR WORK AWARDS AND ACCOLADES OUR COMMUNITIES OUR OPERATIONS ABOUT US OUR COMMUNITIES | GOLDER TRUST FOR ORPHANS Entrepreneurial Programs and Small Business School training During 2018 around 90 people participated in an intensive training program at Philangethemba for small business owners covering record keeping, costing, pricing, and marketing. Golder volunteers helped to deliver some of the course modules which has been a success with many participants reporting significant increases in their business revenues. Entrepreneurial Training in Tanzania Educational Materials for the Nokuphila Golder volunteers facilitated a two-day business Bulembu Water Cooler Upgrade school in South Africa entrepreneurs’ course at the Small Business School The people of the small town of Bulembu in Education in Tembisa is under-resourced, particularly and helped to set up the shop front for one of Swaziland, work to create a sustainable community in pre-school education. Children at Nokuphila the graduates of the course who has opened a by providing health services, orphan care, education, School are admitted based on their vulnerability and mobile phone-based money transfer, financing and spiritual nurturing, employment and income willingness of their caregivers to participate in school microfinancing service for the local community. generation. In 2018 Golder supported the expansion life. The Golder Trust contributed funds in 2018 to of an important social enterprise, a water cooler assist the school to purchase a range of education rental business that operates throughout the country materials including textbooks, educational toys, by contributing to the purchase of 100 new cooler stationary, ebooks and a range of equipment. units and 500 18-litre refillable bottles. Malelane Greenhouse Project Sustainable Power for the Recognizing the benefits of growing green peppers Philangethemba Impact Trust in a more controlled environment, the GTO funded Golder donations funded a solar project to five greenhouses at the Malelane farm. The first crop provide a more reliable source of power. A 5kW of peppers was planted in April 2018 and harvested PV(photovoltaics) system was installed and later in the year. Besides the improved yield, red and commissioned in February 2018 and is now yellow peppers are now grown, and higher profits operational. The system is designed to provide 60% are achieved, due to the increased price potential for of Philangethemba’s overall power needs for the early colored varieties. childhood development program, workshops, and computer training labs. GOLDER 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 49 MATERIALITY OUR WORK AWARDS AND ACCOLADES OUR COMMUNITIES OUR OPERATIONS ABOUT US OUR OPERATIONS Our People Golder’s ongoing success, indeed the future sustainability of our enterprise, is linked to our ability to develop, retain, and attract talented individuals who are adept at delivering 6, 6 6 4 quality solutions and outcomes for our clients. Golder fosters a diverse and inclusive work environment where people are encouraged to learn and develop their skills, collaborate with colleagues to reach the best outcomes for our clients, and are rewarded for their contribution to our overall success. The efforts of our human The HR function is organised resources practitioners are around four centers of geared towards this purpose, excellence focused on key Total employees in 2018* with specific objectives set out HR functions, programs in our 2020 Strategy: defined and systems, talent roles and responsibilities with acquisition, global mobility, accountability for results, and compensation. The intent career development pathways, is to minimize and streamline TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES BY meaningful recognition and administrative tasks and focus EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT & BY REGION reward with a competitive, on strategic input, ensuring performance-driven that Golder’s present and compensation system, and a future workforce meets its formal succession process for strategic growth objectives. key leadership roles. The deployment of the Oracle platform globally advances this objective. GOLDER 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 50 MATERIALITY OUR WORK AWARDS AND ACCOLADES OUR COMMUNITIES OUR OPERATIONS ABOUT US OUR OPERATIONS | OUR PEOPLE Programs and Systems Progress SHAREHOLDER OWNERSHIP Golder continues to make progress in creating a globalized and streamlined suite of programs and systems that underpin the human resources function. Employee Self-Service (ESS) and Manager SelfService (MSS) were deployed in all our regions globally in 2018, both easily used and accessible tools replacing multiple systems across our business. In 2017 the High Performance and Contribution (HPC) program was 55% introduced in response to our employees’ request to have ongoing Of full-time employees own shares performance and career input from their leaders and mentors. It involves multiple employee engagement points including career development 39,226 51% and performance objective planning, a schedule of regular career development check-ins and a real-time feedback process with mentors. The second HPC cycle has been run in 2018 as an entirely paperless process, replacing the annual employee self-assessment as the single check-in point on performance, and fostering quarterly career Courses completed in 2018 Increase from 2017 development check-ins with mentors and a minimum of two formal scheduled conversations with leaders. A formalized succession planning exercise commenced, an important HEADCOUNT BY GENDER* TENURE* plan for the long-term sustainability of our organization. Identification of critical roles and identified successors for each incumbent have taken place. Succession plans with specific development requirements for identified successors will be the focus of 2019. 60% of staff have been with Golder for more than 3 years 3years FEMALE MALE 60% have been with Golder for more than 3 years. GOLDER 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 51 MATERIALITY OUR WORK AWARDS AND ACCOLADES OUR COMMUNITIES OUR OPERATIONS ABOUT US OUR OPERATIONS | OUR PEOPLE Reconciliation Action Plan in Australia The Australian operation has established a Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP) following the process set out by Reconciliation Australia, an independent national expert body established to foster a just, equitable and reconciled Australia. Golder wants to develop a greater awareness and understanding of the cultures of Traditional Owners and also seeks to increase engagement with these groups. The process involves developing a RAP and having it ratified by Reconciliation Australia, an important step that formally recognises our commitment to this issue. Golder’s RAP plan sets out actions around three focus areas, each with ongoing Reconciliation Action plan future commitments that are integrated into normal operations to achieve a MARCH 2019 – FEBRUARY 2020 sustainable impact: • Relationships – building stronger relationships with Traditional Owners in our local area. An expanded Talent Acquisition team has been assembled with representation from each of our • Respect – developing a deeper understanding of the cultures of traditional owner groups. geographical regions, ensuring a consistent approach • Opportunities – actively seek opportunities to work closer with traditional owner groups. to recruitment across the organization. The team While aspects of our plan are not widely visible because they involve changes to recruitment practices and is focused on developing partnerships within their other process, Golder will be an active participant in NAIDOC week in Australia and will sponsor high school regional operations that meet strategic human and university students from Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities to develop a greater interest in resource needs, concentrating on local supply to the Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) pathways to boost indigenous participation. attract talented people to our organization. We will actively seek like-minded subcontractor and subconsultants and develop stronger relationships with these groups. Golder’s First Health and Wellness Exhibition Golder’s first Health & Wellness Exhibition for employees was held in the Mississauga (Canada) office giving our people the opportunity to meet and ask questions of representatives from the organizations that provide the various health, wellness, recognition and retirement savings programs and services available to them. Around 100 employees attended the event, and feedback from employees and company representatives alike was positive, with employees indicating that they received valuable information and insights about the programs and services they could access through Golder. Following on from the success of the initial event, a second exhibition was held in Calgary in November 2018 and a third in Vancouver in early 2019. GOLDER 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 52 MATERIALITY OUR WORK AWARDS AND ACCOLADES OUR COMMUNITIES OUR OPERATIONS ABOUT US OUR OPERATIONS | OUR PEOPLE Gender Diversity at Golder Golder ranks highly amongst 32 peer organizations on various measures of diversity in a survey conducted by an external specialist consultant. At Golder, we are enriched by the diversity of our workforce, not only because our geographic footprint represents the societies in which we work and live, but because we value diverse groups of people who bring different talents, skills, experiences, and viewpoints to teams, enhancing the learning we gain from each other and providing an environment where innovation can flourish. WE’RE NUMBER 1! WE’RE NUMBER 1! WE’RE NUMBER 3! 50% 22% 42% of senior managerial minority representation of Golder’s professional positions are occupied on the EHL Board of Millennials (people aged by women Directors < 35 years) are women WE’RE NUMBER 4! WE’RE NUMBER 4! WE’RE NUMBER 10! 35% 17% of professionals aged of senior managerial 27% of EHL Board Directors over 35 years are women positions are occupied by are women people identifying as a racial minority GOLDER 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 53 MATERIALITY OUR WORK AWARDS AND ACCOLADES OUR COMMUNITIES OUR OPERATIONS ABOUT US OUR OPERATIONS | HEALTH, SAFETY, SECURITY & ENVIRONMENT Consolidating the benefits gained Embedding the Use of the Global HSSE Manual through the introduction of a In 2018, Golder introduced the Global HSSE Manual under the umbrella of the globally consistent approach Golder Integrated Management System (IMS). While specific requirements to health and safety practice about roles and responsibilities relating to HSSE had been in place, they were has been the focus of work for regionalized, and in some instances localized. In developing the global approach, our health, safety, security, and Golder has brought together best practices gleaned from within the organization environment team in 2018. With and from the close observation of clients and addressing the obvious risks and a common approach our HSSE challenges of having differing requirements in various jurisdictions. efforts can be more efficiently Over the past year, HSSE practitioners have worked closely with employees and effectively undertaken and across the business to help them interpret and apply the global requirements to that philosophy has propelled embed a consistent HSSE approach, a process that will take time to achieve the the changes that have now been desired outcomes. Consistently applying global requirements has not resulted adopted across the organization. in a cookie cutter approach to HSSE, rather cultural and other idiosyncratic differences are supported within the framework without the need to depart from the overarching intent of global standards. OVERVIEW OF HSSE STATS FOR 2018 2,501 Visible felt 7,077 International trips 19,888 2,191 Total number of senior Total number of leadership events supporting our needs reported learnings leadership site visits GOLDER 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 54 MATERIALITY OUR WORK AWARDS AND ACCOLADES OUR COMMUNITIES OUR OPERATIONS ABOUT US OUR OPERATIONS | HEALTH, SAFETY, SECURITY & ENVIRONMENT Golder has over Mining our HSSE Learnings 75 In an average year an HSSE Learning is entered into the Learning’s Database every six minutes; that’s some 17,000 learnings each year and an indication Local Health and Safety Committees of a strong HSSE cultural where people are keen to share their experiences and ideas to continuously improve HSSE performance and keep each other safe Every 6 minutes from harm. Learnings can take several forms, from we enter a learning near-misses, improvement ideas, and commendations for particularly good leadership or outcomes. Digging deep into the data base to purposefully look for correlations and trends has been a body of work that commenced in 2018. With 20 specific data points for each Learning entered, on any given HSSE tools reviewed year there are over 300,000 pieces of data, multiply Golder’s suite of HSSE tools used by that by the number of years the Learning’s Database Every 30 minutes employees to identify, assess, and has been operational and there are millions of data we capture a Visible Felt mitigate risks on work sites, or as points available to us to mine, a substantial reservoir Leadership moment part of the project planning process, of useful information that we are developing useful have been reviewed and adjusted ways to analyze. to improve clarity of purpose and With this project now underway, Golder is setting application. These tools are available the foundation to undertake predicative analysis on globally and our people are trained an ongoing basis, so we can proactively implement in their use. Training on their use control measures to reduce foreseeable risks is ongoing to refresh employee’s from occurring. knowledge of these tools and the changes that have been made. Every 60 minutes a senior is visiting a site and sharing their experience GOLDER 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 55 MATERIALITY OUR WORK AWARDS AND ACCOLADES OUR COMMUNITIES OUR OPERATIONS ABOUT US OUR OPERATIONS | HEALTH, SAFETY, SECURITY & ENVIRONMENT Global Application of ICAM Investigation Procedure R U OK? Day Golder takes particular notice of incidents that have the potential for serious injury or that Continuing the Conversation could be fatal. Knowledge of these incidents arises via the regular monitoring of the Learnings database (although sometimes such incidents are visible before they are formally entered into Golder has marked R U OK? Day for the third consecutive year. the database) and once identified they are escalated to be investigated by senior practitioners in The suicide-prevention and awareness campaign, which began the organization. in Australia in 2009, reminds us to check-in with our colleagues, and others we care about in our lives, to make sure they are ok— During 2018 Golder began investigating these incidents using the Incident Cause Analysis something we should be doing regularly. Every Golder office held Method (ICAM) process designed to unearth the underlying causal factors. There is a process activities to raise awareness and encourage engagement about in place to widely communicate about such incidents to share what has been learned and what mental health and the importance of continuing the conversation could have prevented it from occurring. about this issue. Caring is a core value at Golder and as a further demonstration of our commitment to supporting a strong and resilient work INCIDENT INVEsTIgATION environment where people can thrive. It is not the purpose of this activity to apportion blame or liability SAFETY PERFORMANCE IMPROVEMENT STRATEGIES DATA COLLECTION ERROR People DANGER LOssEs PREVENTION HAZARDS Environment ERROR ORg. Equipment Causes DEfENCEs TRAPPINg fACTORs Individual/Team actions Procedures Investigation ERROR MITIgATION Organisation Task/Environment conditions REPORT ZERO HARM Organisational factors Collect information to Analyse the findings Draw conclusions Report the findings find what happened using ICAM to find from the findings and and disseminate and where and who out how and why it develop a corrective the key learnings to was involved. happened. action plan. interested parties. RECORD HIERARCHy Of QUEsTIONINg TECHNIQUEs Review the findings HIERARCHY OF CONTROLS Unstructured free recall Identify the Absent / failed Defences Elimination The complete elimination of the hazard. Open-ended questions Substitution Replacing the material or process with a less hazardous one. Identify the Individual / Team Actions Encouraging responses Engineering Redesign the equipment or work processes. Seperation Isolating the hazard by guarding or Paraphrasing Identify the Task / Environmental Conditions enclosure. Administration Providing controls such as training, Closed Questions procedures, etc. COMMUNICATE (Multiple Choice) Identify the Organisational factors and OfTs PPE Use appropriate properly fitted PPE where other controls are not effective. Leading Questions Validate the OfTs against the Incident Colleagues in the Johannesburg office in South Africa celebrate R U OK? Day “To have an accident is unfortunate. To have an accident and learn nothing from it is unforgivable.” GOLDER 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 56 MATERIALITY OUR WORK AWARDS AND ACCOLADES OUR COMMUNITIES OUR OPERATIONS ABOUT US OUR OPERATIONS | CEO HSSE AWARDS 2018 CEO Health Safety Security and Environment Awards The CEO HSSE awards recognize those individuals and teams who advance Golder’s health and safety culture. There are winners in three award categories and special commendations given to those who demonstrate exemplary achievements. John Martinez from Albuquerque Amy Suto, Environmental Scientist Krystle-Rae Biram, Associate and (US) received the Proactive Measures from Auckland (New Zealand) received Senior Geotechnical Engineer, from Award recognizing an outstanding the Responsive Measures Award the Brisbane (Australia) office received contribution in the area of proactive recognizing exemplary actions taken the Care for Our Future Award measures taken to identify and in response to unforeseen events that which recognizes an individual who mitigate risk, resulting in the endangered the health, safety and demonstrates intentional investment preservation of the health, safety and security of our people and others. in mentoring, coaching and instruction security of our people and others. Amy’s quick response to seeing smoke in health, safety and security, on a near a terminal on an ExxonMobil day-to-day basis. John is the Site Safety Supervisor for site kept the on-site personnel safe water treatment at a former mining site Krystle-Rae has a well-deserved and recognition from our client in rural New Mexico. His leadership reputation for going above and who also noted Amy’s sustained is notable in the supervision of 20 beyond when it comes to safety, dedication to promoting the full full-time staff working on 24/7 rotating regularly training staff one-on-one, range of safe behaviors that create a shifts with multiple high-risk activities in addition to their Golder training, to culture of safety. and zero recordable incidents. create a safe and trusting environment and one in which they can receive detailed and personal answers to their questions regarding safety. GOLDER 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 57 MATERIALITY OUR WORK AWARDS AND ACCOLADES OUR COMMUNITIES OUR OPERATIONS ABOUT US OUR OPERATIONS | CEO HSSE AWARDS CEO Commendations The Steveston Island team (Vancuover, Canada) were well prepared to respond to Commendations were given to the following an on-site emergency when a colleague suffered a heart attack. They continued people who demonstrated personal bravery and to look out for one another and the greater community around then after their caring for their colleagues deserving of special colleague sadly died, demonstrating Golder’s core value of caring. recognition, or leadership and advocacy in creating a stronger HSSE culture within Golder The Imperial Oil team of Principals and Associates have made P-Led (or PartnerLed) health and safety a top priority, setting a higher standard of behavior and by fostering an environment where awareness creating a differentiated culture within the group who are team leaders for more of potential hazards is driving a behavior-based than 130 people across Canada. As a team, they have built HSSE into the execution rather than procedures-based approach. and management of their projects efficiently, and created a long-standing, extensive, national program of safety. Tina Gauthier, André Bom (Sudbury) are credited for their proactive and innovative approach to address health and safety and for successfully advocating change in industry standard procedures to reduce risk and address the long-term health effects of chemicals used in laboratories. The quick actions of Chris Chesworth The calm and quick and Ken Allen from the Calgary response of Vincent Reed (Canada) office coming to the aid of and Jonathan Gutsche a swimmer in cold lake waters was from the Mt Laurel (US) credited for saving a life. office was credited by The Richmond (US) office was the source of 15% of our submittals to the CEO medical staff for saving their HSSE Award in 2018, the highest concentration of participation in the award colleague’s eyesight after program. The office is also one of the most active in submitting learnings and chemical exposure. proactively managing safety procedures. A leading example of the culture we aspire to have everywhere. GOLDER 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 58 MATERIALITY OUR WORK AWARDS AND ACCOLADES OUR COMMUNITIES OUR OPERATIONS ABOUT US OUR OPERATIONS | CARBON FOOTPRINT Carbon Footprint 1% TRAVEL RAIL Supply Chain Across Golder operations our internal In 2018 Golder’s Global Procurement commitment to the responsible use of continued its investigation to develop energy and energy resources is steadily consistency in global procurement policies, OAD gaining momentum. This is evident in our VEL R 28% TRA ELE procedures and systems that are needed to 8% CT year on year reduction of CO2 output with RI CI support improved supply chain performance. our 2018 result 13% lower than our 2015 /STE To aid this objective, Strategic Sourcing TY baseline 36,923. At this rate we are on Specialists in each Golder region conducted 25% TRA 31,825 AM VEL track to meeting our 2020 objective of a an initial analysis of overhead spend. This 15% reduction by 2020. AIR analysis lead to strategic sourcing plans Usage on some measures increased at a regional level. At the same time, the FLE E T slightly and We recorded decreases in Tonnes CO2 Emissions Procurement team has been conducting a Total 2018 Golder Emissions 10% global assessment of existing processes electricity consumption, business travel by air and road against an increase in I and systems that support our project supply AT S S T BU employee numbers of 6.4%. We are 5% O M O chain. Particular emphasis is being given C TI N A R pleased with this progress and understand ON Y to identifying and managing supplier risk. E UT we must continue to work with our MM The outcome of these two investigations 22% S TA FF C O employees and clients to continue and will inform the design of a future global enhance this momentum. procurement program that will bring together the requirements of Golder’s Procurement, Legal, HSSE, Quality and HR functions. 2015 36,923 2016 35,117 This is a 13% reduction on the 2015 base year. 2017 32,540 We are aiming for a 15% reduction 2018 31,825 on the 2015 number by 2020. GOLDER 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 59 MATERIALITY OUR WORK AWARDS AND ACCOLADES OUR COMMUNITIES OUR OPERATIONS ABOUT US GOVERNANCE The Board of Directors of Enterra Holdings Ltd, the holding company of Golder’s business, has ultimate responsibility for the governance of the organization. In 2018, the Board progressed a range of initiatives that advance sustainability at Golder, with both internal and external dimensions. 2018 EHL Board – Back Row (L-R): Hisham Mahmoud, Neil Benson, Rens Verberg, Paul Cohen, Lisa Coyne, Jan Hermanson. Front Row (L-R): Richard Beddoes, Amy Langhorne , Marcelo Bastos, Denise Fletcher. Denise Fletcher Preparing Future Directors For over 50 years Golder has been a proudly employee-owned organization. The Board of Directors comprises New External Board Appointment 11 members, eight of whom (including the CEO) are Principals or Associates of Golder. The endurance of this Denise Fletcher was appointed as an external business model has been further enhanced through the introduction of a Director Development Program. This Director in August of 2018. With an extensive program is designed to orient potential Directors for a future role by participating in a learning program with background in finance, mergers and acquisitions content delivered internally and externally, and augmented with Board mentorship, over a period of two to three and corporate strategy in diverse public years. Besides serving Golder’s needs, this leadership development initiative contributes to the sustainability of and private businesses, Denise’s skills and industry professional bodies and not-for-profit organizations as participants will be encouraged to support the experience will be well-utilized. governance of such organizations as office holders and Board members. GOLDER 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 60 MATERIALITY OUR WORK AWARDS AND ACCOLADES OUR COMMUNITIES OUR OPERATIONS ABOUT US GOVERNANCE | INITIATIVES Anti-Bribery Anti-Corruption Orienting our New Principals and Associates Golder’s global Anti-Bribery Anti-Corruption (ABC) In 2018 we adopted a new approach to welcome our new Principals and Associates. Led by our CEO and other Policy sets out the requirements for our business to key leaders, our newly appointed Principals and Associates gathered for an interactive immersion program comply with the anti-bribery and corruption laws in designed to launch them in their new roles from a common platform of knowledge. In addition to the value the countries in which we do business, or intend to gained through a deeper understanding of the global business, the personal connections made at the meeting do business, and prohibits corrupt payments or other are critical to sustaining the collaborative culture on which the company is founded. improper conduct. All employees are required to participate in annual training concerning anti-bribery and anti-corruption and confirm their understanding of the provisions of the policy and the results of non-compliance. Non-compliance is monitored through Golder’s Ethics and Compliance Hotline, Region Legal Counsel and self-awareness. Golder maintains a list of restricted countries where bribery and corruption are deemed a risk and undertakes the necessary assessments and third-party screening in line with our policy. Evolving Partner Structure Each year Golder appoints new Principals and Associates (Partners) to the business through a robust nomination and selection process. These are critically important leadership roles and are central to the success of our ownership model and the longterm sustainability of our business. New Principals and Associates have demonstrated significant contributions to the delivery of our strategy, they are share owners, and have the potential to be Golder’s future leaders. GOLDER 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 61 MATERIALITY OUR WORK AWARDS AND ACCOLADES OUR COMMUNITIES OUR OPERATIONS ABOUT US ABOUT US Our Global Footprint Who We Are TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT & BY GENDER EUROPE NORTH AMERICA ASIA AFRICA SOUTH AMERICA AUSTRALASIA GOLDER OFFICE LOCATIONS 2019 6,500+ STAFF | 30+ COUNTRIES | 165+ OFFICES By the Numbers Industries We Serve 50+ Years Founded in 1960 as H.Q. Golder & Associates by 3 industry-leading experts MINING OIL & GAS MANUFACTURING TRANSPORTATION GOVERNMENT 6,600+ $1B+ POWER Annual Gross Services We Provide Revenue of $1B USD Employees Revenue 165+ 150+ Offices Countries We have conducted projects in over 150 countries ENVIRONMENTAL GROUND REMEDIATION REGULATORY TUNNELLING PIPELINES DESIGN CONSTRUCTION WASTE WATER ENGINEERING COMPLIANCE SUPPORT GOLDER 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 62 MATERIALITY OUR WORK AWARDS AND ACCOLADES OUR COMMUNITIES OUR OPERATIONS ABOUT US GRI REFERENCE TABLE GRI REF INDICATOR LOCATION/COMMENT GRI REF INDICATOR LOCATION/COMMENT GENERAL DISCLOSURE – ORGANIZATION PROFILE STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 102-1 Name of the organization Introduction – page 2 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Materiality – pages 3-7 102-2 Activities, brands products and services About Us – page 62 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Governance – page 60 102-3 Location of headquarters Golder does not have a designated headquarter location 102-42 Identifying stakeholders Materiality – pages 3-7 About Us – page 62 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Materiality – pages 3-7 102-4 Location of operations About Us – page 62 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised by stakeholders Materiality – pages 3-7 102-5 Ownership and legal form About Us, Governance – pages 60-62 REPORTING PRACTICE 102-6 Markets served About Us – page 62 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial As an employee-owned privately held company there are 102-7 Scale of the organization About Us – page 62 statements no publicly available consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. 102-8 Information on employees and other workers About Us – page 62 Our People – pages 51-53 102-46 Defining report boundaries The boundaries of the report are the Global operations and alignment of Clients priorities for sustainable development. 102-9 Supply chain Carbon Footprint – page 59 Materiality – pages 3-7 102-10 Significant changes to the organization’s size, There are no significant changes to report. About Us – page 62 structure, ownership, or supply chain About Us – page 62 Our Operations – pages 50-59 Our Work – pages 8-29 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach Intoduction – Page 2, Governance – page 60 102-47 List of material topics Materiality – pages 3-7 102-12 External initiatives Golder is a signatory to the UNGC Global Compact Material topics: 102-13 Membership of associations Golder is a member of the Zofnass program at Harvard 205 – Anti-corruption (Page 61) University, the Sustainable Development Council of New 302 – Energy (Page 59) Zealand, Consult Australia, CIAC, and the ICMM. 305 – Carbon Emissions (Page 59) 401 – Employment (Page 51) STRATEGY 403 – Occupational Health & Safety (Pages 54-58) 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Introduction – page 2 404 – Training and education (Page 54) Governance – page 60 405 – Diversity & Equal Opportunity (Page 53) 413 – Corporate Social Responsibility (Pages 41-49) ETHICS & INTEGRITY 102-48 Restatements of information Not applicable in this reporting period 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of Governance – page 60 behavior All employees are encouraged to complete training and 102-49 Changes in reporting periods About Us – page 62 understanding of the Code of Conduct. 102-50 Reporting period Calendar year GOVERNANCE 102-51 Date of most recent report 2017 102-18 Governance structure Governance – page 60 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Wendy Stoveland 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI standards GRI Standards: Core option. 102-55 GRI Index Table Evident herewith 102-56 External assurance Not verified Sustainable Development Goals 17 GOALS TO TRANSFORM OUR WORLD GOLDER 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 63 MATERIALITY OUR WORK AWARDS AND ACCOLADES OUR COMMUNITIES OUR OPERATIONS ABOUT US GRI REF INDICATOR LOCATION/COMMENT GRI REF INDICATOR LOCATION/COMMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION EMPLOYMENT 103 Management approach Governance – page 61 103 Management approach Our People – pages 51-53 Code of Conduct – Golder code of conduct, built on and 205.1 Operations assessed for risks related to Governance – page 61 reflective of our values, guides the behaviors of all our corruption employees, at all levels, wherever they conduct business. 205.2 Communication and training about anti-corruption About Us, Governance – page 61 It sets out the expectations of Golder conduct towards her policies and procedures employees, employees conduct towards Golder, and conduct with clients and suppliers. ENERGY 401-1 New employee hires Our People – pages 51-53 103 Management approach Carbon Footprint – page 59 401-2 Employee benefits Our People – pages 51-53 302.1 Energy consumption within the organization Carbon Footprint – page 59 302.2 Energy consumption outside of the organization Carbon Footprint – page 59 401-3 Parental leave Specific parental leave metrics not collected. Parental leave is accommodated according to different 302.3 Energy intensity Carbon Footprint – page 59 requirements in different jurisdictions. 302.4 Reduction of energy consumption Carbon Footprint – page 59 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY 302.5 Reduction of energy requirements of products Carbon Footprint – page 59 103 Management Approach Health, Safety, Security & Environment – pages 54-58 and services 403.1 Workers representation in formal joint Health, Safety, Security & Environment – pages 54-58 CARBON EMISSIONS management – worker health and safety committees 103 Management approach Carbon Footprint – page 59 Given the nature of our operations, Golder is not subject to any 403.2 Types of injury and rates of injury Health, Safety, Security & Environment – pages 54-58 specific industry level emissions regulations and or policies. 403.3 Workers with high incidence ir high risk of Health, Safety, Security & Environment – pages 54-58 305.1 Direct GHG emissions Golder does not have any significant Direct Scope 1 emissions diseases related to their occupation 305.2 Energy indirect Our energy indirect (Scope 2) emissions are reflected 403.4 Health and safety topics covered in formal Health, Safety, Security & Environment – pages 54-58 in the energy consumption figures set out in: agreements with trade unions Carbon Footprint – page 59 TRAINING & EDUCATION 305.3 Other indirect Our other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions are given under Carbon Footprint – page 59 103 Management approach Health, Safety, Security & Environment – pages 54-58 305.4 GHG emissions intensity Our emissions intensity data is given on a per person basis. 404.1 Average hours of training per employee per year Health, Safety, Security & Environment – pages 54-58 Carbon Footprint – page 59 404.2 Programs for upgrading skills and transition Health, Safety, Security & Environment – pages 54-58 305.5 Reduction of GHG emissions CO2 emission reduction target set out on: assistance programs Carbon Footprint – page 59 404.3 Regular performance and career development Health, Safety, Security & Environment – pages 54-58 305.6 Emissions of ozone depleting substances Not applicable to our business reviews 305.7 Nitrogen oxides, sulfur oxides and other Not applicable to our business DIVERSITY & EQUAL OPPORTUNITY significant air emissions 103 Management approach Our Operations, Diversity – page 53 405.1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Our Operations, Diversity – page 53 405.2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of Information not available women to men LOCAL COMMUNITIES 103 Management approach Our Communities – pages 41-49 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, Our Communities – pages 41-49 impact assessments, and development programs 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential Golder has no operations with significant and potential negative impacts on local communities negative impacts on local communities. GOLDER 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 64
