Sustainability Report 2019 1 CALGRO M3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 CONTENTS 2 CALGRO M3 SUSTAINABILITY 22 CORPORATE SOCIAL FOOTPRINT RESPONSIBILITY (“CSR”) 3 AN INTEGRATED APPROACH 23 Areas of impact TO SUSTAINABILITY 24 Social economic development 5 SIGNIFICANT ISSUES initiatives – impact FY2019 7 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 29 Community economic development programmes 15 EMPLOYEES 32 Planning for the 2020 16 Employment equity financial year More than 60% of Calgro M3’s 17 Broad-based black economic revenue is currently derived empowerment from residential property 18 Internal skills development developments and therefore and training most of this Sustainability 18 Mentorship programmes and learnerships Report focuses on property 19 Rewarding employees development. Where 19 Employee engagement information does not pertain 33 PREFERENTIAL 36 ENVIRONMENT 19 Transition – succession to property development, it is PROCUREMENT AND 38 Water planning ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT so stated. 19 Health and safety 40 Energy 34 SMME Mentorship Programmes 42 Green spaces 34 Procurement policies and 43 Other environmental initiatives guidelines 1 47 ETHICS Calgro M3 is a proud 35 Policy, practices and level 1 B-BBEE contributor proportion of spending on 47 UN Global Compact Principles locally-based suppliers 48 Code of Good Conduct and Ethics The full sustainability report should be read in conjunction with the Integrated Annual Report 2019, available on the website: www.calgrom3.com 2 CALGRO M3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 CALGRO M3 SUSTAINABILITY FOOTPRINT – EXECUTIVE SUMMARY A strategic focus of Calgro M3, is to ensure and drive higher revenue Residential Residential and profitability to a point where all three businesses contribute Memorial Property Rental equally to profit within the medium to long term. A healthy mix of Parks Development Investments annuity and normal revenue will enhance sustainability and diversification. Financial Customers Shareholders Suppliers institutions Communities Stakeholder engagement Signatory to the embarked on earnestly and UN Global Compact Principles consistently 47 8-14 Employees Government Environmental JSE Joint agencies ventures Health, Safety and Environmental (“HSE”) Distribution of wealth 2019 Management System implemented (awaiting The environment, Striving for Employees 79.22% Subcontractors 12.52% certification) energy efficient continual employee Lenders 4.05% Taxation 0% ISO 14001:2015 ISO 45001:2018 homes and the engagement, Reinvested 4.21% Quality Management System 8, 9, 11, preservation of enhancement and ISO 9001:2015 (started) 19, 21, 36 green spaces is fair treatment a huge focus 15-21 36-46 Corporate social responsibility is a core focus across the Group Preferential Procurement and Enterprise 22-32 Development is an important aspect of operating as a sustainable business in Sports and Community Urban Feeding Early childhood South Africa 33-35 education facilities agriculture schemes development centres 3 CALGRO M3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 AN INTEGRATED APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY Contained in this chapter The principle of sustainability underpins core business imperatives such as ensuring stable business growth and maximising returns for shareholders. In South Africa, where historical inequality has created a huge disparity, our role in Residential Property Development, Memorial Parks and Residential Rental Investments is an important one. As our business grows, so does our potential to make a positive social and developmental impact. This chapter defines our approach to sustainability across the Group. Calgro M3 stakeholders Financial Customers Shareholders Suppliers institutions Communities Employees Government Environmental JSE Joint agencies ventures 4 CALGRO M3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 AN INTEGRATED APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY (CONTINUED) From entry to exit, in all the phases of our operations, we have a dynamic working environment, putting in place structures that will support the future success, well-being and prosperity of our communities. We are acutely aware that the value we We invest in the development of shared public spaces for the community and in social, educational, sport and recreational facilities. create for the business is closely tied to the value we create for our stakeholders. We engage with stakeholders to understand their challenges and needs, incorporating their inputs into our outputs. While the Residential Developments, Residential Rental Investments and Memorial Parks we establish are an important measure of our output, the real value lies in We incorporate energy and water solutions that are affordable, eco-friendly and durable into our design principles. creating an environment in which communities can be uplifted to thrive. Our goal is to deliver not only housing and Memorial Parks, but an environment that empowers We create employment, provide and encourage skills and enterprise development, and support entrepreneurship. and uplifts communities. We take care of the environment, rehabilitating and protecting the natural surrounds, preserving them for future generations. We do this without taking our eye off the ball in terms of creating business value and striving for profitability. We are not seduced by opportunity and our risk is carefully managed. Our day-to-day focus is firmly on achieving consistent quality outputs, ensuring excellence in the management of our operations and capital, balancing our risk exposure, and nurturing our relationships with financers, investors and partners. 5 CALGRO M3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SIGNIFICANT ISSUES Contained in this chapter Calgro M3 defines material operational issues as those with the potential to significantly affect the ability of the Group to deliver on our stated objectives, create value and ensure sustainability over the short, medium and long term. This chapter defines what these material issues are, the key operational challenges they represent, their impact on the organisation, and how we are dealing with them. The following areas were considered when identifying key operational challenges that could impact on the execution of our strategy: Relevant Industry MacroImpact on Stakeholder Environmental legal and and sector economic communities expectations impact regulatory challenges environment we operate in requirements 6 CALGRO M3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SIGNIFICANT ISSUES (CONTINUED) Key operational Cross Impact Response challenges reference Housing shortages ` Increased security as well as assisting local and provincial government to eradicate the housing shortage together with a call for Illegal land and unit invasion/grabs ` Closer working relationships between Calgro M3, security and police in order to avoid illegal invasions 8-14 land expropriation ` Enhancing communication of the Group’s positive impact on communities during and after development without compensation ` Skills development, subcontractor incubator ` Human capital management to ensure succession programme and availability of resources to facilitate Group ` Internal coaching at management level growth Skills shortage Delivery of products and services ` Nurturing relationships with professional ` Our target across the Group is to employ 50% of 29-32 companies to grow alongside the Group as well our on-site workforce from local communities with as the mentoring and training of young individuals associated training. We are currently achieving in excess of 70% across the Group Availability of these critical services impact lifestyle ` Saving water and energy and reducing carbon footprint, not only after completion but also focused on Rising prices have an impact on development costs during construction Energy and water and client affordability ` Use of alternative water and energy solutions supports the future sustainability of developments, in 36-41 shortage Construction is a heavy user of water in conjunction with our focus towards environmentally friendly designs a country where it is scarce ` Finding a balance between the cost of “green products” vs selling price of products ` Enforce intentional health and safety best practices Health and safety Ensuring a safe and healthy work environment ` Ensuring a safe work environment for staff 19 ` Ensuring safety of all stakeholders/communities on our projects Government Acceptance of our integrated model and granting the ` Through relationship building, delivering on our partnerships with the public sector and proving the 10 assistance associated regulatory approvals effectiveness of integrated development, we build awareness and acceptance Changing lives Community acceptance of our various products ` Stakeholder engagement and community development (social, skills, and enterprise) (community Strikes and activism can impact project delivery and ` Corporate social investment to strengthen ties with the community 14, 22-35 acceptance) profitability ` Actively encouraging community involvement ` Social acceptance of the Calgro M3 products ` Creation of aspirational products and spaces Allowing communities from different social and Changing social ensure: where communities can live, socialise and relax economic backgrounds to live in harmony with one 22-35 structures of the past – Race and class integration another in a pleasant environment – Building role models within society 7 CALGRO M3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT We define our stakeholders as any individual, group or organisation that is interested in, impacted by, or involved with Calgro Contained in this chapter M3. This includes our shareholders, investors, financial institutions, debt capital providers, clients, employees, sub-contractors, suppliers, consumers, communities, joint venture and other partnering organisations, government departments, governing King IV emphasises the critical role of stakeholders in bodies, trade unions, NGOs, industry and related industry specialists, academic institutions and the media. the governance processes of an organisation. However, at Calgro M3 we have for many years Stakeholder engagement and feedback is valuable. It serves to: understood that engaging our stakeholders is an imperative to conducting our business in a way that is ` highlight potential areas of risk; ` build trusting, committed and solid relationships; both sustainable and ethical, and even more ` improve awareness of market trends and ` proactively manage the Calgro M3 brand and importantly, is key to understanding how we better innovations; improve its visibility in the industries within which it deliver value to all our stakeholders, including those operates; communities to whom we provide homes, Residential ` help better understand the macro-economic climate, socio-political and cultural dynamics; ` ensure governance, compliance and best practice Rental Investments and Memorial Parks for, so that we processes are in place to stabilise the Company fulfil our “Building legacies. Changing lives” promise. ` obtain valuable feedback on the quality of and to support further controlled and sustained products and delivery thereof; growth; ` provide input for continuous business ` ensure the Company’s growth, development, improvement and promote continual learning; short and medium-term success, and long-term sustainability; and ` inform the public of the suite of offerings: Integrated Residential Property; Residential Rental ` give stakeholders a voice to ensure their concerns This chapter focuses on how we manage stakeholder Investment and Memorial Parks; are considered in the decision-making process. engagement within the Group. Channels for engagement and dialogue with a wide variety of stakeholder groups are accessible via formal and informal meetings, forums, surveys, briefings and one-on-one meetings and reviews. We ensure local communities are engaged in our activities, providing employment and skills development opportunities, as well as other platforms and forums for involvement. 8 CALGRO M3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT (CONTINUED) The key resource of our Group is our people. Our employees, sub-contractors and the unions that represent them are Employees therefore a key stakeholder group. We endeavour to attract, motivate, develop and retain a skilled and sustainable workforce to meet the current and future business needs of the Group. We actively endeavour to become an employer of choice. How we engage ` Regular staff communications ` Formal and informal social events ` Regular training for staff (internal and external) ` Briefings, meetings and presentations ` HR policy and procedure, including staff induction and ` Management maintains an “open-door” policy where ` Management roadshows and project launches performance reviews ad hoc discussions are taken up and issues resolved accordingly Focus areas Our response ` Open communication, fair management practices Fair work practice ` Hands-on senior management involvement to address and resolve labour issues ` Internal HSE Department that is supplemented by external consultants to oversee the implementation of policies and procedures related to the formal HSE Safety management system, based on international standards (ISO 14001:2015 and ISO 45001: 2018) and compliance with the OHS Act 85 of 1993 and its Regulations Incentives and bonuses ` Endeavour to pay market-related or above salaries and rates as well as incentivise exceptional performance with performance-related bonuses Growth and development ` Offer skills development opportunities (internal and external providers) to staff and sub-contractors ` Level 1 B-BBEE contributor Transformation ` Strive for transformation of the workforce ` Dedicated internal B-BBEE Implementation Team to ensure transformation across all elements of the scorecard ` HR and Corporate Governance policies support succession planning Succession planning ` Active involvement of management and Exco to identify and develop succession candidates ` Guidance and support provided by the Remuneration and Nomination Committee 9 CALGRO M3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT (CONTINUED) Our customers are a vital part of our business model. Addressing their issues and concerns is of paramount importance to Customers us. We regularly and consistently engage with the end-users of our products – residents, homeowners, tenants, those who have recently lost a loved one, property developers and/or real estate owners and sellers who are sub-contracted by the Company, as well as Government. How we engage ` Sales teams ` Press releases ` Site visits ` Marketing surveys and group SMSs ` Written communication ` Social media ` Project updates ` 24/7 Client Call Centre assistance and ` Advertising campaigns ` Marketing material ` Community forums and body corporate support membership/meetings ` Dedicated client liaison officer Focus areas Our response ` Our turnkey approach drives the affordability of end-products and is measured by 100% bonds granted by the financial institutions to our clients Value for money ` Continuous comparison to other products in the market for the same price, confirms value of products ` Quality of workmanship is constantly reviewed and formally verified. The Group has started with the integration of the principles into its business management system Quality ` Formal project management control procedures implemented before handover to clients ` Recruitment of suitably qualified quality control officers ` 24/7 Client Call Centre established to resolve matters that are inside and outside the latent defect period ` Turnkey approach means no reliance on external suppliers in the early stages of development On-time delivery ` CIS (Calgro M3 Information System) for project timeline monitoring ` Regular project manager meetings to identify issues, including senior management oversight Integrated, fit-for-purpose design ` Town planning is informed by design specialists, environmental plans and engagement with critical stakeholders addressing the needs of residents, ` In-house Architectural and Urban Design Department the community and the environment ` Village concept implemented Anti-competitive behaviour ` Policies and guidelines ensure rights are protected and that undue influence is not brought to bear 10 CALGRO M3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT (CONTINUED) Government (local, Shareholders, By providing a holistic and transparent view of the Group and its operations, clear communications of our strategy, provincial and national) investors, analysts sustained and controlled growth and a consistent return on and media investment, we build trust and confidence. All activities below are undertaken to ensure that this relationship of trust is built with shareholders, investors, analysts and the media in an endeavour to ensure the correct value is placed on the Company. We partner with Government on developments, including the local, provincial and national authorities, liaising with the Departments of Human Settlements, Health, Education and Social Services, to build communities. How we engage ` Regular financial results and ` Annual General Meeting ` Company website Company presentations ` Annual Integrated Report ` Site visits and roadshows are ` Meetings ` Feedback emails undertaken locally as well as How we engage ` Project updates ` Ad hoc telephonic dialogues with large international ` Comprehensive Investor ` One:one meetings shareholders Relations function ` Meetings ` Participation in ad hoc ` Steering Committee meetings discussions ` Co-facilitation of public ` Involvement in providing input participation forums into policy-making in Focus areas Our response ` Partnering for training conjunction with Government ` Partnering to address specific ` Written communications Growth and sustained returns on ` Clear business strategy, stable growth and risk mitigating issues investment strategies ` Good business practices, sound governance policies, Appropriate response to macro-economic procedures and structures and flexibility between market and socio-economic environment Focus areas Our response segments facilitate agile responses and adaptability Prudent capital allocation and utilisation ` Debt used to raise necessary working capital, secured by a Statutory and legal ` Transparency and compliance with various of cash and working capital strong balance sheet and project pipeline compliance Acts, policies, procedures and guidelines ` Leadership succession planning Funding constraints for ` Continuous engagement with public sector Succession planning and talent retention ` Human Capital Management policies and measurements in much-needed infrastructure to find solutions to funding challenges place 11 CALGRO M3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT (CONTINUED) Environmental agencies and Suppliers, service providers interest groups and specialists Our key stakeholders in this group include environmental organisations, public interest and Suppliers and service providers are our partners in our approach to delivery. We peer groups as well as industry partners impacted by environmental issues. create trust and stimulate collaboration, providing growth opportunities in a mutually respectful and beneficial way, with open and regular communications as and when Our environmental responsibility extends beyond legal and regulatory requirements. It is our required or requested. responsibility to reduce our environmental impact and continually improve our environmental performance across all our operations. How we engage How we engage ` Meetings facilitated by specialist ` Industry conferences and functions ` Meetings ` Monitoring projects and compliance consultants ` Firm agreements in place with all ` Conferences ` Project feedback meetings ` Face-to-face engagement suppliers, service providers and ` Launches ` Training of sub-contractors and suppliers ` Emails specialists, and are acted on accordingly ` Internal HSE Department, aligned to the principles of ISO 14001:2015 and ISO 45001: 2018 ` Telephonic conversation ` Training of local suppliers Focus areas Our response Focus areas Our response Compliance with Acts ` Internal HSE Department that is supplemented by external consultants to On-time payment ` Timeous payments and guidelines to protect oversee the implementation a formal HSE management system based on and conserve the international standards (ISO 14001:2015 and ISO 45001: 2018) and in ` Preferential procurement for ` Favourable contract environment compliance with the OHS Act 85 of 1993 and its Regulations Growth opportunities local small, micro and medium terms enterprises (“SMMEs”) Transparency and ` Adhere to and communicate compliance disclosure of information ` Resolve issues as a priority and communicate outcomes Clear understanding of ` Engagement with professional teams to ensure synergy in Company strategies ` Take measures to ensure that we minimise the environmental impact of implementation and problem resolution our activities and priorities ` Integrated development leaders ensuring environmentally friendly ` Preference is given to local suppliers with a positive BEE Product stewardship initiatives throughout these projects BEE compliance scorecard who can demonstrate the necessary skills and ` Protection of endangered or threatened species in line with competence required environmental due diligence 12 CALGRO M3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT (CONTINUED) JSE and other regulatory bodies Financial institutions and debt capital providers How we engage We endeavour to comply fully with laws and regulations. We We maintain excellent relations with our therefore engage with regulatory bodies on a regular basis to ` Face-to-face ` Project updates financial partners, as securing finance for improve and ensure compliance. engagements ` Engage and take all developments is vital across operations. We ` Emails financial institutions and proactively manage cash flow, debt obligations ` Presentations lenders for site visits for and risk. To ensure financial excellence, we ` Cash flow and financial them to see the result of apply stringent measures and strict compliance analysis their lending materialise How we engage with regulatory and contractual requirements. ` Meetings ` Audits (internal and ` Written communications external) Focus areas Our response ` Attend educational ` Business associations presentations ` Qualified team responsible for financial decisions Sound financial management ` Suitable governance structures in place to manage risk Appropriate response to macro` Focused, flexible and proactive business model and management team Focus areas Our response economic environment ` Integrated Annual Report and Interim reports that adhere to international Statutory and legal ` Strict compliance with all laws, Access to, and disclosure of accounting standards and JSE Listings Requirements compliance by-laws, notes and regulations financial and related information ` Communication and reports issued to funders ` Measure compliance on a continuous Adherence to guidelines Liquidity ` Strategically retain substantial cash resources and gearing ability basis to ensure requirements are such as King IV, CSI, GRI, adhered to ` Continue to ensure a strong balance sheet OHS Act ` We intend to comply with all Comprehensive risk management ` Risk management policies and tolerance levels set by the Board Good corporate requirements and guidelines and to be and exposure levels ` Continuous monitoring of financial position to tolerance levels citizenship an outstanding corporate citizen ` Quarterly feedback to the Board and Committees ` Full transparency and disclosure to ` Tolerance ratios and covenants set by Audit and Risk Committee and Transparent disclosure Risk tolerance ratios and covenants comply with laws and regulations debt providers are monitored monthly to identify risks 13 CALGRO M3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT (CONTINUED) Joint ventures and Vital to the success of our joint venture developments are strong relationships with our joint venture partners, as well as other partners the maximisation of value for all partners. We maintain clear lines of communication, meet our commitments and carefully manage risk. How we engage ` Meetings ` Launches ` Co-facilitation sessions ` Progress and financial reports ` Monthly Steering Committee meetings ` Emails ` Updates ` Business partner and industry forums ` Telephone calls Focus areas Our response Long-term value maximisation ` Skills and knowledge are shared and transferred Joint growth and development opportunities ` Co-manage risk using defined processes Long-term financial sustainability and security ` Appropriate reporting, financial strategies ` Accurate, relevant, proactive communications are provided and mechanisms for ongoing feedback and participation Open and clear communication are in place ` Clear strategic direction Full understanding of the Calgro M3 business model and the JVs ` Clear lines of accountability and ownership role within it ` Corporate cultural integration and alignment Equitable income distribution ` Encourage openness and transparency in our dealings and promote fair business practices 14 CALGRO M3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT (CONTINUED) Communities in which A critical component of our developments is community participation and locally based skill and enterprise development. We we operate respect the rights and needs of communities and actively seek to support their interests by involving them from start to finish. How we engage ` External social facilitation team ` Launches ` Meetings with ward and local councillors for areas in ` Public participation forums ` Education which developments are planned ` Presentations ` Daily project site and operations management meetings, ` Active education on requirements and responsibilities of ` Community outreach forums and leaders which include labour desks headed by community a homeowner ` Corporate social responsibility and investment projects elected leaders ` Social media Focus areas Our response Focus areas Our response ` Due diligence incorporating International Finance Socio-economic and related ` Partner with businesses, NGOs and government to address key Corporation (“IFC”) principles issues (HIV and AIDS, crime, socio-economic issues within communities Land claims ` Local councillor involvement gangsterism, etc.) ` Community and labour desk officers ` Act within the framework of the judicial system Access to health and ` Provision for these facilities is made in the town planning education facilities process throughout our Integrated Developments ` Public participation in the environmental authorisation Destruction of cultural heritage process ` Calgro M3 adheres to a culture of zero tolerance for corruption Corruption sites, protecting biospheres and ` Strict compliance with an Environmental Management Plan ` Tip-offs Anonymous hotline (fraud and corruption hotline) endangered species ` Due diligence Positive and tangible ` A formal focus throughout construction on verifying quality, contribution to broader Issues with delivery and quality ` CSI annual spend is directed at key community projects interests within the of housing backed up by after sales service ` Skills and enterprise development community and society ` Local community involvement through establishment of as a whole Employment and economic labour desks ` Skills and enterprise development Social and cultural integration development ` We take the interests and needs of communities into ` Training programmes of new development into consideration, actively pursuing the creation of integrated, existing communities and thriving communities ` Town planning and interaction with local government and areas Non-delivery of municipal municipal services to plan infrastructure and service delivery services ` Alternative energy solutions make developments more affordable and sustainable 15 CALGRO M3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EMPLOYEES It is Calgro M3’s goal to make South Africa a better place for The Group recognises the importance of a transforming and Contained in this chapter all by providing employment and products to as many people ever-changing workforce. This has guided the development of as possible. the Group’s Human Capital Strategy and Workforce Model. It An outline of how important our people, their focuses on four areas – Attract, Develop, Engage and development, well-being and safety are. We explore Human Capital is an integral part of the Group’s value chain. Transform – enabling the Group to unlock the potential of how we approach Human Capital Development and Without our people, we will not be able to do business – we each of our valued employees. would certainly not be able to deliver the high-quality services explain how the Group allocates funds to Internal Skills and products that we do, to our valued stakeholders. Development and Training. ` Local community engagement On-the-job coaching _ The chapter covers our continual engagement with ` Labour desk – target a minimum Labourers to business owners _ of 50% local employment Mentoring _ employees on a national level, ensuring sound employee ac t ance managem ttr orm en De Training and development _ across all projects A P erf t relations with a focus on health, safety and continual ` Recruit talent p Career path development _ lo Hu ve staff training. ` Employer of choice ce Ma n a m a n an ge m nce and e al verna pit tegy Ca stra co Go nt mp Calgro M3 Human Capital li Management The Group is delighted to report that es across the 2019 financial year, a total r du of 91 individuals received training Poli ce cies and pro En through our Skills Development ` Reward and recognition g or ga e m f Programmes. ` Performance appraisal ns Tra ` Employee engagement, Career transition management _ satisfaction surveys Outplacement/redeployment _ ` Labour relations Succession planning _ 16 CALGRO M3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EMPLOYEES (CONTINUED) Local recruitment and Human Capital Management are Employment equity prioritised on all development projects across the Group. Calgro M3 remains committed to Employment Equity. In the 2019 financial year, additional staff members were employed by the This provides the Group with an effective and valuable onsite Group (which includes permanent, temporary and fixed term contract staff). The majority of these new staff members are from workforce. It builds positive relationships with communities, previously disadvantaged groups, illustrating the Group’s commitment to transformation in the workplace. addressing unemployment in these areas and assisting to reduce skills shortages we might otherwise encounter at remote sites. Percentage of new staff from previously disadvantaged groups Across the Group, preference is given to empowerment candidates in all new appointments. The Group also practices 76% a policy of non-discrimination on all our operations. We strive Skilled technical and academically to recruit and retain the best people both on our projects and qualified workers, junior managers, within our corporate support operations and draw on talent supervisors, foremen and from the populations of the areas we work in wherever superintendents possible. 75% Semi-skilled and discretionary decision makers 97% Unskilled and defined decision making Calgro M3 is committed to and supportive of the empowerment of previously disadvantaged groups. 17 CALGRO M3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EMPLOYEES (CONTINUED) Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment Fleurhof site has been closed for most of the year due to (approximately 100 people) elected to set up an informal The Group understands the importance of implementing the electricity availability challenges, resulting from an impasse settlement on the road reserve outside the main gate of the Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment (“B-BBEE”) between Calgro M3 and City Power. Scottsdene Development, severely affecting operations. guiding principles set out by the South African Government In March 2018, a large portion of the remaining units under The total staff complement, including agents, has decreased across all levels within the Group. The Group views the construction were illegally invaded by members of the by 11% to 421 (2018: 473). The total staff and sub-contractor B-BBEE principles as an opportunity to contribute to building Scottsdene community. Although the invaders were complement are expected to increase again once operations an empowered nation. successfully removed from the units, the invaders at the above sites resume to normal levels. For us, transformation goes beyond compliance with legislation and regulations. Our goal is to create a truly transformed organisation where we empower our people to fulfil their 1 purpose. Our commitment is to ensure that our organisation’s We recognised the need to do more in this respect and are proud to culture aligns with this goal. We understand that the broader announce that we are a level 1 B-BBEE contributor. transformation of society cannot take place, unless large institutions like ours play a major role. This is a proud testament of the fact that the effort that the Total staff complement analysis Group has put into transformation is paying off. The Group’s workforce transformation has changed Male significantly from the previous year. Our current workforce 74.65% 9.38% 2.08% 13.89% 68.41% demographics are very closely aligned to the national Total demographics of South African society in terms of the Female reported economically active population. The Group only 69.17% 9.02% 3.76% 18.05% recruits new personnel in line with the demographical split 31.59% within South Africa (in the rare circumstance where we do Black Coloured Indian White deviate from this policy, we ensure that a justification submission with a valid reason accompanies the appointment). Any such deviation is noted and approved by the Executive Committee and the Social and Ethics Committee. Overall, staff levels have decreased because of the slowdown Total workforce 72.92% 9.26% 2.61% 15.21% in operations at the Fleurhof and Scottsdene sites. The 18 CALGRO M3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EMPLOYEES (CONTINUED) Internal skills development and training ` medium and long-term technical, supervisory, and formal Mentorship Programmes and Learnerships Skills development is a very important aspect of the Group’s management training; and Over the course of the past 12 months, various mentorship Human Capital Strategy. The Group is strongly aligned with ` skills transfer by experienced long-term employees. and learnership programmes, including the Chartered Institute Government’s drive to improve and empower the South of Management Accountants (“CIMA”) mentorship programme African workforce. The Group is proud of its achievements in Continual learning, both formal and informal, is inherent in the and the Urban and Regional Planning Internships, were terms of training and the learning and career development Group’s culture of sustainable growth and development. undertaken across the Group and have continued to grow opportunities it makes available to all staff and communities from strength to strength. We encourage all our employees to engage where possible in we operate in. formal training and informal on-site training. Concrete efforts CIMA mentorship programme The skills development component improved immensely from are being made in relation to development of skills plans, The CIMA mentorship programme at Calgro M3 will be the previous year. The main drivers included the solidification training, mentorship and learnership programmes. celebrating its fourth full year in operation. The basis of the of our mentorship and work experience related initiatives. mentorship programme is to improve skills and turn managers All levels of the operations are designed to attract and retain into future leaders. Over the course of the 2019 financial year, During the year the Group spent approximately R4.1 million key skills and talent in a climate of skills shortage, and to several improvements and adjustments were made to the on skills, enterprise and supplier development. This skills ensure the Group’s sustained success in the future. Training, programme. These include clearer objectives and outcomes development and training spend was across various learning and career development plans are available for each from the programme, improved communication channels management levels. 100% of this amount was spent on black employee to tweak as their own career path develops. between mentees and CIMA as well as an enhanced employees. This amount includes time spent by senior managers understanding of the practical application of management mentoring junior and middle managers, as well as expenses Team members are continuously challenged in their role. accounting in the business. The programme is pleased to have paid towards tuition for employees on the various training Continual learning, both formal and informal, is inherent in the retained its Quality Training Partner certification. The Group programmes. Group’s culture of sustainable growth and development. It is currently has two employees taking part in the programme important for each employee to achieve their personal who have passed enough subjects in the 2019 financial year We are often challenged by skills shortages, lack of formal to advance to the next qualification level. potential. training and the limited industry experience of the workforce actively recruited in the areas in which our projects are based. Internship programme To ensure continuous productivity of our Group it remains The internship programme was introduced in 2015 for the essential that clear goals are set for each employee on a daily, Considerable time and effort are spent on skills development first time. It provides urban and regional planning students for existing staff, interns and students, and the development of weekly, monthly and annual basis to measure performance the opportunity to do their honours research projects within the labour force. Skills development typically comprises some against. A joyful working environment is created within Calgro an environment that exposes them to a more practical or all the following, but not limited to: M3 through fun activities, team building exercises and creating approach for their theoretical research. A supporting structure ` formal skills plans; a safe working environment. Continual learning remains is provided for the students to complete their honours ` transitional skills transfer and general upskilling; important to motivate employees and to ensure that work is research projects with the mentorship of various professional ` short-term “shadow skills training” and/or on-the-job coaching; completed timeously. planners from different levels of management within the 19 CALGRO M3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EMPLOYEES (CONTINUED) urban and regional planning profession. Working with Calgro They help manage labour relations proactively, manage Transition – succession planning M3, the interns experience the private sector and professional expectations and highlight any deterioration in trust between Succession plans are reviewed at Exco and Board level using planning environment. management and labour. the performance results of managers from the Performance Management System. This process is ongoing. The The Group also caters for Quantity Surveying (“QS”) and Employee surveys facilitate direct input by employees, Remuneration and Nomination Committee specifically Human Resources (“HR”) internship programmes. assisting the Company to meet expectations. These will be focuses on this issue once a year to ensure that management’s accompanied by other staff engagement initiatives throughout view is aligned with that of the Board and that talent is Rewarding employees the year, such as briefings, CEO addresses, and feedback cultivated from within the organisation through planned A transparent performance management system that is linked from the different divisions and from site managers in daily, activities. to the performance of the Group is incorporated within the weekly or monthly meetings held across the different forums Company. It effectively creates wealth based on performance Health and safety on all levels and raises accountability. All individuals are made within operations. Health, Safety and Environmental (“HSE”) Management aware, through various training channels, of the impact they System The Group has taken and will continue to enforce a hard line have on the Company and the direct and indirect contribution In April 2018, Calgro M3 began implementing a formal HSE and zero tolerance approach with respect to disciplinary they make to the success of the Group. management system based on international standards (ISO issues, especially with reported cases of abuse of alcohol or 45001:2018 and ISO 14001:2015) and in compliance with the The Group introduced a new long-term service and retention narcotics on site, theft, assault or negligent acts that may Occupational Health and Safety Act 85 of 1993 and its scheme for salaried and wage staff during the 2019 financial endanger people’s lives on sites. This will send a consistent regulations, to ensure that risks/aspects associated with year that rewards employees with extra leave days and a cash message to employees that misconduct will not be tolerated products, activities and services are identified and that incentive for each five-year period of completed service. and that anyone involved in misconduct will face severe corrective measures are implemented to ensure continual consequences. This is in line with the Group’s efforts to improvement. Our main priority is to ensure that each site Employees’ salaries are benchmarked annually to ensure maintain zero fatalities on all projects and promote a safe follows a consistent approach. remuneration at the appropriate skill and experience level. Performance-based bonus schemes are in place for permanent and harmonious work environment. Throughout 2018, Calgro M3 implemented HSE improvement staff. The scheme rewards personnel based on Group and The Group has policies and procedures in place aimed at plans that included initiatives such as learning from incidents, individual performance through the performance appraisal improving Grievance Management resolution times, including changes in safety culture and behaviour and leadership system in place. commitment and accountability, as developing a safe and in-sourcing of key stakeholder engagements. As a result, average conflict resolution is 72 hours. For the financial period responsible safety culture requires strong leadership, Employee engagement effective supervision and engagement with workers. The Group has put in place employee relations strategies that under review, the Group was, minimally, impacted by work include staff engagement and effective communication at all stoppages at its sites, other than on Fleurhof and Scottsdene Providing a safe workplace sites. Workplace forums and meetings provide a platform to where stoppages resulted from situations outside the control Ensuring health and safety of all stakeholders on site is the improve engagement with employees and sub-contractors. of employees. basic principle underlying Calgro M3’s HSE Policy. Our HSE 20 CALGRO M3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EMPLOYEES (CONTINUED) management system approach is risk-based and focuses on the integration of safe working/operating practices into every aspect or process performed. Calgro M3 is pleased to report zero fatalities for the reporting period. Furthermore, contractor and supplier assessments and performance evaluations were developed to promote accountability and performance improvements. Presentation of number of incidents per month in 2018 calendar year Safety performance Safety performance was measured by lagging indicators. Such lagging indicators include injury frequency rates and lost workdays. These measures are necessary to track the number 6 of injuries but does not indicate the effectiveness of control measures put in place in preventing injuries. Calgro M3 has 5 5 now adopted the tracking and analysis of leading indicators such as training, compliance audits and checking the 4 Number of incidents 4 effectiveness of controls. This will provide an indication of what corrective measures are needed and where to prevent 3 incidents and injuries. 2 2 If an incident occurs, an investigation is conducted to 2 understand why the incident occurred and identify what 1 1 1 1 1 1 controls could be strengthened or improved to prevent similar 1 incidents. 0 Unfortunately, a few medical treatment cases occurred on-site Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec with some of them resulting in lost time injuries. The Group is actively working at improving its lost time injury frequency rate (“LTIFR”) and recordable case rate (“RCR”) which includes any injury that requires more than a first aid treatment to within Monitoring and reporting on safety performance is essential to ensure the safety of everyone working for Calgro M3, including international standard levels. employees, contractors and suppliers and their respective employees. This addresses risks that are inherent to the industry. 21 CALGRO M3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EMPLOYEES (CONTINUED) Occupational health It is a legal requirement to ensure that employees working on Calgro M3 sites are medically fit. Calgro M3’s medical surveillance programme ensures that the baseline health of employees are recorded, and the state of health is monitored throughout the duration of the employment. Interventions are made to assist individuals that need to sustain and improve their health. The medical surveillance detects risk factors related to occupational exposures 2019 and lifestyle conditions and incorporates screening for lifestyle diseases like Fatality-free and free of serious hypertension. The interaction between workplace and social risks factors injury in the workplace calls for an integrated approach to health promotion, prevention and management. Every individual has the right to a safe and healthy workplace and the right to return Managing HIV and AIDS from work every day, safe and injury-free Calgro M3 is concerned with the well-being of all employees and has approved and implemented an HIV/AIDS Policy which has been adopted by all parties involved on Calgro M3 projects. In respect of HIV/AIDS, companies in South Africa are facing an epidemic of ISO 14001 and All employees must act and work serious magnitude. This will present companies with unique and complex ISO 45001 aligned in a safe manner at all times problems which must be managed appropriately and effectively. HIV/AIDS targets the economically active sector of the population and as a result the workplace will be impacted. Management and employees need to develop proactive strategies and policies to address the problems which will be experienced. A robust Health, Safety and Environmental management Calgro M3 recognises the serious implications of HIV infections and AIDS system based on the following principles: for the individual, their family, their colleagues and Calgro M3 itself. We are committed to addressing HIV and AIDS in a positive, supportive and nondiscriminatory manner, with the informed support and cooperation of all Simple, non-negotiable employees, and in accordance with accepted best business practices and “ZERO INJURY” mindset No repeats standards and relevant Codes of Good Practice. Our policy regards HIV/AIDS in the same procedures light as other life-threatening diseases and ensures non-discrimination against HIV positive employees. 22 CALGRO M3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (“CSR”) Calgro M3’s investment in social initiatives is Contained in this chapter aligned to its philosophy of community development. We invest in social development Why CSR? initiatives that help uplift and empower. We favour the support of projects in our residential “CSR is a corporate culture whereby developments, identifying opportunities where businesses or companies decide voluntarily we can make a tangible difference, supporting the growth and development of individuals, to contribute to a better society and a cleaner nurturing vulnerable or needy groups, or environment.” strengthening the community. The Group is involved in the development of At Calgro M3 we are shaping a responsible business in an various crèches, clinics, parks and community ethical way every day. It’s how we make profits, not just centres within its developments. In all instances, Calgro M3’s investment in chosen how we spend them that counts. We generate direct and initiatives is voluntary, not mandated. Town indirect economic value for local communities from our planning regulations for Integrated operations as we develop entire communities, not just Developments stipulate that land must be properties. We believe that in supporting education, a reserved for public use and that developers Embedding key principles and meaningful difference can be made to change the wellmay not raise any structures on or develop practices into the business that land. being of South Africans! Although our Socio-Economic Development (“SED”) spend complements our BEE scorecard, our focus is to create socioThis chapter explores our unique approach to CSR across economic sustainability within the developments our communities and outlines our initiatives in this regard. that we create, thus going above and beyond the recommended target of 1% of net profit after tax (“NPAT”). CSR 23 CALGRO M3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CONTINUED) Areas of impact Social/community Innovation development: Donations: within project Social non-residential Kutlwanong land, management and Enterprise Skills Supplier economic amenities Training infrastructure, infrastructure/ development development development development within new and Centre top structures community initiatives: implemented or in-kind development projects ` Education and schooling ` Waste management and recycling areas ` Feeding schemes and food security programmes ` Early childhood development ` Water harvesting ` Maintenance of open spaces and facilities ` Development of recreational park areas ` Urban agriculture ` Youth training and development programmes ` Improving and developing recreational activities ` Healthcare and wellness within communities Our core CSR objectives are: Governance and standards: ` Partner with specialist service providers, including ` Community involvement ` King IV non-profit organisations, to ensure appropriate ` Monitor outcomes and manage investments to ` Companies Act 71 of 2008 (as amended) Regulation 43(5) skills are applied to execute initiatives drive delivery of envisaged benefits ` Employment equity ` Maintaining excellent relationships with employees, ` Wellness of employees ` B-BBEE Legislation Act 53 of 2003 (requiring companies to engage in customers, suppliers, investors, funders and ` Education and upliftment of communities Preferential Procurement) communities ` Global Reporting Initiative (“GRI”) “Creating sustainable environments which empower and uplift communities, leaving a lasting legacy of socio-economic upliftment and change.” 24 CALGRO M3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CONTINUED) Social economic development initiatives – impact 2019 FY Education/schooling Inclusive Education South Africa (“IESA”): The overall objective Total beneficiaries of this project is to strengthen the Fleurhof Primary School in Gauteng as an inclusive school with key characteristics, by identifying barriers to learning in a child through interventions Male 55.40% Female 44.60% such as a critical examination of the school ethos and policies, promotion of inclusive school leadership and the establishment of strong school-based support structures. Direct and indirect beneficiaries A total of 34 beneficiaries have been reached in this reporting the Director of Education, Gauteng, Mr M Tshabalala; the period. Learners, parents and SGB members will be reached Institutional Development Support Officer, Mr D Slabbert; and Total African African in activities planned for the latter half of the 2020 financial Circuit Manager, Mrs L Rathinasamy. The guest speaker was Beneficiary type number female male year. author Dr Judy Dlamini. Also present was the inaugural principal Number of full-time staff 34 28 6 of the school, Mrs Ellen Kondowe, members of the SGB and Meadowlands Letsibogo Secondary School – Constructed Number of learners 1186 594 592 Manda Nkhulu of Calgro M3, amongst others. School Hall at Secondary Girls School: The official opening of Number of parents 1025 615 410 the hall was held on 2 March 2018. The handover was attended The Matric class of 2018 was the first group to write their endNumber of school by the Chief Director of Education, Gauteng, Mr M Nkonyane; year exams within a formal hall at the school. governing body (“SGB”) members 6 6 – Number of school-based The district awarded Meadowlands Letsibogo Secondary School: support team members 16 12 4 Number of senior ` Best School within the Soweto Public Schools ` 2018 97.7% pass rate with 63% bachelors and management team (2017) for a 100% pass rate 84 distinctions members 7 5 2 Total beneficiaries 2 251 1 243 1 008 In the words of Nelson Mandela as quoted by the chair of “Children are the most important asset in a country. For School Governing Body (“SGB”), Mr F Ramitloa during his them to become that asset, they must receive education speech at the ceremony: and love from their parents.” 25 CALGRO M3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CONTINUED) Early childhood development centres (“ECD”) and initiatives Sporting facilities South Hills and Fleurhof Ext. 26: The National Lottery Commission awarded funding to Linhill Celtic Football Club (located adjacent to our South Hills development): A sponsorship respective ECDs for the development of ECD centres, based on land availability. Calgro M3 was granted and supported by Calgro M3 to accommodate the request for an additional soccer donated the identified land in the Fleurhof and South Hills developments for the development field due to the club needing to host the district tournament which comprised the Northern, of an ECD Centre which will be managed by the respective Non-Profit Organisation (“NPO”) and Southern, Eastern, Rand Central and Pretoria Local Football Associations on behalf of the a local ECD. The pre-school will be managed by selected management teams from the local Southern Local Football Association (“SLFA”). The tournament proudly took place during 15 and community. 16 September 2018. The event was a great success. The new field added ensured that the schedules were on time and that all games were played without congestion. Fleurhof Ext. 2: MES Kids Academy: Storm damage and general repair work has been done on a crèche in extension 2 of Fleurhof. Community park and recreational facilities Witpoortjie Park – Ext. 69: The Lapologa Witpoortjie Park situated in Ext. 69 is being maintained through a monthly maintenance agreement with a landscaping service provider. The allows for the park to be utilised and enjoyed by residents. The children enjoy a BMX track and play area. The park was opened during the Centenary Celebration for Nelson Mandela in 2018 with a total of 100 trees planted in honour of Nelson Mandela’s 100th birthday celebration. 26 CALGRO M3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CONTINUED) Feeding scheme Maintenance of open spaces and facilities Namedi Secondary School Monthly Feeding Scheme: The Group’s Memorial Parks segment Calgro M3 develops active open space areas and parks within developments. We consider this continued to support and contribute towards a local food programme during the financial year. a critical part of establishing a sense of community. The Company maintains these parks and The principle of the programme was for the community forum to provide a daily meal to the open space systems for a period before handing maintenance over to local residential neediest school children in the Namedi Secondary School as well as other unemployed youth committees. This ensures the community understands the value of these parks and maintains in their training programme. them accordingly for all residents to enjoy. Improving community facilities Income generators: Calgro M3 is involved in this initiative to generate sundry income to enhance community initiatives and local SMME development. Typically, these initiatives include security, maintenance of recreational parks and open spaces within developments. 27 CALGRO M3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CONTINUED) Youth training and development programmes Calgro M3 was proud to be one of the main sponsors of this financial literacy programme. Financial literacy programme The Smartbucks: Mind your Moolah Initiative for 2018 created a completely unique edutainment experience aimed at exposing learners from historically disadvantaged backgrounds Smartbucks to valuable life-lessons regarding financial responsibility. The educational initiative provided the opportunity for a total of 14 846 high school learners to attend the Smartbucks: Mind your “Mind Your Moolah” Moolah events that were held in 14 venues, across eight provinces in South Africa. Learner attendance Gender Grade attendance Black 93% Indian 3% Female 54% Male 46% Grade 8 – 8% Grade 10 – 32% Grade 12 – 9% Coloured 4% White 0% Grade 9 – 20% Grade 11 – 31% Kutlwanong Home Craft Development Trust (“Kutlwanong Training Centre”) The aim of the centre is to continue with its current accredited skills programmes which include Calgro M3 is exceptionally pleased that the Kutlwanong Training Centre is open to accept sewing, catering and business education, and to add accredited Vocational (short-skills) community members for training. All agreements have been signed between interested parties Training Programmes, Learnerships and Skills Development Programmes. The centre will serve and the Kutlwanong Training Centre located in Roodepoort has accreditation from the the Fleurhof, Jabulani, Witpoortjie, Leratong and potentially the South Hills Development as a Construction Education and Training Authority (“CETA”) for the following qualifications: Training Centre due to the close proximity to all the developments. ` National Certificate in Building and Civil Construction, NQF Level 3. ` National Certificate in Construction Roadworks, NQF Level 2. 28 CALGRO M3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CONTINUED) Educational Trust Initiatives Cell C Take a Girl Child to Work Day: Calgro M3, hosted ten Beneficiaries: 40 candidates were selected from various Total candidates Grade 11 female learners from the Ferndale High School on schools including Kanyisa Secondary School, Milton Mbekela 24 May 2018, in support of the Cell C Take a Girl Child to Work Secondary and Holy Cross High School. The project facilitator Day campaign. The feedback received was that the girls further absorbed 20 unemployed youth into the programme. learned a lot from each department that presented their The candidates were required to participate in an aptitude test Male Female respective division be that Town Planning, Quantity Surveying to ensure that the selected participants had the minimum 70% 30% or Architecture. Ensuring that the learners gained a deeper required skills set and would in fact benefit from the nature of understanding of what each entails and which career or the programme. subject choices to make for them to pursue such a career. The Coding Programme is an accredited course in terms of Melisizwe Project/African Rising: Computer Coding – which the students will write an exam through Oracle. All candidates who pass the exam will receive their NQF Level 4 Outreach Programme Skills Development General donations and charities Certificate which will aid their efforts in finding employment In recognition of the technological gap that exists in rural supported and hopefully securing entrance to the work place. South Africa the computer coding course offered an opportunity that would aid the process of bridging the gap ` Progress Primary School: Student bursaries were endorsed ` MES NPO (Community Development) between rural areas and its urban counterparts. The initiative through the Educational Trust for 25 female beneficiaries was presented by the African Rising Foundation Non-Profit ` Children in Wilderness from previously disadvantaged communities. Independent Company (“NPC”) in partnership with the Melisizwe Computer assessments of the students are conducted to assess the ` Kraaifontein Old Age Home Lab Project NPC. merit and to confirm their socio-economic status. ` Scottsdene Community Clean-Up Project The project was directed at high school students and ` Future Educational Programmes: Evaluations of projects ` Scottsdene Central Rugby Club Donations unemployed youth and was conducted between April and July commence on a needs basis and subject to trustee 2018 at Khanyisa Secondary School, Mthata Eastern Cape. approval. ` Reach for a Dream 29 CALGRO M3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CONTINUED) Community economic development programmes The skills development programmes on-site are an important focus point in terms of the socio-economic contribution that Calgro M3 makes. “Training focuses on daily employee development, not only for their current roles and responsibilities but for future advancement too. Social development puts people at the centre Our policy is to employ at least 50% of the workforce required on a development, which includes local SMMEs, skilled and of development through committed development processes that benefit people in the way unskilled labour, from the local communities in which we they interact in groups and society. Social assistance continues to form an important part of operate. On-site community-chaired labour desks are set up government’s strategy to fight the triple challenge of poverty, inequality, and unemployment”. at all integrated projects to assist in the appointment of the local workforce. They also provide an innovative means to (Adopted from South African Government) ensure continual hands-on stakeholder engagement, community involvement and buy-in, and to monitor and enforce compliance. These labour desks also manage on-thejob training, coaching and mentoring to further empower individuals and support the development of our growing list of The skills development programmes on our sites are an important focus point in terms of the socio-economic development that sub-contractors. Calgro M3 makes: The comprehensive skills training programme focuses on The four tiers Recognition of Prior Learning (“RPL”) identification and accredited vocational skills training. This empowers the trainees who have completed these courses to be part of a 1 Specific artisan training for local labour (vocational skills) short skills, learnership and apprenticeship preferential procurement list from which the sub-contractors Implementing training for specific skills for local labourers employed through project labour desks. All the training providers are can source local labour. CETA-accredited trainers and training involves theory and practical, on-the-job training. The comprehensive skills training The artisan skills training also develops a productive workforce programme focuses on: by delivering practical on-the-job training that will effectively RPL identification and accredited vocational skills training. This empowers the trainees who have completed these courses to upskill and uplift the local labour from the identified be part of a preferential procurement list from which the sub-contractors can source local labour. developments. After successful completion of the training courses, participants are given an accredited certificate. Attempts are also made to transfer Calgro M3 is committed to the ongoing training and these contract workers from contract to contract on the same site, eventually employing them on other projects for the Company. development of employees to ensure the broadening of its skills base. Calgro M3 is a host project for CETAaccredited training projects too to the benefit of the local unemployed community. 30 CALGRO M3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CONTINUED) The benefits of these comprehensive skills training and 2 Skills development of local sub-contractors development programmes result in: ` An increase in job creation. The need to develop business skills of the sub-contractors involved on projects has also been identified. Sub-contractors are ` Sustainable SMMEs and the improvement of SMMEs given the opportunity to attend Business Education and Life Skills Development training. The SMME training also contributes accreditation (i.e. Construction Industry Development Board towards the overall enterprise development aspects in terms of BEE compliance. (“CIDB”) levels or other institutional rating scales). ` The socio-economic status of the development’s adjacent The Group’s formalised enterprise development programmes mentors small black-owned enterprises, helping them improve their communities will be increasing through sustainable performance across various spheres of business. This includes securing credit lines and discounts from suppliers, labour and enterprise development initiatives. employment relations, legal requirements as well as improving their technical skills across finance, human resources and ` Sub-contractor development is beneficial to the economic construction. This was a result of up-scaling the programme to accommodate the development of more enterprises. growth within the Integrated Residential Developments. ` After working for Calgro M3, the sub-contractors can do 3 In-service training work for third parties with these newly acquired skills. Various students from different industry-related degree or diploma courses, especially those requiring practical experience as part of their curriculum, are accommodated during the implementation of projects. We have found that these student trainees leave us after the six months with a much better understanding of the industry in which they will eventually be placed. 4 Youth Development and Training Programmes A financial literacy programme will be rolled out during FY2019 that is designed for previously disadvantaged learners in Grade 9 to 12. This programme teaches learners about financial concepts such as managing debt, looking after one’s savings and spending wisely. The financial literacy programme can also be incorporated into learning material to benefit SMMEs during business development training. The youth development programmes focus on providing a range of services, opportunities and support to the youth within our developments, between the ages of 18 to 35. 31 CALGRO M3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CONTINUED) Site-specific training Location Nature of training Fleurhof During the 2019 FY – Artisan (Short Skill) Training Programmes were held in tiling, carpentry and painting Sub-contractor Development Programme: 28 SMMEs: ` Training to sub-contractors, how to run their businesses and how the construction industry operates Belhar ` Training on construction rates measurements and calculations ` Compliance and documentation training ` Assessments took place throughout the training and they had three one-on-one individual sessions to tailor-make the training to their businesses General Health and Safety Training and awareness: ` All Calgro M3 employees and contractor employees were inducted upon returning from the December 2018 break ` Toolbox Talks (“HSE”) are communicated to employees weekly, every Tuesday All sites ` Task Risk Assessments are conducted and communicated with each team to ensure that hazards and risks are addressed before the task commences ` Additional training was provided to site managers, site supervisors, HSE personnel and contractors in the month of February 2019. The training will include but not be limited to Construction Environmental Management, ISO implementation requirements and HSE procedures 32 CALGRO M3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CONTINUED) Consumer training and financial awareness dramatic downscaling of consumer frustration and Planning for the 2020 financial year The Group provides education and awareness around the embarrassment for new homeowners in the sectional title CSR is so important to Calgro M3 that initiatives for the 2020 financial realities associated with homeownership, and lifestyle space, who were previously presented with requests financial year are in place and being supported as follows: specifically the practicalities of living in a sectional title for payments for which they had not budgeted. As a result environment through its superhero, Captain Calgro. Captain of this training, the body corporate within Calgro M3’s Socio-economic development initiatives Calgro is educating the market and this is viewed as one of our developments are financially healthy with sufficient funds to most important CSI contributions to the sustainability of the maintain buildings and uplift the local community. community as it empowers homeowners to become financially The Group has engaged with an external rehabilitation stable; establish, grow and uplift themselves, potentially specialist to assist clients that do not qualify for bonds, due to extending the cycle of sustainable growth by becoming role poor credit scoring, to clean up their credit record and become models in society and themselves giving back to the more financially stable. Project specific community. community Since this approach was implemented, complaints in this Financial awareness training starts once the agreement of sale initiatives regard have dwindled to less than a percentage point of all is completed. Our agreement of sale contains 14 descriptive new homes transferred to clients. Skills development statements pertaining to sectional title homeownership. For programmes example, what may or may not be done in the communal The need for body corporate and trustee training was environment and what financial costs are associated with this Kutlwanong Training also identified. We facilitate the inaugural meeting of the type of homeownership. Agents provide prospective owners Centre body corporate and ensure that a proper Board of Trustees with training on each of these statements. is elected, and that all the primary portfolios are identified Educational Trust and allocated. We then remain involved with the management When the mortgage loan is granted by the financial institution, Commitments agent and the trustees (in some instances for periods the client is again visited, and the finer implications of bond exceeding two years) to ensure that knowledge through repayments are discussed. This includes creation of a detailed practical work and training sessions is properly shared and Charities and financial expenditure plan incorporating all associated costs, transferred. It is vital for the social cohesion of the body donations such as levies, rates and taxes, municipal effluent, insurance, corporate and all its members that trustees are aware of etc. Thereafter, clients are required to undergo borrowers’ their functional requirements and of their legal education administered by Calgro M3 to enhance their responsibilities. During this period, we supported many already-entrenched knowledge. individuals to become community leaders in their respective This practice, along with educational campaigns, has proven surroundings. This has contributed to our goal of making a to be worth more than its weight in gold as it has led to a difference and changing lives. 33 CALGRO M3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 PREFERENTIAL PROCUREMENT AND ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT Calgro M3 partners with Development Action Group (“DAG”) – Sub-Contractor Training Programme Contained in this chapter An important aspect of operating as a responsible and NPO focused on Makes use of sustainable business in South Africa is ensuring that we sub-contractors Calgro M3 DAG sub-contractor contribute to the real transformation of our country development programmes through our procurement policies and the mentorship and support of black-owned businesses, particularly Calgro M3 paid for each sub-contractor to be part of seven weeks of SMMEs. training 28 sub-contractors Four modules of which content included: This chapter outlines our initiatives in this respect. participated Compliance | Business Management | Pricing and Procurement Rates and Quantity Surveying | Health and Safety | Personal Development Our Building Legacies, Changing Lives slogan is a constant reminder to actively help develop the community, providing business education, training non-skilled and skilled local SMME-owner development workers, and by supporting local SMMEs through training Benefits Empowering the businesses with key tools to grow into sustainable partners, to mitigate the risk of unemployment in local businesses whereby they in turn can create jobs and alleviate poverty communities that can accompany the completion of the development. This leaves a lasting legacy of social and economic upliftment when the projects close. “Sub-contractor development is much needed to ensure a growing, sustainable economic impact is The Group’s Enterprise Development programme mentors made. Continuous development of small business is needed to boost job creation in the economy.” small black-owned enterprises, helping them improve their performance across various spheres of business. This includes Wikus Lategan, CEO Calgro M3 securing credit lines and discounts from suppliers, labour and employment relations, legal requirements as well as improving their technical skills across Finance, Human Resources and Both organisations agree that this in not just about training, but also about a shift in mindset and attitude. Construction. 34 CALGRO M3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 PREFERENTIAL PROCUREMENT AND ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT (CONTINUED) SMME Mentorship Programmes These mentorship programmes are aimed to equip each enterprise with the relevant practical “tools and knowledge” to grow into a self-sustainable enterprise. The Group’s aim is to grow this programme to such an extent that it can be rolled out to other Integrated Developments as well to the broader communities located on the boundaries of our projects. Procurement Policies and Guidelines The SMME Sub-Contractor and Local Labour Procurement Policy is based on the Finance Department: City of Johannesburg’s Policy for the advancement and participation by Start-ups, SMMEs in the procurement activities of the City of Johannesburg dated August 2009. The purpose of the SMME Sub-Contractor Procurement Policy is to establish a framework that should be adopted by all relevant stakeholders with the appointment and management of subcontractors. Calgro M3 maintained its commitment to procuring goods and services from black businesses, resulting in a recognition of 96.5% procurement spend from empowering suppliers. Goods and services worth over R447.3 million were procured from businesses that are more than 51% black-owned. The Group is intent on making further improvements in this regard. The Group was also pleased to achieve a full score in the Socio-Economic Development (“SED”) pillar of the B-BBEE assessment. Although our SED spend complements our BEE scorecard (SED focus on 75% or more black South African beneficiaries still count as 100%. Anything less than 75% will be counted pro rata), our focus is to create socio-economic sustainability within the developments that we develop, thus going above and beyond the recommended target of 1% of NPAT. 35 CALGRO M3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 PREFERENTIAL PROCUREMENT AND ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT (CONTINUED) Policy, Practices and Proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers The development of skills and livelihoods among members of the community contributes largely to the sustainable upliftment of a community. This is the basis for the establishment of Calgro M3’s policy on recruitment which requires that all efforts be made to recruit, wherever possible, local labour, contractors and sub-contractors. Community-chaired labour desks on all sites actively participate in local recruitment and placement, applying policies which enhance equal opportunity and fairness. Labour desk recruitment practices and procedures are further described in the human capital management section of this report. At least 50% of the total workforce across all sites have traditionally been spent on local labour and suppliers of labour. Calgro M3 has no formal policy regarding local suppliers. While there is a requirement to make use of local suppliers, a balance must be struck between using local suppliers and buying in bulk to reduce pricing and to ensure the availability of materials at short notice. Empowerment ratings play a role in determining suitable suppliers, whether material is sourced locally or otherwise. 36 CALGRO M3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ENVIRONMENT Our approach to environmental sustainability is built upon a principles of sustainable development, we aim to leave a Contained in this chapter desire to leave behind something better than that with which legacy of positive impact. Our efforts are aimed not only at we started. increasing the marketability of properties but also at At Calgro M3 our skills include the construction of conservation and effective management of natural resources residential developments, including both housing and We believe it is our responsibility and duty to reduce our throughout all the phases of our operations. Residential Rental Investments, as well as the environmental impact and continually improve our environmental performance. This is integral to our business Independent monitoring of our impact on the environment, development of Memorial Parks. Land is a key input strategy and operating methods. Our performance against investigation and proactive implementation of solutions ensure and this in turn means that the utmost care and respect these objectives is subject to regular internal review. we get it right. We encourage all our stakeholders to adopt needs to be applied to the environment, finding these same principles. Calgro M3 is in the process of implementing a HSE management solutions to water management and ensuring units are system, based on international standards (ISO 14001:2015 energy efficient. To drive compliance with environmental and safety regulations, and ISO 45001:2018) and in compliance with the OHS Act 85 Calgro M3’s professional team and its engineers are actively of 1993 and its regulations, to ensure that risk/aspects At our Memorial Parks we strive to ensure that, where involved with external agencies such as the National Home associated with their products, activities and services are possible, solar lighting and energy efficiency is in place Builders Registration Council (“NHBRC”), a regulatory body of identified, and that management measures are implemented the home building industry that sets minimum quality and that the grounds are immaculately kept ensuring a to ensure continual improvement. This process has been standards; as well as the Green Building Council of South beautiful, tranquil space for loved ones to visit. ongoing for 12 months and certification in terms of ISO 14001 Africa. This involvement helps define quality for the industry and ISO 45001 is planned for the second half of the 2019 and ensures quality standards are met at Calgro M3’s own calendar year. developments. In line with its objective regarding quality, the Group has also started developing and implementing a Quality Management In line with a commitment to environmental sustainability and system based on international standards of ISO 9001:2015. conservation of global resources, the Group reduces the Biodiversity and environmentally-sensitive areas are as Implementation is currently under way and will be rolled out carbon footprint of operations and products where it can, by: important. If these areas are within a development or during the 2020 financial year. Calgro M3 is evaluating the ` making use of locally manufactured materials; Memorial Park, the Group will protect and nurture the ` using pre-manufactured materials to prevent waste on site; possibility of integrating all the three management systems area. Examples of what we do is contained in this and managing them as one. and chapter. ` reusing and repurposing materials where appropriate. The compliance will also be externally reviewed and signed off every 12 months. Construction and development of land for All materials selected for use within developments are checked residential purposes can be highly destructive. By applying for conformance with safety standards and building codes. 37 CALGRO M3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ENVIRONMENT (CONTINUED) Capture, conserve and effectively Protect natural habitats bordering, manage water on all of our projects surrounding or within our development and within our operating environments areas Incorporating biodiversity initiatives to Independently monitor our impact on proactively build up the environment – environments, seek recommendations at all of our sites we plant non-invasive and take steps to minimise our trees which are suited to, and will footprint and rectify areas of nonenhance the local biosphere or partial compliance Stay abreast of the latest trends and information in the global environmental Actively engage stakeholders, industry sustainability landscape, specifically partners and environmental regulatory regarding construction and real bodies to understand issues and estate development, and implement implement proactive solutions optimisation projects where relevant 38 CALGRO M3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ENVIRONMENT (CONTINUED) Water Finding innovative ways to conserve and Water is precious and costly, in a country where the scarcity of this precious resource is a major issue for concern. The manage water use has seen Calgro M3 affordability of water for lower-income residents in Integrated Developments is a further concern. Finding innovative ways commit to implementing effective water to conserve and manage water use on both fronts has seen Calgro M3 commit to implementing effective water harvesting and management systems wherever possible. Calgro M3 also endeavours to continuously educate the market on water harvesting and management systems saving initiatives and the benefits thereof for all projects and developments, including affordable housing. wherever possible. Save a Flush Calgro M3 worked on measures for the post-construction phase to offset water months. The result of the calculation – based on the construction of a 40 m2 residential consumed during construction, thereby producing a “water neutral” product. One such unit – is that by using “Save a Flush” in combination with a dual-flush toilet, and based measure is a device called “Save a Flush” by Dry Planet SA (Pty) Ltd, which is being on 11 flushes per day, the Group will be rendered “water neutral” for each unit it develops within just 84 days of being occupied. used and implemented by Calgro M3. Placed in a toilet, the device reduces water consumption per flush by one litre. According to calculations, verified by an Countrywide Calgro M3 has initiatives with the ability to recoup approximately 8 500 independent external party, these devices installed in dual-flush toilet cisterns, litres of water per unit that is used in the construction phase, both on and off-site, standard across the Calgro M3 product range, will become “water neutral” within three within three-months after completion of construction. 39 CALGRO M3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ENVIRONMENT (CONTINUED) Rain water harvesting Rain water harvesting has been incorporated at the La Vie Nouvelle, Summerset, ` Rain water harvesting systems (1 000 litre tanks) have been installed at the Sagewood developments and all Residential Rental Investment units that are being Summerset and Sagewood developments, which are aimed at the affordable constructed. Each unit is fitted with a tank which contributes to the capture and housing market. The water is primarily used for watering gardens and has a massive effective use of rain water for and by community members. impact in terms of water conservation. ` At the La Vie Nouvelle retirement village project, each unit is fitted with a 2 000 litre Calgro M3 partnered with large corporates to research the potential to utilise captured rainwater tank, used for gardening. South African-based research reports show that water for gardening, general cleaning and unit ablutions. In low-income households, an households with gardens use, on average, a massive 46% of water consumed to average of 73% of total water is used for toilets while mid to high-income households water gardens. Targeting gardens for water savings therefore has a major impact on use on average 37% for this purpose. These rain water harvesting systems will thus water conservation, especially on developments where gardens are important to the provide some relief to residents while also assisting to conserve this precious natural target market. resource. Water rehabilitation and natural water sources This is currently taking place at the Fleurhof, South Hills and La Vie Nouvelle require wetland rehabilitation in future financial years. The Group has obtained a water developments. While environmental stewardship expenditures are mandatory, Calgro use licence (“WULA”) for the Fleurhof Dam. M3 has, in these instances, gone beyond what was required by regulation, with additional voluntary investment made to deliver greater impact. Future township Calgro M3 currently uses authorised borehole water for construction activities on the establishments which will require wetland rehabilitation include the KwaNobuhle Belhar and Scottsdene projects in the Western Cape. Calgro M3 continuously monitors Integrated Development. This development is characterised by various watercourses, borehole yields to ensure sustainable consumption and are committed to revising drainage lines and two wetlands. The Witpoortjie and Tanganani projects will also construction activities should the yield of the boreholes become unsustainable. 40 CALGRO M3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ENVIRONMENT (CONTINUED) Energy Calgro M3 is a market leader in the development of affordable, environmentally friendly, energy-efficient buildings within Integrated Developments. Energy-efficient design lowers energy consumption, increasing affordability and sustainability. Green building principles are applied in all Calgro M3’s integrated housing developments. Proper orientation of buildings, Calgro M3 has reduced the electricity careful calculation of fenestration and use of natural ventilation, among others, reduce the need for cooling in the summer months and heating in the winter months. This translates into direct savings in terms of energy consumption. requirement from 3.5 kVA to approximately The Calgro M3 in-house architectural team is SANS 10400-XA and SANS 204 accredited. This standard for achieving 1.5 kVA per residential unit on some energy efficiency in all types of buildings has become part of the National Building Regulations. Integrated Developments. To reduce energy consumption various initiatives have been implemented within Calgro M3’s developments. These include energy saving lights and prepaid metering of water and electricity supply. Savings depend on the size of the residential unit, with estimates of a 10% saving on electricity through use of energy efficient or renewable energy-based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements. 41 CALGRO M3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ENVIRONMENT (CONTINUED) The Jabulani CBD development includes 384 residential units, earmarked for letting, that are still to be developed, which have been designed to receive EDGE certification from the Green Building Council of South Africa. All internal professional teams have worked together to ensure compliance with the required standards of energy savings, water savings, and embodied energy savings through material procurement and usage. Other energy-saving initiatives in our different developments are detailed below: Heat pumps Induction geysers Supply of hot water to multi-storey developments through heat pumps Serves as an alternative to heat pumps. They reduce the time to heat water contributes to a 40% to 50% saving on electricity consumption by each and therefore reduce the volume of hot water that needs to be maintained at residential unit. Heat pumps have been successfully implemented on the any stage. This can reduce electrical consumption by between 25% and 35% Fleurhof, Jabulani, Belhar and Scottsdene projects. This helps tenants save per unit. The benefit of individual meters is that every tenant can regulate their money on utilities, increasing affordability and contributing to timely rental own electrical consumption according to their specific needs. payments. This is a major benefit to the Social Housing Institutions as it helps reduce the risk of vacancies in a very price sensitive market. Solar geysers Gas Currently being installed in the Witpoortjie project with solar geysers as a standard feature. The Group has successfully implemented gas reticulation on historic projects. Current developments, La Vie Nouvelle and South Hills will make use of internal gas reticulation serviced from centrally positioned gas banks within each development. Gas is used for water heating and cooking. Solar Through these initiatives, Calgro M3 has reduced the electricity requirement from 3.5 kVA to ±1.5 kVA per residential unit. Through being equipped with a The Nasrec Memorial Park has no dependency on the national electricity grid gas geyser, gas hob and in some instances gas heater connection points, for the operations of the offices, chapel, lighting and security. The office which account for more than 70% of standard energy use an estimated building and chapel was designed using industry leading designs for green monthly saving of 25% occurs. buildings. All energy requirements are provided by solar power. 42 CALGRO M3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ENVIRONMENT (CONTINUED) Green space The amount of “open” space or green areas we include in our developments makes all the difference – our aim is to build suburbs, not townships. Our focus is furthermore to provide a balance between passive and active open spaces. The open space areas which are environmentally sensitive due to wetlands, areas within a floodline, ridges, etc are characterised as “passive open space” and will remain protected as per the site-specific Environmental Management Plan. All residents have access to these areas and may utilise the areas for low-impact recreational purposes. The active open spaces are introduced strategically throughout the development, specifically for recreational purposes. Active open spaces are professionally landscaped, and children’s play facilities are provided, creating spaces of which the communities take ownership and can be proud of. This is part of Calgro M3’s vision and mission – to build homes and create lifestyles, rather than simply providing housing. The following analysis provides insight into the extent of our efforts: Total Total Total Green space provided freestanding multi-storey green Integrated township units units space South Hills 967 3 453 112.28 ha Fleurhof 141 3 735 108.99 ha Witpoortjie 735 4 098 48.90 ha # Vista Park 1 043 4 277 15.69 ha South Hills 39% Witpoortjie 17% * Due to this being an in-fill development, no additional park space was provided. # Total green space is lower as Mangaung Metropolitan Municipality have requested densification and maximise land used. Fleurhof 38% Vista Park 6% 43 CALGRO M3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ENVIRONMENT (CONTINUED) Other Environmental Initiatives value was redeveloped by a professional team. Instead of Environmentally-sensitive areas have been identified and will merely saving the administration buildings as per regulatory be actively protected at the Fleurhof, South Hills, Witpoortjie guidelines, the structure has been carefully incorporated into and Vista Park developments and future phases of the the Integrated Development. KwaNobuhle development. This will reduce the environmental In the context of the projects we deliver, Calgro M3 further impact of these developments and create awareness among strives to always fully consider, carefully plan and ultimately residents and the community of the importance of ensuring integrate its developments into existing environments and the preservation and long-term sustainability of the passive communities, preserving biodiversity and accommodating open spaces within Integrated Developments. ecological sensitivities. We actively ensure environmentally As per guidance from the Wetland Rehabilitation Plan, the friendly implementation of our developments, and plant one black wattles and non-indigenous tree species need to be tree per unit built. removed from the South Hills and Witpoortjie developments. Environmental and ecological management plans are The latter unlocks business opportunities for tree felling in the compiled, approved, implemented and monitored for area. The cuttings can be processed into firewood, compost, compliance at each project site. Landscaping is also done at etc which can be sold to local markets which in turn stimulates each development. enterprise development. We make use of environmental impact assessors and Achieving a balance between densification and lifestyle needs professional landscaping companies to assess the is important. On a project like Jabulani where development environments to be greened and identify indigenous and/or takes place within the centralised business district, or city sustainable vegetation to be planted. centre, development is driven by densification, resulting in less open spaces. These infill sites are typically located in close Some of Calgro M3’s developments are being built on land proximity to existing non-motorised (“NMT”) systems and where areas of high biodiversity have been identified. routes which enhance the quality of living. Construction poses a high risk to sensitive environments, so detailed design and planning based on thorough data analysis The preservation and restoration of heritage sites is managed helps ensure environmental sustainability. Independent in partnership with the relevant statutory regulatory bodies. A environmental consultants appointed by Calgro M3 apply for heritage study is being conducted at all development sites to environmental authorisation, and independent environmental ensure the preservation of our heritage. In the case of the control officers manage and enforce the environmental Fleurhof project, a mine hostel classified as having heritage management plans. 44 CALGRO M3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ENVIRONMENT (CONTINUED) The following presents good examples of Calgro M3’s approach to biodiversity: ` The Fleurhof development is affected by a wetland and the Fleurhof Dam. Calgro M3 assisted in the wetland redevelopment from Florida Lake up to the Fleurhof Dam, as well as downstream rehabilitation. Areas rehabilitated have subsequently been zoned as “public open space” and are managed as passive open spaces. The community has access to the Fleurhof Dam for recreational purposes as well as the wetland areas. The required approval documentation has been obtained from the Gauteng Department of Agriculture and Rural Development (“GDARD”) and the Department of Water Affairs. ` The South Hills Development in the southern suburbs of Johannesburg has been designed to accommodate the ecological sensitivities of a Class 2 inverted ridge, wetlands and a Red Data plant species (defined as a threatened plant species by the International Union for the Conservation of Nature, or IUCN). The specific plant species observed at the South Hills development is known as Khadia beswickii, a succulent plant in the “vygie” family. Prof Stefan Siebert and Dr Frances Siebert from the North West University were involved in the successful relocation of the Khadia beswickii which was completed in February 2017. Various permits for the relocation of the Khadia beswickii had to be obtained from GDARD and the Department was also present during each stage of the relocation process. All the sensitive elements within the South Hills Development represent 55% (100.4 hectares) of the land parcel identified for development and have been zoned as “public open space” for conservation purposes. The local community will be educated about the Khadia beswickii plant species as part of the conservation of the environmentallysensitive areas within the development. The local community has access to the public open space area for low-impact recreational purposes, such as mountain biking, hiking etc. ` All conservation and wetland areas within our developments are rehabilitated to ensure that the areas are cleared from alien plant species and to safeguard the protected area-specific plant and animal species. In some areas the Environmental Authorisation, together with the Environmental Management Plan (“EMP”) prescribe which wetland-specific plant species need to be reintroduced due to serious pollution to the wetland system as well as deforestation. ` Further phases of the KwaNobuhle Integrated Development in Port Elizabeth are characterised by steep slopes, and watercourses which consist of clearly and often deeply incised gullies. Two wetlands are also present on the site. These environmentally-sensitive areas comprise approximately 41% (161 hectares) of the total development area, will be zoned “public open space” and will be excluded from the developable area. A Construction Management Plan was drafted to provide a framework for the management of environmental impacts associated with construction. An EMP was drafted and a Landscape Plan was designed to ensure that the sensitive areas are still accessible to the local community, but only low-impact recreational activities will be allowed which is associated with “passive open space” areas. These activities include, but are not limited to hiking, mountain biking, bird watching, etc. ` Rehabilitation and management of watercourses is emphasised in all Calgro M3 developments. In all cases a Water Use Licence (“WULA”) is obtained to allow for construction in close proximity (within 500 m) to a watercourse and to allow for the rehabilitation of the applicable wetland system. The developments currently affected by these regulations are Fleurhof, South Hills, Witpoortjie, KwaNobuhle and the La Vie Nouvelle Lifestyle and Wellness Estate. 45 CALGRO M3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ENVIRONMENT (CONTINUED) Environmental sustainability Calgro M3 is committed to promoting sustainability and aims to promote good sustainability practices within the organisation to minimise the negative environmental impacts of its activities and create opportunities to have a positive impact on the environment. Calgro M3 environmental sustainability themes Climate change To minimise greenhouse gases emitted in the built environment, the construction process and in the manufacture/delivery of associated mitigation and goods, works, services (embodied carbon). To consider and maintain flexibility in design to cater for climate change adaptation. adaptation Investigation of alternative building methods are ongoing. Water To minimise water usage in construction and operational use. Consider embodied water in manufacture of materials, works and services. To minimise waste by reducing, reusing, recycling and recovering in the built environment, throughout the construction phase and Waste across the supply chain. Materials To identify, source and use environmentally and socially responsible materials. Biodiversity To protect and improve biodiversity and provide ecological benefits through the project life cycle. and ecology Supporting To consider the social, economic and environmental effect of the project on the community, and to get involved with and establish how communities the project can provide benefits and improve the area. Land, air, To maximise positive and minimise negative effects on land, air and water noise, throughout the project. water, noise Consider the role of design and buildings to promote a healthy environment and lifestyle for users and operators. Consider the health Health and and safety requirements of all site workers and other ways to promote healthy lifestyles for construction workers such as eliminating well-being hazardous materials, offering healthy food on-site, health checks and education programmes. 46 CALGRO M3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ENVIRONMENT (CONTINUED) Managing waste and water Developing environmentally conscious products ` Only use products and materials that do NOT contain Recycling initiative and services Polychlorinated Biphenyls (“PCBs”). Where maintenance is Recycling is a preferred route for waste as set out in the Calgro M3 is mindful of the full life cycle of a product. For this done PCBs (lead-based paints) will be phased out. National Environmental Management Waste Act No 59 of 2008 reason the Company focuses on green procurement in an At residential handover stage, Calgro M3 developed a and internal HSE waste management procedure. Calgro M3 effort to ensure sustainability and to minimise the impact on handover manual inclusive of sustainability initiatives within continues to conduct small-scale recycling. On sites, bins have the environment. each building. This is an additional measure implemented to been set aside for specific recyclable waste. The wheelie bins ensure that even clients of Calgro M3 contribute towards are placed in areas frequented most by site staff (near the Green procurement requirements are: sustainability in their everyday living. If you read this and you Calgro M3 Site Offices). Once full all recyclable waste from sites ` Utilise existing facilities and infrastructure to minimise are one of the first 12 people, please contact the writer for a is removed by the appointed waste service provider. Recycling potential environmental disturbances on the project. bottle of tequila. Water efficiency in the form of hand-held statistics are kept and communicated on an ongoing basis. ` Identify renewable resources to be utilised where possible. shower and mixer taps as well as energy efficiency (energy ` Renewable resources to be utilised during project Building rubble waste has been prioritised for recycling. All saving light bulbs). Handover packs include additional energy development as far as possible. clean rubble will be crushed and reused on site. This is done and water saving tips. The use of energy efficient appliances ` Materials and products to be utilised from the local area to is highly recommended. in an effort to lower waste quantities sent by Calgro M3 to minimise the environmental footprint (less pollution from landfill sites. transport). Environmental education initiatives Water strategy ` Identify viable materials to be used to minimise energy Various methods are employed to ensure environmental Water reduction strategies employed thus far are ensuring that embodied materials. education is carried out at head offices and all sites. Continuous HSE inspections include the inspection of leaks, timeous ` Accurate planning on material, product volumes and awareness is carried out on policies, significant environmental reporting thereof and rectification. To fast-track the rectification quantities to ensure streamline resource handling and impacts and aspects, persons’ contribution to the management of water wastage findings on-site, all major water leaks are delivering. system and implications of not conforming with the recorded as incidents and follow ups are carried out to ensure management system. ` Recycled building materials to be utilised where possible on water wastage incident closure. Training and awareness on the all aspects of a project. management of water is continuous across all sites. A training programme has been developed to ensure employees ` Quality materials to be utilised to minimise maintenance and of different roles and managerial levels, are catered for. External water use licence audits are an added tool used to handling procedures as far as possible. assess legal compliance with legislation. Internal audits add a ` Consider machinery and material options to reduce the dimension of ensuring water use and management is as per carbon footprint during construction. operational procedures and strategies as set by Calgro M3. ` Select water efficiency equipment and appliances. 47 CALGRO M3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ETHICS 1. Businesses should support and respect THE 10 PRINCIPLES 7. Businesses should support a Contained in this chapter the protection of internationally OF THE UN GLOBAL precautionary approach to proclaimed human rights COMPACT WE environmental challenges Calgro M3 implicitly understands the 2. Ensure that they are not complicit in SUPPORT 8. Undertake initiatives to promote importance of having an ethical culture within human rights abuses greater environmental care and the organisation, which is aligned to the tone responsibility set by our Board and leadership and is 9. Encourage the development and implemented through appropriate policies and diffusion of environmentally-friendly technologies practices. Human rights Environmental This chapter outlines how we ensure that ethics is embedded in our culture, and the mechanisms we use. UN Global Compact Principles The Group is a signatory to the UN Global Compact (“UNGC”) which requires companies and their Labour Anti-corruption subsidiaries to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom 10. Businesses should work against environment and anti-corruption. The CEO, Holding of association and the effective corruption in all its forms, including Company Directors, as well as subsidiary Directors recognition of the right to collective extortion and bribery and management team embrace and are committed bargaining to the UN Global Compact Principles. They actively 4. The elimination of all forms of forced seek to address social, economic and environmental and compulsory labour issues in all spheres of their operations, in their 5. The effective abolition of child labour efforts to make a difference in the lives of the 6. The elimination of discrimination in communities they serve. respect of employment and occupation 48 CALGRO M3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ETHICS (CONTINUED) Impact areas Calgro M3 is dedicated to ethical, fair and vigorous competition. Employees will sell Calgro M3 products and services based on their merit, superior quality, functionality and competitive Economic pricing. Calgro M3 will make independent pricing and Relevance for stakeholders marketing decisions and will not improperly cooperate or coordinate its activities with its competitors. Employees will Ethical not offer or solicit improper payments or gratuities in connection with the purchase of goods or services for Calgro Legal M3 or the sales of its products or services, nor will they engage or assist in unlawful boycotts of particular suppliers. Discretionary It is important that employees respect the property rights of Relevance for the organisation others. Employees will not acquire or seek to acquire by improper means a competitor’s trade secrets or other proprietary or confidential information. Employees will not engage in unauthorised use, copying, distribution or alteration of software or other intellectual property. Code of good conduct and ethics agencies, and the general public, and to interactions between The Group’s success is dependent on the trust and confidence employees. All employees are expected to be familiar with, To ensure that the Code remains effective, managers are that is earned from employees, customers, debt providers and and adhere to this Code, and to contact the HR Department responsible for addressing the ethical questions or concerns shareholders. The Group’s reputation is built on its values of for clarity if questions arise. raised by employees and for taking the appropriate steps to integrity, respect and truthfulness, and its strong commitment deal with such issues promptly. Managers should not consider Compliance, competition and dialogue to upholding the highest ethical standards. We gain credibility employees’ ethics concerns as threats or challenges to their Calgro M3’s commitment to integrity begins with complying by adhering to our commitments, displaying honesty and authority, but rather as an encouraged form of business with laws, rules and regulations in all business dealings and integrity, and reaching Company goals through honourable communication. The ethics dialogue is a natural part of daily activities. Each employee must understand the Company conduct. work. Managers must take reasonable care to assure that policies, laws, rules and regulations that apply to their specific The Group’s Code of Ethics and Conduct details ethical and roles. If an employee is unsure of whether a contemplated subordinate employees comply with the Code. Managers are business conduct policies for employees. This (“the Code”) action is permitted by law or Company policy, he/she should responsible for misconduct by employees if they order the applies to the Group, its Board of Directors, all its employees, seek advice from the HR Department. Each employee is misconduct and/or ratify the conduct, whether by inaction, agents and sub-contractors. It applies to employee interactions responsible for preventing violations of law and for speaking failing to act appropriately or failing to discover via reasonable with clients, service providers, government and regulatory up if they become aware of possible violations. diligence that the misconduct occurred. 49 CALGRO M3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ETHICS (CONTINUED) Calgro M3 takes a zero-tolerance approach to violations of ` Within the communities we work, we actively seek to entrenching an anti-fraud and corruption culture. Our Fraud this Code, failure to report actual or suspected violations of partner with government, big and small business and other and Corruption Policy ensures consistent and effective the Code, or retaliation against whistle-blowers. Employees industry partners in initiatives which target current social investigation, reporting and disclosure, and minimisation of that are found to have violated this Code or to have problems and their root causes, such as crime, fraud and corruption occurrences within the Group. retaliated against whistle-blowers will face disciplinary unemployment, inequality, HIV/AIDS, poverty, skills The following actions fall within our definition of fraud and action. This Code is not a comprehensive guide covering all shortages and corruption. corruption: ethical issues that employees may face; it merely highlights ` We do not partake in lobbying or anti-competitive activities. ` Theft of Company property, including information; specific issues. This policy regulating the code may be ` We build and maintain solid relationships with trade unions ` Forgery or alteration of Company documents; modified or updated at any time. The Group welcomes and other representative bodies and encourage regular two` Wilful destruction or removal of Company records; employee suggestions on changes to this Code. The policy way communication and engagement. ` Falsification of expense claims; is supported by other Group policies, including the Fraud ` Security on all our sites is sub-contracted to reputable firms ` Unauthorised disclosure of confidential information to and Corruption Policy. that support the policies of the Group, including relevant outside parties (other than in terms of relevant legislation or aspects of human rights. a court order); The Group prohibits child labour, nor do we recruit illegal ` Our investments in areas of CSR comply with Company ` Misappropriation or use of Company assets for personal immigrant workers. guidelines (see our CSR initiatives on pages 23 to 32). gain; Policies, guidelines and fairness ` Mechanisms drive engagement with stakeholders (as ` Undertaking or assisting in illegal activity (including money Policies and guidelines relating to our operations, decisiondiscussed on pages 8 to 14). laundering); making and interactions with stakeholders encourage and ` Environmental management and occupational health and ` Acceptance of bribes or gifts to favour third parties; and facilitate community participation. They also ensure rights are safety plans are approved for every project. Compliance ` Unauthorised premium discounting. protected, that undue influence is not brought to bear, that with these plans is monitored on a bi-weekly basis by an independent consultant to ensure that any risks arising from This policy reduces the opportunity for fraud and corruption, social issues affecting communities are addressed, and that activities on-site are identified and mitigated. Reports are introducing preventative and detective measures into systems Calgro M3 complies with legal and regulatory requirements. and processes, and ensuring that anti-fraud and corruption also submitted to the relevant authorities to monitor ` Labour policies address fair pay, freedom of association and compliance monthly. controls are considered and built into new systems and non-discrimination, as well as health and safety to protect processes at the design stage. workers. Fraud and corruption – zero tolerance ` Policies specify employment of site-specific labour for Calgro M3 is committed to preventing and detecting fraud and construction purposes, and also investment of time and corruption, and maintaining the highest standards of honesty, resources in the development of skilled labour and integrity and ethical conduct. We have a zero-tolerance professionals. approach to fraud, corruption and theft. This approach is ` Enforcement and regular review of Group quality standards supported by our Fraud and Corruption Policy, helping define ensure the delivery of quality projects. management and employee responsibilities in this area and 50 CALGRO M3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ETHICS (CONTINUED) Fraud and corruption risk is assessed regularly as part of the business’ risk management 24-hour Ethics Hotline process, as follows: Calgro M3 has a 24-hour “Ethics Hotline”, managed by Deloitte. ` Risk awareness training is undertaken on a The Ethics Hotline is intended to encourage employees, stakeholders and members of the public to raise regular basis with staff in high-risk functions. serious concerns relating to specific matters (including fraud and corruption) without fear of victimisation. No person will suffer any penalty or retribution for good faith reporting of any suspected or actual incident of fraud or corruption. ` The vigilance of management and staff is increased as awareness of fraud and Should any employee or member of the public wish to make use of this service (with the option of corruption risk is raised throughout the remaining anonymous), kindly contact us through the Ethics Hotline by the following means: Company. Toll-free number: 0800 204837; Send a fax to: 0800 007788; or Send an e-mail to: calgrom3@tip-offs.co.za. ` Each department within Calgro M3 is responsible for considering its exposure to fraud and corruption risk and introducing preventative controls into new and existing Protection of rights systems and processes, as well as for ensuring compliance with this policy The rights of HIV positive employees and The Group prohibits child and forced labour throughout its operations. sub-contractors are protected in terms of Freedom of association and the right to practices and respects national culture, disclosure of their status, HIV testing and collective bargaining is upheld. local laws and traditions. confidentiality. ` It is the responsibility of all employees to immediately report all allegations or incidents of fraud and corruption. The Group views all forms of discrimination in an extremely serious light and will not hesitate to take appropriate disciplinary action against offenders. No incidents of discrimination were reported for the period under review. ` The availability of a 24-hour “Ethics Hotline”, manned by an independent party (Deloitte) is widely promoted throughout the Human rights are upheld. Any grievances will be addressed and Indigenous rights are respected. No grievances involving the Company. Management is not aware of any resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. No grievances rights of indigenous people were reported in the period. instances of fraud or corruption during the relating to human rights abuses have been reported. past 12 months.
