August 5, 2020 To H.E. António Guterres The Secretary General, United Nations Secretariat New York, NY 10017 USA Subject: Letter of Commitment for UNGC Signatory Status Dear Mr. Secretary General, I am pleased to confirm that Unified Brainz Virtuoso Ltd. (UBVL) continues to support the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to continue implementing those principles. We are committed to making the UN Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Sustainable Development Goals. Unified Brainz Virtuoso Ltd. (UBVL) will make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. We recognize that a key requirement for participation in the UN Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our company’s efforts to implement the Ten Principles. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report on progress within one year of joining the UN Global Compact, and annually thereafter according to the UN Global Compact COP policy. This includes:  A statement signed by the chief executive expressing continued support for the UN Global Compact and renewing our ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. This is separate from our initial letter of commitment to join the UN Global Compact.  A description of practical actions (i.e., disclosure of any relevant policies, procedures, activities) that the company has taken (or plans to undertake) to implement the UN Global Compact principles in each of the four issue areas (human rights, labour, environment, anti-corruption).  A measurement of outcomes (i.e., the degree to which targets/performance indicators were met, or other qualitative or quantitative measurements of results). Sincerely Yours, Dr. GD Singh Founder & President Unified Brainz Virtuoso Ltd. Part II. Description of Practical Actions  Unified Brainz Virtuoso Limited or UBVL is a leading international branding and strategic business consulting firm, essentially into brand building, creative designs, management & business consulting and publication services. With over one and a half decades of cumulative industry knowledge, expertise and experience, UBVL helps and supports its clients attain their desired goals of sustainable growth and increased performance & efficiency in today’s fast changing environment. The group possesses complementary skills, which assist to generate superior returns for its diverse cliental by involving & engaging the “Theory of Constraints” to systematically remove the hurdles or constraints to improve the performance of an organization.  UBVL Media & Publication House runs a quarterly Luxury, Lifestyle & Business Magazine, ‘Passion Vista’, publishes a very unique series of Coffee Table Books on short biographies of business leaders & socialites and provides a variety of ghost writing & publication services to its global clients.  UBVL is a strong member of UNGCN, India for last 3 years and it involves UNGC doctrines and norms in all its multifaceted social and corporate events by the virtue of which it tries to engage them in its endeavors to support UNSDG 2030 and UNGCN. UBVL strongly supports United Nation’s Global compact program and Earth charter principles as well as strongly follows United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals 2030.  It spreads awareness amongst individuals & organizations about UNGC and UNSDG amongst its associates and partners and those who deals with it by organizing events such as seminars, conferences, education forums, talk shows, etc. and inspires them to follow what it preaches & practices based on UNGC and UNSDG principles.  UBVL regularly organizes corporate events, engaging multinational corporates and organizations in MSME segment through conferences, award shows, book & product launches, celebrity events, cruse parties, etc. which are almost all of them are dedicated to the UNGCN doctrines and UNSDG 2030, making delegates aware of them and inspiring them to follow them in their best capacity. List of such events is listed in the Part III: Measurement of Outcomes.  By the virtue of its global presence and extensive network, UBVL also works as an influencer to some of the most powerful business and community leaders, educationists, philanthropists, etc. who play a major role in implementing most of the global doctrines and inspire the policy makers.  UBVL publishes a quarterly magazine, “Passion Vista” that features articles on Green business by saving environment, on women empowerment, on natural food, sustainable business model, etc. along with featuring people on contribute in the UNSDG and UNGCN.  It also publishes Speaking Coffee Table Book on who's who of industries and society using digital technology of Augmented Reality and dedicate the entire project to UNSDG 2030 and UNGC & its 10 Principles.  Recently, during the COVID 19 Pandemic and Global Lockdown due to it, it brought about an Electronic Coffee Table Book, by the name of, “Knock Down The Lock Down”. The objective of the book was to encourage and inspire small and medium business owners to keep the spirit and fight the No-Business situation which crippled medium sized businesses and completely washed out many small establishments.  Second in the series was a second Electronic Coffee Table Book, by the name of, “Unmask The Masked Economy”. After the initial phase out of the global business due to COVID 19, this CTB encouraged the global business community to fight back into the business and to shape up the collapsed economy.  While UBVL inspires the corporate community, its not for profit entities and sister organizations work for the under privileged community in spreading UNSDG and UNGCN doctrines such as education, racial & gender discrimination, hunger, environment protection, etc.  UBVL strongly advocates World Peace through its sister concern, World Peace & Diplomacy Organization (WPDO) and is also active in healthcare & education sectors through its other sister organization CIHF-Confederation of Indian Healthcare Foundation.  World Peace & Diplomacy Organization (WPDO) was founded in 2011 as a private, not for profit organization, aiming at resolving conflicts & prevailing peace amongst and within the nations. WPDO was formed with an intention to work towards peace building by eliminating the main factors that initiate conflicts & unrest in people such as lack of education, hunger, religious faiths, etc. Since its inception in 2011, WPDO has achieved many mile stones covering great lengths in social and educational arena. It strongly supports United Nation’s Global compact program and Earth charter principles as well as strongly follows United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals 2030.  Another sister organixation of UBVL is Confederation of International Accreditation Commission (CIAC Global) which was founded in 2009 as an international, nongovernmental, private, self-financed, Quality Assurance Rating & Accrediting body, federally recognized as a non-profit organization. With its global presence, extensive network of experts and over 11 years of experience, CIAC has grown essentially into three domainsEducation, Healthcare & Wellness and Food & Beverages. It has now recently launched its service domain, called, CIAC Better Business Practices or BBP. CIAC BBP is a way of doing business that takes into accounts the business practices which have been matured over the years to give a pollution free output to industrial units and prompts them to increase efficiency of their business.  The parent organization of the group, by the name of Confederation of Indian Healthcare Foundation (CIHF) works extensively in education and healthcare sectors, representing hospital and health system interests to business, government, and consumer audiences. It shapes health policy, fosters new forms of health care delivery, gathers data, and monitors health care accreditation systems. In education, its engaged in supporting higher education and research based programs for needy students and professionals.  While carrying out the above tasks, UBVL, along with other associated and partner organizations, adheres very strongly to 10 Principles of UNGC in the following manner:  UBVL respects the internationally proclaimed human rights and recognizes individual's rights without discriminating individuals on the basis of gender, race, ethnicity, cast & creed.  It doesn't complicit in human right abuse in any manner.  It completely abolishes employment of child labors as well as forced labor. It doesn’t believe in gender, racial, cast or social status discrimination in any of its forms.  It supports rights to voice and respects individual's opinions.  UBVL and its associate organizations don't engage in any kind of mal practice or corruption in its activities. Not only that, it encourages all associated business entities to adopt the rights work practices, leaving no room for corruption.  It supports the United Nations Sustainable Development model, adopting and encouraging others to protect environment and natural resources while targeting their growth plans.  It believes in handing over a planet well nurtured and full of natural resources to its future generations. Part III. Measurement of Outcomes Sr. Activity Objective Date City/ Impact on People No. Country 1 Global SMEs A leadership summit July 4-8, Lagos, About 500 participants Summit 2018 dedicated to the UNSDG 2018 Nigeria including prominent and UNGC leaders attended the 4 days event which was themed at UNGC Doctrines 2 2nd in Series, India's first speaking 16-09-2018 Ahmedaba Along with UNGCN India India's First Coffee Table Book on d, India Director, Mr. Kamal Singh, Speaking Who's Who of Industries 105 most eminent people Coffee Table and Society, Rajasthan attended this unique Book – Edition was launched project which was Rajasthan dedicated to UNSDG and Edition based UNGC theme, spreading on the theme the message of United of UNSDG and Nations through this UNGC wonderful book. 3 International An International Peace 18-09-2018 Colombo, 250 invited guests, Peace Day Day was celebrated Sri Lanka eminent speakers and amidst global leaders, international models were educationists and social present to withness the workers with a Fashion peace process initiated by Show, carrying the CIHF along with its message of Global Peace alliances & partners & Harmony 4 Education Industry friendly 16-10-2018 New Delhi About 350 educationists, Summit & education system that academicians and Conference ensure environmental entrepreneurs attended protection and and vowed to follow the promotion of green environment protection energy norms 5 Global Healthcare awareness in 20-10-2018 Ahmedaba About 250 participants Healthcare the state of Gujarat; to d, India and 12 speakers & 50 odd Leadership recognize and honour awardees shared their Forum national healthcare messages of healthcare fraternity for their awareness in the country outstanding work and in line with the doctrines achievements of UNGC and UNSDG 6 Awards & World Peace & 20-10-2018 Lagos, About 325 eminent Accolades Diplomacy Organization Nigeria industrialists, social (WPDO), a sister concern activists and educationists of CIHF initiated a series & academicians from of recognitions & across the globe promotion of UNSDG 2030 and also recognized prominent peace advocates from across the globe 7 International The flag-bearers and the 29-10-2018 Colombo, About 400 plus prominent Leadership change-makers of the Sri Lanka global leaders who follow Forum & society, converged on and promote UNGC Awards 2018 one platform to lay the doctrines and make path for the future. people aware about Positive leadership, as environment protection no one will doubt, is the and better business pillar of a cultured practices society. 8 International Global Leaders’ summit 30-10-2018 Dubai, UAE About 325 eminent Leadership to discuss development industrialists, business Forum 2018 in less developed leaders and entrepreneurs countries through from across the globe education and better 8healthcare facilities 9 Global SMEs A conference of business 8-12-2018 Lagos, About 250 business Summit 2018 owners from SME sector Nigeria owners from countries & Launch of from across the Africa across the African Asian African participated to discuss continent Chamber of the environment frndly Commerce & business practices and Industry took part in the launch of AACCI 10 Asian African A leadership forum 23-03-2019 New Delhi, 400 plus participants Leadership discussing various issues India including diplomats from Forum-2019 faced by depleting various countries natural resources and means to replenish them through sustainable development. 11 5th An educational seminar 24-03-2019 New Delhi, About 325 eminent International plus leadership awards, India industrialists, social Education recognizing the hardcore activists and educationists Forum & social activists adopted & academicians from Awards UNGC and UNSDG across the globe practices 12 Leadership A leadership forum 27-04-2019 Lagos, 200 plus industry leaders Forum and HC accompanied by Nigeria and professionals Convocation Honorary Doctoral awards by partner university 13 ECOSOC The Economic and Social 06-06-2019 NGO Thousands of NGOs will Special Council of UN, Branch be heard over the years Consultative (ECOSOC) adopted the from this status Status granted recommendation of the to CIHF Committee on NonGovernmental Organizations (NGOs) to grant special consultative status to Confederation of Indian Healthcare Foundation (CIHF) 14 3rd Global A UNSDG and UNGC 22-06-2019 Mumbai, Local UNGCN chapter Business theme based leadership India representatives were Leadership forum discussing issues invited with About 400 Forum 2019 from education to most eminent dignitaries and Award De natural resources attended the event who Excellensia through speeches, were given messages on 2019 music, and a fashion theme and were asked to parade on the theme. circulate these messages in their network. 15 VOBVoice of A Multispectral Round 27-07-2019 Ahmedaba 9 Business Leaders Business –Vol Table Television Talk d, India participated in the TV 1 Show for Sustainable Show which was viewed Business Acceleration by about 5 Lack viewers 16 VOB-Voice of A Multispectral Round 29-11-2019 Ahmedaba 9 Business Leaders Business-Vol 2 Table Television Talk d, India participated in the TV Show for Sustainable Show which was viewed Business Acceleration by about 7 Lack viewers 17 Passion Vista An international Award 21st & 22nd Los About 500 participants Global Icon function, felicitating top December Angeles, and about 60 most Awards industrialists & business 2019 USA prominent world leaders for their personalities were contribution in green present environment activities through their safe business practices 18 Asian African A leadership forum 25-01-2020 New Delhi About 450 Global business Leadership discussing various issues leaders, film & TV actors, Forum-2020 faced by depleting models, Government natural resources and officials, social activists, means to replenish them educationists, etc. shared through sustainable their experience and development. discussed on pertaining issues. 19 Webinar An eCTB on effects of 23-05-2020 Global About 70 participant in Launch of First Global Lock Down due to Webinar the ECTB along with about Ever Coronavirus Pandemic 500 viewers witnessed a Electronic and how to fight the unique E Coffee Table Coffee Table effect back Book Launch on the Book on, sustainable model of “Knock Down business in the The Lock unprecedented lockdown Down” phase.
