A N N UA L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2019 Architecture for a Sustainable Way of Life Welcome to White! White was founded in 1951 on Magasinsgatan in Gothenburg by Sidney White, with the vision of improving society through architecture. Since the very beginning, our company culture has been characterised by social responsibility and a humanistic approach. White has grown significantly since our Our guiding principles are to be beginnings in the 1950s and is now Scanexplorative and responsible and to act with dinavia’s largest architectural practice. The respect and participation in everything company is owned by its employees and we do. Our business activities follow the consists of around 800 staff in 13 offices Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact, in Sweden, Norway, Denmark and the UK. and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable During 2019 we were involved in projects Development goals form the basis for all in 14 different countries, although our head our assignments. office still remains at its original address in We believe that curiosity and a willingGothenburg. ness to learn are important attributes for As an employee-owned company we success, which is why we invest in research have the possibility to focus on things that and development via White Research Lab. we believe make a difference, without shortOur employee-owned company is term profit requirements. Our clients come built upon involvement and inclusiveness. Cover: The 12 meter high observation tower at Getterön Nature Reserve, entirely in wood, will have an important role as a symbol of the town from both the private and public sectors, Respect for the equality of every individual Varberg, Sweden. Competition winner 2019. and our assignments span everything from and the belief that everyone has the right housing, offices, hospitals, schools, urban to a sustainable way of life are fundamental The Sustainability Report consists of the White Group and its subsidiaries, except subsidiaries Koggensgrand AB, White Tengbom Team (50 percent ownership) or dormant companies. If indicators, metrics or routines do not match this demarcation, it has been noted. The report is based planning, landscaping and interior design, philosophies that constitute the foundation We are convinced on the requirements of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, which means that it contains information on sustainability needed for understanding to project management, sustainability and of our architecture and culture. We create the company’s development, position, results, and consequences of the operations. The report includes information on the environment, social digital design. To ensure that we can create lasting values by being good listeners, that, through the art of conditions, labour, respect for human rights, and anti-corruption. The report relates to the fiscal year from January 1 to December 31, 2019. solutions that address the major societal understanding different perspectives and architecture, we can The report refers to our commitment under the UN Global Compact and its ten principles. It also constitutes our annual report on Communication challenges of today, we have built up an needs, and focusing on collaboration and enable the transition on Progress and will be published on the UN Global Compact website, www.unglobalcompact.com. The report is also published on the White organisation with a wide range of skills and partnerships. website, www.whitearkitekter.com. towards a sustainable expertise that, in addition to architects, also We are convinced that, through the art includes engineers, environmental specialof architecture, we can enable the transition way of life. Images: Åke E:son Lindman, Anders Bobert, Peter Brinch, Fredrik Angner, Christer Andersson, Anders Fredriksén, Angelica Liljenroth, Citu, Jonas Westling, Erik Linn, Luxigon, Soja Film, ists and experts in behavioural science. towards a sustainable way of life. White View and White Arkitekter. Contact: Anna Graaf, Director of Sustainability, anna.graaf@white.se. 3 © 2020 / White arkitekter AB W H I T E 2 019 A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 Content 30 50 58 Nulägesanalys Byggnad med samhällsfunktion Byggnad med offentlig funktion (t.ex. butik) och bostad för äldre Hårdgjorda ytor Huvudväg 7 18 48 42 Järnväg Värde för buller, luftrening och mikroklimatreglering Nivå 1gräsmatta Nivå 2gräsmatta + fältskikt, bus8 36 kage eller träd Nivå 3 gräsmatta+ träd+ buskage 54 56 eller fältskikt Rekommendationer Skapa Skydda Stärka Skippa Stärka med nya träd eller buskage Tillskapa träd eller buskage 72 22 34 42 62 Promoting Sustainable Life 7 The Past Creates an Attractive School 22 Light Makes for Better Healthcare 42 An Attractive and Sustainable Campus 58 Alexandra Hagen, CEO and Anna Graaf, Director of Sustainability Maja Beskow school, Umeå Chopin, Karolinska University Hospital, Huddinge Student Building, Campus Valla, Linköping Our 2019 in Short 8 Climate Impact and Our Commitment 26 Research Leads to New Opportunities 46 Awards and Recognitions 62 Some key figures from the past year. Green House Gas Protocol White Research Lab (WRL) Successes during 2019 Challenges and Opportunities 10 Carbon Neutrality Step by Step 30 Norm-creative and Inclusive Architecture 48 Following up Our Goals 66 Important national and international challenges. Our way to create carbon neutral buildings. Urban Girls Movement, Skateboard parks and KRUT Business Strategy Voices from Three Continents 12 Timber Construction Comes of Age 34 From Outdated Estate to Green Neighbourhood 50 Ethics and Risk Management 70 Our international business. Climate impact and attractiveness are the mayor initiators. Gascoigne Estate, London Our Code of Conduct, ethical rules and risk assessment analysis Sustainability as a Driving Force 14 We are White 36 Creating Value with Ecosystem Services 54 Investments and Results 72 To enable the transition towards a sustainable life Employees and ownership Mölnlycke City Centre Conclusions of 2019 Circular Architecture is a Winning Concept 18 An Office with a Focus on Health 38 Digital Innovation for Sustainable Architecture 56 Financial Summary 74 Selma Lagerlöfs Center, Gothenburg NCC head office, Solna New business unit: Digital Business Income statement and balance sheet 4 5 ABOUT WHITE Promoting Sustainable Life 2019 was characterised by an increased focus on climate change and the goals of Agenda 2030. In times of political instability in many parts of the world, business has an increasingly vital role to play in ensuring a sustainable development of society. White has the ability, and a responsibility, to create long-term sustainable values for our clients and for society as a whole. We have a mission: to enable sustainable life through the art of architecture. During 2019, we have developed a new straIn the regions of Gothenburg and Stocktegic plan that raises the bar for our vision: holm, 2019 entailed a downturn for the conBy 2030 all our architecture will be climate struction industry, in particular with regard to neutral, through design excellence. As new housing, which resulted in a reduction in architects, design is our means for creating White’s turnover. The Öresund region, on the sustainable solutions, and we will reach our other hand, experienced strong growth and vision by focusing on new ways of working our project the New Hospital in Malmö has with materials, energy, circular architecture paid an important role for White. Sweden and sustainable urban development. has though a significant need of investment We completed a number of excellent in infrastructure, schools, healthcare facilities projects in 2019. The Student Building (Stuas well as urban development and there are denthuset) on Campus Valla in Linköping, housing shortages in the urban regions. We the new Emergency Care building at therefore see a bright future for our services. Danderyd Hospital and the new Surgery and Brexit has caused concerns and insecurity Intervention building at Huddinge Hospital on the UK market, although it has also conhave all been awarded Gold Certification tributed to government investments that have from the Sweden Green Building Council had a positive effect on the construction secand nominated for several design awards. tor. Our London studio was our fastest growThe unique interior design at the Selma ing unit in 2019. Among our new projects are Lagerlöf Centre in Gothenburg consists of Moorefields Eye Hospital and the Blackwall 92 percent recycled furniture, which has led Yard Mixed-Use Development in London. The to lower costs and reduced climate impact, Norwegian market had an extensive growth in Design is our means as well as a nomination for the Architects 2019, which contributed to the expansion of for creating sustainable Sweden’s “Golden Chair” award for ”ethical our studio in Oslo. Our ability to unite sustainsolutions, and we excellence”. Another example of recognition ability with design makes us attractive internafor our long-term commitment within sustaintionally and our overseas operations continue will reach our vision ability is the award “Society Actor of the Year to grow as a consequence, with new assignby focusing on new 2019” in the sustainability category. ments in East Africa, Germany and Canada. ways of working with The level of interest in circular archiWhite is committed and will continue to materials, energy, tecture, re-use and timber construction conduct its business activities on the basis increases rapidly. Timber projects currently of the UN Global Compact principles, and circular architecture underway are the 19-storey Sara Cultural we intend to accelerate our work in line and sustainable urban Centre in Skellefteå, the Magasin X office with Agenda 2030. We hope this report development. building in Uppsala, the Nuuk Psychiatric can serve as a source of inspiration for new ALE X ANDR A HAGEN, CEO Clinic in Greenland and the Climate Innovacollaborations, that can enable us to tackle A N N A G R A A F, D I R E C T O R tion District in Leeds. our common challenges together. O F S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y 7 WHITE ARKITEKTER ABOUT WHITE Our 2019 in short 1.35 766 tonnes of CO2e/ employees, of which 80 are newly employed annual employee 813mSEK 34 19% R AT I O O F W O M E N % ON TH E BOAR D 50% 47 53 Lower CO2eof the building projects turnover have timber structure R AT I O O F F E M A L E emissions than 2018 TO MALE We have worked in different countries in 2019 14 20 projects 30mSEK 95% Canada, DR Congo, Ireland, Denmark (Greenland), aiming for carbon to research and development through White Research Lab, of business travels are neutrality Finland, Kenya, Ethiopia, Indonesia, Germany, UK, ARQ Research Foundation, performed by train USA, Netherlands, Norway Digital Design and Innovation and Sweden Beautiful Bergslagen, Sweden. Picture from one of our study tours in 2019. W H I T E 2 019 THE WORLD AROUND US Challenges and Opportunities We live in an age of major social change with crucial challenges for the environment, which affect ourselves and our business in many ways. Through architecture we contribute to the creation of places where we all live, play, learn and heal, which gives us a tremendous opportunity to influence, and secure, the conditions needed for sustainable development on our planet. C L I M AT E C H A N G E tions is becoming increasingly crucial. With Humanity has but a few years to prevent new types of housing, norm-creative and global warming from exceeding 2°C. If we equitable planning, social impact assessdon’t succeed in this endeavour, life on ments and strategic development plans, we Earth will be seriously threatened. The concan tackle today’s social challenges. struction sector accounts for nearly 40 perHealth Centre in Lindesberg has a timber structure. It offers both cent of the global carbon emissions and will U R B A N I S AT I O N health care and homes for the elderly and is located close to nature. need to undergo a comprehensive transforIn 2018, 55 percent of the world’s mation in order to achieve the climate goals. population lived in cities; by 2050, that The effects of ongoing global warming on figure is expected to have risen to 68 ecosystems, refugee movements and resilpercent. The trend is no different in ment. While this leads to new business opportunities, it is DOWNTURNS YET INVESTMENTS ience are impacting our work. Higher sea Sweden – our major cities and suburban also changing our existing ways of doing business. Major The rate of growth in the economy suffered a downturn levels, reduced biological diversity, increasmunicipalities are expected to experience online operators utilise the user data available via the internet during 2019, and there was a decrease in the level of ingly irregular water flows and migration are the heaviest population growth during the to plan cities and analyse travel patterns. Digital tools enable housing construction in Sweden. In 2020, the Swedish all developments that place demands on next 20 years. With more people living in citizens to be more involved in the planning process than Construction Federation expects the construction sector increased competence within areas such our cities, there is an increased need for was possible in the past. Our industry is changing due to the to experience a further decrease of around two percent as climate change adaptation, demographic housing, workplaces, public functions and development of new technologies such as BIM, GIS, AI, 3D compared with 2019. The trend is not quite as dramatic development and ecosystem services. services, and infrastructure. This, in turn, printing and robotisation. The digitalisation of the design, at the European level, where the construction industry is places demands on the construction and planning and construction processes entails new business expected to continue to grow, albeit at a slower rate than G L O B A L I S AT I O N civil engineering sector to both satisfy the models and changed roles for the industry. previously. At the same time, the population growth in With new types of The world is increasingly governed by global needs that arise and ensure sustainable northern Europe is leading to a major need for investments housing, norm-creative relationships. Economics, politics and secudevelopment and good living conditions for INCREASED COMPETITION in infrastructure and urban development. More than 80 and equitable planning, rity issues on one continent give rise to direct everyone. Only then can we stay within the Digitalisation and globalisation processes are creating percent of Sweden’s municipalities claim to have a housing social impact assessconsequences at a local level on another. planetary boundaries, while also creating new business patterns and are leading to increased shortage, and it is estimated that more than 1,000 schools The average life expectancy and level of buildings and societies with people, health competition. More companies are enhancing their core and preschools, 300 homes for adults with special needs ments and strategic prosperity for people throughout the world and social wellbeing in focus. business by adding competence within architecture, design and more than 100 retirement homes will need to be built development plans, is continuously increasing. At the same time, and project development. PR and communication agencies or renovated by 2022. In addition, major investments are we can tackle today’s there is also increasing polarisation, which D I G I TA L I S AT I O N are offering concept development in the early stages of also required within healthcare, railways and other infrasocial challenges. runs the risk of leading to more conflicts. Technological developments are changing projects, technical consultants are building competence structural areas. These investments and projects need to Segregation and socioeconomic differences how we live and behave and are thus also within architecture and developers employ their own project be planned and designed immediately if they are to achieve mean that the issue of equitable living condiaffecting the demands on the built environdesigners. their goals. 10 11 W H I T E 2 019 ABOUT WHITE Voices from Three Continents White’s international presence was strengthened during 2019. London is our most rapidly growing office, Oslo is under constant development and we have an established network of clients and business partners in Germany, Canada and Kenya. This involves a balanced mix of mature and rapidly growing young markets. We see tremendous opportunities to create innovative architecture that contributes to a sustainable way of life. But are there any differences between the sustainability challenges on the various continents? During 2019 the clamour due to the combecome an eco-icon. It sets a new standbination of a climate emergency and acute ard for energy, ecosystem services and housing shortages became noticeably architectural design, adds Louise. louder in many parts the world. The impacts In North America, the development of AI of climate change effects and social technology is progressing at an enormous challenges on societal development vary rate. In Canada, Google is developing new between continents. city districts, and developments within – By working in countries with another timber construction techniques are moving context we can challenge our existing quickly. Climate changes are accelerating approaches and standards. Transformain the northern parts of the country, and the Leadership Centre in Nairobi tions are taking place quickly at present, consequences of a melting permafrost are will be one of Africa’s first and by capturing such processes we difficult to grasp. LEED Gold-certified projects. Finalized in 2020. can achieve interesting synergies for our – We can learn a lot from Canada, innovation work and the development of our although there is also great interest to learn Our low carbon proposal projects, says Carl Bäckstrand, Director of from Swedish examples of sustainable for the library and city hall in White International. construction. In Vaudreuil-Dorian, outside Vaudreuil Dorion, Canada. East Africa is experiencing rapid of Montreal, we have developed a proposal population growth and increasing urbanisafor a new library and city hall together with ing the concept of Zero Emission Buildings able mixed-use district, containing homes, tion. The countries in this part of the world Ambioner and Zarate Lavigne. By integrating for a number of years, and several major gastronomy, atelier and co-working spaces, are eager to see their nations develop into ecosystem services into the project we have construction projects have now been says Barbara Vogt, Head of Business healthy, democratic and stable economies. created a new green meeting place in an completed using this approach. A number Development Germany. – It will require clearer urban developarea that has previously been dominated by of municipalities are imposing stringent – In the UK we aim to contribute to ment strategies and inclusive processes to motor traffic, says Marie-France Stendahl, climate requirements on the construction the development of sustainable housing. achieve major social impacts, says Louise Head of Business Development Canada. process, and there is a sense of openness The age of speculative housing projects Didriksson, Head of Business Development In Europe, fossil fuel-based industries By working in when it comes to the creation of innovative is behind us, and instead there is now East Africa. are being seriously threatened: Norway is countries with architecture, says Sofie Bentzen, Manager growing focus on the creation of socially As the level of understanding increases, pioneering zero carbon construction, and of White’s Oslo studio. sustainable districts and neighbourhoods. so does the need to exchange experiences in Germany the energy transition (Eneranother context we – In a number of German cities, as in Our proposal for a 7 hectare master plan in and best practice. During 2020, White will giewende) is already ongoing. The UK is can challenge our Sweden, the challenge is to determine how Barking Riverside shows how it is possible complete the Leadership Centre in Nairobi, gathering itself for life post-Brexit, with a existing approaches best to transform existing homogeneous to create affordable and carbon neutral in local collaboration with Kenyan architecprogressive public agenda involving social and standards. districts and buildings into more diversified projects with a rich and varied design, and tural firm MMI. entrepreneurship. environments with low climate impact. In with opportunities for shared housing soluOur proposal for a CARL BÄCKSTR AND, – The project is one of Africa’s first LEED – Timber construction has a central role DIRECTOR WHITE Reutlingen, outside of Stuttgart, we will be tions, says Geoff Denton, Partner at White’s 7 hectare master plan in Gold-certified projects and has already in Norway. The country has been developI N T E R N AT I O N A L developing an industrial site into a sustainLondon studio. Barking Riverside, UK. 12 13 W H I T E 2 019 ABOUT WHITE Sustainability as TH E U N G LOBAL GOAL S FOR WH ITE a Driving Force GOAL S OUR EFFORTS AND CONTRIBUTIONS H E A LT H A N D W E L L B E I N G We design environments that stimulate health and Ensure that buildings and environments are good for wellbeing, and have a long experience of healthcapeople’s health and wellbeing. re architecture and research into the importance of Target 3.9 and the following indicators: daylight, air architecture for people’s health. We have daylight quality, thermal climate, noise, damp and stimulating specialists and offer indoor environment simulations. movement or rest. Read more on page 38–45. GOD HÄLSA OCH VÄLBEFINNANDE The core aim of our business is to use architecture to drive the transition towards a sustainable S U S TA I N A B L E E N E R G Y We offer energy and climate calculations. We focus Reduce energy demand, create buildings that are on creating energy-efficient buildings with low carbon way of life. With sustainability as our primary driver, both for our projects and our organisation, we energy-efficient and increase the use of renewable footprint and increasing the use of solar energy. create long-term value for our clients, for ourselves, for society and for the planet. energy. Targets 7.2 and 7.3 THE CHALLENGES THE G LOBAL GOAL S Climate Change, reduced natural resources, White works with assignments on a variety S U S TA I N A B L E , E Q U I TA B L E C O M M U N I T I E S We always base our work on the needs of people, Create inclusive and equitable communities, with safe and we continually develop new ways to involve threatened biological diversity and increased of scales ranging from urban planning, HÅLLBAR ENERGI FÖR ALLA environments, housing for all and safe and sustainapeople in the planning process. We promote norminequality are just some of the major chalbuildings, landscape planning and interior ble means of transportation. Create access to green creative and equitable planning. We explore new lenges currently facing society. A high degree design, to studies into environmental and areas and public spaces, especially for women, childtypes of housing and implement ecosystem services of social and environmental commitment has social impacts. Consequently, most of the ren, the elderly and the disabled. Promote social and in urban planning. We offer social impact assesslong been a fundamental principle for White’s 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals are environmental connections between urban districts ments and strategic development plans. Read more and rural areas. Promote participation-based planning. on page 48–53. activities. For more than 20 years we have built relevant to us, either directly or indirectly, Targets 11.1, 11.2, 11.3, 11.4, 11.6 and 11.7 up expertise in environmental and social susto a greater or lesser extent. We have tainability, with the aim of being able to drive chosen to place extra focus on eight of S U S TA I N A B L E C O N S U M P T I O N We have an expanding focus on circularity and new sustainability issues forward and to integrate the goals that we have the opportunity to Contribute to efficient use of natural resources, and services. We are at the forefront of developments with them into our assignments. We are convinced contribute towards, in our daily work. As of reduce emissions of hazardous substances and waste regard to reusing materials in interior design projects, that we can use architecture and our collective 2020 we will be monitoring all assignments to air, water and soil. Reduce the amount of waste by and drive development in this area within architecture know-how to contribute to the development in relation to the UN Sustainable Developreducing, reusing and recycling materials. and design. Read more on page 18–25. of a better society on a daily basis. The UN’s ment Goals and many of their associated Targets 12.2, 12.4, 12.5, 12.8 and 11.6 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, targets. and our undertakings in accordance with C L I M AT E A C T I O N Our goal is that 30% of our projects will be carbonGlobal Compact are the starting points for our S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y A N A LY S I S Reduce emissions of greenhouse gases through neutral by 2023 (all of them by 2030). energy-efficient buildings, renewable energy, using We perform energy and climate calculations for builbusiness objectives, strategic investments and All assignments are unique and the susmaterials with low climate impacts and promoting dings and urban planning. Read more on page 30–33. prioritised sustainability issues. tainability challenges vary from project to project. We always commence each new The UN’s 2030 sustainable mobility. Implement climate action and We offer services for climate change adaptation and climate change adaptation in the planning process, and ecosystem services. Read more on page 50–55. W H AT S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y M E A N S T O U S project with a sustainability analysis in Agenda for increase the capacity for restorative regeneration. By 2023, the carbon emissions from our organisation’s In our context, sustainability means creating order to identify opportunities, risks and to Sustainable Targets 13.1 and 13.2 activities shall be reduced by 30% compared with 2018 levels. Read more on page 26–29. buildings and communities with a focus prioritise sustainability issues. During 2019 Development, and on people’s health and social wellbeing. we updated our methodology to ensure The fundamental prerequisite is that that it is now completely in line with our our undertakings ECOLOGICAL DIVERSIT Y Enhance and implement ecosystem services in the Strengthen the values of ecosystems and biological planning process. Clarify the benefits and values asdevelopment must be within the planetary prioritised sustainable development goals, in accordance with diversity in the planning process. sociated with ecosystem services in terms of health, boundaries, and not at the expense of the but also takes many other aspects into Global Compact are Targets 15.1 and 15.9 climate, environment and social aspects. Read more Earth’s resources, the ecosystem or the consideration. By performing a sustainthe starting points on page 50–55. climate. The economy is the facilitator. In ability analysis together with the client and order to create attractive environments, and other stakeholders at an early stage of the for our business I N N O VAT I O N A N D E N G A G E M E N T White Research Lab promotes research and devepreserve the Earth’s resources, we all need process, we can create a common vision objectives, strategic Create partnerships that exchange knowledge, exlopment in collaboration with academia and industry. to make conscious choices and the right and strategy for each project. By being investments. pertise, technology and financial resources in order We support International collaborative projects and to contribute to the achievement of the sustainable research, e.g. in Kenya. Read more on page 12–13 investment decisions. It is only when social, prepared to make investments in long-term and prioritised development goals in all countries. and 46–47. ecological and economic values go handsocial and ecological values and gains, we in-hand that we can start talking about achieve not only sustainable projects, but sustainability issues. achieving true sustainable development. also a sustainable business. 14 15 W H I T E 2 019 ABOUT WHITE The Hotel “House of Choice” in Solna will be one of E N V I R O N M E N TA L I M PA C T to the sustainable development goals (see Scandinavia’s first zero-energy hotels. 2,500 square The greatest environmental impact from diagram). 47% of the projects have higher meters of solar cells on the façade and roof, as well as our business activities derives from our energy targets than the Swedish building 24 boreholes for geothermal energy, will provide more energy than needed for the operation of the building. projects. We perform an annual follow-up regulations, and 39% of the projects are The building will be certified Breeam Excellent. of our projects regarding aspects such as assessed in accordance with a certification Client: Fabege. Completed in 2021. energy targets, certifications and the most system. The most common certifications are prioritised sustainability aspects. 2019 was (in order): Miljöbyggnad (Sweden Green the first year in which we performed this Building Council), Nordic Swan, BREEAM follow-up in a manner that relates directly and LEED. G L O B A L G O A L S I N O U R P R O J E C T S 2 019 19% OF THE BUILDING PROJECTS H AV E T I M B E R STRUCTURE 39% OF THE PROJECTS WILL BE CERTIFIED G OA L 3 . Health & Wellbeing / 22% G OA L 12 . Sustainable communities / 17% 47% Daylight, Stimulate physical activities, Materials, Health and wellbeing, Reuse and Indoor environment, Damp proof recycling, Sustainable lifestyles, Timber construction G OA L 7. Sustainable energy / 8% G OA L 13 . Climate action / 9% Energy efficient buildings, Renewable energy Low climate impact of materials and construction, (i.e solar panels) Climate change adaptation G OA L 11. Sustainable and equitable societies / 40% G OA L 15. Ecological diversity / 4% OF OUR PROJECTS Safe and secure environments, Equitable and acImplement ecosystem services, Protect the E XC E E D TH E cessible places, Participatory design, Sustainable ecological values SWE D ISH E NE RGY mobility, Protect cultural values, Economical values R E G U L AT I O N S F O R BUILDINGS 16 17 W H I T E 2 019 S U S TA I N A B L E C O N S U M P T I O N SE LMA L AG E R LÖFS CE NTR E Circular Architecture is a Winning Concept In order to limit climate change and preserve the Earth’s resources society needs to transition from a linear to a circular economy. There is a need for new ways of working and new business models that can facilitate the transition process. In the Selma Lagerlöf Centre in Gothenburg, White – through strong will and creativity – has succeeded in creating one of 2019’s best Swedish interior design projects*, with 92% reused furniture – resulting in 70 percent lower costs compared with the use of new materials. Viewing all existing materials as reusable raw material isn’t sations that would later be moving their activities into the centre. just a way of saving resources, it is also one of the most effecSecondly, used furniture was procured as a complement to tive measures to slow down climate change. The transition to the items that already existed. And thirdly, used materials were a circular economy requires changes in our lifestyle, attipurchased for the site-built interiors and to make new furniture. tudes and how we build. White is convinced that, by utilising – We wanted people to be able to see that the furniture and existing urban areas, buildings and materials to a greater fittings have had a previous life. The result is a sort of confetti degree, it is possible to create new environments, buildings with different shapes and colours that enhance the concept and products. In addition, new construction also needs to be and combine with the raw building to create a delightful based on a circular, long-term approach from an early stage overall effect. The one common element in the design is of the design process. It might sound obvious, but it requires a “Selma label” that we have placed on everything we have knowledge and collaboration across many supply chains in reused, says Annie. order to realise such a process. The realisation of this project required a lot of creativity and In the new Selma Lagerlöf Centre in Gothenburg, great innovation with regard to procurement, processes and the emphasis has been placed on circularity in the form of reused parties involved. For example, the City of Gothenburg needed furniture and materials. The centre will be a meeting place to conduct a procurement process with a supplier of recycled for citizens in the Selma Stad district of Gothenburg and and reused goods, something it had never done before. The includes a library, theatre and municipal offices. assignment was awarded to a carpentry firm that assumed – For us it is a given that we must work in new ways to responsibility for the on-site carpentry work and preserve the Earth’s resources. When we analysed the costs for buying, storing and transporting the reused for the project, we found that it was almost 70 percent (9 furniture and fittings. Then there was the issue of million Swedish kronor [850,000 Euros]) cheaper to focus labelling, or marking, all of on maximising the use of reused furniture and materials When we analysed the the reused furniture with the rather than buying new products, says Annie Leonsson, Lead costs for the project, name “Selma”. How could Interior Architect for the project. that be done? In this case, But there were more than just financial gains to be derived we found that it was inspiration was taken from a from this approach. Users and citizens were involved at an almost 70 percent company that had developed early stage of the process through workshops and interviews. cheaper to focus on a method for marking ship– We wanted those who will use the premises to feel that maximising the use of ping containers. An entire this is something they can be proud of, and to make it possible weekend was then spent for them to recognise things from the past. At the same time, reused furniture and painting the name “Selma” it’s important to be able to see that we’ve been careful with the materials rather than onto more than 3,000 interior use of environmental and economic resources, explains Annie. buying new products. design items. The reuse strategy was based on three main elements. ANNIE LEONSSON, LE AD The work on the Selma Firstly, furniture was reused from six separate existing organiINTERIOR ARCHITECT Lagerlöf Centre has shown 18 * The project was one of four nominees for the “Golden chair 19 2019”, the Swedish Architects prize for best interior design. W H I T E 2 019 how crucial it is to have a clear process in order to succeed that are suitable for reuse, and it is important to clarify the roles with a reuse project. The most important is to determine the within the project. For example, is it the interior architect, the cliSELMA LAGERLÖFS CENTRE ambitions at an early stage of the project, to set goals for the ent, or the supplier who will assess the quality of the furniture? amounts of reused materials and to set a time schedule. A Finally, more coordination is required of the architect in terms of Location: Selma Lagerlöfs Torg, new furniture and fittings would reuse project takes a little longer time than a project where the furniture and fittings on site. Gothenburg cost 12.8 million Swedish kronor. With reused furniture all furniture and fittings are new, and it also requires more The Selma Lagerlöf Centre is one of the foremost examClient: City of Gothenburg, and materials this cost was project management and cost control. ples of how it is possible to work in new ways. By adapting District administration – Norra reduced to 4.1 million kronor. Hisingen A major logistical effort is required to the design process and always basing our work on what Project period: 2017–2019 Climate: The Vinnova-funded find furniture and fittings that don’t already exists, we can further the transition towards circular project “Business Model need to be transported too far and architecture. Lead interior architect: Innovation for Closed-loop Annie Leonsson can be delivered and stored sucFurniture Flows”, which involves Area: approx. 6,300 m2 White and RISE, among others, cessively throughout the course of shows that the carbon footprint Annie Leonsson is an interior architect with a focus on branding Percentage of reused the project. architecture and design on a strategic level in close cooperation can be reduced by 20 to 50 furniture and materials: 92 % It is also necessary to perform percent through the application with users and clients. Sustainability issues and circular design is Budget: The initial calculation of a circular model as opposed an initial inventory to identify the items an important driving force in all projects. showed that the purchase of to a linear model. 20 21 The two different existing parts of the school were renovated from the basis of each era. In the 1950s part, W H I T E 2 019 large parts of the existing premises could be preserved, such as limestone floors, brick walls and stairs. MA JA B E SKOW SCHOOL The Past Creates an Attractive School One of the greatest threats to the environment and the climate is overconsumption of the Earth’s resources. More or less, all existing materials can be viewed as a usable raw materials. Maja Beskow School in Umeå is a good example of how it is possible to significantly reduce climate impact by renovating and reusing existing materials. It is also a creative challenge to find ways to create new, attractive environments from existing buildings. When Umeå Municipality gave White the assignment of The second goal, “Everything has its time”, describes the designing the new Maja Beskow School, a key point of focus design principle of preserving much of the school’s original was the use of redevelopment and construction techniques identity from the 1950s and the architecture of the 1980s that made the most of the existing buildings. The original extension in the new design. The third goal, to “Create a school building was built in the 1950s, and an extension was symbol of sustainability”, was manifested in a new entrance added in the 1980s. After several years of damp problems, building with a strong contemporary character based on wood building-related health issues, difficulties attracting students construction. The entire project has been awarded the Sweden and negative rumours, it was obvious that something signifiGreen Building Council’s “Miljöbygg­nad Silver” certification. cant needed to be done. The building was evacuated in 2016 The goals were based on a clear sustainability analysis. and was completely renovated, after which the school could By working with the reuse of existing materials and focusing be reopened in 2019. on transformation and circularity, it was possible to minimise – We felt that we had to reverse a negative trend and leave the need for new construction. The two existing parts of the no stone unturned in the redevelopment process, both in school were renovated on the basis of the eras they repreterms of the school activities and the actual premises, says sented. In the part dating from the 1950s it was possible to Maria Ohlsson, Lead Architect at White. preserve large parts of the original premises. – It was important to ensure that the design of the school There were many high-quality materials in this part was based on the perspectives of the pupils and the teachof the school which could be reused, including ers, and that the premises would support and contribute to limestone floors, brick walls and the teaching and learning process. White was involved in The project has stairs. The extension from the formulating the brief that Umeå Municipality developed to demonstrated 1980s required more compreshow how school premises should support pedagogical hensive renovation, in particular activities and the creation of a learning work environment. how attractive it due to problems with damp and The preparatory work included in-depth interviews with both is to work with poor daylight, although it was pupils and teachers, says Maria. sustainability as an possible to preserve the original Three goals were set from the very beginning of the project. overall concept from structure of the building. The first was to “Create secure boundaries” – the school – One of the challenges must be characterised by safety and security in the smallest of an environmental, associated with redevelopment details, and as a whole. For example, all pupils have a “home economic and social projects is that you always area” that contributes to a sense of security and spatial and perspective. encounter surprises. In this case, social belonging. Glazed areas provide visual contact between MARIA OLSSON, for example, we unexpectedly the rooms and contribute to a sense of openness and security. LE AD ARCHITECT found damp in certain structural 22 23 W H I T E 2 019 MA JA BE SKOW SCHOOL , UME Å Location: Umeå, Sweden Client: Umeå Municipality Construction period: 2017–2019 Area: 30,000 m2 Lead architect: Maria Olsson Certification: Miljöbyggnad Silver (Sweden Green Building Council) Renewable energy: 10,000 m2 solar panels Climate impact: Total carbon emissions 130 kg CO2e/m² (materials 38 kg CO2e/m², waste 78 kg CO2e/m², operation 14 kg CO2e/m²) R&D report: Climate-neutral redevelopment, WRL 2018:14 (in Swedish) elements, and a decision was made that almost all joists and – I think that the whole project has demonstrated how The new entrance building consists of a timber frame and manifests a strong, beams needed to be taken down and decontaminated. But attractive it is to work with sustainability as an overall concept contemporary character. the surprises can also be positive in nature, such as when from an environmental, economic and social perspective. we found an incredibly beautiful brick wall, or an original stair We have shown that it is in fact possible to reverse negative railing that could be reused, says Maria. trends. And, it’s fair to say that the high level of pupil applicaThe climate calculation for the project shows that the tions received by the school in 2019 is proof that our work climate impact from the materials is low compared with a new has been successful, concludes Maria. construction project, but that the climate impact from waste Magnus Josefsson, the headmaster at Maja Beskow management is high. There are significant environmental gains School, describes the project as follows: associated with redeveloping existing – Our pupils and teachers have been provided with buildings rather than building new an attractive building, with low climate impact. The most ones, but it is crucial to minimise important thing is the close relationship between the pupils waste and to reuse as many mateand the teachers, and we have striven to create environments rials as possible. that support such a relationship. A comparison with other projects also shows that the cost per Maria Olsson is an architect specializing in early stages. She has square metre is significantly lower extensive experience of working with educational environments for than for a new building. all ages, from preschool to college and university. 24 25 W H I T E 2 019 ABOUT WHITE Climate Impact C O 2 e E M I S S I O N S 2 014 – 2 019 ( K G P E R A N N U A L E M P L OY E E ) 1 000 and Our 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Commitment 500 As a company we have an important role to play in inspiring our 0 employees and the world around us to adopt a more sustainable way Energy Flights Flights Other Purchases Waste of life. 95 percent of our domestic business trips are undertaken by (heating, cooling, business travel study tours business trips (IT/Tele, paper, food) electricity) (train, car, taxi) train. By introducing a “climate account” for our study tours we have SCOPE 2 SCOPE 3 succeeded in reducing our carbon emissions by 82 percent compared with the previous year. 66 D I S T R I B U T I O N S O F C O 2 e E M I S S I O N S 2 019 % C L I M AT E R E P O R T The Climate report has been implemented in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas ProtoT R AV E L Our travel policy is clear: we travel by train as a first alternative. 95 percent of our busicol, which divides greenhouse gas emissions ness trips within Sweden are undertaken by L O W E R C O 2E into direct (scope 1) and indirect (scopes 2 train, which equates to 65 trips around the EMMISSIONS PER Electricity IT/Electronics and 3). For White, scope 2 includes heating, world or 2,599,000 km, an increase of 31 A N N UA L E M P L OY E E CO M PA R E D W I T H cooling and electricity for the offices. Scope percent compared with 2018. Heating and cooling Cloud services 2 0 14 3 includes business and study travels, hotel For several years, our study tours have Business travels Office paper stays, purchases and waste. There are no accounted for a large share of our greenStudy tours Food emissions under Scope 1. house gas emissions. In order to reduce the Hotel stays Waste In 2019, White’s total CO2e emissions emissions, yet still be able to perform the amounted to 916 tonnes, which equates to tours, we introduced a number of measures 1.35 tonnes CO2e per full-time equivalent during 2019, including more study visits employee. This represents a total reducwithin Sweden, the possibility of traveltion of 33.7 percent compared with 2018 ling by train to all destinations in Europe, (33.5 percent per annual employee), and information about carbon emissions for T O TA L C O 2 e E M I S S I O N S 2 014 – 2 019 compared with 2014 it is a reduction of the different alternatives, and a points 57 percent (66 percent lower per annual system, or “climate account”. This means 2 126 employee). that employees may only use air travel for tonnes CO2e total While the reduction compared with 2018 one return trip during a three-year period; kg CO2e / annual employee is partly due to new emission factors, the priall other trips must be undertaken by train 1 536 65 Figures mary reason is drastically reduced emissions or bus. The results have been extremely Data to the calculations have been provided 1 285 from study tours (see below). When analysed positive: the emissions from our study 1 085 1 162 (1 395)* by property owners, energy suppliers, travel per aspect, the emissions per full-time equivatours have been reduced by 81.6 percent companies and compilation from our finance 4 053 854 lent employee compared with 2014 have compared with 2018! department. Climate calculations are conducted (916)* by the South Pole Group in accordance with the been reduced by: 79% for travel, 29% for Business trips by air has also been 2 441 1 770 1 258 Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG). LAPS AROUND THE purchases (including food, IT and electronics reduced: the number is 27 percent lower, 1 592 1 539 G LOBE BY TR AIN (1 920)* (1 350)* and paper), 14% for energy (heating, cooling and the CO2e emissions have been * Figures in parentheses including emissions from and electricity) and 83% for waste. reduced by 22 percent. cloud services and hotel stays. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 26 27 W H I T E 2 019 ABOUT WHITE V E G E TA R I A N M E A L S A C L I M AT E N E U T R A L C O M PA N Y Our policy is that the company shall only The climate calculations have been perserve vegetarian (or vegan) meals at formed by South Pole Group in accordance lunches, parties or other activities, a goal we with the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol. have almost achieved: 97 percent of meals All of White’s emissions have been carbon34% served in 2019 were vegetarian. offsetting, which means that we meet the criteria for a climate-neutral company. I T, E LE C T R O N I C S A N D C LO U D S E RV I C E S Through carbon-offsetting we contribute to Our climate impact from IT equipment Kariba REDD+ Forest Protection in Zimbaand telephony has been reduced by 27.5 bwe and Isangi REDD+ Forest Conservapercent compared with the previous year, tion in DR Congo. L O W E R C O 2E due to fewer new employees and a reducEMISSIONS tion in the emission factors. Cloud services S U S TA I N A B L E L I F E S T Y L E CO M PA R E D W I T H account for 0.8 percent of the company’s Our offices take various initiatives, adapted 2 018 climate impact. to local challenges. Some examples include the provision of a bicycle-sharing system E N E R GY A N D R E N E WA B LE E LE C T R I C I T Y and the arrangement of a bicycle workshop. 95 percent of the electricity at our offices Health and wellbeing is an important issue, is renewable, and we impose requirements and apart from offering gym membership 1.35 on energy-efficient equipment and lighting. or equivalent, White also arranges running Our electricity and energy consumption has training, participation in races, bicycle chalincreased since the previous year, which has lenges, massage at the workplace, yoga resulted in an increase in emissions of just and lectures on topics ranging from stress over 25 percent. An energy mapping process management and exercise to healthy diets. has been carried out at all offices during We can all inspire each other to adopt a T O N N E S C O 2E / 2019 with the aim of identifying possible immore sustainable way of life, for the environA N N UA L E M P L OY E E provement measures and potential savings. ment and for ourselves. C O M M I T M E N T T O S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y WE SUPPORT We are members of many organisations and associations that Here is a selection of the associations and organisations we advocate and work to facilitate sustainable development. Some support financially: of the largest are: Global Utmaning (a sustainability think-tank), Médecins Sans Frontières (Doctors Without Borders), BRIS Sweden Green Building Council, Sustainable Innovation, (Children’s Rights in Society), CancerRehabFonden, Giving NMC (Swedish Association for Sustainable Business), CSR People, Aktiv Skola, Noll Tolerans mot Mobbning, FIKK, West Sweden, the C/O City association (Ecosystem services) RSK/Nolltolerans, Riksförbundet Narkotikafritt Samhälle. and Byggvarubedömningen (a building materials database). “Whitedagen” 2019, White’s annual company event, was held in Malmö. 28 29 W H I T E 2 019 C L I M AT E A C T I O N Carbon Lindeborgs Eco Retreat in Nyköping, “the Ecobarn”, is a climate positive facility with hotel, conference and retreat. The old barn has been rebuilt and renovated with wood from the near Neutrality forest and there is also innovative agriculture and a biological water treatment system. The project is carbon-negative calculated over 50 years, i.e the emissions from material and energy (in total 364 kg CO2 /m2) are less than Step by Step the captivation of carbon due to its timber construction (-119 kg CO2 /m2) and the biochar production plant (-1944 kg CO2 /m2). There is also renewable energy from solar cells (-119 kg CO2 /m2). Read more in WRL-report 2019:24, Ekoladan, Climate calculation. The world is facing major challenges in the form of climate change and increasingly scarce resources. Leading a process of change in our industry is a responsibility we take seriously. Therefore, we are focusing on reducing climate impact in all our projects and our goal is that by 2030 all our buildings will be carbon neutral. In Sweden, the construction industry curcarbon storage, in order to achieve net-zero rently accounts for around 20 percent of all carbon emissions. greenhouse gas emissions in the country, In order to succeed it is necessary to and globally the same figure is around 40 have clear goals, effective collaboration percent. White is part of the Fossil Free between the various parties involved and a Sweden initiative and was involved in the structured, iterative process. In each case work that led to the development of the the building volumes, the external enveSwedish Construction Federation’s Roadlopes and technical installations must be map for a climate-neutral sector by 2045. optimised to reduce energy demand, and The major challenge for the industry inmaterials selected that have low emissions. volves the reduction of climate impact from Wood is for instance a material with many buildings and the setting of clear climate benefits, such as low climate impact and goals in projects. the ability to store carbon. Projects involving – We want to challenge ourselves and reuse or redevelopment often have a lower our clients, which is why for the past three climate impact than those involving demoliyears we have set goals regarding the tion and new construction. reduction of climate impact from our proFurthermore, a climate budget needs jects and the aim of creating carbon neutral to be prepared to report emissions from buildings. We have built up skills and materials, construction and energy, and knowledge, methodologies and calculation through continual monitoring and follow-up Carbon emissions models, and at present we have 20 or so it is possible to maintain control of material assignments aiming for carbon neutrality, choices, costs and emissions throughout from materials, says Anna Graaf, Director of Sustainability the entire life cycle. Finally, the climate debt construction and at White. is balanced with local solutions, so that the energy use are What definition of carbon neutrality do net climate impact is either zero or positive. balanced with we use? The aim is for all buildings to have By always exploring the possibilities low greenhouse gas emissions from materito create climate neutral projects we have renewable energy als, construction and energy use throughout succeeded in achieving significant climate and carbon storage. the entire life cycle, and for emissions to improvements in our projects during the A N N A G R A A F, D I R E C T O R be balanced with renewable energy and past three years. One of our completed O F S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y 30 31 W H I T E 2 019 C L I M AT E A C T I O N The Climate Innovation District in Leeds is one of the UK’s largest housing developments in timber. The homes have low carbon footprint, timber structure, passive house standard, MVHR-system, green roofs and reuse of rainwater. The developer CITU estimates that the wooden frame provides 88 tonnes less carbon emissions than a concrete frame. projects– the “Eco Barn” – actually ended up being carbon negative. Climate goals are now being set in many of our current assignments, and increasingly contribute to a reduction of climate impacts, in comparison with applicable standards, and making progress towards carbon neutrality one step at a time. – If everyone involved in the construction industry works together with the aim of reducing climate impact, the process of change will be even quicker. Climate declaration requirements (in Sweden from 2022) and new certification systems (like the Swedish “Zero CO2”) are also developments that are likely to drive progress. We are therefore hopeful that all our architecture will be able to be climate positive from 2030 onward. It is a very tough challenge, but at least we have now started the journey, Anna concludes. Top: Magasin X in Uppsala will be Sweden’s largest wooden office building. The goal is to reach close to zero carbon impact, in terms of energy, materials and construction. The project is being developed for Vasakronan and the building will be completed in 2022. 32 33 To the right: Balancing strategy for carbon neutral buildings. W H I T E 2 019 C L I M AT E A C T I O N P H OTO : M A R T I N S S O N S Timber Construction Comes of Age 1. In recent years White has focused heavily on building up competence in architecture that utilises timber as a structural element. Having previously been used on housing and smaller high-profile projects, there is now a shift in the trend, with timber construction techniques being further applied to offices and larger public buildings. Reduce climate impact and the attractiveness of wood are the primary drivers. 2. For many years it was forbidden to build suitable for adding to an existing structure, wooden buildings in Sweden that were which could in turn lead to the preservation more than two storeys high, due to the risk of more buildings rather than demolishing of fire. The restrictions were removed more them. In one of our projects we found that than 25 years ago, yet progress has still building onto the existing structure with a been slow when it comes to large-scale wood frame, rather than demolishing it and structures involving timber. Now, however, starting from scratch, was cheaper and as focus on the climate impact of building led to a significant lower climate impact, a materials has increased, a clear change is shorter construction time and quicker rental noticeable. income. – Timber construction is growing Among wood’s many qualities is the fact rapidly, and we are seeing a shift towards that it is beautiful, can have many aesthetic more large-scale projects and tall timber expressions, and ages with dignity. Many buildings, says Daniel Stenqvist, architect property owners can attest to the fact that at White’s office in Gothenburg, who wood contributes to attractive buildings is involved in the international research and indoor environments, and studies show ” project Tall Timber Buildings, together with that people feel better and experience RISE and Linnaeus University, among othless stress in environments where they are ers. The project involves research into the exposed to wood. possibilities of using wood as a challenger – There are also tremendous opportunito traditional construction techniques for ties to combine today’s timber construction Timber construction is tall buildings. techniques with the precision and versatility growing rapidly, and Wood is unique in that it is a renewable of digital tools. The manufacturing process we are seeing a shift material that binds carbon dioxide. But often takes place with computer-controlled there are also other environmental benefits processes. This gives us, as architects, towards more largeto be gained from the use of wood. A large an exciting palette from which to create scale projects and tall part of timber construction takes place unconventional designs and beautiful comtimber buildings. 3. at the factory, which contributes to less ponents, without adding to the production D A N I E L S T E N Q V I S T, waste. It is a light material and is therefore time, concludes Daniel Stenqvist. ARCHITECT 1. Fallskärmen 5 in Örebro consists of 67 apartments built with CLT elements. Client: BJC Group. Completion: 2019. 2. Sara Cultural Centre, Skellefteå. At 19 storeys, this will be one of the Nordic region’s tallest wooden buildings when it is completed in 2021. 3. Nodi, Nya Hovås, Gothenburg. 4,200 m² new office in timber and CLT. Client: Next Step Group. Completion: 2021. 34 35 WHITE A 2 019 RKITEKTER ABOUT WHITE We are ” OUR WORK ENVIRONMENT D E V E L O P M E N T A N D I N S P I R AT I O N We strive to achieve safe and secure employOur aim is to provide each of our employees ment conditions for our employees, with good with good conditions for personal developbenefits and possibilities to influence the way ment at White. We want our people to be Every employee will we work. Some of our measures include: driven by curiosity, creativity and innovation, have the opportunity White – We have an Employee Policy and a and we want them to feel that they have Work Environment Policy. found their ideal job with us. for personal and career – We follow the industry’s collective – All employees attend a performance apdevelopment, based on agreements (Almega, Architects Swepraisal review with their immediate mantheir own capabilities, and den, the Swedish Association of Graduager at least once a year. These reviews in the best way possible ate Engineers and Unionen), and there are used to formulate personal goals for are local trade union representatives at education, training and development, for their own, and the all our offices. and the goals are then followed up on an company’s, success. – We have a Plan for Equal Rights and annual basis. FROM WHITE’S Opportunities that aims to ensure an eq– It is possible to apply for an allowance E M PLOY E E P O LI CY uitable and equal opportunity workplace for personal development activities that is free from discrimination. outside of working hours, for example – We implement systematic work environcourses. ment measures, with central and local – All employees can apply for funding for work environment plans that are followed research projects through White Reup through inspections and surveys. search Lab. 53 % 47 There are health and safety officers at all our offices. We conduct comprehensive R&D activities – All employees are entitled to an allowthrough White Research Lab. White Acadance for gym membership or equivalent emy offers a wide range of internal courses, White wouldn’t be White without the drive and passion of our health and wellbeing activity, and we some of which are mandatory, while othemployees. Our combined competence, experience and creativity are also offer an occupational health service. ers can be selected based on personal E M P L OY E E S the core of our entire business, and when our employees develop, the – We have guidelines concerning Alcohol interests and needs. During 2019 around and Drugs, Accessibility during Working 500 employees have attended some of our company also becomes stronger. White’s success is built on having Hours, Rehabilitation and Work Environcourses. Some examples are the Sustainemployees who are committed, enjoy their work and have a good ment Outside of White’s Premises. ability School and the Timber Construction balance in life. As we are an employee-owned company, every member – We conduct an employee survey every School. 30 employees have also attended of staff shares responsibility, and we have the possibility to focus on other year and based on the results of our Mentoring Programme during 2019. 50 % 50 the survey we produce action plans with Our study tours, which are offered to what we truly believe in and want to achieve in the long term. focus on equality, work environment, opall employees, are an important part of our portunities for development, leadership efforts to increase knowledge levels and DIVERSITY A S T R O N G C U LT U R E and company culture. The action plans provide inspiration. In 2019, we arranged In order to be able to tackle the challenges White is wholly owned by its employees. are then followed up by management trips to Sweden, Norway, Germany, MANAG E M E NT facing society and create long-term value Our employees have the opportunity to buy and the Board of Directors. England, Austria, Poland and Estonia. The with sustainable architecture, it is both a shares in White from their very first year of themes of the study tours varied from destistrength and necessity to have diversity employment, and we currently have 601 The 2019 employee survey shows that nation to destination. In order to reduce our within our team. That is why we strive to share-owners, which equates to 78 percent our greatest challenge is reflected in the climate impact we were able to undertake build a team of employees with widely rangof all employees. Of these, 122 are Partners fact that only slightly more than half of our all of the trips by train or bus. ing skills, knowledge and experience. The who together own the majority of the comemployees feel that they receive sufficient 50 % 50 team at White includes architects, building pany. We are convinced that the co-ownerrecovery between shifts. We are therefore 500 engineers, urban planners, landscape and ship of our company creates a special bond actively striving to counteract stress and interior designers, behavioural scientists and a sense of belonging, as well as a strong provide our employees with conditions for and environmental experts. A quarter of our level of commitment that contributes to our a sense of balance between working life employees come from countries outside success and ability to achieve our goals. and leisure time. The survey also posed the Scandinavia. Through introductory days for new employquestion: “Would you recommend White ees and the annual “White Day”, which is an as an employer to a friend?” We are proud employees BOAR D OF DIRECTORS opportunity for all our employees to spend that the result showed an Employee Net have attended any of the White WOMEN time together, we build our company culture Promoter Score (eNPS) of 25, which is a Academy-courses in 2019 and strengthen our internal networks. grade considered as “very good”. MEN “Whitedagen” 2019 in Malmö. 36 37 W H I T E 2 019 H E A LT H A N D W E L L B E I N G NCC HEAD OFFICE , SOLNA An Office with a Focus on Health Good health is a basic requirement for people and society to be able to develop and reach their full potential. There is much evidence to suggest that architecture affects our mental and physical health. An increased focus is therefore being placed on health and wellbeing in the design of urban environments, housing and workplaces. The design of indoor and outdoor environments has a major ber of ways, says Pi Ekblom, Managing Architect at White. effect on how people feel. It can also stimulate a change in The building benefits from good spatial connectivity behaviour. Daylight and air quality affect our concentration where parts of the structure have been opened up. levels and how alert and lively we feel. Access to greenery – The openness of the building contributes to ease of has a calming effect, and the creation of opportunities for orientation, a sense of security and an overview of the entire children and adults to be physically active is important for space, explains Pi. public health in the long term. The office is divided into zones based on work tasks, Consequently, when NCC planned its new head office in which contributes to increased movement and spontaneSolna, the company wanted to invest in an environment that ous meetings. On the ground floor there is also a gym and enhances the health and wellbeing of its employees whilst a cycle parking facility with showers and drying cabinets. also making a positive contribution to social development The most striking feature is the stairs, or “the vertical spine”, through high sustainability goals. The building provides in the centre of the building. The stairs are constructed in workspace for 800 employees and has a strong focus on wood, and each floor has double stairways with walkways sustainability and a healthy lifestyle. in between to facilitate both horizontal and NCC’s head office is certified as BREEAM “Excellent”, vertical movement. The aim is to make it easy Inside the building, much attention has been given to the design of two atriums that which means that it has been subject to stringent requireand enjoyable for people to move around in the have been built using a lightweight timber construction. One of them is open, while the other is glazed and offers a somewhat calmer environment. ments with regard to energy, materials, the indoor environbuilding, and the results have been ment and outdoor areas. Some examples of the measures The openness positive in terms of the number of taken include: the concrete structure from NCC’s previous of the building steps measured with pedometers office has been crushed and used as filling material within at the workplace; in many cases the the area, there is ground source heating and building-intecontributes number of steps taken has been grated photovoltaics. The timber used within the project has to ease of doubled. The design of the stairs been produced in a sustainable manner, and the interior is orientation, a has also increased the feeling of in compliance with the emission requirements in BREEAM. sense of security connectedness and opportunities The building’s roof terraces also include greenery, bat boxes for spontaneous meetings. and a bee hotel. and an overview Many of NCC’s employees spend – An important aspect of the creation of a healthy environof the entire a lot of time out in the field or at ment has been finding ways to stimulate increased physical space. client premises, but they are now movement and spontaneous meetings. Based on an initial PI EKBLOM , being attracted to the head office to vision, this has then been expressed architecturally in a numARCHITECT a greater extent than before. 38 39 W H I T E 2 019 – We have heard that employees are now meeting colmaterial, and we associate wood with furniture and home leagues they barely even knew they had in the past, says Pi. environments, which has a calming effect on us. It has to A number of studies have shown that exposed wood has do with creating a sense of security and trust, which is the same positive effects on people as spending time in one of the ideas behind the choice of material, says Pi in nature, for example a lower pulse and less stress. Studies conclusion. have also been carried out that show that exposed wood in Louise Wall, sustainability coordinator for the project care facilities for the elderly increases the social skills of the and Group Director for NCC’s environmental group in residents and thus reduces dementia. Stockholm, agrees that the new head office promotes a – The exact reasons for this are not known, possibly it is healthy lifestyle. due to the structure and the colour. Wood is also a tactile – Yes, we have now implemented an activity-based work approach, and we can see that the level of movement NCC HEAD OFFICE , SOLNA is increasing and that employees are having other types of meetings than before, says Louise. The large stairway in the Client: NCC middle of the building, the bicycle parking facility and the Project period: Completed 2019 gym are all features that provide a great boost and encourArea: 22,000 m² age more employees to move around and exercise. It also Team: Thomas Rudin, Lead Architect. makes us a more attractive employer, she concludes. Pi Ekblom, Managing Architect. Anders Parment and Oskar Nordquist, Project Architects Certification: BREEAM Excellent Environment aspects: Wood, solar panels Pi Ekblom is an architect and Head of Development for Timber at and biological diversity White. She has been one of the co-founders of the Timber network for architects ”TränätverA” together with AIX architects and The Swedish Timber Construction Office (Träbyggnadskansliet). 40 41 W H I T E 2 019 H E A LT H A N D W E L L B E I N G K A R O L I N S K A U N I V E R S I T Y H O S P I TA L , H U D D I N G E Light Makes for Better Healthcare Everyone is entitled to good health and access to high-quality healthcare. The design of the healthcare environment itself is also an important factor in the provision of good care. Daylight and greenery produce a sense of security and healthier patients. With an increased focus on design, we can create healthcare environments that contribute to increased wellbeing for patients and personnel alike. December 2019 saw the completion of Chopin, the new only functional but also beautiful, says Charlotte Ruben, extension to Karolinska University Hospital in Huddinge. Lead Architect for the Development at White. The new building houses a brand new sterilisation unit, 23 All rooms have good access to natural light. A number of operating theatres, eight intervention rooms and radiology. studies have shown that daylight increases wellbeing and These activities have previously been conducted in dark can reduce the perception of pain and suffering, improve premises dating from the 1970s. In order to create a better sleep and contribute to reduced stress for personnel. A work environment, access to daylight has been a key point of fundamental principle throughout the entire project has been focus in the project. to make it attractive for personnel to work in these types Research within evidence-based design has shown that of challenging and highly technological treatment environthe visibility of greenery and careful attention to details such ments; a vital consideration at a time when the issue of staffas natural light and acoustics have a positive impact on the ing within healthcare represents a major social challenge. sense of security and lead to quicker recovery times for Good hygiene is a fundamental requirement in healthcare patients, and greater wellbeing for personnel. The follow-up environments, not least in operating theatres where of some of the healthcare projects in which White has been there is a major risk of care-related infections. involved shows that there is a reduction in both the treatment Good acoustics are also important; noisy environtime for patients and health-related staff absences, when the ments disrupt the commuarchitecture is designed on the basis of people’s needs. The work nication between personnel – The architectural design derives its inspiration from and with the patient, thereby Huddinge Hospital’s sustainable, rational structure, although environment in increasing the risk of mistakes. with one important addition – consideration of people’s Chopin provides The materials and details have senses. Natural light, park views, art and colours have all good conditions for therefore been designed to been key design tools. The soft relief facade is reminiscent of the provision of highsatisfy stringent hygiene and waves on a beach and interacts with the existing architecture, cleaning requirements while says Caroline Varnauskas, Lead Design Architect at White. quality healthcare also creating a comfortable – The project has been characterised by fantastic in an efficient and acoustic environment. stamina, commitment and competence at all levels. Together long-term manner. The colour and material with the hospital personnel, we have succeeded in developFREDRIK HAGEL , concept aims to create a ing a highly specialised treatment environment that is not C L I E N T, L O C U M sense of calm and security. 42 43 W H I T E 2 019 H E A LT H A N D W E L L B E I N G 1. 2. 1. The conference facilities have direct access to a beautiful atrium with an inviting long table that forms part of the artistic design. 2. The well-lit stairways encourage daily exercise and contain works of art that surprise and add a poetic dimension. Light ash is a recurring material in details such as stair Fredrik Hagel, project manager at the client Locum, railings, waiting rooms and staff areas. Each wing of the describes the building as complex, with many technically building has its own colour code inspired by the changadvanced installations: – The requirements on quality and ing seasons, which increases ease of orientation in the functionality in the design of the premises have been very building. demanding. We, as the client, and the personnel who work The project has been carried out with major focus on in the building are extremely satisfied financial aspects and timetable. But is it really possible to with the results. The work environ­ combine good and health-promoting hospital design with a ment in Chopin provides good project delivery that is on time and within budget? conditions for the provision of – Thanks to clear work processes with a high level of high-quality healthcare in an commitment from all involved, we have succeeded in createfficient and long-term manner. ing a pleasant and sustainable healthcare environment on time and within budget, says Charlotte. Birger Sundström, project manager at Skanska, uses the Caroline Varnauskas is an experienced phrase “Maximum healthcare for lowest cost” when comarchitect with extra focus on complex projects within health care and higher K A R O L I N S K A U N I V E R S I T Y H O S P I TA L , H U D D I N G E menting on the project’s vision and goals: education. – In order to achieve the vision, we have needed to think Client: Region Stockholm. Developer: Stockholm County Council Property creatively at all levels and fully utilise all the different perspecCharlotte Ruben is an architect Development through Locum AB. Contractor: Skanska. tives and competencies that have existed in the project. It with long experience in healthcare has required an innovative approach to create a building that architecture. She is the Head of Planning and implementation: 2014–2019 Business Development for Health Area: 29,000 m² new building and 8,000 m² redevelopment is as robust, easy to manage and flexible as possible while Care in the international market and Certification: Miljöbyggnad Guld (Sweden Green Building Council) also focusing on the best interests of patients and personnel an experienced speaker at events all White has been the lead architect for the project from initial feasibility study throughout the entire process. over the world. through to completed building, including landscape planning. 44 45 W H I T E 2 019 Research Leads to New Opportunities In order to be successful, have knowledgeable employees and drive social development, it is crucial for us to have a culture that encourages curiosity, learning and exploration. With our investment in practice-based research and development, we are laying the foundations for assignments and new business opportunities that develop architecture and society in a more sustainable direction. White Research Lab (WRL) is our organiof Swedish municipalities have worked sation for practice-based research and detogether to develop methods for sustainable velopment, with activities ranging from the urban development. testing of new ideas in projects to participaWe have also presented the latest tion in major international research collabodevelopments within design involving rations. In 2019 we allocated 11.2 million natural light, digital design, climate-neutral SEK to WRL and our external research construction, timber construction and foundation ARQ. healthcare architecture at national as well – The core of WRL is our 16 comas international conferences. petence networks that contribute to our Two of our PhD students completed own advancement, as well as that of their licentiate degrees during the year: our stakeholders, through the exchange one within healthcare architecture and one of knowledge and best practice, says with focus on the impact of legislation on Anna-Johanna Klasander, Director R&D at architecture. Another two colleagues got White. During 2019 we started the new external funding to start their PhD studies. network Transformation and Circularity, One important event during the year which aims to build up expertise and new was the release of the book Make Sense, in services with a focus on retention, reuse which White presents 80 relevant projects and design for circular architecture, she along with 20 examples of how research and continues. development contributes to our activities. – It is of great importance to build up White is now launching a new Research new knowledge on a long-term basis for Programme for the period 2020–2023. Our being able to develop our projects as well research, development and innovation will as our business, states Anna-Johanna. An focus on two R&D areas that aim to address example is the Selma Lagerlöf Centre in some of society’s greatest sustainability Gothenburg, a project completed with over challenges: 90 percent reused furniture, that was nomiCircular architecture focuses on transnated for the Architects Sweden “Golden formation, design for reuse, recycling and Chair” award. This cutting-edge project change processes that aim at retaining and was made possible by a number of years redeveloping instead of replacing, and thus of research and development in the field of helping to achieve a circular value chain. circular material and furniture flows. Healthy living environments focuses on How can skate parks become more inclusive through Our major R&D collaborations include the design of buildings, public spaces and design? In the research report “Inclusive skate facilities”, White and the Swedish Skateboard Association the Södertörn Model, for which White has robust living environments that can meet the Our book Make Sense presents have conducted a study together with non-normative been the project manager. It is a colchallenges of climate change while also sup80 recent White projects and skateboarders to make more people feel welcome. laboration project through which a number porting people’s physical and mental health. 20 research projects. W H I T E 2 019 S U S TA I N A B L E , E Q U I TA B L E S O C I E T I E S Norm-creative and Inclusive Architecture Cities exist for everyone, which means that they also need to be designed to cater for many different needs. At present there is an imbalance in how people use public spaces in our cities. Architecture cannot singlehandedly resolve all of today’s inequalities in society, but it can definitely contribute to the creation of public spaces where more people feel welcome. For several years now, White has put the But equitable urban planning involves limelight on the issue of norm-creative more than simply making people feel design, and some of our foremost WRL welcome. It has to do with issues such studies are based on the question of how as health, wellbeing, security and having we can create more inclusive environments. access to activities and recreation. – It is a question of democracy that everyThe Swedish Skateboard Association, one should be able to utilise and derive benefit for example, noticed that no less than 78% from our shared public spaces. By involving of its members were men. Together with people with different needs in the planning non-normative skaters, a number of workprocess, we create better conditions for solushops were held to look at how to attract tions that make more people feel welcome, more and different types of people to the says Teresa Lindholm, Head of Development activity. Good accessibility, spatial variation, for Social Sustainability at White. different skating surfaces and design of As early as 2015, the Places for Girls strong character are all factors that improve project was initiated based on studies that conditions for underrepresented groups to show that girls do not utilise our cities’ public feel comfortable in skate parks. spaces as much as boys. Workshops were Libraries are important non-commercial held at which an urban environment was meeting places that attract many different designed for girls, by girls. The lessons kinds of people. They are often centrally learned have now been spread further, for located in our cities and can be a neutral It is a question of example to London, where we have involved meeting place for individuals of all ages democracy that girls under the slogan #placesforgirls. During and from different levels of society. The everyone should be 2019, within the framework for Global Utmanfundamental task of libraries is to be open ing’s project Urban Girls Movement*, we to all, although this means that there also able to utilise and have worked with young women in Botkyrka, needs to be a broad choice available. derive benefit from Stockholm. Their vision for Fittja town square When Malmö City Library gave White the our shared public was a brighter town centre with places for assignment of creating a new youth section, spaces. socialising. A full-scale cubic pavilion was KRUT, with focus on equality, young people built, with seating that enabled people to be were involved as co-creators in terms of TERESA LINDHOLM, HEAD OF DE VELOPMENT FOR involved without having to be in the middle both design and content. This turned out S O C I A L S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y of the square. The project has led to #Urban to be a successful approach, as the rooms AT W H I T E . Girls Handbook, a guide for inclusive, normhave become a popular meeting places that . creative urban planning and design.** attracts many young people. For a year, girls and young women between the age of 16 and 25 from Botkyrka have created their own vision of what the city centre could look like for being a place where they feel welcome. * Urban Girls Movement’s thesis is that if a city is planned for girls, it works for everyone. 48 ** WRL report: Inclusive Skate facilities (in Swedish), www.whitearkitekter.com 49 *** Read more in the book ”To design an equal space” (in Swedish), www.whitearkitekter.com W H I T E 2 019 S U S TA I N A B L E , E Q U I TA B L E S O C I E T I E S G A S C O I G N E E S TAT E L O N D O N From Outdated Estate to Green Neighbourhood A core aim of the UN Sustainable Development Goals is to reduce inequalities and create a fairer society for all. Cities should be equitable, safe and inclusive. Their design is of crucial importance for people’s health and quality of life. Public spaces can be used to encourage people to meet, increase their wellbeing and – ultimately – strengthen democracy. As an increasing percentage of the world’s population lives BeFirst also wants to create a car-free neighbourhood. in cities, society is faced with challenges such as the risk of The strategy will therefore be based on patterns of movement increased social divides, housing shortages and strained between locations such as workplaces, schools and the local ecosystems. The level of ill-health, both physical and underground station, as well as parks and a river. By creating mental, is also increasing in society, and it is important to connecting routes between these locations and developing stimulate a sense of belonging and encourage people to be a range of playgrounds and green areas along walkways and more physically active. If urban development is undertaken cycle paths, conditions are created for activity and security. In with a holistic approach, the challenges can instead become England, as in many other countries, there are major problems starting points and opportunities for improving the design of with obesity and other health problems related to the fact that our cities. This is the basis of White’s work on a placemakpeople are not active enough. It is therefore a high priority ing strategy for the Gascoigne Estate in Barking, one of to plan urban development in a manner that encourages London’s largest housing estates. increased movement and physical exercise. – White has been working with housing development on – It is quite radical to remove all traffic from the Gascoigne Estate for just over two years now, and we were an area. It requires a change in urban design recently given the assignment of developing a Placemaking whereby streets are adapted for use by people, Framework for the entire area, says Jake Ford, Lead Landnot vehicles. It must be scape Architect at White. Our client BeFirst wants to apply The work is based possible to walk through the a holistic approach and make the area sustainable through a on experiences from area in 15 minutes, otherwise transformation from Estate to Neighbourhood, he adds. it becomes difficult to get Sweden and other Overall, the project involves the transformation of an everyday life to function outdated housing estate to an environment that is designed Nordic countries, effectively, says Jake. for people’s different needs and where everyone can feel where there are similar As a consequence of the welcome. chal­lenges when it reduced number of vehicles, The Gascoigne Estate has faced major social problems no garages are being built and has long been neglected when it comes to investment. comes to creating under the buildings and BeFirst originally specified four goals for the strategy: Health space for children, courtyards. This also reduces and Wellbeing, A Coherent Identity, Connectivity and Walkcreating conditions for the amount of hard surfaces, ability and Public Space. In addition there are also goals which contributes to the activity and exer­cise, concerning public services and climate impact. climate-proofing of the area. – The various goals are often inter-related. For example, and creating a sense There are also plans to plant a a park with trees can help to manage rainwater, clean the air, of security. large number of trees. and facilitate biological diversity, while also contributing to JAKE FORD, LEAD – There must be safe outactivity, movement and social interaction, says Jake. L ANDSCAPE ARCHITECT door environments, and things 50 51 W H I T E 2 019 to do there. We want to contribute to the development of an aim is to create environments that provide conditions for area where residents perceive a close relationship between children to spend time outdoors, not least for girls. At the housing and activities in the buildings adjacent to public same time, it requires a change in attitude and behaviour spaces. We will achieve this by creating active streets out of to transform schools into something other than a closed major roads and offering opportunities for recreation, sport, environment. experiencing nature, and other outdoor activities, says Jake. – The holistic approach is an important aspect of the G A S C O I G N E E S TAT E , There are many schools on the Gascoigne Estate, includstrategy. The work is based on experiences from Sweden LONDON, ENGL AND ing England’s largest primary school. English schools are and other Nordic countries, where there are similar chaloften closed environments with an entrance to which visitors lenges when it comes to creating space for children and Client: Be First must report, and a high fence around the their various needs, creating conditions for activity and Project period: White has been working with housing development on the Gascoigne school buildings. The co-utilisation of exercise, as well as creating a sense of security. The experiEstate since 2017. The Placemaking Strategy the premises is also limited. Openences and lessons learned from the Gascoigne Estate will will be presented in May/June 2020. ing up the school environments is be of great benefit in our future projects, regardless of what Team: Jake Ford, Lead Landscape Architect therefore an important part of the country they take place in, concludes Jake. Sustainability: Health and social wellbeing, strategy to create environments Security, Ecosystem services, Biological that are available to everyone. Jake Ford is a landscape architect who focuses on diversity Instead of just going to school and landscape design in urban planning projects, both in then going straight home again, the Sweden and internationally. 52 53 W H I T E 2 019 ECOLOG ICAL DIVERSIT Y M Ö L N LYC K E C E N T R E Creating Value with Ecosystem Services Analysis current situation Building with community function Building with public function (ex. shop) and housing for the elderly Hard surfaces Analysis current Road situation Building Railwaywith community function EcosystemBuilding servicewith public value forfunction noise, (ex. shop) and housing for the elderly air purification and microclimate control Hard surfaces Level 1– lawn Road Many of today’s cities are facing environmental problems, such as air, land, water and noise Level 2 – lawn + field layer, shrubs or Railway trees pollution, and lack of biological diversity. Furthermore, the effects of climate change are becoming EcosystemLevelservice 3 –value air purification and microclimate control field layer lawnfor+noise, trees + shrubs or more evident and our cities are being forced to cope with increasingly greater challenges Level 1– lawn Recommendations Level 2 – lawn + field layer, shrubs or in the form of floods, heatwaves and droughts. At the same time, those who live in cities are trees Create Level 3 – lawn + trees + shrubs or field layer suffering increased physical and mental ill-health. Through enhancing and developing various Protect Recommendations Strengthen ecosystem services, we can create a thriving and sustainable environment that also contributes to Create Compensate improvements in our health and wellbeing. Protect Strengthen with new trees or shrubs Strengthen Create trees or shrubs Compensate Strengthen with new trees or shrubs Mölnlycke in the municipality of Härryda is expanding rapidly. The work process in Mölnlycke was based on White’s Analysis of the Create trees or shrubs In conjunction with the development of the Mölnlycke town many years of experience from the development project existing natural values and centre, the Municipality wanted to make their first stratec/o City, as well as new national guidelines. Step one of ecosystem services, with a focus on the range gic investment in ecosystem services. These are usually the process involved an analysis of existing natural values and quality of the existing provision, and future development needs. grouped into four main categories: provisioning, regulating, and ecosystem services, with a focus on the quality of the cultural and supporting ecosystem services. existing provision, and future needs. Step two involved an – Sustainable Development Goal 15 means that values evaluation regarding the services that should be protected, associated with ecosystems and biological diversity enhanced and preserved. Finally, in step three, proposals Many organisations are aware of how should be integrated into national and local planning and were submitted regarding design and implementation. important ecosystem services are for the development. The Swedish government has therefore given The results highlight the recreational opportunities that quality of people’s living conditions, but they municipalities the assignment of integrating urban greenery can be created by developing existing parks and activity don’t have the right tools to enable them to and ecosystem services into the planning of urban environareas, and for reducing noise by planting trees and bushes in ments by 2025, explains Tania Sande Beiro, Sustainability strategic locations, as well as the need to develop a strategy work with such services strategically. Consultant at White. for the preservation of areas with rich biological diversity. TA N I A S A N D E B E I R O , The area already has a strong green identity and rich bioThe work involved landscape architects, ecologists, planning S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y S P E C I A L I S T logical diversity, which the municipality wanted to preserve architects and sustainability specialists from the municipality and enhance in conjunction with the development. White’s and White. work involved the use of a systematic analysis to develop – The collaboration between the various parties involved proposals for how ecosystem services can be integrated in is an important aspect of the work, says Tania. The next A N A LYS E S O F E C O S YS T E M S E R V I C E S order to enhance the area. step is to implement the proposals into relevant plans and – Many organisations are aware of agreements. The results from this project will form the Location: Mölnlycke Centre, Härryda how important ecosystem services basis for how the municipality can work with the planning of Client: Härryda Municipality are for the quality of people’s ecosystem services in the future. Year: 2018–2019 living conditions, but they don’t Team: Tania Sande Beiro, Sustainability specialist, Felicia Sjösten have the right tools to enable Harlin, Ecologist, Hanna Ahlström Isacson, Landscape architect them to work with such services Area: approx. 400 hectare strategically and assess which Tania Sande Beiro is Head of Development for Environmental short-term or long-term values Sustainability at White. She is passionate about developing cities and they contribute to, says Tania. societies that can handle the sustainability challenges of our times. 54 55 W H I T E 2 019 D I G I TA L I N N O V AT I O N Digital Innovation for Sustainable Architecture During 2019, White expanded its investment in digital services by starting Digital Business, a new interdisciplinary business unit that gathers all of White’s digital services under one roof. The aim is to improve our ability to create tomorrow’s sustainable architecture, and to offer new opportunities for our clients. The construction industry is currently for our clients and strengthen our market undergoing an explosion in digital developposition, says Petter Green, Director Digital ment, with new methods for collaboration, Business at White. project design and planning, production White is already at the forefront of and management. Digital innovation is developments regarding digital services crucial to the industry’s ambition to create and tools. Within the field of BIM we offer sustainable buildings and societies. Digital strategic advisory services, coordinaBusiness represents a further development tion and modelling. InForm is our service of the services White offers within Building platform for sustainable buildings and cities Information Modelling (BIM), computational and includes daylight analyses, energy design, visualisation and sustainability calculations and indoor climate, solar and analysis. By bringing all these disciplines wind simulations. We are also developing together within the same business unit, we models for life cycle analyses and climate can enhance value-creation between our calculations in order to be able to create various areas of competence. climate-neutral buildings. – There are tremendous opportunities Digitalisation also entails new possibilities available through the development of digital to create buildings and cities on the basis of business methods in line with White’s people’s needs and behaviour. With informed Digital innovation vision and values concerning quality design we can create architecture that is crucial to the and sustainability. The digital models for delivers in multiple value dimensions, and industry’s ambition analysis, collaboration and management our expertise within computational design that we currently create in our assignenables us to develop project-oriented digital to create sustainable ments are products and services in their tools that facilitate creative design solutions buildings and own right. By offering digital services and and complex forms of architectural expressocieties. platforms that deliver value over the entire sion. We also work with visualisation in PETTER GREEN, life cycle – through design, production and various ways, through traditional visualisation D I R E C T O R D I G I TA L management – we create new added value methods, film, VR and AR. BUSINESS 56 57 W H I T E 2 019 S T U D E N T B U I L D I N G VA L L A An Attractive and Sustainable Campus It is often a creative challenge to balance high environmental goals with functionality and an attractive design. Computational design is the key to the creation of tomorrow’s sustainable architecture, as it contributes to the optimisation of materials, climate and energy while also leading to innovation with regard to better performance and more expressive forms of architecture. When developing the new Student Building on Campus – With the Student Building, Campus Valla has gained Valla at Linköping University, White wanted to create an a new landmark building and meeting place for students. attractive environment that would stimulate students and Right from the initial planning phase, we and Linköping Uniresearchers to engage in meetings and discussions, and versity shared the ambition that the building would qualify develop new ideas. At the same time, it was important to for Miljöbyggnad Gold certification, and the achievement achieve a result that was at the forefront of sustainable of this objective is proof that, through good collaboration, design. Through a digital design process, the building has we have succeeded in creating a building that is truly at the been optimised in relation to energy and natural light, and 75 forefront of sustainability, says Kerstin Lindberg Göransson, percent of the electricity needed for activities in the building CEO of Akademiska Hus. comes from solar energy. – A well-known challenge for anyone involved in the White commenced work on the Student Building in 2014 design and construction of a building is the fact that objecafter being awarded the assignment by Akademiska Hus. tives concerning the indoor climate, low energy consumpThe facilities contained in the new building include study tion and high-quality natural light often conflict with each places, group rooms, a library, a book depository, as well as other. The aim is always to find the best solution, although test and educational environments. sometimes that is barely possible, especially when working – Akademiska Hus and Linköping University had a with a limited budget and stringent environmencommon vision for the Student Building, with a focus on tal requirements, says Linda Mattsson. attractiveness and comprehensive services for students, In order to realise the ambitions for the Stusays Linda Mattsson, Lead Architect at White. Sustainability dent Building and find a functional facade that is a strong profile for Linköping University, so it’s important could satisfy all of the conthat the building not only is sustainable but also looks In order to meet tough flicting requirements, iterative sustainable, she adds. digital processes were used. The Student Building functions as an entrance to the energy targets and By studying daylight patterns entire campus area and is a landmark that has now become reduce climate impact, and the sun’s rays, it was a creative and innovative environment for the many people it is necessary to possible to optimise the who use it. The project has also been characterised by a integrate the skills and facade in terms of window high level of participation and dialogue with the users. sizes, which vary depending The building is certified in accordance with Sweden knowledge of many on the size of the rooms and Green Building Council’s Miljöbyggnad Gold certification, disciplines at an early the different directions in which imposes stringent demands on everything from stage of the project. which they face. This ensures energy use and choice of materials to the creation of healthy, L I N D A M AT T S O N , that there is sufficient natural attractive environments. LE AD ARCHITECT light where it is needed most, 58 59 W H I T E 2 019 STUDENT BUILDING LINKÖPING UNIVE RSIT Y Client: Akademiska Hus Construction period: 2017–2019 Team: Linda Mattsson, Lead Architect Ola Strandell, Project architect Area: 16,140 m2 Energy use: Approx. 50 kWh/m²/year. 1,200 m² solar panels. Environment: 5% solid wood in the construction, facades with 80% solid wood elements Certification: Miljöbyggnad Gold (Sweden Green Building Council) R&D: “Development of an assessment method for daylight quality: Early design phase simulations of Studenthus Valla in Linköping” / WRL The facade has been optimised in terms of window sizes, which vary depending on the size of the rooms and the different directions in which they face. that the sunlight doesn’t make the premises too hot, and that demands on our ability to manage processes and on cost the energy need is low. In addition to the project’s architects, control and our own skills development, says Linda. this work also involved HVAC experts, daylight specialists, In addition to the facade solution described above, the energy coordinators and glass consultants. project also involved a number of other sustainable solu– In order to meet tough energy targets and reduce tions, including 1,200 square metres of solar (PV) panels. climate impact, it is necessary to integrate the skills and Furthermore, the storey-high facade elements were made knowledge of many disciplines at an early stage of the from solid wood, a relatively new construction technique, project. As architects we will need to work in an even more which in this case was developed in collaboration between interdisciplinary manner, which naturally imposes extra the architectural team and the facade supplier. This makes the Student Building one of the largest buildings in Sweden with this type of facade solution. The level of ambition regarding daylight quality has also been high. The requirements for Miljöbyggnad certification focus on the daylight factor, which is primarily a quantitative measurement, but the work on the Student Building has also revolved around the quality of the light, for example how daylight is affected by various materials, and with soft transitions between the dark and light parts of the premises. Linda Mattsson is an architect with expertise in large, complex projects, especially within higher education, research, innovation and healthcare. 60 61 W H I T E 2 019 Awards and Recognitions During 2019 we won several international awards, and it is extremely gratifying to see that our architecture is also gaining attention beyond our home market. At the World Architecture Festival Awards (WAF), often referred to as the “World Championships in Architecture”, we received two awards; one in the category “Future Project – Culture” for the GoDown Arts Centre in Nairobi, Kenya, and one in the category “Future Project – Health” for the Nuuk psychiatric clinic on Greenland. The extension to Carlanderska Hospital in Gothenburg earned us several awards during the year, for example the European Healthcare Design Award in the category “Design for Adaptation and Transformation”, and ICONIC AWARDS: Innovative Architecture in the category “Public/Culture/Education”. Psychiatric clinic in Nuuk, Greenland – healing architecture in a dramatic place. The new clinic balances quiet and secure architecture in harmony with the Greenlandic landscape and the existing buildings. 62 63 W H I T E 2 019 2. A W A R D S 2 0 19 – Psychiatric Clinic, Nuuk, GreenlandWAF Awards 2019 – ’Future Project – Health’ – GoDown Arts Centre, Nairobi – WAF Awards 2019 – ’Future Project – Culture’ (4.) – The City of Health, Ängelholm – The Healthcare Building Award 2019 – Forumtorget, Uppsala – Architecture Masterprize – ’Small Scale Landscape Projects’ (2.) 3. – Carlanderska hospital – ICONIC AWARDS 2019: Innovative Architecture (1.) – Carlanderska hospital – European Heathcare Design Awards 2019 ’Design for Adaptation and Transformation’ – Swedish Energy Agency, Eskilstuna – The Office of the Year 2019 (3.) – White ArkitekterSocial Actor of the Year 2019, category sustainability – Housing, Fallskärmen 5, Örebro – Nominee – Örebro Building Awards 2019 64 65 1. 4. W H I T E 2 019 Following up Our Goals White’s core business is sustainable architecture, design and urban development. Our aim is to contribute to the development of a sustainable society and to create long-term value. We have a clear mission: “To enable sustainable life through the art of architecture.” By setting goals and carefully managing our activities towards the achievement of these goals, we challenge ourselves and our stakeholders. VA L U E S WHITE WORK Fundamental to our activities is our Owner To support us in managing our activities Directive, which states that our guiding and our assignments we have our busiprinciples are: to be explorative and responness system WhiteWork, which has been sible and to act with respect and participacertified in accordance with ISO 9001 tion, in everything we do. Quality Management and ISO 14001 EnFurthermore, our Code of Conduct for vironmental Management for many years. ” Corporate Sustainability, which is based on Kvalitetsbygget (“Building quality” ) is our the Ten Principles of the UN Global Cominternal organisation for maintaining and pact concerning human rights, labour, envideveloping WhiteWork, and we have a ronment and anti-corruption, is an important comprehensive level of staff involvement, guide for how we take responsibility, how with quality managers in every working We will, as one of we act and the expectations we have on group who assist with continual training Scandinavia’s leading ourselves and our business partners. We and education, and internal audits that are architecture firms, fulfil also have three policies: Employee Policy, performed twice a year. Measurement of high standards and deQuality Policy and Sustainability Policy. the company’s development in relation to Naturally we follow applicable laws and quality and environmental performance mands, regarding both industry requirements, although we also takes place continuously and is followed the work processes tackle society’s challenges and long-term up annually at the Management Review and its results. goals with our own high ambitions. We want meeting. FROM WHITE’S to – and we have the ability to – impact the QUALIT Y POLICY world around us in many different ways. 66 67 W H I T E 2 019 ABOUT WHITE T H E T E N P R I N C I P L E S O F T H E U N G LO B A L CO M PAC T FOLLOW U P ON BUSIN E SS GOAL S HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION OVE R ALL G OAL S PRINCIPLE 1 PRINCIPLE 3 PRINCIPLE 7 P R I N C I P L E 10 UNTIL 2020 R E S U LT S 2 019 0 0 S TAT U S Businesses should support Businesses should uphold the Businesses should support Businesses should work and respect the protection of freedom of association and the a precautionary approach to against corruption in all its RESEARCH The majority of our research is 21 internal R&D projects. internationally proclaimed effective recognition of the right environmental challenges; forms, including extortion and AND incorporated into our projects and 8 with external cofinancing, human rights; and to collective bargaining; bribery. DEVELOPMENT is strengthened through external including ARQ. PRINCIPLE 8 See pages 46–47. collaborations. PRINCIPLE 2 PRINCIPLE 4 undertake initiatives to promote make sure that they are not the elimination of all forms of greater environmental responsiOur research is available and 16 internationel conferences. complicit in human rights forced and compulsory labour; bility; and spreads externally. 6 reports abuses. 2 licentiate theses PRINCIPLE 5 PRINCIPLE 9 the effective abolition of child encourage the development labour; and and diffusion of environmentally EMPLOYEE S Our employees have undergone Objective achieved. friendly technologies. See pages 36–37. White’s mentoring program, 5 % PRINCIPLE 6 as mentors and 5 % as mentees. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and We have further developed new E-learning has begun. occupation. methods for sharing knowledge Seminars are filmed and shared internally. on the Internet. S TA K E H O L D E R S based research, CHALLENGE with new ENVIRONMENT We have participated in 30 zero We have completed one carbon We need to always stay up to date regardperspectives that lead to sustainable AND CLIMATE carbon projects. negative project. 20 ongoing ing developments in the world around us, in solutions, and INSPIRE with evocative See pages 14–17 projects with goals of being carbon order to be able to develop as a company, architecture. A summary of some of the and 26–29. neutral or negative. prioritise, and take responsibility within our goals is presented in the table on page 69. sphere of influence. Our stakeholders inThe most visionary goal was to achieve We have reduced carbon dioxide A total of 69% lower CO2e per clude users, property owners, consultants, 30 carbon-neutral projects by 2019. As emissions for energy, travel, annual employee compared with purchases and waste by an 2014. entrepreneurs, municipalities, organisations, there was a lack of a Swedish definition average of 30 % for each category All emissions are climate academia, media and our employees (who or generally adopted work methods at compared with 2014. compensated. are also our owners). Views on potential the time, we have put a lot of effort into areas of improvement are captured in many development for achieving this goal. Due different ways: follow-up of assignments, to long design processes, we have only MARKET AND We win 10 important Won 11 competitions. customer surveys, market surveys, perforcompleted one such project within the ECONOMY competitions a year. mance appraisals, employee surveys, semiperiod (which was not just carbon-neutral nars. We have also implemented a whistlebut was in fact climate-positive). It has New business models contribute No financial summary, but new types blower function via our website. In addition, also been a challenge to get our clients to 5% to our turnover. of assignments within circularity, we follow up our social media, which is the adopt the same goal. Having said that, we design, sustainability management. quickest way of reaching our stakeholders now have 20 or so ongoing projects with New business unit Digital Business. and receiving quick feedback about what the goal of aiming for carbon neutrality, we are doing. We did not perform a market which is an enormous step in the right survey during 2019. direction. Another goal regarding new business models turned out to be difficult Objective has been achieved: B U S I N E S S P L A N 2 017– 2 019 to follow up, although during the period Objective is not yet reached: White inspire with As of 2020 we have commenced a new in question we have developed business emotive architecture, business plan that stretches until 2023. strategies for circular interior design This means that we are now in a position projects, started the Digital Business unit, and sustainability is a to summarise the previous business plan managed projects in accordance with the driver for creativity in all (for 2017–2019), and we can see that “Sustainable Contract” strategy, increased our projects. we have succeeded in achieving most focus on cost control and worked with FROM WHITE’S of our goals. The three strategies have models for sustainable assessment from S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y P O L I C Y been to EXPLORE through practicean economic perspective. 68 69 W H I T E 2 019 ABOUT WHITE Ethics and Risk R I S K A N A LY S I S RISK ASPECT CONSEQUENCE R I S K M AN AG E M E NT Management C L I M AT E A N D E N V I R O N M E N TA L I M PA C T We work actively to prevent negative environmental impact, both in In our assessment, the risk of our company contributing to directly negative Requirements regarding travel, purchasing, suppliers and sub-consultants; our business activities and in our environmental impact is low. Our strength Sustainability analysis shall be performed assignments. within sustainability contributes to a high in assignments; Competence developA strong level of social involvement and an ethical, democratic approach are a fundamental part level of confidence in us and our brand. ment via White Academy and White of White’s company culture. These days, failure to take responsibility for how business activities Major opportunities to exert influence exist in Research Lab; Specialists within climate our assignments. and environment. affect people or the environment is associated with major risks. Through our assignments we promote sustainable development and we believe it is our responsibility to do so. And it is our responsibility to do so. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Our business activities shall not cause, This risk is assessed to be low, although Code of Conduct and ethical rules for emcontribute to or be associated with the consequences could be serious for the ployees; Code of Conduct for customers CODE OF CONDUCT the economic situation, economic A N A LY S I S O F A S S I G N M E N T S violations of human rights or corruption. company, e.g. damaged reputation/brand, as and suppliers; Country risk analysis for well as economically/legally. assignments outside of our home market. White’s Code of Conduct for Corporate development and the performance of Risk analysis for assignments is perSustainability is our guide for how we assignments. We perform continuous formed in connection with the tender take responsibility and act, as employfollow-ups of key aspects such as our and contract process and involves an B U S I N E S S PA R T N E R S ees and as a company, as well as the employees’ work situation, market develassessment based on our business In their tiers of the supply chain, our The consequences could be serious, not Procedures for tender evaluation and expectations we have on ourselves and opments, KPIs and assignment results. goals, Code of Conduct for Corporate suppliers and business partners shall not only for White, but also for the other parties project and sustainability analysis; our business partners. Our approach is Our risk assessment, with regard to Sustainability, sustainability goals and cause or contribute to violations of human or the context affected. Code of Conduct for customers and based on our undertaking to apply the sustainability and prevention of risk, is economic conditions. Furthermore, for rights, corruption or negative environmental suppliers, purchasing procedures and impact. supplier assessment; Sub-consultant Ten Principles of the UN Global Compresented in the table on page 71. In assignments outside Sweden, Norway assessment. pact concerning human rights, labour, our assessment, the risk of our activiand Denmark, a country risk analysis environment and anti-corruption. ties contributing to directly negative is always performed based on the asOur employees are also expected impact from a sustainability perspecpects of democracy, human rights and E Q U A L T R E AT M E N T to follow the Swedish Construction tive is low. Our assignments present corruption as well as business risks All employees shall be treated equally The consequences could be serious, not Code of Conduct for employees; Code Sector’s ethical rules and Architects us with our greatest opportunity to preassociated with the specific country. and with respect. This also applies to our only for those affected, but also for the of Conduct for customers and suppliers; business partners and assignments. company’s attractiveness and brand. Employee Policy; Plan for equal rights Sweden’s ethical rules. These rules vent sustainability risks, which is why a The analysis is based on evaluations by and opportunities, with continuous mean that we oppose all forms of corsustainability analysis shall always be Freedom House, the Swedish Export follow-up. ruption, strive for competition on equal performed (see page 14). Credit Agency and Transparency terms, and promote social responsibilInternational. ity in the value chain. R I S K S I N T H E S U P P LY C H A I N SKILLS AND KNOWLEDGE During 2019 we have implemented To ensure that our business partners Having the best employees, and providing Good opportunities for development make White Research Lab; White Academy them with conditions for constant the company attractive. Shortcomings in and mentoring programme; Performance a whistleblower function, which can act in accordance with our values, we development, is crucial to the success assignments and damages could lead to appraisals and employee surveys. be utilised by external stakeholders have a Code of Conduct for Customof our company and the quality of our losses and a lower level of confidence and as well as our employees. Suspicions ers and Suppliers, which is in line with assignments. trust. of improprieties or deviation from our our Code of Conduct for Corporate Code of Conduct can be reported on Sustainability. When signing agreeour website. During the past year we ments, our partners must certify that WORK ENVIRONMENT have not received any reports of such they have understood the meaning Our workplace shall be sustainable from a A good work environment, pleasant working We offer an occupational health service work environment and health perspective. conditions and strong leadership are and health and wellbeing initiatives; ” circumstances or involvement in any of, and undertake to comply with, our Our employees shall experience a good factors that are crucial for the company’s Leadership courses; Performance form of corruption. Code of Conduct. An initial evaluabalance between work and leisure time. attractiveness. The consequences of a appraisals for all employees, and tion takes place via tender analysis, poor work environment or lack of balance employee surveys. RISK ASSESSMENT project analysis, purchasing criteria could be serious, not only for the individual The company’s comprehensive risk and sub-consultant assessment. The White takes limited and employee, but also for the company as a whole. analysis is reviewed annually and is folmonitoring and follow-up process controlled economic and lowed up by the Board of Directors. then involves interviews with our major The most important risk aspects are suppliers and spot-checks of suboperational risks. those associated with our employees, consultants. FROM WHITE ’S RISK POLICY 70 71 W H I T E 2 019 Investments The New Region Building (Regionens Hus), Gothenburg: The project has created new premises for the Västra Götaland municipality’s operations and includes both a and Results new tower and the rebuilding of an old train station. The project is certified with the Swedish building certification, Miljöbyggnad, level Gold. During 2019 we were affected by a slowdown in the Swedish market. On the other hand, our studios in Oslo and London are growing, and we have received a number of new assignments in Canada, Germany and East Africa. Almost ten percent of our turnover in 2019 was generated in countries outside Sweden. It is also gratifying to be able to look back on so many rewarding completed projects, a number of which have been recognised with nominations and prestigious awards. Our 2019 results were lower than those of competitions during the year, both nationally recent years, with a continued slowdown in and internationally. Not only do these comeconomic activity leading to a reduction in petitions provide us with an opportunity to utilisation rates. There has, however, been a work on the most interesting assignments, high level of activity in the Öresund region, they also allow us to test new ideas. and our assignment involving the new hosThe net operating profit for the Group, pital area in Malmö has been an important before and after foundation provisions, project for the whole of White. Despite the amounted to SEK 12.4 million and SEK 9.4 downturn in earnings, we have maintained a million respectively. This equates to a net high level of internal investment, in particular operating margin of 2% and 1% respecwithin digitalisation, research and develtively. The Group’s equity ratio was 38%, opment, and competitions. During 2019 and liquidity was good, with a cash flow we created a new organisation for digital of 196%. 2,551 new assignments were development and started a new business registered during the year (compared with unit, Digital Business. Our investments in 2,352 assignments in 2018). The largest research and development continue to be of market sectors in terms of share of new great importance given that we are a knowlorder value were healthcare, housing and edge-driven company. We won several commercial premises. M A R K E T A R E A S F O R N E W A S S I G N M E N T S 2 019 (percentage of orders) 8% 25% Healthcare 17 % Housing Commercial premices Urban development 25% Education 24% Others 1% 72 73 W H I T E 2 019 F I N A N C I A L I N F O R M AT I O N 2 019 2 018 2 017 2 016 2 015 F R O M T H E I N C O M E S TAT E M E N T * Operating revenues 812 779 870 675 964 010 892 156 824 278 Operating profit 9 435 27 868 38 909 60 280 42 605 Profit after financial items 9 837 27 641 40 003 60 307 47 020 Tax on profit for the year -4 206 -15 176 -8 075 -13 583 -11 147 Profit for the year 5 631 12 465 31 928 46 724 35 873 Minority share of profit for the year 0 1 8 -272 -83 Profit for the year 5 631 12 466 31 936 46 452 35 790 F R O M T H E B A L A N C E S H E E T * Intangible fixed assets 0 0 29 141 666 Tangible fixed assets 2 382 3 881 5 473 9 558 20 901 Financial fixed assets 484 161 728 985 1 190 Current receivables 291 574 284 204 402 295 303 560 271 188 Cash and bank balances 38 059 49 915 36 586 57 076 40 400 Total assets 332 499 338 161 445 111 371 320 334 345 SHAREHOLDER’S EQUITY 12 7 5 0 9 13 2 8 7 3 151 010 15 8 7 7 9 141 6 7 0 Minority share of equity 6 771 6 978 6 979 6 987 6 715 Provisions 29 748 25 941 25 154 23 957 19 973 Current liabilities 168 271 172 369 261 968 181 597 165 987 Total sum of shareholders’ equity and liability 332 299 338 161 445 111 371 320 334 345 K E Y F I G U R E S Return on shareholders’ equity (%) 3,7 8,8 20,6 31,0 25,1 Profit margin (%) 1,2 3,2 4,1 6,8 5,7 Revenue per employee (KSEK) 1 303 1 294 1 322 1 308 1 304 Equity/assets ratio (%) 38,4 39,3 33,9 42,8 42,4 Avarage number of employees 624 673 729 682 632 * KSEK Definitions Return on shareholders’ equity (%): Profit for the year after minority share as a percentage of benchmark equity excluding minority share. Profit margin (%): Profit after financial items as a percentage of operating revenues. The equity/assets ratio (%): Shareholders’ equity excluding minority share as a percentage of total assets. WHITE INTRESSENTER AB Organisationsnumer 556598-8499 The New Malmö Hospital creates an environment where people are in focus and combines emotive and sustainable architecture with the latest knowledge in daylight, 74 environmental issues and energy. With its 110.000 sqm, the project is currently one of 75 Sweden’s the largest Health Care projects and it is expected to be completed in 2025. White Arkitekter is one of Scandinavia’s leading architectural practices. We work with sustainable architecture, urban design, landscape architecture and interior design for current and future generations. Our mission is to enable sustainable life through the art of architecture. Our vision is that by 2030 all our architecture will be climate neutral, through design excellence. We are an employee-owned architecture collective of about 800 employees, with presence in Sweden, Norway, UK, Germany, Canada and East Africa. TALK TO U S! whitearkitekter.com @whitearkitekter
