LION Integrated Report 2020 Sustainability Inquiries Lion Corporation 3-7, Honjo 1-chome, Sumida-ku, Tokyo 130-8644, Japan Website (English): https://www.lion.co.jp/en/ Tel: +81-3-3621-6211 Community Involvement Organizational Lion’s Sustainability The Environment Human Rights Labor Practices Fair Operating Practices Consumer Issues and Development Governance Editorial Policy and Lion’s Disclosure CONTENTS Editorial Policy Lion’s Sustainability Core Subjects of ISO 26000 Lion views this report as an important tool for presenting its sustainability initiatives and drawing on stakeholder opinions while 3 The Lion Group’s History of Addressing Social Issues furthering corporate activities. E 17 The Environment Lion Integrated Report 2020: Sustainability Editorial Policy Referenced Guidelines: 5 Lion’s Sustainability 23 Human Rights • Since 2011, we have systematized our initiatives for sustainability • The Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2018) issued by the 7 Sustainability Material Issues and Objectives for 2030 in accordance with ISO 26000, an international standard Ministry of the Environment concerning corporate social responsibility. This report is • GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards issued by the Global 25 Labor Practices structured to reflect this. Reporting Initiative • Promoting Environmental Initiatives for a • ISO 26000: 2010 Guidance on social responsibility issued by Sustainable Planet • This report discloses our Sustainability Material Issues and our S 30 Fair Operating Practices the Japanese Standards Association progress toward the medium-term sustainability objectives Comparative Tables for Referenced Guidelines • Creating Healthy Living Habits corresponding to Lion’s management plan. 32 Consumer Issues https://www.lion.co.jp/en/csr/report/#sec03 • For ease of access, links to key Lion webpages are marked by a 13 2020 Sustainability Material Issues and icon. Progress toward Objectives Scope of Coverage: 36 Community Involvement and Development • GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards were used as a reference Lion Corporation and all of its consolidated subsidiaries are for producing this report. covered, in principle. G 39 Organizational Governance * Where the scope of coverage of reported activities or data differs from the • L ion’s sustainability activities, including some information not above, a description is provided. provided in this report, are comprehensively presented on 42 External Evaluations / Participation in External Groups our website. Period Covered: From January 1, 2019 to December 31, 2019 *Some parts also include information about 2020 Published: June 2020 Lion’s Disclosure Investor Relations Sustainability IR news, quarterly Information not included in Lion’s approach to financial statements, the integrated report is LION sustainability, social Integrated Report shareholders available on Lion’s website. 2020 contribution activities, Sustainability meetings, securities SDG-related reports, etc. initiatives, etc. Lion Integrated Report 2020: Sustainability is published to https://www.lion.co.jp/en/ir/ supplement the Integrated Report as a tool for reporting in LION Integrated Report greater detail Lion’s activities aimed at achieving sustainability. 2020 https://www.lion.co.jp/en/csr/ About Us Company overview, management vision, message from Products management, Products offered by corporate governance, Lion Lion, presented by corporate compliance, Integrated Report category research & development, etc. 2020 https://www.lion.co.jp/en/products/ https://www.lion.co.jp/en/company/ 1 Lion Integrated Report 2020: Sustainability Lion Integrated Report 2020: Sustainability 2 Community Involvement Organizational Lion’s Sustainability The Environment Human Rights Labor Practices Fair Operating Practices Consumer Issues and Development Governance Lion’s origins lie in soap and toothpaste. Since our founding in 1891, we have strived to adhere to our The Lion Group’s History of Addressing Social Issues founding spirit of “benefitting society though business activities,” seeking to help consumers enjoy healthy living through the provision of products while engaging in communication and educational activities aimed at promoting better living habits. We recognized long ago that global environmental protection is an issue that the whole world shares and have taken environmental measures accordingly, such as developing environmentally friendly products. To address evolving social issues and help bring about a better society, as Lion’s founder well as to realize our management vision, we are moving forward with sustainability initiatives. Oral Care Tomijiro Kobayashi From 1896 From 1913 From the 1960s From the 1990s From the 2000s Cavity prevalence among Started educational activities to Expanding the market and Addressing diverse Addressing gum disease through the systematic From oral care to whole-body health children at 96% / foster healthy tooth brushing habits developing world-class products oral health issues combination of products with clear functions Promoting oral health care Promoting oral care Front Held the first Lion oral hygiene lecture (The start of promotional and educational activities) White Lion Established the Lion Foundation Lion Toothpowder (Japan’s first toothpaste with calcium phosphate, for Dental Health (LDH) which is highly effective for whitening teeth) (Promoting oral healthcare through LDH) Back Lion Toothpowder packets Held the first Oral Health Event of Dentor Lion toothpaste CLINICA Lion cavity prevention toothpaste Dentor Systema Lion Series CLINICA Advantage Series Activities to promote good oral printed with charity coupons Tooth Brushing for Children (The first in Japan formulated to prevent pyorrhea) (The world’s first toothpaste formulated with (Gum disease prevention) (Preventive dentistry promotion) health care habits in Asia (The starting point of Lion’s social contribution activities) Teaching correct tooth brushing methods to children the enzymes that break down dental plaque) Cleanliness and Comfort From 1891 From the 1950s From the 1960s From the 1990s From the 2000s Start of soap manufacturing and Addressing health Addressing diverse lifestyle needs Promoting good hand washing habits and Contributing to clean and comfortable living in Asia promotion of correct laundry methods problems caused by related products, helping raise cleanliness and parasites on vegetables hygiene awareness Kohyo Soap (Beauty soap produced in Lion’s early days) TOP NANOX TOP SUPER NANOX overseas (now TOP SUPER NANOX) (Singapore, Hong Kong, Taiwan) (Super-concentrated liquid laundry detergent) Lipon F (Japan’s first kitchen detergent Mama Lemon CHARMY Green KireiKirei Medicated Hand Soaps Laundry lecture held by Lion Laundry for washing fruits, (Dish and vegetable detergent that (Kitchen detergent that is gentle on the hands (With antibacterial agents) Activities to promote the practice of KireiKirei overseas Science Laboratories vegetables and tableware) is gentle on the hands) and strong against grease) hand-washing in Asia (Thailand, Singapore, South Korea, China, Hong Kong) Environmental Conservation From the 1920s From the 1960s From the 1990s From the 2000s Use of plant-derived ingredients Addressing foaming in rivers, eutrophication in lakes and marshes and other Reducing CO2 emissions by using primarily Addressing environmental issues through products and communication water environment issues with advanced technology plant-based washing ingredients 1 Realizing a Low Carbon Society 2 Realizing a Sound Material-Cycle Society The “eco Lion” Mark Emeron Shokubutsu-Monogatari (Mark printed on environmentally 3 Harmonizing with Nature friendly Lion products) (Plant Story) beauty soap 4 Awareness and Education in Society (Beauty soap made with 100% plant ingredients) Promotion of Eco Vision 2020 (Implemented in three-year phases beginning 2012) Plant-derived Lion Laundry Soap (Japan’s first plant-derived household laundry soap) Natera Environmental education Dash Murin TOP Eco Vision 2020 (Dish and vegetable detergent made through events (Laundry detergent formulated with the (A phosphate-free laundry detergent formulated primarily from natural coconut oil) (Participation in EcoPro) p.22 highly biodegradable surfactant AOS) with enzymes to be environmentally friendly Spark Development of while maintaining high detergency) (Laundry detergent made from palm oil) eco-friendly products 3 Lion Integrated Report 2020: Sustainability Lion Integrated Report 2020: Sustainability 4 Community Involvement Organizational Lion’s Sustainability The Environment Human Rights Labor Practices Fair Operating Practices Consumer Issues and Development Governance Lion’s Sustainability Basic Approach Identifying Material Issues Companies are members of society, and their business Today, “Becoming an advanced daily healthcare company” is Through the steps shown at right, Lion established a set of Steps for identifying Sustainability Material Issues activities have an impact on both society and the environment. Lion’s management vision. To achieve this vision, Lion is Sustainability Material Issues to address in the years leading up As such, companies have a corporate social responsibility implementing its LIVE Plan Medium-term Management Plan to 2020 based on its vision for society in 2030, including its Identify social issues (CSR) to contribute to the creation of a sustainable society from (2018-2020), and advancing management aimed at sustainable management vision and the SDGs. Lion’s Sustainability Step Based on ISO 26000, the SDGs, the GRI the perspectives of the environment, society and the economy. social development and business growth. Lion is working to Material Issues are for both Lion and society and, with the goal Standards and the ten principles of the UN Global Upholding its founding spirit of “benefiting society through its address material issues in its management to reduce risks while seeking to realize healthy minds and bodies for all through the of helping to realize a healthy future for people and the planet, the choice of these issues was informed by the broad 1 Compact, 39 social issues were identified. business activities,” Lion, in addition to pursuing economic promotion of oral healthcare, cleanliness and hygiene habits. perspectives of business, environmental and social development, has long considered its impact on the sustainability. In identifying these issues, we comprehensively Sustainability Management (Japanese) environment and society and worked to address related issues considered the entire value chain and Lion’s stakeholders to Consider their degrees of impact on through its business activities. https://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/management/ understand the risks and opportunities they represent. Step society and businesses The issues identified in Step 1 were evaluated in Contributing to the Achievement of the SDGs In 2020, we set new the Sustainability Material Issues and objectives for 2030 as a vision for the Lion Group in 2030. In 2 terms of their impact on society and businesses and reviewed by related departments, the director in charge of sustainability and the Board of Directors. The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are a set of particular, we have positioned “Promoting Environmental common goals for 2030 established by the United Nations Initiatives for a Sustainable Planet” and “Creating Healthy (UN) aimed at the realization of a sustainable world. Living Habits” as issues of top priority, and they represent Investigate the soundness of the areas in which we must invest management resources to Step material issues As an advanced daily healthcare company, the Lion Group’s secure a competitive advantage. contribution will mainly be to the realization of SDG 3, “Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages,” through Our approach to identifying Sustainability Material Issues 3 The soundness of each item was investigated in light of the viewpoints of third-party institutions and the issues were revised as necessary. its products and services. At the same time, by pursuing Extremely high initiatives aimed at accomplishing the LIVE Plan, Lion will Degree of impact on society contribute to the creation of a sustainable world, the ultimate The Lion Group’s Obtain approval from the Executive goal of the SDGs. Sustainability Material Issues Step Committee and Board of Directors • Promoting oral healthcare Lion’s SDG-Related Initiatives 4 The Sustainability Material Issues identified were approved by the Executive Committee and Extremely • Establishing cleanliness and hygiene habits https://www.lion.co.jp/en/csr/sdgs/ Board of Directors. High Degree of impact on businesses high Risks and Opportunities Related to the Sustainability Material Issues in the Value Chain Lion has comprehensively considered the entire value chain and its stakeholders to classify the Sustainability Material Issues as either risks or opportunities. Value Chain Stage Raw Material Procurement Lion’s Activities Use by Consumers Disposal by Consumers Business partners Customers Employees Key stakeholders Shareholders and investors Local communities • Promoting Diversity • Promoting Work-Life Balance Sustainability Material Issues • Developing Human Resources Opportunities • Reinforcement of Health and Productivity Management • Pursuing Customer Trust and Satisfaction • Creating Healthy Living Habits • Promoting Environmental Initiatives for a Sustainable Planet • Respecting Human Rights • Enhancing the Occupational Safety Management System Risks • Building Responsible Supply Chain Management • Promoting Risk Management • Embedding Compliance • Enhancing Group Governance 5 Lion Integrated Report 2020: Sustainability Lion Integrated Report 2020: Sustainability 6 Community Involvement Organizational Lion’s Sustainability The Environment Human Rights Labor Practices Fair Operating Practices Consumer Issues and Development Governance Sustainability Material Issues and Objectives for 2030 With an eye to achieving its management vision of “Becoming an The world today faces enormous social problems, from Basic Approach advanced daily healthcare company” by 2030 and contributing demographic graying and declining birthrates to climate Through sustainable business activities that adhere to its corporate motto and management philosophy, the Lion Group is working to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), a set of shared change, marine plastics and pandemics. to address the Sustainability Material Issues with the aim of contributing to a healthy future for people and the planet. global goals for 2030, in 2018 the Lion Group established the Lion Group Sustainability Material Issues. We are working toward The Lion Group has designated as top-priority material issues The Sustainability Material Issues and 2030 Objectives objectives based on these issues by the end of 2020. “Promoting Environmental Initiatives for a Sustainable Planet” and “Creating Healthy Living Habits,” the latter of which Core Subjects Material issues Objective Indicator Related SDGs The Lion Group believes that it is crucial to take a longer-term contributes to the realization of everyday happiness and has Reduce CO2 emissions throughout • CO2 emissions Down 30% compared perspective in order to ensure that it can continue to meet the been a constant focus of the Group since its founding. We are Top priority material issues Promoting business activities and product life cycles. with 2017 levels 3 6 7 9 needs of society and customers and grow its businesses. advancing initiatives aimed at solving social issues through our Environmental The Promote the 3Rs (reduce, reuse, recycle) • Recycled plastic and biomass plastic E Environment Initiatives for a and renewable activities. usage Double 2017 levels 12 13 14 15 Accordingly, we have reexamined the material issues the Group business activities accordingly. Some of the innovative new Sustainable Planet Reduce water usage throughout product • Water usage Down 30% compared with 17 will face in the period leading up to 2030 and set new objectives. initiatives we are implementing in these areas are showcased life cycles. 2017 levels (per unit of net sales) The 2030 objectives are based on previously identified material in this section. Provide opportunities for everyone to Community issues but aim for a higher level of achievement and set practice oral healthcare whenever 3 4 6 10 Involvement Creating Healthy • Persons provided with oral healthcare necessary, regardless of living environment, quantitative indicators for evaluating such achievement. and Living Habits opportunities 1 billion physical condition, economic status, 12 17 Development education or access to information, etc. Promoting Environmental Initiatives for Enable human resources with diverse values and ideas to fully express their Creating Healthy Living Habits • Employees who understand the necessity a Sustainable Planet Promoting Diversity individuality and abilities and succeed professionally, regardless of such factors as of diverse values 80% or more 5 8 10 nationality or gender. pp. 9-10 pp. 11-12 • Employees who feel a sense of Enable employees in all countries and Promoting professional fulfilment 80% or more Lion’s Approach Lion’s Approach regions to achieve high productivity and 3 8 Work-Life Balance • Productivity (profit per employee) professional fulfilment in their work. Increase from the 2019 level Reduce environmental impact over the entire life cycle “ReDesign” everyday rituals to realize healthy minds Developing Human Foster human resources who think • Employees who are taking action to Labor Resources independently and create value. create new value 80% or more 5 8 10 of products, including during customer use and bodies for all Practices • Employees and their family members who Reinforcement of Increase the health awareness of and foster get regular dental checkups Health and healthy living habits among employees and 80% or more 3 8 17 Productivity their families. • All employees are working toward Management personal health goals Contribute to Contribute to Contribute to S Enhancing the Enhance systems to ensure compliance with occupational health and safety in each • Serious health and safety legal violations everyday health and the realization of a the realization of a Occupational Safety country and region, thoroughly enforce Zero comfort and Management safety awareness and facility safety and • Serious accidents and serious incidents 3 8 decarbonized resource-circulating System ensure employee occupational safety, Zero longer healthy life society society healthy and comfort. expectancy Reinforce systems for preventing human 5 8 10 16 Respecting Human • Serious human rights-related issues at the Human Rights rights problems in line with the LION Rights Lion Group and suppliers Zero Related SDGs Related SDGs Human Rights Policy. 17 • Procurement of third-party certified paper, Implement sustainable procurement with pulp, palm oil and palm kernel oil 100% zero tolerance for child labor, forced labor or • Procurement of third-party certified palm environmental destruction in line with the 5 6 7 8 Building oil and palm kernel oil from suppliers that Fair Operating Sustainable Material Procurement Policy and Responsible Supply support efforts aimed at zero deforestation 10 12 13 14 Practices Lion Group Supplier CSR Guidelines. Chain Management 100% Reinforce systems for preventing corruption 15 16 17 • Serious problems related to corruption or and bribery in line with the LION Antibribery at suppliers Zero Bribery Principles Promote and reinforce consumer-oriented Pursuing Customer Consumer management by improving customer • Products in which consumer opinions are Trust and 3 10 12 Issues support quality and the value of products reflected 100% Satisfaction and services. Lion’s Value Creation Foundation and Risk Management Implement comprehensive, extensive • Risk incidents that significantly impact Promoting Risk management of risk-related initiatives and management Zero Management reinforce security systems to prevent • Disclosure of information about serious 8 12 information leakage, etc. future risks At least once a year Organizational Reinforcement Enhancing the Building Pursuing G Governance Embedding Reinforce effective compliance initiatives. • Serious compliance violations Zero 5 10 16 Promoting Developing Occupational Respecting Promoting Enhancing Compliance Promoting of Health and Responsible Customer Embedding Work-Life Human Safety Human Risk Group Diversity Productivity Supply Chain Trust and Compliance Reinforce management transparency and  isclosure in line with the Basic •D Balance Resources Management Rights Management Governance Enhancing Group Management Management Satisfaction management systems in line with the Basic Corporate Governance Policy 16 System Governance Corporate Governance Policy. At least once a year 7 Lion Integrated Report 2020: Sustainability Lion Integrated Report 2020: Sustainability 8 Community Involvement Organizational Lion’s Sustainability The Environment Human Rights Labor Practices Fair Operating Practices Consumer Issues and Development Governance Sustainability Material Issues and Objectives for 2030 Promoting Environmental Initiatives for a Sustainable Planet Aiming for Innovation and Providing New Value to Consumers The use of Lion’s super-concentrated liquid laundry detergents By expanding our lineup of products like this that make daily In 2019, the Lion Group established the LION Eco Challenge by the Paris Agreement and the Sustainable Development (such as TOP SUPER NANOX) by consumers as part of their living environmentally friendly, we aim to achieve business 2050, a set of long-term environmental objectives, to Goals (SDGs). Aiming to realize a decarbonized, resourcedaily lives helps them realize clean, comfortable living while growth while reducing the environmental burden. c o n t r i b u t e t h ro u g h i t s b u s i n e s s a c t i v i t i e s t o t h e circulating society, we are putting into practice initiatives aimed contributing to the reduction of CO2 emissions, plastic use and accomplishment of worldwide goals related to addressing at solving issues related to decarbonization, plastics and water use. global-scale environmental problems, such as those identified water resources. CO2 reduction: LION Eco Challenge 2050 Making Daily Living Environmentally Friendly 53% (Product emissions, Healthy future for people and the planet compared with 1990 levels) While striving for business growth, the Lion Group is working to contribute to global environmental sustainability, Super-concentrated liquid laundry detergents aiming to realize decarbonized, resource-circulating society by 2050. High detergency, plant-based raw materials Water saving T  hrough all of its businesses, the Lion Group will address the issues of decarbonization (climate change) and resource circulation • Foam washes away easily, for one-rinse washing • High detergency with less detergent (plastics, water resources) to contribute to the realization of a healthy future for people and the planet. • Saves water,2 electricity and time • Carbon neutral thanks to plant-based raw materials1 B  y offering products and services based on an environment-conscious design, the Lion Group will reduce the environmental burden attributable to the household use stage of its products’ life cycles. T  he Lion Group will provide products that contribute naturally to environmental conservation without entailing user inconvenience Super-concentrated detergent and Refill products or sacrifice and promote the formation of eco-friendly living habits by engaging in interactive communication with consumers. compact packaging • Reduced plastic use (approx. 81% less than a bottle) • Container size: Approx. 40% • Use of biomass plastics3 reduces petroleum derived • Transport efficiency: 2.5 times plastic use Lion will reduce CO2 emissions to zero throughout business activities by 2050. Realizing a Challenge 1 2030 objective: 3  0% CO2 emission reduction in comparison with 2017 levels in absolute quantity that of conventional detergents 1. Carbon neutral: In which the CO2 emission and absorption over the product life cycle cancel each other out. Decarbonized 2. Water savings of 23 l (the equivalent of forty-six 500 ml water bottles) per wash when using a horizontal drum washing machine with a 9 kg capacity to wash 3 kg of clothing. 3. Biomass plastics are polymer materials that are produced by synthesizing, either chemically or biologically, materials which contain renewable organic materials. Lion will reduce CO2 emissions by half throughout the life cycle of its products Society 2 (Source: Website of the Japan BioPlastics Association). Challenge by 2050. 2030 objective: 3  0% CO2 emission reduction in comparison with 2017 levels in absolute quantity Realizing a Resource-Circulating Society Lion will realize advanced plastics recycling by 2050. Because Lion manufactures and sells plastic products, it has a toothbrushes in cooperation with TerraCycle Japan. Many Realizing a ResourceChallenge 3 2030 objectives: Promote the 3Rs (Reduce, Reuse, Recycle) and Renewable (use of sustainable resources) • Double the usage of recycled and biomass plastics in comparison with significant responsibility regarding plastic-related problems. municipal governments and schools across Japan have taken part in this initiative. Through the Toothbrush Recycling Program, 2017 levels in absolute quantity To help fulfill this responsibility, since 2015, we have been as a leader in oral care, Lion is also promoting good oral care Circulating Society Lion will optimize water usage for sustainability by 2050. implementing an initiative to collect and recycle used habits, aiming to help maintain and improve consumer health. Challenge 4 2030 objective: 3  0% water usage reduction per unit of net sales across product life cycles in comparison with 2017 levels Focus Toothbrush Recycling in Coordination with Municipal Garbage Collection Related SDGs In April 2020, based on an agreement with Sumida-ku, collecting and recycling used toothbrushes, Lion is Tokyo, where its headquarters is located, the Sumida-ku providing instruction on correct tooth brushing to children at government set up toothbrush collection boxes at public non-profit children’s facilities in the area, helping spread and facilities and schools and other educational facilities (in a firmly establish healthy oral care habits. Making Daily Living Environmentally Friendly total of 85 locations). As part of this initiative, in addition to Through innovation and coordination with diverse comfortably. We hope to expand stakeholders, the Lion Group aims to provide consumers with these endeavors from the products and services that “ReDesign” everyday habits and, individual lifestyle to the local Respond to the TCFD through interactive communication, create effortless ways for community and global levels. In May 2019, Lion endorsed the recommendations of the Task Going forward, we will leverage insights gleaned thus far while consumers to be more environmentally friendly just by living Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and enhancing our scenario analyses, considering response measures began evaluating the financial impact on its operations of and advancing disclosure based on the TCFD framework. climate-related risks and opportunities (scenario analyses*). * Conducted with support from the Ministry of the Environment. Realizing a Decarbonized Society Climate change due to global warming is causing extreme activities, from raw material procurement to production and  The “Practical guide for Scenario Analysis in line with the TCFD weather around the world and greatly affecting all our lives. distribution, creates environmental burden. The stages of recommendations 2nd edition” was published on the Ministry of the Lion’s products help make consumers’ lives more comfortable product use in households and disposal afterward represent Environment’s website in March 2020. Lion’s analysis results are on pp. 136-142. and convenient. However, each stage of our business an especially large part of the environmental burden. http://www.env.go.jp/policy/policy/tcfd/TCFDguide_ver2_0_E.pdf 9 Lion Integrated Report 2020: Sustainability Lion Integrated Report 2020: Sustainability 10 Community Involvement Organizational Lion’s Sustainability The Environment Human Rights Labor Practices Fair Operating Practices Consumer Issues and Development Governance Sustainability Material Issues and Objectives for 2030 Creating Healthy Living Habits Promoting Cleanliness and Hygiene Habits For more than a century, the Lion Group has been carrying out In response to the worldwide spread of the novel coronavirus, As such, to fulfil our corporate social responsibility, we not only educational activities aimed at spreading healthy oral care the World Health Organization (WHO) and Japan’s Ministry of provide products, but conduct educational activities to spread habits. Today, these activities extend beyond Japan to Health, Labour and Welfare recommend hand washing with correct hand washing habits in Japan and across Asia. countries and regions across Asia. In line with the Group’s soap as a means of preventing infection. The Lion Group sells purpose, the “ReDesign” of everyday rituals, we are now hand soaps and disinfectants. launching ambitious new initiatives to help create healthy living habits for even more people by working to solve issues ranging China South Korea from the personal to the societal. New Business Initiatives for 2030 Health is influenced not only by individual factors, such as genetics and living habits, but Teaching correct hand washing at nursery An employee teaching schools, hospitals and parks children correct hand also the culture and value of a person’s living environment, their socioeconomic status and washing other social factors. Going forward, health disparities* caused by socioeconomic disparities are expected to Thailand Japan Reducing Health worsen, becoming a greater issue around the world. Disparities We aim to become an advanced daily healthcare company. Accordingly, we will create shared value for our businesses and for society and contribute to the realization of healthy minds and bodies for all by addressing the social issue of health disparities. As a first step, we are rolling out new business initiatives in oral care, an area that contributes greatly to creating healthy living habits. Students learning Children enjoying correct hand washing practicing correct hand at an event washing while learning New Business Initiative: Inclusive Oral Care Malaysia Singapore Inclusive oral care refers to activities aimed at eliminating disparities in oral care opportunities due to such factors as living environment, physical condition, What Is Inclusive Hong Kong Taiwan economic status, education and access to information and sustainably providing Oral Care? oral care opportunities to all people, without exception, so that they can nurture their natural capacity to live in good health through oral care. An employee using Nursery school students creative ways to teach enjoying learning about children correct hand hand washing through a Approach to Initiatives and Our 2030 Objective washing quiz with the Lion mascot Related SDGs • Expand business opportunities and help reduce health disparities by eliminating disparities in oral 2030 Objective for Creating Initiatives care opportunities Healthy Living Habits Going Forward Provide opportunities for everyone to The Lion Group’s Goals • Provide a wide variety of products and services that practice oral healthcare whenever leverage IoT, AI and other advanced technologies The Lion Group has long worked to create better living habits, Japan is said to be one of the first countries to face certain necessary, regardless of living such as practicing preventive dentistry and correct hand washing, challenges, such as severe demographic graying, and countries environment, physical condition, in coordination with its business activities in the areas of oral care across Asia are forecast to face similar issues in the near future. • Firmly establishing healthy oral care habits Current economic status, education or and cleanliness and hygiene. We believe that such efforts carry In addition, globalization has created the conditions for infectious • Help increase oral care awareness through efforts to spread Initiatives access to information, etc. preventive dentistry habits on our founding spirit of “benefitting society though business diseases to spread rapidly around the world. Aiming to activities,” and that by sincerely working to solve evolving social contribute to everyday health and comfort and longer healthy life * A concept put forth by Chiba University’s Professor Katsunori Kondo, an expert in health disparities due to socioeconomic differences. issues, we can achieve ongoing business development and expectancy, the entire Lion Group will continue to work as one contribute to the realization of healthy minds and bodies for all. to create everyday happiness by creating healthy living habits. 11 Lion Integrated Report 2020: Sustainability Lion Integrated Report 2020: Sustainability 12 Community Involvement Organizational Lion’s Sustainability The Environment Human Rights Labor Practices Fair Operating Practices Consumer Issues and Development Governance 2020 Sustainability Material Issues and Progress toward Objectives Overview The Contribution of the Lion Group’s Initiatives to the Achievement of the SDGs The Lion Group has implemented activities aimed at the throughout the Group. In particular, our global activities The Lion Group has identified 13 sustainability material issues In particular, through our products, services and educational resolution of the 2020 Sustainability Material Issues identified in advanced through close collaboration with our overseas Group and is advancing initiatives toward their resolution. The chart initiatives, we are working toward the achievement of SDG 3, 2018. We manage initiatives that address these material issues companies, and we will continue to undertake further below shows the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to “Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages.” using a PDCA cycle, and have confirmed that, overall, activities measures going forward. which our efforts to solve each of these issues contribute. focused on achieving our objectives were implemented The Lion Group’s 13 Sustainability Material Issues and the SDGs They Help Achieve Sustainability Core Subjects Material Issues E The Environment 1 P P P P P P P P Human Rights 2 P P P P P Environment 3 P P P 4 P P Labor Practices 5 P P P 6 P P S Assessment Metrics 7 P P P Social Governance Fair Operating Practices 8 P P P P P P P P P P P Achieved: Achieved 2020 Objectives. Consumer Issues 9 P P P In progress: Underway toward 2020 Objectives. C  ommunity Involvement and Development 10 P P P P P 11 G Organizational Governance 12 P P P 13 P P (Plan) D (Do) C (Check) A (Action) Core Sustainability Material Issues Basic Approach for Initiatives 2020 Objectives and KPI Achievements in 2019 (mid-term report) Assessment Measures and Challenges to Address in 2020 Subjects (Related SDGs) Aimed at the 2020 Objectives • Promotion of environmental business management 1) Continued activities aimed at achieving Eco Vision 2020 1) In progress 1) Continue activities aimed at achieving the objectives of the 1) Promote and achieve the Eco Vision 2020 environmental targets (Global) vision 2) Establish the New Environmental Objectives 2030 to minimize 2) Established the LION Eco Challenge 2050 long-term environmental objectives following 2) Achieved 2) Determine measures and KPIs to achieve the objectives of The environmental impacts over the entire life cycle of products, ­including at approval by the Board of Directors in May 2019 LION Eco Challenge 2050 Work together with consumers and the stage of their use in customer households (Global) Environment 1 Promoting Environmental local communities to actively promote 3) Promote the appropriate use and management of chemical ­substances 3) Introduced a chemical substance information management system to efficiently promote Initiatives for a Sustainable 3) In progress 3) Continue promoting the appropriate use and management of environmental conservation activities, (Global) the appropriate use and management of chemical substances (Domestic) chemical substances E Planet aiming for both a sustainable society Continued to promote the appropriate use and management of chemical substances by 6 7 9 12 13 and the development of our complying with country-specific laws and regulations (Global) businesses. 4) Confirm and review the progress of environmental management 4)-(1) Implemented top environmental audits by directors to promote management 4)-(1)  4)-(1) Reduce risk through top environmental audits p. 7 14 15 17 through top environmental audits and the Sustainability Promotion improvement and understanding of good example initiatives (Chiba, Osaka and Akashi In progress Meeting*1 (Domestic) Plant) 4)-(2) Promoted environmental management and bolstered awareness at related divisions 4)-(2)  4)-(2) Review progress through the Sustainability Promotion through the Sustainability Promotion Meeting In progress Meeting 1) Established the LION Human Rights Policy for both the domestic and overseas Lion 1) Disseminate and confirm the status of human rights initiatives Human • Enhancement of initiatives for promoting respect for human rights based Group and disclosed it on our website in January 2019 at overseas Group companies on the Group philosophy  Visited overseas Group companies to promote awareness and understanding of the LION Achieved Continue e-learning about Lion’s human rights initiatives Rights 1) Formulate a Group-wide human rights policy (Global) Human Rights Policy (Singapore, Thailand, Taiwan and China) 2 Respecting Human Rights Build a Group structure that respects Implemented e-learning about Lion’s human rights initiatives (100% participation) (Domestic) human rights. 1) AL Heart Hotline recognition rate: 98.6% 1) Continue to implement the Compliance Awareness Survey 5 8 10 16 17 • Expansion of internal and external contacts for reporting Promoted awareness internally through the Compliance Awareness Survey and e-learning and compliance education and consultation about work environments and compliance (100% participation) (Domestic) In progress Promote awareness of and reinforce the functions of the AL p. 23 1) 100% recognition of the AL Heart Hotline (Domestic) Promoted awareness of the AL Heart Hotline at overseas Group companies to foster Heart Hotline at overseas Group companies understanding of the hotline’s importance (Singapore, Taiwan and China) • Promotion of participation by women at the management level 1) Halted Human Resources Development Training for Next-Generation Management to 1) In progress 1) Improve human resource development systems at the global 3 Promoting Diversity Expand creative business activities 1) Develop female employees to drive the next generation of ­management rebuild the program. Appointed previous female participants as directors at overseas level through the application of diverse (Global) Group companies (two individuals) 5 8 10 human resources. 2) Increase proportion of female employees at the management level to 2) Proportion of female employees at the management level: 17.1% 2) In progress 2) Continue promoting S 20% (Domestic) 1) Implemented the Lion Internal Awareness and Behavior Survey for all domestic 1) In progress 1) Continue the Lion Internal Awareness and Behavior Survey Labor employees, including those of domestic Group companies Practices 2) Increased planned annual paid leave days from three to five days. Annual paid leave 2) In progress 2) Encourage planned annual paid leave usage • Realization of “smart work”*2 to harmonize productive work and personal 4 Promoting Work-Life Balance Create an uplifting feeling among usage rose to 73.7%, reflecting understanding of the importance of work-life balance Promote efficient work by expanding the number of lives employees through work style among both managers and their subordinates. employees trying the telecommuting system as well as 1) Implement employee awareness and behavior surveys (Domestic) 3 8 reforms. Increased number of users of the telecommuting system by amending it. The proportion regular users 2) 70% usage rate of annual paid leave (Domestic) of employees who had used the telecommuting system at least once came to 49.2%, p. 25 with regular users registering at 15%. The establishment of the system is contributing to work style reforms. Create personal dynamism by • Held the 2nd term of the ReDesign FORUM, which aims to generate new proposals • Hold the 3rd term of ReDesign FORUM to foster ReDesign 5 Developing Human Resources ­developing human resources with for resolving Company-wide issues through direct discussion between employees mindsets Creation of human resource development systems to cultivate personnel diverse and abundant ideas about and management In progress who can learn and act independently 5 8 10 how to meet the expectations of • Launched Lion Career Village (LCV) (online educational content usage: Over 60%) • Enhance LCV content and promote continued usage as a global stakeholders. Held group case discussions 57 times. Participation among online content users: Over 20% venue for learning *1 Held as the Environmental Conservation Committee until 2018 *2 Highly concentrated work styles aimed at improving productivity 13 Lion Integrated Report 2020: Sustainability Lion Integrated Report 2020: Sustainability 14 Community Involvement Organizational Lion’s Sustainability The Environment Human Rights Labor Practices Fair Operating Practices Consumer Issues and Development Governance P (Plan) D (Do) C (Check) A (Action) Core Sustainability Material Issues Basic Approach for Initiatives 2020 Objectives and KPI Achievements in 2019 (mid-term report) Assessment Measures and Challenges to Address in 2020 Subjects (Related SDGs) Aimed at the 2020 Objectives • Zero serious accidents and zero serious incidents (Global) • Held the Safety, Hygiene and Disaster Prevention Meeting twice a year and 6 Enhancing the Occupational Enhance and thoroughly enforce • Hold the Safety, Hygiene and Disaster Prevention • Thorough enforcement of occupational safety and the safety continued to implement PDCA Safety Management System the Occupational Health and Meeting twice a year and continue to implement PDCA of facilities • The director in charge of safety implemented top safety audits to achieve zero In progress Safety Management System • Reduce risk through top safety audits Zero serious accidents and zero serious incidents (Global) serious accidents and incidents (Odawara, Akashi and Chiba plants) 3 8 across the entire Group. • Implement e-learning about safety • Implemented e-learning for all employees to increase safety awareness (Participation: Labor 99.8%) Practices Implement Lion-Style Health Support “GENKI” Action Launched Lion-Style Health Support “GENKI” Action, increasing employee health Key measures: awareness and providing support for self-directed healthy behavior 1. Build and implement an individual health management • Expansion of support programs to aid employees in forming good 1) Rate of receiving health checkups: 100% 1) In progress system 7 Reinforcement of Health and Build a Lion health and productivity healthcare habits 2) Rate of receiving dental checkups: 91.8%. Health guidance was provided by 2) In progress 2. Expand the practice of preventive dentistry by p. 25 Productivity Management management model appropriate 1) 100% rate of receiving health checkups (Domestic) dental hygienists. implementing Professional Care 100% Action for an advanced daily healthcare 2) 100% rate of receiving dental checkups (Domestic) • Provided a subsidy program for professional care at dental clinics to promote the 3. Implement programs aimed at the early detection of 3 8 17 company. 3) 100% rate of receiving age-specific cancer screenings (Domestic) practice of preventive dentistry (rate of receiving professional care: 58.4%) three common types of cancer 3) Rate of receiving age-specific cancer screenings: N/A (not implemented due to 3) In progress Expanding the scope of cancer screenings transition to “GENKI” Action) 4. Completely ban smoking inside Company buildings at all times, including outside of work hours Fair Operating 8 Building Responsible Supply 1) Participated in the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (Sedex) to reinforce supplier CSR 1) In progress 1) Expand number of countries in which we implement Practices Chain Management • Build more advanced and sustainable supply chains ­activity implementation sustainability self-checks Promote highly effective 1) Implement supplier sustainability self-checks related to Encourage key suppliers to join Sedex to further reinforce 5 6 7 8 10 12 management practices in the procurement (Global) sustainable supply chain management supply chain. 2) 100% implementation of supplier sustainability self-checks related 13 14 15 16 17 2) Implementation of supplier sustainability self-checks: 99.7%. Provided evaluation 2) In progress 2) Continue supplier sustainability self-checks to procurement (Domestic) p. 30 results to suppliers as feedback (annual) S • Held a second Asia QA Meeting to enhance the quality assurance capabilities of staff in charge of quality at overseas Group companies by having such staff share • Continue to hold the Asia QA Meeting. Further develop information. In addition to conventional quality management, participants discussed Consumer • Enhancement of reliability assurance systems covering the entire customer support challenges in their respective countries, building a common quality control initiatives in each country Issues Thoroughly enforce corporate supply chain awareness of such issues at the Group level, and examined measures aimed at their • Develop human resources with customer-oriented 9 Pursuing Customer Trust activities that earn and maintain management mindsets to enhance and Satisfaction • Improvement of customer satisfaction through enhancement of resolution (ongoing) customer trust across the entire In progress customer ­satisfaction customer support quality • Participated for the first time in a phone service contest to reinforce the customer Group and further develop • Continue using e-learning content introduced in 2019 3 10 12 • Enhancement of security system through system construction and support quality of phone operators customer-oriented management. Discuss overseas Group companies’ systems supervisory management enhancement This event helped our staff understand the level of service at other companies and p. 32 and security measures with the goal of improving global step up their own quality infrastructure • Implemented e-learning about information security and social media risks and basic insider trading knowledge (100% participation) • Promoted and continued preventive dentistry activities across the Lion Group Held the Oral Health Event of Tooth Brushing for Children (in Japan and six other Asian countries, reaching 240,000 elementary school students) Community Implemented activities to spread healthy oral care habits through the Lion Contribute to the creation of Involvement and healthy living habits such as oral • Implementation of activities to establish good healthcare habits such Foundation for Dentistry Health (Domestic) Development 10 Creating Healthy Living as preventive dentistry and hand washing, in coordination with Implemented preventive dentistry activities in close coordination with experts and healthcare, cleanliness and • Promote and continue preventive dentistry activities Habits business activities retailers (key countries: Malaysia, China, Thailand) (Global) hygiene practices and habits in In progress across the Lion Group • Contribution to the resolution of social issues based on co-existence • Co-existence with communities: Formed partnerships with governments to promote order to extend healthy life • Promote and continue partnerships with governments 3 4 6 12 17 with communities, involvement of employees and enhancement healthy living habits. These efforts reached consumers in the communities served by expectancy and ensure people’s of partnerships these governments, encouraging healthy living habits. everyday well-being. p. 36 Involvement of employees: Junior employees in all job types, from R&D to sales and manufacturing, implemented educational activities to promote hand-washing habits Enhancement of partnerships: Implemented the Happy Marriage City Promotion Project in cooperation with governments • Continued the promotion of comprehensive and extensive risk management across 11 Promoting Risk Enhance the risk management Promotion of comprehensive and extensive risk management across the entire Group • Continue the promotion of comprehensive and extensive In progress Management system for the entire Group. the entire Group • Reported on risk management progress in 2019 to the Executive Committee (annual) risk management across the entire Group Zero incidents of serious risk to business 1) Requested that overseas Group companies implement the Compliance Awareness 1) In progress 1) Continue increasing awareness of the Lion Group Charter Survey to expand familiarity with the Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior and for Corporate Behavior and the Behavioral Guidelines at Organizational the Behavioral Guidelines overseas Group companies • Construction of a compliance management system Implement the Compliance Awareness Survey at Governance 12 Embedding Compliance Enhance the effectiveness of 1) Expand familiarity with the Lion Group Charter for Corporate overseas Group companies compliance activities across the G 5 10 16 entire Group. Behavior and the Behavioral Guidelines (Global) 2) 100% participation in compliance-related training (Domestic) 2) Training participation: 100%. To strengthen employee awareness of compliance, implemented new training on human rights and bribery in addition to that on the 2) In progress Raise awareness of hotlines and strengthen our consultation and reporting contact functions to further workplace environment and compliance. build up the compliance framework p. 39 Conducted the Compliance Awareness Survey of all employees, including part-time 2) Continue promoting initiatives toward 100% participation employees, and provided feedback (response rate: 92.8%) in e-learning • Promoted stronger governance in accordance with the Basic Policy for 13 Enhancing Group Corporate Governance. Governance Engage in enhancing governance Improvement of the Group governance system in accordance with the Assure effectiveness by establishing the LION ­Anti-Bribery • Explained the outline of the LION Anti-Bribery Guidelines at overseas Group In progress for the entire Group. Basic Policy for Corporate Governance Guidelines companies (Singapore, Taiwan, China) 16 Assured effectiveness through use in conjunction with the AL Heart Hotline function 15 Lion Integrated Report 2020: Sustainability Lion Integrated Report 2020: Sustainability 16 Community Involvement Organizational Lion’s Sustainability The Environment Human Rights Labor Practices Fair Operating Practices Consumer Issues and Development Governance E S G Related SDGs E S G The Environment Environmental Management Basic Approach Environmental Management System Environmental Management Structure We at the Lion Group believe it is our solemn responsibility to provide customer experience-based value in The purpose of the Lion Group’s Environmental Management To make our business grow while reducing the impact on the the areas of health, comfort and cleanliness while protecting the global environment—the foundation of System is to identify, evaluate and remedy the adverse global environment, in 2019 we consolidated the former health and daily living—in accordance with our aim of “Becoming an advanced daily healthcare company.” environmental impacts of our business activities, products and Environmental Conservation Committee into the newly services, and to improve our environmental conservation established Sustainability Promotion Meeting. Its members In line with the Eco Vision 2020 environmental targets formulated in 2013, we are striving to realize a activities on an ongoing basis. consist of the Executive Officers, including the President, and sustainable planet while working to achieve our 2020 targets related to realizing a low carbon society, representatives of relevant divisions. The meeting deliberates realizing a sound material cycle society, harmonizing with nature and environmental education. We strive to enhance systems for environmental management policy for responding to environmental problems and monitors and reporting with the aim of addressing environmental issues the progress of related efforts. Recently, spurred by the Paris Agreement in 2015 and the adoption of the SDGs, the movement toward globally. Data on overseas Group companies is available on a sustainable society in Japan and other countries has gained steam. our website. Legal Compliance With regard to revisions of environmental laws and regulations, Taking this trend into consideration, in 2019 the Group formulated the LION Eco Challenge 2050, a set of Environmental impact data for production sites overseas namely, the Act on the Rational Use of Energy, the Act on long-term environmental objectives. Going forward, the Group will ambitiously work toward the (Japanese) Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures, the Act on realization of a decarbonized, resource-circulating society. https://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/report/pdf/ Confirmation, etc. of Released Amounts of Specific Chemical environment-management.pdf Substances in the Environment and Promotion of Every day. For the Earth. (Japanese) Improvements to the Management Thereof, the Act on the https://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/ecolion/ Status of ISO 14001 Certification Evaluation of Chemical Substances and Regulation of Their Lion acquired ISO 14001 certification covering all its plants Manufacture, etc. and the Waste Disposal and Public in July 2001. The certification was renewed to the latest Cleansing Act, information is collected from administrative 2015 version in June 2016, and the Japan Management agencies and industrial associations and then input into Lion’s Environmental Guidelines Association Quality Assurance Registration Center (JMAQA) intranet system for information on chemical-related laws to reviewed and verified that all Lion plants are operating in ensure that related departments are up to date on and fully Lion’s Environmental Guidelines adhere to the spirit of the Lion that harmonizes economic development and environmental conformity with the requirements of the standard. Including compliant with the latest developments. Group Charter for Corporate Behavior, which states: “We shall protection.” Our Environmental Guidelines are the foundation play a positive and active role in creating a sustainable society of our environmental activities. the plants of Group companies in and outside Japan, the Lion Group continues to push ahead with its management We have also established waste management and other systems and environmental conservation activities by internal regulations to build up an appropriate management Environmental Guidelines obtaining ISO 14001 certifications and ensuring all structure. There were no violations resulting in fines or other Lion will act voluntarily and proactively to reduce its burden on the 4. Developing Environment-Friendly Products operations are in compliance with ISO 14001. penalties in 2019. global environment in all processes of its business activities, from the Continue aggressive product development in tune with the Lion development of products to the procurement of raw materials, proeco-standard and in light of life cycle assessment. duction, distribution and sales as well as from use by customers and 5. R educing Environmental Impacts Together with Our final disposal. This will be done with due consideration given to realBusiness Partners Pollution Prevention izing a low carbon society to prevent global warming, realizing a Strive to reduce environmental burden at every stage from purchasLion implements voluntary initiatives for reducing emissions of Environmental impact data for production sites in Japan sound material-cycle society with maximum usage of recycled ing through the provision of products to customers in cooperation chemical substances, including nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur (Japanese) resources and realizing a society harmonizing with nature to conwith suppliers of materials, outsourcing contractors and sales comoxides (SOx), particulate matter and volatile organic https://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/report/pdf/ serve people’s health, natural ecosystems and biodiversity. panies. compounds (VOCs). We also strive to reduce chemical oxygen domestic.pdf 1. Aiming for a Sustainable Society 6. Harmonizing with Nature demand (COD) through improvements in the reliability and Operate an environmental management system and, through the Take into account biodiversity and air and water environments while regular maintenance of wastewater processing facilities. 2019 PRTR-designated substance emissions data for ongoing maintenance and improvement of that system, protect the conducting business and proactively address natural environment global environment. protection activities. production sites in Japan (Japanese) 2. Complying with Legal and Other Requirements 7. Enhancing Environmental Protection Activities Based on Data on the management of chemical substances in https://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/env/enhancement/pdf/ Comply with legislation, regulations and other measures pertaining to Uniform Understanding of the Guidelines compliance with the PRTR system* is available on Lion’s prevention.pdf environmental protection, and establish and implement voluntary Disseminate the Environmental Guidelines to all employees, including website. We will continue to enhance our efforts to ensure standards of conduct. those of affiliated companies, raise awareness of environmental proproper notifications and management of emission volumes. 3. Setting and Verifying the Implementation of Environmental tection among them and bolster environmental management activiObjectives and Targets ties throughout the entire Lion Group. * PRTR system Correctly understand the environmental impact of our corporate 8. Promoting Disclosure of Information A system to measure, compile and publish chemical substance emissions volumes. activities and, as far as technically and economically possible, estabSeek to maintain and promote communication with stakeholders lish objectives and targets for improvement, while at the same time involved in Lion’s businesses. These Environmental Guidelines are formulating, implementing and regularly verifying the implementation freely available to anyone upon request. Together with the Environment (Japanese) of an environmental management program. Revised January 1, 2013 https://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/env/ 17 Lion Integrated Report 2020: Sustainability Lion Integrated Report 2020: Sustainability 18 Community Involvement Organizational Lion’s Sustainability The Environment Human Rights Labor Practices Fair Operating Practices Consumer Issues and Development Governance E S G E S G Enhancing Group-wide Management of Chemical Substances Promoting the 3Rs In an effort to reduce the use of container and packaging materials, we are Reduce Reuse Recycle Chemical substances are indispensable for people to lead accordance with its own independent standards. We have proactively promoting the 3Rs (reduce, reuse and recycle). comfortable and fulfilling lives. Failure to properly manage been operating a Management System for Information on chemical substances, however, can result in accidents that put Chemical Substances at Lion research and development sites Utilization of Renewable Resources human health and ecosystems at enormous risk. In addition to since 2018. Lion is addressing the issue of marine plastic, which has become a global Smaller containers, Increase Proactively use compliance with related laws and regulations, Lion strives to Chemical Substance Management (Japanese) environmental problem, by promoting the use of renewables (such as recycled and less packaging refill products recycled materials ensure the strict management of chemical substances at all plant-based materials) together with the 3Rs with a view to reducing plastics used in stages from product development to use and disposal in https://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/env/enhancement/ containers and packaging. Lion Group Environmental Initiatives Environmental Communication through Products In order to raise consumer awareness of the importance of environmental Performance in the Second Fiscal Year of Phase 3 (2018–2020) of Eco Vision 2020 considerations through its products, since 2014, Lion has put the “eco Lion” Mark Eco Vision 2020 is being implemented in three phases of employees of the Lion Group worked together to promote an environmental label known as on products that meet the proprietary Lion ecothree years each over the nine-year period from 2012 to environmental initiatives. standard, which is designed to evaluate products over their entire life cycles. Each 2020. The second fiscal year of Phase 3 (2018–2020) was * Achievements in Phase 3 of Eco Vision 2020 are listed on page 22. label includes our environmental logo and lists the factors that make the product 2019. In advancing toward the final fiscal year, 2020, all the TOP SUPER NANOX refill pack environmentally friendly. Realizing a Low Carbon, Sound Material-Cycle Society The Lion eco-standard (Japanese) List of products with the “eco Lion” mark (Japanese) Lion works to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, as well as to continue to promote activities toward the realization of a low recycle and effectively use resources, at each stage from raw carbon, sound material-cycle society. https://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/ecolion/#sec2 https://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/ecolion/#sec4 material procurement to disposal by consumers. We will Overview (The Related Information Web buttons below link to relevant pages of Lion’s Japanese website) Example Initiative Promotion of Periodic Toothbrush Replacement Related SDGs Procurement of Raw Major Initiatives Materials, Packaging Undertaken Use by Disposal by and Recycling Consumers Consumers and Containers by Lion Contributing to the SDGs by realizing “Good for the Toothbrush Replacement Toothbrush Recycling • Substituting plant-based • Improving energy efficiency by • Increasing environmental • Substituting plant-derived mouth!” and “Good for the Planet!” Good for the Mouth! Good for the Planet! Activities for Realizing a Low materials for petroleum reviewing production awareness through products materials for petroleum Lion has designated the 8th of every month as Toothbrush Replacing toothbrushes with Used toothbrushes are Carbon Society resources processes, introducing (environmental labels on resources Replacement Day in line with efforts to promote monthly splayed bristles helps collected and recycled Related Information Web energy-saving equipment products that meet the Lion • Promotion of 3Rs (making toothbrush replacement. In recent years, marine plastics have maintain and promote into planters and other • Substituting plant-derived when upgrading facilities, and eco-standard) products more compact, oral health. plastic products. become a major social issue, and recycling is one way of container materials for downsizing products Related Information p. 20 refill packs, development of helping solve the problem. By focusing on toothbrushes, which Realizing everyday well-being and Sustainability of the Planet petroleum resources Related Information p. 10 • R educing power containers made using longer healthy life expectancy recycled or less plastic) account for more plastic use than any other Lion product, we Related Information p. 10 Office/Facilities consumption during product use with power-saving Related Information p. 10 are working to contribute to the formation of healthy consumer Healthy future for people and the planet • Energy-saving activities throughout the Company, products (requiring fewer Related Information p. 20 living habits while helping to reduce environmental impact. including administrative, sales, rinses when washing) Related Information Web R&D and engineering divisions Related Information p. 10 Promoting Toothbrush *About the Toothbrush Recycling Program Distribution after shipment Related Information Web Recycling The program is open to all—just register in advance to participate as an • Increasing modal shifts during There is a concern that an increase in the frequency of individual, school or other organization. Participants set up collection boxes in the transportation of products toothbrush replacement due to the promotion of toothbrush which they collect used toothbrushes. A designated carrier then picks up the • Improving logistics efficiency replacement could lead to a rise in waste. boxes of used toothbrushes, and the participants are awarded points based on through such means as the weight of the toothbrushes collected. These points can then be exchanged increasing the transport To address this concern, Lion initiated the Toothbrush for plastic products (such as planters) made from recycled toothbrushes or loading rate Recycling Program,* a first in Asia, to collect and recycle used donated to support education or local communities. Related Information Web toothbrushes, which were previously just thrown away, in Activities for • Using plant-derived raw Plants • Increasing environmental • Promotion of 3Rs (making cooperation with Terracycle Japan. Adopting the perspective Realizing a materials • Promoting zero emissions from awareness through products products more compact, that each consumer who participates in toothbrush recycling is Sound • Using recycled materials plants (environmental labels on refill packs, development of an important partner, we are moving forward with the aim of Material-Cycle Related Information p. 10 • Reducing water consumption products that meet the Lion containers made using Society by recycling wastewater from eco-standard) recycled or less plastic) realizing a resource-circulating society. Register for Collect Collection by a Receive free toothbrushes designated recycle points production processes and Related Information p. 20 Related Information p. 20 Collection points Toothbrushes collected carrier (free) utilizing rainwater • Reducing water usage during Related Information Web Related Information Web product use with water-saving • Promoting the Toothbrush 675 683057 Offices/Facilities products (requiring fewer Recycling Program Toothbrush Recycling Program (Japanese) • Promoting Company-wide rinses when washing) Related Information p. 20 green purchasing Related Information p. 10 https://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/toothbrush-recycling/ Related Information Web (As of May 31, 2020) (As of May 31, 2020) Related Information Web Related Information Web 19 Lion Integrated Report 2020: Sustainability Lion Integrated Report 2020: Sustainability 20 Community Involvement Organizational Lion’s Sustainability The Environment Human Rights Labor Practices Fair Operating Practices Consumer Issues and Development Governance E S G E S G Harmonizing with Nature Eco Vision 2020 Achievements and Targets Lion considers biodiversity conservation at each stage of promote harmony with nature. Also, by having each of our operations from raw material procurement to disposal by employees participate in activities to conserve biodiversity as Categories Achievements in 2018 Achievements in 2019 Targets for 2020 consumers. We implement biodiversity conservation initiatives part of their environmental education, we are working to Emission intensity per unit total Emission intensity per unit total Emission intensity per unit total in coordination with local communities and promote lifestyle spread awareness of biodiversity conservation at all our revenue revenue revenue Reduction of adjustments among consumers through products designed to operating sites. 36% reduction (compared to 2010)*6 40% reduction (compared to 2010) 34% reduction (compared to 2010) Greenhouse gases (domestic) Within the greenhouse gases 50% reduction (compared to 1990)*6 53% reduction (compared to 1990) 49% reduction (compared to 1990) Company from business Overview (The Related Information Web buttons below link to relevant pages of Lion’s Japanese website) activities Absolute quantity Absolute quantity Absolute quantity 49% reduction (compared to 1990)*6 52% reduction (compared to 1990) 40% reduction (compared to 1990) Realizing a Low Carbon Society Biodiversity on Watershed* Ecosystems of Watershed Ecosystems Where Emission intensity per unit total Emission intensity per unit total Emission intensity per unit total Watershed Ecosystems Where Consumers Reside Which Lion Relies Raw Material Production Sites Our Plants are Located revenue revenue revenue Reduction of 9% reduction (compared to 2010) 9% reduction (compared to 2010) 9% reduction (compared to 2010) Procurement of Raw Outside the greenhouse gases Use by Disposal by 53% reduction (compared to 1990) 53% reduction (compared to 1990) 53% reduction (compared to 1990) Materials, Packaging Production Company from post-use Consumers Consumers and Containers products Absolute quantity Absolute quantity Absolute quantity • Plants used as raw materials • Cooling water and • Tap water consumed during 51% reduction (compared to 1990) 50% reduction (compared to 1990) 41% reduction (compared to 1990) Key Natural Resources Used (oil palms, etc.) unprocessed water for use of our products Reduction of — Emission intensity per unit Emission intensity per unit Emission intensity per unit by Lion • Wood that provides the paper equipment cleaning, etc., Within the greenhouse gases Greenhouse gases raw material for packaging used at production sites production production production Company from business 2% reduction (compared to 2017) 2% reduction (compared to 2017) 1% reduction (compared to 2017) Possible Major • Impact of palm oil growers on • Impact of groundwater intake • Impact of water use by • Impact of wastewater and activities overseas*1 Impacts of Our the surrounding natural by production plants on consumers on the packaging waste generated (overseas) Reduction of Activities on environment and communities surrounding natural surrounding natural by consumers on the Outside the greenhouse gases Reduction of 52 thousand tons Reduction of 45 thousand tons Reduction of 100 thousand tons Biodiversity (such as impact of illegal environments and environment and communities surrounding natural Company from post-use annually annually annually logging of tropical forests on communities environment and communities products overseas wildlife habitats) • Impact of wastewater and • Damage to the forest exhaust gases from environments that are the production plants on the Water use per unit total revenue Water use per unit total revenue Water use per unit total revenue source of paper raw materials surrounding natural 34% reduction (compared to 2010)*6 41% reduction (compared to 2010) 15% reduction (compared to 2010) Reduction of water environment and communities Within the 49% reduction (compared to 2000)*6 54% reduction (compared to 2000) 35% reduction (compared to 2000) use in business • Impact of light and odors from Company activities production plants on the Absolute quantity Absolute quantity Absolute quantity Realizing a Sound Material-Cycle Society surrounding natural 48% reduction (compared to 2000)*6 53% reduction (compared to 2000) 23% reduction (compared to 2000) environment and communities Water • Promotion of procurement of • Reduction of production plant • Development of water-saving • Surveying the environmental Water use per unit total revenue Water use per unit total revenue Water use per unit total revenue Activities to sustainable palm oils waste products impact of surfactants 29% reduction (compared to 2010) 29% reduction (compared to 2010) 17% reduction (compared to 2010) Reduce Risks Reduction of water (participation in RSPO and • Reduction of water Outside the 54% reduction (compared to 2000) 53% reduction (compared to 2000) 45% reduction (compared to 2000) Related Information p. 10 Related Information Web use at households purchase of RSPO-certified consumption at plants Company • Development of highly using our products oils) • Conservation of rivers and Absolute quantity Absolute quantity Absolute quantity Biodiversity Conservation Activities biodegradable detergents 52% reduction (compared to 2000) 51% reduction (compared to 2000) 33% reduction (compared to 2000) Related Information p. 31 other ecosystems by • Promotion of forest implementing purification conservation (use of thirdtechnologies on discharged Zero emissions wastewater Achievement of zero emissions at Achievement of zero emissions at Zero emissions at all domestic party certified paper) Waste within the all domestic production sites*4 all domestic production sites*4 production sites*4 Related Information p. 31 Company*2 Activities to • Conservation and monitoring • Educational activities teaching • Promotion of 3Rs (making Expand of habitats in the watersheds consideration of water and products more compact, Recycling of factory Operation of facilities to recycle Operation of facilities to recycle Recycle industrial wastewater at Opportunities where production plants are natural environments refill packs, development of Wastewater wastewater industrial wastewater at Chiba Plant industrial wastewater at Chiba Plant multiple plants located (activities include (activities include forest containers made using discharge*3 protection of endangered maintenance at Lion Forest in recycled or less plastic) — loggerhead sea turtles, Yamanashi and water-related Related Information p. 20 Harmonizing with Nature Biodiversity-friendly maintaining biotopes and environmental research Continued purchasing RSPO*5 Continued purchasing RSPO*5 All palm oil derivatives purchased to Related Information Web Procurement procurement of removal of non-native species support through the Japan certified palm oil derivatives certified palm oil derivatives be RSPO-certified plant-derived oils from beaches) Society on Water Related Information Web Environment) Enhancement of Carried out at all Lion plants, with Carried out at all Lion plants, with * Watershed: A range of ecosystems, including forests, rivers, domestic woodlands, tidal flats and beaches, that is connected by water. biodiversity Biodiversity implementation expanding at offices implementation expanding at offices Carry out at all domestic sites conservation of Lion and its affiliates of Lion and its affiliates activities Example Initiative Enhancement of Education Forest Maintenance Activities at the Lion Forest in Yamanashi environmental 1.2 times increase in consumer 0.9 times increase in consumer Double the number of consumer Awareness and awareness and participants in our awareness participants in our awareness participants in our awareness Since 2006, Lion has conducted activities to help maintain forests, education in society education for activities (compared to 2010) activities (compared to 2010) activities (compared to 2010) which are an important water source. In 2019, a total of 149 consumers employees participated in forest maintenance as part of new *1. Covers Lion and consolidated subsidiaries as of December 31, 2019 employee training and voluntary activities (held twice). The activities *2. The waste recycling ratio is 99% or more, excluding recycling residues were conducted with local residents to share responsibility for the Biodiversity Conservation *3. Wastewater from production processes maintenance of forests and the important role they play. *4. Chiba Plant, Odawara Plant, Osaka Plant, Akashi Plant, Hirai Office Site, Sapporo Office Site, Sendai Office, Headquarters/Tokyo Office, Nagoya Office, Osaka Office, Fukuoka Initiatives (Japanese) Office, Lion Chemical Co., Ltd. Fine Chemical Production Site, Lion Chemical Co., Ltd. Oleochemical Production Site, Lion Specialty Chemicals Co., Ltd. Yokkaichi Production Site, Cumulative participating employees : 1,726 https://www.lion.co.jp/ja/ Lion Specialty Chemicals Co., Ltd. Ono Production Site *5. Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil csr/biodiversity/ *6. The figures have been revised due to an error in past data. 21 Lion Integrated Report 2020: Sustainability Lion Integrated Report 2020: Sustainability 22 Community Involvement Organizational Lion’s Sustainability The Environment Human Rights Labor Practices Fair Operating Practices Consumer Issues and Development Governance E S G Related SDGs E S G Human Rights Measures to Prevent Human Rights Abuse: Implementing Human Rights Due Diligence Basic Approach Lion regards the identification of and response to potential on human rights by stakeholder category to enhance Respect for human rights is indispensable to the pursuit of happiness and a higher quality of life. Lion human rights issues throughout its value chains, from raw mechanisms for preventing, mitigating and remedying such recognizes that it has a responsibility as a company to affirm diversity, including that of race, religion, material procurement to use by consumers, as a top priority. adverse impacts. gender, sexual orientation, age, nationality and disability, to fully respect all human rights and, Accordingly, we identify and assess potential negative impacts furthermore, that doing so strengthens its business foundation. The Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior states that “We shall respect human rights ... observing both the spirit as well as the letter of Overview of Lion’s Measures to Prevent Human Rights Abuse by Value Chain and Stakeholder all applicable laws and international rules ... both in Japan and abroad,” and the Behavioral Guidelines state that the Group will not permit child labor or forced or coerced labor, will provide equal employment Raw Material opportunities and treat employees fairly, and will take an active interest in the human rights practices of Value Chain Procurement Lion’s Activities Use by Consumers its suppliers. In addition, in 2009, Lion declared its support for the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. Lion has designated “Respecting Human Rights” as one of its Sustainability Material Potential Human • F o rc e d l a b o r o r c h i l d l a b o r i n • G roundwater depletion due to factory operation; • A ccidents due to improper product procurement or at production sites inadequate factory wastewater treatment labeling or use Issues and will continue to advance business activities based on the LION Human Rights Policy in its Rights Abuse • Discrimination against workers based • Lack of regard for employees’ occupational health and • I n a p p ro p r i a t e i n t e r a c t i o n s w i t h Risk global business development going forward. on nationality or status as immigrants safety customers or refugees • A buse of authority or sexual harassment in the • Personal information leakage, privacy • N egative health impact on local workplace violations residents due to deforestation • Discrimination against sexual minorities Human Rights Policy • Coercion to engage in prolonged work In January 2019, based on the framework of the United this area. This policy was approved by the Executive Assessment of human rights impact Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights Committee and applies to all employees of the Lion Group, Stakeholders and Oil Palm Plantations Residents around Our Plants Customers adopted by the United Nations Human Rights Council, we including overseas Group companies, as well as other parties Main Initiatives • Participation in RSPO activities • E n v i r o n m e n t a l m a n a g e m e n t u n d e r L i o n ’s • A ggressive pursuit of safety and established the LION Human Rights Policy to further clarify our closely related to the Lion Group, such as suppliers. Environmental Guidelines to prevent contamination; functionality through Lion’s Product Related Information p. 31 stance on human rights abuse as well as our global efforts in compliance with laws and regulations Management System • Continued purchasing of certified oil palm derivatives Related Information p. 17 Related Information p. 34 LION Human Rights Policy Related Information p. 31 • Implementation of environmental assessments when • Creation of the representation drafting 1. Objective and Ideals 3. Management System for Respect of Human Rights (Human Rights Suppliers constructing new plants manual to ensure consideration for LION Group implements a variety of measures to realize the “fulfilling a spirit of Due Diligence) • CSR procurement based on the Clinical Trial Subjects the elderly, children and other love,” which is our basic management policy. (1) LION Group will monitor and evaluate any adverse impact on human rights Procurement Principles and the Lion • Respect for the Declaration of Helsinki vulnerable consumers To illustrate, our “Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior” provides for or fomentation thereof triggered by its corporate activities and any such Group Supplier CSR Guidelines • Application of the Regulations for the Implementation Related Information p. 34 “respect of human rights”, “observing both the spirit as well as the letter of all adverse impact directly relevant to its corporate activities. of Clinical Trials in order to place the highest priority on • P romotion of customer-oriented Related Information p. 30 applicable laws and international rules”, whilst our “Behavioral Guidelines” also (2) LION Group will collect information pertaining to the risk of generating any the safety of the subjects and ethical considerations management to enhance customer • Participation in Sedex Group Employees satisfaction provides for non-tolerance of child labor and forced labor, equal employment adverse impact on human rights not only from LION Group but also from Related Information p. 31 • Ensuring awareness of the Lion Group Charter for opportunities, fair treatment of employees and also indicates respect for such parties as suppliers with close ties to LION Group and further Related Information p. 34 Corporate Behavior and the Behavioral Guidelines human rights by suppliers. endeavor to prevent actual manifestation of such risks. • C reation of environments that help prevent Furthermore, we expressed support of the “10 principles of the United Nations (3) LION Group will endeavor to maintain and develop such effective devices discrimination on the basis of religion or race, etc., Global Compact” in 2009. as whistle-blowing hotlines with a view to identifying and adequately and improper handling of hiring, personnel reviews We hereby set forth “LION Human Rights Policy” to put in statutory form our tackling any adverse impact on human rights. and compensation endeavors to implement these measures because respect for human rights is 4. Dialogue and Discussion • Reinforcement of occupational health and safety and indispensable for people’s living, pursuing happiness and improvement of LION Group will, in the event of actual or threatened occurrence of any promotion of health and productivity management quality of human life. adverse impact on human rights, take opportunities to dialogue and sincerely Related Information pp. 28-29 2. Respect for Human Rights discuss with relevant stakeholders. • Widespread promotion of the Harassment Prevention (1) LION Group supports and respects such international norms on human 5. Education Declarations to raise awareness rights as “International Bill of Human Rights” (Universal Declaration of LION Group will continuously educate employees so that the whole group • Training on human rights (e-learning) Human Rights, International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural becomes more familiar with correct knowledge about respect for human rights. Related Information p. 41 Rights and International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights), “United 6. Remedies • M onitoring of adverse impacts through the Nations Global Compact” and “ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles Whenever it has been revealed that any adverse impact on human rights has Compliance Awareness Survey and Rights at Work”. been triggered or fomented by LION Group, LION Group will endeavor to take Related Information p. 41 (2) LION Group will not trigger or foment any adverse impact on human rights remedial actions by appropriate means. • Promotion of work-life balance through its corporate activities. In the event of occurrence of such adverse 7. Disclosure of Information impact on human rights, we will take remedial actions appropriately. LION Group will, from time to time, disclose and publish the status of Related Information pp. 26-27 (3) LION Group will, even where it is not directly fomenting any adverse impact our own endeavors in the field of respect for human rights and the • Establishment of the AL (All Lion) Heart Hotline internal and external whistle-blowing system • Establishment of and service via the on human rights, oppose and further endeavor to mitigate any adverse like on its website and others. customer support center Related Information p.41 impact on human rights through relevant transactional activities.  Established January 1st, 2019 Related Information p.34 In advancing global business development, Lion will continue strengthen related initiatives in its value chains. Implementation Framework to educate employees about respecting human rights and The Lion Group monitors human rights-related trends in are dealt with in coordination with the relevant divisions, such society, mainly through the corporate officer responsible for as the Legal Department, International Division or Purchasing LION Human Rights Policy Human Rights Due Diligence (Japanese) corporate ethics, the Corporate Planning Department and the Headquarters, as needed. https://www.lion.co.jp/en/company/compliance/  https://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/humanrights/duediligence/ CSV Promotion Department. Any new problems that emerge human-rights.php 23 Lion Integrated Report 2020: Sustainability Lion Integrated Report 2020: Sustainability 24 Community Involvement Organizational Lion’s Sustainability The Environment Human Rights Labor Practices Fair Operating Practices Consumer Issues and Development Governance E S G Related SDGs E S G Labor Practices Proportion of Female Employees at the Management Level Promoting Work-life Balance (Japanese) Basic Approach https://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/employee/work_life/ (%) Based on the Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior*1 and the Behavioral Guidelines,*2 we aim to have all employees spurring one another on and operating as autonomous individuals in order to 17.1 20.0 14.4 15.8 Lion’s entry in the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare’s 12.9 generate waves of innovative change, that is, dynamism, across the organization as a whole. We believe 12.0 database of companies submitting action plans and data based that enhancing the professional fulfillment, ambition and motivation of each individual helps to increase on the Act on Promotion of Women’s Participation and Advancement in the Workplace (Japanese) productivity and create new value. We are advancing the Lion Professional Fulfillment Reforms*3 toward 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 a new growth stage. By promoting mutual understanding and respect between organizations and (Fiscal year under review) (Target) https://positive-ryouritsu.mhlw.go.jp/positivedb/ detail?id=453 employees, we aim to build stronger organizations. *1. The Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior stipulates that “We shall promote fair treatment and respect the diversity, individuality and personalities of our employees” and “We shall ensure a safe and comfortable workplace to realize the mental and physical well-being of our employees.” Actively Promoting the Professional Participation of People with Disabilities *2. The Behavioral Guidelines state that “We will promote a healthy work-life balance and strive to maintain work environments that flexibly allow a variety of Lion actively promotes the professional participation of people December 31, 2019), engaged in such activities as the working styles,” “We will do our utmost to assist employees who strive to learn specialized skills and knowledge and aim for ambitious goals” and “We will with disabilities to utilize their abilities, striving to improve management of inter-office mail and printing business cards for engage sincerely in dialog and discussion with employees and their representatives.” *3. Initiatives to increase the professional fulfillment of each and every employee, develop personnel who generate new value and improve labor productivity. working environments and foster a corporate culture in which all Lion employees. entire workplaces support these employees. In March 2016, Labor Practices: Employee Data we established the special subsidiary Lion Tomoni Co., Ltd. to promote the active participation of people with disabilities. Lion https://www.lion.co.jp/en/ir/pdf/ar/2020/ir20_e_5. Lion Professional Fulfillment Reforms Tomoni Co., Ltd. has 29 employees and five instructors (as of pdf#page=7 To realize the targets of the LIVE Plan, we aim to ensure that LION Professional Fulfillment Reform Framework Career Design Support each individual is able to take total ownership of their role and From 2011 to 2019, Lion’s career counseling desk helped Company, helping employees design their careers and exercise their abilities to the fullest. To this end, we have employees proactively enhance their own career path. rediscover their own potential. Fulfilling work launched a new initiative, the Lion Professional Fulfillment Focused on Lion employees, the desk accepted Able to grow as a professional and private individual and Career Design Support Reforms, focused on health, work styles and enabling diverse lead a fulfilling life consultations via phone or email, and provided opportunities human resources to succeed, with the key themes of “first, just for face-to-face career consultations to help employees gain Employees reconstruct their own value do it” and “mutual acceptance.” new insights by soliciting employee participation. A Side job system Multifaceted ability assessment Work Work styles cumulative total of 819 employees used the system (as of the Enhancing Lion Career Village Telecommuting and full-flex systems Our professional fulfillment reforms comprise four initiatives: management Change ways of working, end of 2019). Annual surveys of its users found a high level of satisfaction regarding their consultations and positive Promote activities to acquire Make maximum use of diverse talent through work Make maximum use of with emphasis knowledge and experience management; change ways of working with emphasis on diverse talent on independence changes in their mindsets and actions. independence; strengthen relationships to foster mutual understanding and respect while invigorating organizations; and, In 2020, we completely revamped the career counseling desk Conscious autonomy as the foundation supporting the first three, implement Lion-style and launched what we call Career Design Support, which is Strengthen relationships aimed at supporting conscious autonomy that will enable Career design seminars tailored Career design support hotline health support, “GENKI” Action. By implementing multifaceted by age group (internal, external) Mutual understanding and respect initiatives, we are promoting diversity and openness among our employees to advance their careers themselves based on their Lion Career Village (LCV) human resources, organizations and corporate culture. own aspirations and actions. The desk offers career Lion-style health support consultations and disseminates information in and outside the Through the Lion Professional Fulfillment Reforms, we will increase the job satisfaction of each and every employee, develop “GENKI” Action personnel who generate new value and increase labor productivity. Promoting Work-Life Balance Lion strives to maintain and improve working environments so that employees can produce results while emphasizing work-life balance. Promoting Diversity Building Environments Where Employees Can Work With Enthusiasm To better respond promptly to changes in the business Development Center implements a variety of measures to promote Since 2010, Lion has worked to reduce prolonged working with a labor-management agreement, we have proactively environment, we are working to promote internal diversity. A diversity, integration management and employee perspectives. hours and encouraged employees to take annual paid leave. In encouraged employees to take at least three pre-scheduled team responsible for diversity within the Human Resources order to facilitate understanding of the management of working days of paid leave per year. From 2019 onward, the number of hours, e-learning is provided for all employees every year. such pre-scheduled days of paid leave has been increased Promoting the Professional Participation and Advancement of Women Aiming for a 70% use rate of annual paid leave in 2020, in line from three to five to further encourage use of paid leave. Lion recognizes that the professional participation and allow women to fully participate professionally over the long advancement of women is indispensable to the further term. We are also implementing measures to support Programs to Support a Balance Between Work and Nursing Care enhancement of corporate value and is proactively implementing employees balancing work and nursing care. Lion has enhanced support for employees engaged in nursing for medical nursing care (accumulated expired annual paid measures to promote the professional engagement of women. care of family members as part of efforts to create an leave), shorter work-hours for nursing care (Short Hours Based on the Act on Promotion of Women’s Participation and Furthermore, through a range of initiatives, in 2020 we aim to environment that allows employees to continue to work with Flextime System), and nursing care leave of up to 365 days Advancement in the Workplace, which came into full effect in increase the proportion of female employees in Japan at the peace of mind while handling such responsibilities. In addition (usable in one-day units). Furthermore, we have set up a 2016, Lion has expanded systems related to childcare and management level* to at least 20%. to ordinary annual paid leave, we have in place programs to support website targeting employees aged 40 and over to implemented support measures for working parents in order to *P ersonnel holding managerial positions at the level of assistant manager or higher support nursing care providers, including accumulated leave better provide information on nursing care. 25 Lion Integrated Report 2020: Sustainability Lion Integrated Report 2020: Sustainability 26 Community Involvement Organizational Lion’s Sustainability The Environment Human Rights Labor Practices Fair Operating Practices Consumer Issues and Development Governance E S G E S G Initiatives Based on the Act on Advancement of Measures to Support Raising Next-Generation Children Cultivating Innovative Personnel: ReDesign FORUM Lion has formulated an action plan in accordance with the Act fully while achieving a balance between work and childcare. Since 2018, Lion has held the ReDesign FORUM with the aims Domains through New Value Creation,” “Accelerate Growth in on Advancement of Measures to Support Raising NextIn 2019, we formulated the 6th Phase of our Action Plan of directly conveying to management the passionate desire of Overseas Businesses through Glocalization” and “Reinforce Generation Children and is actively working to create an (covering February 2019 to December 2022) and advanced employees, particularly young employees, to bring change to Our Management Base through Business Structure Reform.” environment where all employees can exercise their capabilities efforts toward the following three goals. the Company and of rapidly implementing their proposals. We are currently considering measures to put the results of the Employees from a wide range of divisions participate in the forum into action. The results of the 2018 forum are now being ReDesign FORUM. In 2019, 35 employees participated, implemented as part of Company-wide initiatives, such as the Within the period of the Action Plan, implement support Within the period of the Action Plan, promote measures for Goal 1 measures to create a working environment in which Goal 3 understanding and use of the work-from-home system and tackling the three themes of “Expand and Evolve Our Business Lion Professional Fulfillment Reforms. employees on childcare leave can smoothly return to work. implement for support the establishing the system. Launched the Lion Career Village and provided support for self-study while on childcare Expanded the number of eligible employees (approximately 60% of regular The NOIL Program leave and for career development after return to work. (Begun in January 2019) employees and full-time contract employees, excluding sales and production The LIVE Plan includes the basic strategies of Expand and established Business Development Center, where they can take divisions). (Begun in February 2019) Within the period of the Action Plan, have 13% or more of Evolve Our Business Domains through New Value Creation and a central role in putting their ideas into action. eligible male employees take childcare leave, one or more Encouraged changes to mindsets regarding work styles by providing explanations Goal 2 of the system and participating in the Telework Days campaign.* Create Dynamism to Foster Innovative Change. As part of Perspective of an Employee Working to Commercialize New Businesses such employee take long-term parental leave and 30% or more of such employees take special leave (for childbirth). * An initiative organized by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications and Ministry of initiatives based on these strategies, in 2019 we launched NOIL, Proposing New Living Habits Of eligible male employees, 16.7% (eight individuals) have taken childcare leave, Economy, Trade and Industry in collaboration with related government agencies and organizations a program for selecting and implementing new business ideas. aimed at promoting the use of telecommuting across Japan and, to alleviate transportation and 60% (29 individuals) of eligible male employees have taken special leave (as of congestion during the Tokyo Olympic and Paralympic Games, encourage companies and other Akane Hirooka December 31, 2019). organizations nationwide to practice coordinated telecommuting on certain days Under the theme of going beyond conventional healthcare Business Development Center Lion’s page in the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare’s database of companies submitting action wisdom, NOIL is aimed at continuously creating businesses that (Previously of the Marking Division) Lion has received offer new value. In the program’s first year, it received applications The experience of independently coming up Kurumin certification plans and data based on the Next Generation Education and Support Promotion Act (Japanese) with the solution to a problem I had in my five times and received from more than 100 people, collecting ideas based on diverse Platinum Kurumin own daily life was the impetus for my Certification in 2019. https://ryouritsu.mhlw.go.jp/hiroba/search_dtl.php?cn=107866#actionplan perspectives from employees not only in the R&D Division and applying to NOIL. I wanted to share my solution with others and spread the Marketing Division, but divisions across the Company, including joy it brought. I also wanted to work on solving consumers’ problems from those related to sales and production. To commercialize the a wider perspective that transcends the boundaries of ideas for new products and services that management and the areas I had worked in previously. Bringing together Work-from-Home System underutilized resources and consumers’ real desires, I We are implementing ongoing initiatives related to our workIn early 2020, to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus, outside experts selected as promising, the employees that am starting to work toward commercialization. from-home system with the aim of accommodating except for employees who must be physically present to submitted the chosen ideas have been transferred to the newly autonomous work styles in line with the diversity of our perform their duties, all our employees were working from employees and increasing productivity. To encourage home. Since the lifting of Japan’s state of emergency in May, Enhancing the Group-wide Occupational Health and Safety Management System employees to try the system, we have been adjusting related we have continued working to make maximum use of the workWe are taking steps to enhance our occupational health and Occupational Safety systems and their operation, including participation in the 2019 from-home system and other measures to reduce the risk of safety management system with the objectives of zero serious In 2019, the number of labor-related accidents for the domestic Telework Days campaign (July – September 2019). By the end employee infection, shifting away from the default assumption accidents and zero serious incidents throughout the Lion Group was 26 (excluding eight cases that occurred during of 2019, trial implementation had expanded to the point that of working on-site. We are advancing the use of digital tools to Group. We hold the Safety, Hygiene and Disaster Prevention commutes to work). When occupational accidents occur, the the portion of employees who had used the work-from-home conduct meetings and morning briefings remotely and Meeting twice a year. Chaired by a member of top Safety Management Secretariat at our Headquarters conducts system at least once had grown to 49%. improving environments to enable diverse work styles. management, the meetings coordinate ongoing Companyon-site investigations, thoroughly identifies the causes and wide initiatives aimed at fully eliminating risks related to facility takes thoroughgoing corrective response measures. In order to User’s Perspective safety and occupational safety. Lion has added disaster prevent occupational accidents, it is crucial to enhance our Figuring Out an Ideal Work Style: Telecommuting prevention items to the Occupational Safety and Health safety management system and heighten our awareness of An advantage of telecommuting is that it allows you to find better, more efficient ways of working. Iyo Takatsu Management System (OSHMS)* based on the guidelines of occupational safety. We will continue to promote measures to After getting my work done efficiently, I often have more time than I otherwise would to prepare Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare to establish a further improve individual safety awareness and sensitivity. Beauty Care Business Department, dinner and can take more care with it. Being able to feel satisfied with the level of housework I do Health and Home Care unique Safety, Hygiene and Disaster Prevention Management even on weekdays has felt like a real lifestyle improvement. Products Headquarters System. Since 2009, we have operated this system at all Employees who Participated in Risk Simulation Training domestic Group companies, striving to further enhance safety, (Safety Training) in 2019 (Internal education) hygiene and disaster prevention activities. Developing Human Resources Chiba Odawara Osaka Akashi Our domestic companies actively support overseas Group Total Enhancing Lion Career Village (LCV) Focus Plant Plant Plant Plant companies in preventing occupational accidents. In 2018, we In 2019, we launched Lion Career Village (LCV) to support Lion Career Village Receives Two Awards 259 55 40 37 391 established a Safety and Disaster Prevention Promotion employees’ autonomous development of their abilities. More The LCV system received the Career Up Education Special Division Department directly below the management level, further than 60% of those eligible are using LCV online instructional 16th Japan e-Learning Grand Prize organized by e-Learning Initiative strengthening the Lion Group’s occupational health, safety and Safety of Facilities content, with approximately 20% participating in discussionJapan and Nihon Kogyo Shimbunsha as well as the Nihon no Jinjibu disaster prevention management system. In 2019, we Lion conducts facility inspections to maintain safety through style programs. LCV is thus contributing to the formation of HR Award 2019 from the Nihon no Jinjibu HR Award Organizing implemented e-learning about safety to instill safety awareness daily routine inspections and regular maintenance. Our diligent self-directed learning habits among employees. Going forward, Committee. Going forward, we will continue to in employees (participation: 99.8%). We will continue such performance of maintenance inspections helps prevent failures to help employees gain knowledge that will further expand the improve work environments that promote ambition initiatives going forward. and accidents. There were zero facility-related accidents in breadth and depth of their work and with an eye to accelerating and creation to help all employees advance their 2019. We will continue to focus our efforts on ensuring the institutional learning, we will create environments that enable careers in an effort to reinforce front-line capabilities. Occupational Safety and Facility Safety (Japanese) transmission of technical know-how from employee to them to teach one another and share what they have learned. https://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/employee/prevention/ employee as well as on providing training. Marketing Study Program The Marketing Study Program has been implemented based on consumer insights and competitive strategies. The continuously in the Marketing Division since 2014. This program also serves to develop marketing personnel in * Occupational Safety and Health Management System (OSHMS) A system to voluntarily conduct continuous safety and health management program offers opportunities for the systematic study of such accordance with individual career paths. through PDCA. topics as practical marketing theory and planning design 27 Lion Integrated Report 2020: Sustainability Lion Integrated Report 2020: Sustainability 28 Community Involvement Organizational Lion’s Sustainability The Environment Human Rights Labor Practices Fair Operating Practices Consumer Issues and Development Governance E S G E S G Related SDGs Fair Operating Practices Reinforcing Health and Productivity Management When employees act on their own initiative with a high level of Support “GENKI” Action, based on the concept of the Basic Approach health awareness to acquire sound health habits, it not only “ReDesign” of employees’ health-related habits to be more Lion regards the creation of responsible supply chain management through reinforced coordination with serves to maintain and improve their health, but helps them natural, easy and enjoyable. Through this initiative, we are working materials manufacturers and production contractors as a key issue in its supply chain initiatives. To achieve personal growth and professional and personal to increase health awareness and encourage employees to fulfillment. This, in turn, serves to enhance corporate take self-directed action to maintain and improve their health. reduce the negative environmental and social impacts of business activities and advance sustainable productivity and creativity and expand opportunities for Lion to mutual business development, we must work with suppliers to evolve our sustainably initiatives based Guidelines for Health contribute to society through sustainable growth. on our Procurement Principles. These principles clearly lay out Lion’s policy of considering legal h  ttps://www.lion.co.jp/en/company/compliance/ From 2019, we have been implementing Lion-Style Health health.php compliance, environmental conservation and respect for human rights when selecting suppliers. Procurement Principles Lion-Style Health Support “GENKI” Action Key Measures https://www.lion.co.jp/en/company/compliance/procurement.php 1. Clearly laying out current and future lifestyle-related disease risk We plan to implement an individual health information system that clearly lays out each employee’s health-related data, such as that from health checkups, dental Establishment of the LION Anti-Bribery Principles checkups and saliva tests, and make such data easy to access by that individual. 2. Fostering preventive dentistry habits The Lion Group established the LION Anti-Bribery Principles in We aim for all employees to practice preventive dentistry. We are implementing a Main Content January 2019 in light of developments around the world range of initiatives, such as subsidizing the cost of receiving professional care, 1. The Lion Group is committed to preventing bribery or corruption recommending dentists and directly contacting high-risk individuals. related to strengthening legal regulations against acts of based on the Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior Creating 3. Reinforcing countermeasures for three common types of cancer* healthy habits bribery and corruption. 2. The Lion Group reaps no profit from bribery or other corruption 2. Preventive We have established a voluntary screening system aimed at early detection and dentistry and requests the cooperation of its business partners in Mental treatment. 3. Countermeasures fighting corruption * Lung, stomach and colon cancers for three major Physical Mental health Going forward, we will continue working to ensure that our measures 3. The Lion Group designates a general manager for bribery 4. Reinforcing Anti-Smoking Initiatives cancers business activities are fully compliant with the laws and prevention and maintains a compliance system 4. Anti-smoking We are advancing support, including creating facilitative environments, for employees regulations of the countries and regions in which we do business. Awareness who want to quit smoking. We have an online antismoking support program, and, beginning in January 2020, have banned smoking during work hours. Through such LION Anti-Bribery Principles 1. Individualized Health Information System efforts, we are working to reduce the smoking rate among employees. https://www.lion.co.jp/en/company/compliance/anti-bribery.php Mental Health Initiatives Lion established the Mental Health Basic Policy in 2004, and tests are compiled and analyzed by section/department in Promoting Sustainability with Materials Manufacturers and Production Contractors continually and systematically promotes mental care for such a way that individuals cannot be identified and then  elf-Checks Based on the Lion Group Supplier CSR S them with feedback based on the results. Through these employees based on the Guidelines for Maintaining and provided as feedback to responsible officers, applied in Improving Mental Health of Workers. In 2019, 98% of manager training and otherwise applied to improve our Guidelines efforts, we have put into place a system that continuously employees took a stress level check test. The results of such ongoing organizational measures. Every year, we ask our materials manufacturers and production advances CSR procurement. In 2020, Qingdao Lion, a Group contractors to implement self-checks based on the Lion Group company in China, also requested self-checks from its Management System Supplier CSR Guidelines, which specify the sustainability suppliers. We will continue to promote sustainable and We have built a health and productivity management system, the individual responsible for health and productivity initiatives we expect from these partners. We then provide responsible procurement activities with our business partners. in which management, led by the President, participates to management at each office. strengthen and accelerate relevant initiatives and measures. Measures are implemented through the cooperative efforts of Health Management Program—Mental, Physical and Awareness (Japanese) * Lion Group Supplier CSR Guidelines and Glossary the Health Support Office (including industrial physicians and The Lion Group Supplier CSR Guidelines comprise 21 guidelines under the following five categories. https://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/employee/health/#program health care providers), the Lion Health Insurance Society and 1. Human Rights/Labor Practices 2. The Environment 3. Fair Operating Practices 4. Consumer Issues 5. Compliance https://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/businesscustom/valuechain/pdf/eng.pdf * Available on our website in Japanese, Promoting Amicable Labor-Management Relations English, Chinese and Korean Lion executes labor agreements with the Lion Workers’ Union Operating under a union shop agreement,* Lion endeavors to Timeline of Sustainable and Responsible Procurement Initiatives to promote sound labor-management relations based on build amicable labor-management relations, in which mutual understanding and trust. As it does so, the Company employees and management proactively conduct such 2005 Instituted the Basic Policy Regarding Purchasing and implemented appropriate procurement of raw materials and products. adheres to the Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior, activities as reporting on business conditions and exchanging Established the Procurement Principles, which clarify our social and environmental considerations. Conducted a questionnaire survey for which is based on an understanding of the social mission and opinions about the working environment at labor-management 2008 domestic and overseas raw material manufacturers and production contractors about their corporate activities regarding legal compliance, responsibilities of the Company. Thus, in cooperation with its meetings. At overseas Group companies, we actively maintain product service quality and safety, environmental considerations, labor practices and human rights, and fair trade. workers union, the Company works to grow its business and communication between employees and management in order Amended the Procurement Principles and clarified our stance of considering legal compliance, environmental conservation and respect for human 2013 rights when selecting business partners. Instituted the Lion Group Supplier CSR Guidelines, which specify the sustainability initiatives we expect maintain and improve the working conditions of union to create a better work environment through the laborfrom raw material manufactures and production contractors and asked our business partners to conduct self-checks of their sustainability initiatives. members. The agreements provide that: the Company shall management meetings and strive to establish and maintain 2014 Introduced an online CSR self-check system. recognize the freedom of union members to engage in lawful sound labor-management relationships. Lion Corporation Korea, an overseas Group company in South Korea, requested self-checks from its business partners, expanding the number union activities; the Company shall not treat union members 2018 * A labor agreement in which workers are employed by a company on condition of countries in which the Group implements self-checks. disadvantageously by reason thereof; and the Company and of becoming a member of a specific labor union. Established the LION Human Rights Policy and LION Anti-Bribery Principles to clarify our stance on initiatives for sustainable and responsible procurement. the union shall engage in labor-management meetings on a 2019 Established the Sustainable Material Procurement Policy to advance initiatives aimed at the sustainable procurement of palm oil derivatives and pulp and paper products, which are key raw materials for the Lion Group. regular basis to consult with each other as equals. 29 Lion Integrated Report 2020: Sustainability Lion Integrated Report 2020: Sustainability 30 Community Involvement Organizational Lion’s Sustainability The Environment Human Rights Labor Practices Fair Operating Practices Consumer Issues and Development Governance E S G E S G Related SDGs Consumer Issues PDCA Cycle for Supplier Sustainability Self-Checks Supplier Sustainability Self-Check Results (2019) Basic Approach No response Response Rate Plan Do In order to provide products that will satisfy customers, Lion carries out quality assurance activities at Establishment and Request for self-checks 0.3% 2016 94% disclosure of CSR based on the CSR Requested all stages from the very beginning of the product development process to consumption by customers. 2017 99% Guidelines Guidelines improvement 2018 98% Specifically, by identifying the key requirements at each stage of corporate activities— 1 product Share the Procurement Principles Ask suppliers to conduct online 19.0% No need for 2019 99% planning, 2 product development, 3 production, 4 sales and 5 customer support—we are and CSR Guidelines with suppliers self-checks improvement 2020 target 100% constantly pursuing customer satisfaction. 80.7% Number of companies monitored: During product planning, valuable customer opinions are analyzed to identify specific needs. At the Action Check 585 raw material manufacturers and production contractors of the domestic Lion product development stage, product quality is verified with respect to seven metrics, including function Feedback and improvement Analysis of self-checks Group (513 domestic and 72 overseas) and performance, and consideration is given to making labeling easy to read and accessible. During Give feedback to suppliers Analyze the responses and regarding results in detail and identify suppliers that production, quality is thoroughly managed within each process, and products that have passed request improvements where need improvement 2019 Results Summary inspection are shipped in identifiable lots, aiding in effective after-sales management. A variety of necessary • The response rate in 2019 was 99%, and the average score, on a scale of 1 to 3 points, was 2.72, confirming that sustainability information is sent to wholesalers and retailers, including product descriptions and samples. In order to ensure that our suppliers understand the importance of addressing measures are being implemented throughout the supply chain. sustainability-related issues, we include a section explaining the situation • We are currently requesting cooperation from the two suppliers who surrounding sustainability in our self-check request form. The self-check employs did not respond. Product Development Incorporating Customer Opinions a three-step checking standard for each initiative and a detailed glossary. Maximization of customer satisfaction Aiming for Sustainable Raw Material Procurement Lion aims to contribute to the achievement of the Sustainable (RSPO*) since 2006 and sources RSPO-certified palm oil Customers Development Goals (SDGs), a set of shared worldwide goals derivatives. In 2019, we continued these efforts to meet our for 2030. However, palm oil derivatives and pulp and paper targets for 2020 and achieved a RSPO-certified procurement products, which are key raw materials in Lion’s products, rate for palm oil derivatives of approximately 14%. Customer support present risks to sustainable development in terms of human Sustainable Pulp and Paper Procurement 5 5 rights, labor issues and environmental issues. To address these Pulp and paper are used in the manufacture of Lion’s product Management risks, we have established the Sustainable Material packaging, booklets and pamphlets as well as in the copy Process of developing safe and high-quality products Procurement Policy. Based on this policy, we are advancing paper and other office supplies the Company purchases. In initiatives aimed at the sustainable procurement of palm oil order to better protect biodiversity in the procurement of these 1 Product planning 2 Product development 3 Production 4 Sales derivatives and pulp and paper products. materials, based on the Sustainable Raw Material Procurement Customer opinions and Products are developed by Raw materials and production Product information is market survey findings are translating quality targets processes are managed to communicated in an accessible Sustainable Palm Oil Procurement Policy, we are advancing the procurement of third partyreflected in planning to set a target level of quality for high into design quality manufacture products at a manner that informs customers Lion uses palm oil derivatives—plant-based raw materials that certified paper products. As of the end of 2019, the customer satisfaction. technical metrics. stable level of quality. of product features and usage. are inexhaustible and carbon neutral—in its products. Lion has procurement rate of such products was 96%. been a member of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil To help customers realize everyday happiness, Lion shares and practices a fundamental focus on customer satisfaction. By responding to customer opinions and engaging in a continuous cycle of product quality improvement, we create products that better satisfy customers. Target: For all palm oil, palm kernel oil and their derivatives as well as pulp and paper used in the domestic Lion Group’s consumer products to meet the sustainability standards of third-party institutions or be sourced from recycled materials by the end of 2030. Group-wide Reliability Assurance System Focus In 2018, we established the Reliability Assurance Department products from the perspective of reliability assurance. Lion * The Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil Joined Sedex, the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange to reinforce quality assurance based on a quality management manufactures and sells products ranging from everyday sundries The Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) believes that for palm oil Headquartered in the United Kingdom, Sedex is a not-for-profit system covering the entire supply chain. to pharmaceuticals, so its quality assurance system is designed production to be sustainable, it must not only be compliant with relevant laws organization that provides the world’s largest platform for managing and regulations, but economically sustainable, environmentally appropriate in line with the respective standards for each product category. and sharing ethical supply chain data, with the aim of establishing To implement quality assurance activities on a Company-wide and socially beneficial. These requirements are laid out concretely in the ethical and responsible business practices in global supply chains. RSPO Principles and Criteria. Only palm oil produced in accordance with basis, we have established the CS/PL Committee,* comprising Furthermore, Lion maintains a system for swiftly taking the Lion joined Sedex as an AB member at the end of 2019 in order to these seven principles and 40 criteria can be RSPO-certified. representatives of the Product Planning Division, Production necessary measures to address any serious problems that may further reduce social and environmental risk RSPO Division, R&D Division, Consumer Service Center and arise with its products. These measures include responding to in its purchasing. Going forward, we will https://www.rspo.org/ continue to reinforce and enhance supplier headquarters staff divisions. The Reliability Assurance individuals harmed or affected, disclosing relevant information management and risk management. Department serves as the secretariat for this committee. The to government authorities and customers, issuing product CS/PL Committee provides overall management of quality recalls and taking steps to prevent recurrences. Sustainable Material Procurement Policy Together with Supply Chains (Japanese) assurance activities, monitoring Group-wide efforts and * CS/PL Committee https://www.lion.co.jp/en/company/compliance/ https://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/businesscustom/ responses to issues in the areas of legal compliance, setting A committee focused on customer satisfaction (CS) and product liability (PL) material-procurement.php voluntary standards and targets, and developing superior 31 Lion Integrated Report 2020: Sustainability Lion Integrated Report 2020: Sustainability 32 Community Involvement Organizational Lion’s Sustainability The Environment Human Rights Labor Practices Fair Operating Practices Consumer Issues and Development Governance E S G E S G Developing Safe and High-quality Products Approach to Safety and Reliability Approach to Responsible Product Representations To ensure that customers can use Lion products with To improve the quality of representations (such as labels and Product Planning products that will further satisfy customers confidence, we evaluate the safety both of raw materials and advertising) for all the products it sells (including food and 1 planning of final products during use. pharmaceutical products), Lion has clearly designated its approach to product representation standards and established Customer Analysis/ Proposals Discussion and approval Safety of Raw Materials and Ingredients a representation drafting manual comprising guidelines for feedback deliberation of the proposal Preparation After first examining the safety of a raw material, we evaluate precise, appropriate product representation preparation in of a product Product Planning Meeting samples and investigate suppliers to ensure a certain level of each step of product development under its Product proposal Executive Committee quality. Based on the results of these efforts, we then determine Management System. These guidelines apply to all wording Marketing research whether or not to use the raw material in question. Each and expressions used in product packaging, instructions, • Marketing research material is classified as a pharmaceutical, quasi-drug, cosmetic, pamphlets, advertisements and other representations. Market results food, or general product, and its quality is assessed based on To reinforce the monitoring of expressions used in advertising, analysis and • Concept customer the inspection parameters and testing methods appropriate for Lion operates an advertising management system comprising • Target research quality level its classification before it is actually accepted for use. the following aspects. Safety of Raw Materials and Ingredients (Japanese) (1) Enhancement of the vetting system applied to advertising for all products, including food products https://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/consumer/ (2) Consultation with the Consumer Affairs Agency and other quality/#area03 Product government agencies as needed 2 development Creating products with a focus on quality and safety (3) Thorough legal training for employees Safety of Products During Use Giving due consideration to the various ways products may be In particular, to ensure thorough compliance with the Act Examination of containers Examination and Discussion and approval and their content checking of labeling of development results used as well as product use by socially vulnerable customers, against Unjustifiable Premiums and Misleading Quality verification we perform safety evaluations based on an approach of Representations and other laws and regulations concerning Production Engineering Meeting Seven metrics avoiding risks at the product design stage. To this end, we use product labels and advertising, Lion provides e-learning for all Function/performance Discussion and approval of development results a checklist to determine whether the product design ensures employees and lectures for employees in related divisions as Usability Safety safety in both “normal use” and “mistaken use” cases. For part of its legal education initiatives. Product Planning Meeting Product stability Environmental friendliness Discussion and approval of “irregular use” cases, we assess whether risk reduction is Appearance (incl. design) product commercialization plans possible and whether the risk is tolerable, and, as necessary, Initiatives to Respond to Our Customers Compliance with laws and self-imposed standards Executive Committee clearly label the product with an explicit safety warning. In So that we may leverage inquiries received from customers to Decision on commercialization addition, the quality verification meeting, which encompasses develop new products and improve our products and services, representatives of related departments, performs assessments Quality verification meeting Process safety such inquiries are registered in a database operating under a strict verification meeting based on customer use scenarios in order to prevent harm When starting development, the target After the completion of personal information management system and shared across the quality and parameters for examining development, the viability Safety assurance in the related to product use and to prevent the omission of items manufacturing process Company through an information sharing system that excludes development are confirmed. of the product is confirmed. is confirmed. that should be checked for safety. If there is trouble with a personal information. Items that are considered impactful to product, we have an internal system in place, ready to promptly customer satisfaction and insights gleaned from ordinary contact issue product recalls or otherwise respond as needed. with customers are reported daily to top management in the form of the VOC*1 Daily Letter. Through such efforts, Lion works to 3 Production Confirmation of quality in mass production Scope of Safety Assurance improve customer support quality by gaining an understanding of the customer’s perspective and by quickly considering and Preparation for initial manufacturing Manufacturing Storage (shipment) responding through improvement measures, mainly through Reckless Unforeseeable and the Product Planning Division. In 2019, we sent out 236 VOC unreasonable usage use Daily Letters. Customer feedback comes from a wide range of Foreseeable usage, sources, including not only telephone calls and emails, but also but outside of the norm Reduction of risk to tolerable Irregular (highly excessive use, from SNSs*2 and the like. An internal dedicated organization levels and warning labels use Confirm quality of raw materials, Assess quality in trial production. Perform quality control Product freshness or use for purposes very analyzes such this feedback and proactively disseminates packaging and containers. Survey market acceptability. in each process is controlled. different from those intended) information gleaned from it to the relevant departments. Usage not intended *1. VOC: Voice of Customers Mistaken by Lion but which *2. SNS: Social networking services (Facebook, Twitter etc.) use must be foreseen Safety assurance required Recall Status of Varsan Hyosatsu Jet Lion has been voluntarily recalling Varsan Hyosatsu Jet for Flying 4 Sales Provision of product quality information Normal Usage intended Insects and Varsan Hyosatsu Jet for Crawling Insects since August 27, use by Lion 2007, because these products have led to fire-related accidents. As of the end of December 2019, 1.48 million of these products have been Wholesalers and retailers Communicating via product recalled (recall rate: 45.7%). We ask consumers who still have any of are provided with product information displays and these products and reside in Japan to assist in the recall. feature and usage product samples at stores, Notice Regarding Varsan Products (Japanese) information to pass on television and newspapers, to customers. our website and other media  ttps://www.lion.co.jp/ja/products/ h information/200708_01.php 33 Lion Integrated Report 2020: Sustainability Lion Integrated Report 2020: Sustainability 34 Community Involvement Organizational Lion’s Sustainability The Environment Human Rights Labor Practices Fair Operating Practices Consumer Issues and Development Governance E S G E S G Related SDGs Community Involvement and Development Providing Useful Information for Daily Living and Promoting Educational Activities Lion actively engages in communication with consumers with Basic Approach the aim of expanding our creation and dissemination of Since its founding, Lion has sought to help consumers enjoy healthy living through the provision of information that contributes to healthy and comfortable living. products while carrying out educational activities and communication aimed at creating better living habits. In Japan and countries and regions across Asia, Lion is engaged in initiatives that contribute to the Survey and research data Customer opinions sustainable development of society and the global environment through the areas of health, comfort and Collection and cleanliness. We believe that our continued business viability depends on co-existing harmoniously with accumulation of information the communities in which we are involved, such as those where Lion facilities are located. We therefore strive to help solve issues in and invigorate local communities in partnership with local residents, Creation of useful information government agencies and citizens’ groups. In addition, by increasing opportunities for every employee to get involved in business-related educational activities, we foster human resources that create new value informed by a high level of social and environmental awareness. 快適生活研究所 暮らしのマイスター Aiming to contribute to everyday health and comfort and longer healthy life expectancy around the 快適生活研究所 快適生活研究所 快適生活研究所 Lion 快適生活研究所Comfortable 暮らしのマイスター 暮らしのマイスター 暮らしのマイスター Meisters of world, Lion seeks to “ReDesign” everyday rituals to become more natural, easy and enjoyable in order 快適生活研究所 快適生活研究所 暮らしのマイスター 暮らしのマイスター 暮らしのマイスター Lifestyle Laboratories Daily Life to realize healthy minds and bodies for all. Transmission Information Events Publications of news dissemination Environmental Communication Health Comfort Cleanliness Business Domains Media, etc. Schools, business Books Websites Promoting Supporting mental and Establishing good Oral care seminar for a PTA by a Meister of Daily Life partners, facilities, etc. oral healthcare physical comfort cleanliness habits Communication with Customers Using the “Lidea” Lifestyle Information Website Basic Co-existence Employee Enhancement with Policies involvement of partnerships Lidea is a lifestyle information website aimed at inspiring Going forward, Lion will continue to provide information useful communities curiosity about living habits and helping users cherish each day for daily living through Lidea and use the information by providing content about Lion products, the technologies accumulated through Lidea to deepen diverse forms of behind them, and approaches to daily living. The site provides communication with customers. Creating Healthy Living Habits in Coordination with Communities accurate information that is useful for consumers’ daily living, Lidea (Japanese) Promoting Oral Healthcare presented mainly by the Meisters of Daily Life, lifestyle Lion aims to help improve consumer health through oral help consumers understand the significance of forming healthy information specialists. https://lidea.today/ healthcare. The keys to oral healthcare are learning correct habits and, through the provision of products and services, knowledge and establishing preventive dentistry habits to manage seeking to “ReDesign” everyday rituals to become more natural, Information Security Measures dental health and avoid problems. Accordingly, Lion is working to easy and enjoyable so that people will naturally want to do them. In order to thoroughly protect personal information and ensure As education for our employees in Japan, we implement D  eveloping Oral Healthcare Leaders in Coordination New Community Building Activities Using Online Content information security, Lion has established the Personal e-learning every year regarding the risks of social media, with Local Governments In 2019, we launched HAGUKI CHECKER,* an online tool that Information Management Regulations, the Basic Policy of Our information security and information management structures. Lion seeks to promote preventive dentistry practices that checks the state of users’ teeth and gums. Users simply use a Information Management, the Information Management All domestic Group employees participated in 2019. For our consumers can perform themselves. To this end, in communities smartphone or other device to take photos of the inside of Regulations, and the Information Security Regulations in overseas Group companies, we are enhancing information with which we have formed partnerships, we hold oral healthcare their mouths, including the teeth and gums, and upload them accordance with Act on the Protection of Personal Information. security, including the protection of personal information, leader development lectures to empower local governments, as to HAGUKI CHECKER. The online service then uses AI to In addition, with a view to ensuring appropriate publishing of based on local legislation. oral healthcare leaders, to identify individual teeth and check the state of the gums information, we have established the Lion Group Social Media provide residents with tooth around each. By helping consumers see and understand their Lion Group Social Media Policy Policy and related guidelines regarding employee use of social brushing information and own oral environments, HAGUKI CHECKER sparks greater media (social networking services, blogs, etc.). https://www.lion.co.jp/en/legal/smp.php practical techniques that can interest in the state of their gums. be beneficial to overall health. * Developed based on Lion’s data and expertise, HAGUKI CHECKER was created Ensuring Product Safety and Reliability (Japanese) We are currently carrying out using the AI image analysis technology of Automagi Inc. and the service development technology of MTI Ltd. https://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/consumer/ these activities in the cities of Oral healthcare leader development Gum checking tool HAGUKI CHECKER Ishinomaki and Sakaide. lecture in Sakaide Oral Healthcare Leader Development Lectures (Japanese) Users Cumulative Approx. 16,000 https://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/community/oral/self-care/ (July 22, 2019 to December 26, 2019) 35 Lion Integrated Report 2020: Sustainability Lion Integrated Report 2020: Sustainability 36 Community Involvement Organizational Lion’s Sustainability The Environment Human Rights Labor Practices Fair Operating Practices Consumer Issues and Development Governance E S G E S G Promoting Oral Healthcare through the Lion Foundation for Dentistry Health  ctivities to Establish Cleanliness Habits through A aiming to spread and establish cleanliness habits among the In line with the principle of “returning profits obtained through interest incorporated foundation. Through the three public Employee Involvement citizens of Sakaide City. corporate activities to society,” which has remained benefit services shown below, LDH continues to work to Lion implements activities to promote proper hand washing * Oral healthcare educational activities were also initiated from April 2019. unchanged since its founding, Lion has been implementing maintain and improve the dental and oral health of consumers habits, mainly with the KireiKirei brand, aiming to realize oral healthcare promotional and educational activities since in coordination with the Japan Dental Association, universities everyday health and comfort for consumers. Participating preschoolers Cumulative Approx. 35,000 1913. In 1964, Lion established the Lion Foundation for Dental and government bodies. LDH thus strives to contribute to Employee participation rate Cumulative Approx. 42.8% Health (LDH), which was approved by the then Ministry of society at the frontlines of oral care in order to improve quality With a policy that encourages employees to get involved Health and Welfare of Japan. In 2010, the Cabinet Office of life for all. Lion lends its full support to these activities. through volunteer activities, Lion aims for 100% of current Establishing Cleanliness Habits (Japanese) approved a change in the foundation’s status to a public employees to have participated in activities to promote good hand washing habits by 2050. From 2012 to 2019, 1,222 https://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/community/washing/ Main Activities of LDH in 2019 employees participated (cumulative participation rate 42.8%). Three Public Benefit Services of LDH Interacting with 1. Oral health promotion projects Oral health promotion for mothers and children local families Childcare support programs in the area Over this period, approximately 35,000 preschoolers (Sakaide Project) Educational activities to promote oral health practices of dental and oral health for expectant participated in these activities. We are promoting good hand at all life stages mothers and infants, preschoolers and their guardians. washing habits at kindergartens, preschools and public 2. Research and investigative projects Participants: 1,435 infants and facilities, mainly in the areas where Lion facilities are located Research and investigation into the importance of oral preschoolers across Japan, Ishinomaki City (Miyagi Prefecture), which was care for extending healthy life expectancy and the Approx. Cumulative affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake and an area provision of information on research results obtained participants 1,150,000 closely connected to our founder, and Sakaide City (Kagawa Initiatives for Hygiene and Health Care in Times of Disaster through business and other activities to specialists Oral health promotion for school children Prefecture), where KireiKirei Hand Soap is manufactured. In Paying attention to health is especially and customers Face-to-face educational activities with addition, we conduct activities in cooperation with our important in a disaster situation. Lion 3. Educational and training projects schoolchildren and their guardians and support for the activities of health business partners and incorporate good hand washing habit creates and distributes pamphlets and Holding of various seminars and lectures for health instructors. promotion activities conducted at kindergartens and posters titled “Hygiene and Health instructors and dental specialists Participants: 6,315 schoolchildren preschools into the corporate training programs of young Care in Times of Disaster” as part of 854 health instructors Approx. employees in order to heighten employee awareness of efforts to provide information on Cumulative Lion Foundation for Dental Health participants 23,285,000 community involvement. Activities to promote good hand cleanliness and health care. washing habits are also conducted in Asian countries and https://www.lion-dent-health.or.jp/english/ Oral health promotion for adults (in industry) Instruction focused on the prevention of regions where KireiKirei products are sold. From 2017, we have held educational a gum disease and on the maintenance activities for local residents in the communities throughout The Oral Health Event of Tooth Brushing for Children and improvement of dental and oral We work with local governments as well. Since 2014, Sakaide Japan where our facility sites are located. We will contribute to The Oral Health Event of Tooth Brushing for Children, started in health for employees of various companies. City, Lion and the Lion Chemical Co., Ltd. Oleochemical the establishment of cleanliness habits. 1932, is held every year for elementary school students during Participants: 15,212 Production Site, which produces KireiKirei hand soap, have Hygiene and Health Care Information for Times of Disaster Dental/Oral Health Week (June 4th to 10th). For the 77th event Cumulative Approx. been jointly promoting the KireiKirei City-Sakaide Project, in 2020, participating schools chose a date to participate and participants 2,122,000 https://www.lion.co.jp/en/emergency-care/ took part by watching an educational DVD. Approximately Oral health promotion for the elderly (from 2007) 270,000 elementary school students attending a total of 4,722 Provision of support to help maintain Activities in Coordination with Communities schools participated in 2020, including students in Japan and oral functions so that participants can seven other countries and regions, mainly in Asia. eat with their own teeth and mouth long Plant Tours into the future. Lion considers plant tours to be an important contact point Participants: 66,042 between customers and the Company. So that customers can Approx. Cumulative get to know Lion products and witness the extremely high participants 186,000 priority the Company places on safety and environmental Dental Checkups and Treatment conservation in its operations, we welcome many visitors to Implementation of highly professional, high-quality treatment and preventive the plants every year. dentistry activities tailored to individuals Explanation of the laundry detergent manufacturing process (Chiba Plant) at all life stages, from infants to the elderly. Plant Plant tours Participants Participants: 5,502 Chiba 71 1,825 Read about Lion’s environmental communication initiatives: Approx. • Toothbrush Recycling Program p.20 Cumulative Odawara 107 2,823 participants 1,864,000 Cumulative totals are total numbers • Forest Maintenance Activities at the Lion Forest in Yamanashi Osaka 48 1,149 since establishment of the LDH (1964) p.21 Akashi 63 1,340 • Biodiversity Conservation (Japanese) Promoting Oral Healthcare (Japanese) Total 289 7,137 Participating elementary https://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/ Cumulative Approx. 1.96 million school students https://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/community/oral/ (January 1, 2019 to December 31, 2019) biodiversity/activity/ 37 Lion Integrated Report 2020: Sustainability Lion Integrated Report 2020: Sustainability 38 Community Involvement Organizational Lion’s Sustainability The Environment Human Rights Labor Practices Fair Operating Practices Consumer Issues and Development Governance E S G Related SDGs E S G Organizational Governance Matters decided at the Sustainability Promotion Meeting are Board of Directors discussed by the Executive Committee and Board of Directors Basic Approach Executive Committee as necessary and then reflected in the business activities of The Lion Group’s top priorities for corporate governance are to increase management transparency, business execution departments. Referral for discussion strengthen supervisory functions, accelerate decision making and ensure compliance. By strengthening Sustainability Promotion Meeting In 2020, objectives for 2030 regarding the Sustainability Reflect decisions and enhancing its corporate governance system, Lion aims to increase its corporate value. in operations Share progress status Material Issues were discussed by the Sustainability Promotion Meeting and approved. Business execution departments Business divisions, Production Headquarters, R&D Headquarters, operating divisions, affiliated companies, overseas Group companies Corporate Governance System Internal Control System At Lion, oversight of management is carried out under an audit Committee were established to increase management In accordance with the Corporation Law and the Enforcement Internal Audits and supervisory board system. In March 2004, Lion adopted transparency and further enhance corporate governance. Regulations of the Corporation Law, Lion has put systems in The Auditing Office, under the direct supervision of the an executive officer system and divided the functions Membership of each of these committees comprises mainly place to ensure the appropriateness of Group operations. With President, implements audits across the Lion Group, previously handled by the Board of Directors. Under the new five external officers (three external directors and two external regard to the systems for evaluating and auditing internal control examining their operations from the perspectives of legality, system, the Board of Directors is responsible for management Audit & Supervisory Board members), all of whom are qualified with respect to financial reporting, as prescribed in Japan’s fairness, efficiency and risk management in order to establish a decision making and oversight, and the Executive Committee as independent directors. The representative directors and all Financial Instruments and Exchange Act, we have established foundation for sound business activities. One of the features of is charged with business execution. the external officers exchange information regularly (once a controls at the Company-wide and business process levels. Lion’s internal audit system is that we exchange information month, in principle) in an effort to enhance management Evaluations of the effectiveness of our internal control are made closely with the Audit & Supervisory Board Members, striving Moreover, Lion reduced the size of its Board of Directors from oversight and monitoring functions. by the Auditing Office, which reports its findings to the President to reinforce coordination. Audit results and the status of the 19 directors it had before adopting the executive officer and Audit & Supervisory Board members. It also reports to the improvements are reported to the President, directors with system to the current nine in order to facilitate more In addition, to reflect the opinions and advice of third parties with Board of Directors on a regular basis. As a result of these related responsibilities and the Executive Committee after each substantive discussion and faster decision making. Also, a regard to legal compliance and management policies, we have evaluations, we have determined that Lion’s internal control with audit. A summary of the audit results is reported to the Board Nomination Advisory Committee and Compensation Advisory set up an Advisory Committee consisting of external experts. respect to financial reporting in 2019 was effective, and we of Directors twice a year to advance PDCA management of submitted our Internal Control Report along with our Securities audit operations. Reports are also provided to the Executive Corporate Governance Report to the Prime Minister in March 2020. Committee to facilitate the sharing of information with business Shareholders Meeting Report (Japanese) Securities Report (Japanese) execution departments. Consultation Board of Directors Audit & Supervisory h ttps://www.lion.co.jp/ https://www.lion.co.jp/ja/ir/library/yuhou/ Nomination Supervision of management Board Members Monitoring Advisory Committee Response P Decisions on execution of important Auditing Legality audits ja/company/about/ management matters Operational audits pdf/abo_gov.pdf Accounting Auditors Compensation Consultation P Supervision of directors’ executive performance Auditing Reporting Risk Management Advisory Committee P Supervision of executive officers Opinions Response and advice In order to continue providing our customers with safe and may have a particularly significant impact on investor judgment on legal compliance Auditing reliable products, we have appointed a Director Responsible and are disclosed in the Company’s Securities Report. Advisory Committee Reporting Delegation Reporting for Risk Management who comprehensively controls and Advice Proposals Internal control of supervises risk for the whole Lion Group. Appropriate Business Continuity Plans (BCPs) Auditing Office financial reporting Executive Committee countermeasures for the management of risk related to the Lion works to build and maintain systems to minimize damage Execution of operations Reporting Legality, fairness environment, quality assurance, and accidents and disasters and to ensure the continuation of business operations so that it and efficiency Senior Executive Committee audits; compliance are formulated in advance by the Sustainability Promotion can provide products to customers even in the event of a Basic policies for mediumprogress audits to long-term management Meeting, CS/PL Committee, and Safety, Hygiene and Disaster major earthquake, outbreak of infectious disease (pandemic) or plans and other major corporate strategies Departments Prevention Meeting, respectively, and deliberated by the other such contingency. We will set up a task force and Execution of operations Auditing Business divisions, Production Headquarters, Executive Committee when necessary. Each plant is certified respond according to the “Manual on Countermeasures for R&D Headquarters, and operating divisions with ISO 14001 or operates based on ISO 14001 and works Earthquake Disaster” when a major earthquake occurs, and proactively to maintain and improve quality management and according to the “Manual on Countermeasures against Novel Strengthening of legal compliance and ethics environmental conservation. In the case of a physical Influenza and Other Infectious Diseases” if a pandemic due to emergency, such as a natural disaster or accident, in a novel influenza virus or other infectious disease is foreseen. Corporate Ethics Committee accordance with the Emergency Response System (a system We will judge whether or not to activate a BCP according to Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior; Behavioral Guidelines of manuals outlining countermeasures against earthquakes or the scale and other conditions of the disaster. If a BCP is influenza and other infectious diseases), we report the relevant activated, our system is designed to give top priority to facts to the President and Audit & Supervisory Board businesses that supply consumer products. members. At the same time, the directors of relevant Sustainability Management departments collect all pertinent information, formulate A summary of countermeasures to risks that may have a We believe that growing our business while reducing the create the Sustainability Promotion Meeting. Comprising all response measures, clarify causes, determine serious impact on our business is reported to the Executive burden on the planet contributes to the creation of a executive directors, including the President, and related countermeasures and submit reports on these actions to the Committee annually. sustainable society. departments, the meeting deliberates on and monitors the Executive Committee and the Board of Directors. execution of Company-wide CSV strategy, the Sustainability 1. Product quality and value 4. Major lawsuits 2. Changes in raw material prices 5. Earthquakes and other In January 2019, the former CSV Management Meeting and Material Issues and policy regarding environmental issues. Furthermore, among the various risks that may arise while 3. Exchange rate fluctuations natural disasters Environmental Conservation Committee were integrated to doing business, the five listed at right are the main risks that 39 Lion Integrated Report 2020: Sustainability Lion Integrated Report 2020: Sustainability 40 Community Involvement Organizational Lion’s Sustainability The Environment Human Rights Labor Practices Fair Operating Practices Consumer Issues and Development Governance E S G External Evaluations/Participation in External Groups (As of May, 2020) Spreading and Strengthening Compliance Awareness Lion is engaged in addressing issues not just on the financial side, but also on the environmental, social and governance side, and is included in multiple SRI (socially responsible investing) indices. The Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior and pamphlet form to all employees and publicly available on Behavioral Guidelines form the foundation of the Lion Lion’s website. Group’s compliance framework. The Corporate Ethics In addition, our environmental, logistics and human resources initiatives have been highly evaluated by governmental and other Committee, chaired by the director responsible for corporate Moreover, we established the LION Anti-Bribery Principles in external institutions. ethics, works proactively to foster compliance awareness January 2019 in light of developments around the world within the Lion Group. The Lion Group Charter for Corporate related to strengthening legal regulations against acts of Status of Inclusion in SRI Indices Behavior and Behavioral Guidelines are distributed in bribery and corruption. e-Learning Training The AL Heart Hotline System Lion conducts periodic e-learning and other training every six months. Topics covered in 2019 included a declaration of Consulter/Reporter committing to the Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior, the Employees of the Lion Group, Temporary Staff or External Business Partners basics of labor management, the workplace environment and Consultations and Feedback Consultations and Feedback compliance (including harassment prevention), Lion’s conceptual reports Report contents of reports Seeking Solutions/Resolving Problems consultations/reports approach to quality, information security and basic knowledge of Internal contact External contact Director of Corporate Ethics Lawyer insider trading regulations. We also provided new training Report investigation results and regarding human rights, bribery and safety (including occupational Reporting Instruction countermeasures accidents), in which 100% of employees participated. Corporate Ethics Board of Directors Committee Chair Report as needed Compliance Awareness Survey All domestic employees of the Lion Group (including part-time Corporate Ethics workers) are asked to complete the annual Compliance Committee Evaluation and Certification Awareness Survey.* In 2019, the survey was conducted for the Set up as needed 16th time. Approximately 92.8% of the targeted 4,406 Overall CSR Environment and Logistics Ethics Evaluation Committee employees responded. The survey results are reported to External experts management and feedback is provided to individual divisions in order to help maintain and strengthen our compliance AL Heart Hotline Consultations and Reports systems. Every year, improvements are made based on opinions solicited through the survey on such matters as In 2019, the hotline received 25 consultations and reports. problems in the workplace environment. However, none of the cases were judged to constitute serious misconduct, and all were appropriately addressed and resolved. Going forward, Lion plans to expand the survey to overseas Content of consultations and Human Resources Group companies to further strengthen compliance functions. 2017 2018 2019 reports made Percentage of Employees Who Received Feedback from the Survey Results Harassment 9 15 11 0 20 40 60 80 100 (%) Personnel and labor 0.3 5 6 11 2017 92.2 7.5 management issues 0.2 2018 95.2 4.6 Others 4 2 3 0.2 2019 95.0 4.8 AL Heart Hotline (Japanese) Feedback received Not received No response https://www.lion.co.jp/ja/company/compliance/ Participation in External Organizations * Compliance Awareness Survey Anonymous questionnaire survey covering such topics as compliance with the Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior, whether there was Compliance Initiatives at Overseas Group Companies feedback from the results of the previous Compliance Awareness Survey, and awareness of the AL Heart Hotline. The Lion Group implements initiatives at overseas Group companies aimed at spreading and strengthening compliance awareness Group-wide. In 2019, representatives from Raising Awareness of the Hotline compliance-related departments visited overseas Group Lion has set up an internal and external whistle-blowing companies in Singapore, China and Taiwan to promote system, the AL (All Lion) Heart Hotline, and is taking steps to awareness of compliance-related efforts, such as the LION raise awareness of said system among all employees, Human Rights Policy, LION Anti-Bribery Principles and AL Heart including temporary staff. Its recognition rate among Hotline, as well as related initiatives. employees was 98.6% in 2019. Information about some of our other overseas initiatives is available on our website. The AL Heart Hotline Employee Recognition Rate 2017 95.8% Embedding Compliance (Japanese) 2018 98.5% 2019 98.6% https://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/management/compliance/ 41 Lion Integrated Report 2020: Sustainability Lion Integrated Report 2020: Sustainability 42
