UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT UNGC COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 CONTENTS 1 LETTER FROM OUR CHIEF EXECUTIVE 2 NEDBANK GROUP AT A GLANCE 4 REFLECTIONS FROM OUR CHAIRMAN 6 OUR VALUE-CREATING BUSINESS MODEL 8 OUR PURPOSE, VISION, BRAND AND VALUES 10 REFLECTIONS FROM OUR CHIEF EXECUTIVE 14 RESPONSE TO COVID-19 17 RISK AND OPPORTUNITIES IN OUR OPERATING ENVIRONMENT 27 OUR STRATEGIC FOCUS AREAS AND ENABLERS 40 RECOGNITION AND RATINGS 41 VALUE FOR STAKEHOLDERS 55 TEN-YEAR REVIEW 63 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE STANDARDS INDEX IBC CONTACT DETAILS LETTER FROM OUR CHIEF EXECUTIVE NEDBANK GROUP – CONTINUED COMMITMENT TO THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT As Chief Executive of Nedbank Group, I reaffirm our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact and the 10 principles that underpin it. In addition, as a Group, we remain a signatory to the Equator Principles and the CEO Water Mandate and we continue to support the UNEP FI Positive Impact Working Group. These commitments, along with deliberate focus on the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), form an important part of our overall strategy as we align our core business to deliver on our purpose – to use our financial expertise for the good of individuals, families, businesses and society. The SDGs represent a powerful lens to identify opportunities for business innovation and growth, and they define the ‘good’ in our purpose. As such, in 2019 we continued to reorient our strategic approach to focus on the most material SDG targets through our three main points of leverage – Products and Services: Sustainable Development Finance, Operations and Corporate Social Investment. In recent weeks we have seen the increasing impact of Covid-19 on individuals, families, businesses, societies and countries as infection rates escalate around the world and here in SA. In response to this, governments everywhere are implementing emergency lockdown measures to curb the spread of the virus and these in turn are having enormous impacts on economic activity. The duration and impact of these interventions are not possible to forecast accurately. I would like to assure stakeholders that we are working tirelessly to ensure that we are able to deal with this escalating challenge. While our number-one focus is on the health and safety of our staff as we continue to serve our clients given that banking is an essential service, we have pivoted our strategy to increase focus on managing liquidity, capital, market and credit risk alongside ongoing scenario modelling and stress testing. We are proud to support the work undertaken by the UNGC, cognisant of the important role that the private sector plays in this. Yours sincerely Mike Brown Chief Executive Officer 31 March 2020 NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 1 NEDBANK GROUP AT A GLANCE OVERVIEW OF NEDBANK GROUP Nedbank Group is one of the largest financial services groups in Africa, offering wholesale and retail banking services as well as insurance, asset management and wealth management. In SA we have a strong franchise evidenced by a 19% TOTAL HEADLINE CET1 deposit and 19% advances market share. ASSETS EARNINGS CAPITAL RATIO Outside SA we operate in five countries in SADC, R1,1 trillion R12,5bn through subsidiaries and banks in Lesotho, 11,5% Mozambique, Namibia, eSwatini (Swaziland) and Zimbabwe (during 2019 we sold our operations in Malawi). In Central and West Africa we have BANKING ADVANCES DEPOSITS a strategic alliance with Ecobank Transnational (Rbn) (Rbn) Incorporated (ETI) and we have representative offices in Angola and Kenya. Outside Africa we have a presence in key global financial centres to provide international financial services for Africa-based multinational and highnet-worth clients, in Guernsey, Isle of Man, Jersey and London, and we have a representative office 648 672 679 713 764 726 762 772 826 904 in Dubai. 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 WHAT DIFFERENTIATES NEDBANK? We are a purpose-led business, Good Experienced Selective origination underpinned by a unique corporate governance and management and sound risk culture and progress towards being ESG leadership teams management more client-centred and innovative Leadership positions in renewable-energy Prudent management of Strong position as a bank that finance, corporate and commercialour expenses over time and is committed to doing business property lending, small business services, continuing to lower our costin a manner that positively retail vehicle finance, card acquiring, to-income ratio through cost builds society at large digital client value propositions, asset optimisation initiatives management and wealth management Technology strategies and innovations Top-tier ESG rankings Improving and, in many cases, that position Nedbank to be more and practices leading client satisfaction digital, agile and competitive metrics NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 2 MARKET CLIENTS EMPLOYEES TOP-TIER CLIENT MARKETCAPITALISATION SATISFACTION LEADING 7,8m 29 403 AND LEAGUE DIGITAL R107bn TABLE RANKINGS INNOVATIONS ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT Level 1 MSCI ESG CARBONNEUTRAL DOW JONES SUSTAINABILITY (Rbn) BBBEE RATING: OPERATIONS EMERGING CONTRIBUTOR STATUS AA AND EFFECTIVELY NET-ZERO MARKETS INDEX INCLUSION OPERATIONAL SINCE 2004 WATER USAGE 257 273 312 297 331 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Information as at 31 December 2019 A wholesale-biased business model Access to the largest banking Well positioned to benefit positions us well to benefit from an network in Africa through our from a recovery in SA increase in business confidence and own operations in SADC and economic growth economic growth our strategic alliance with ETI in 39 countries ASSETS BY GEOGRAPHICAL AREA WHOLESALE VERSUS RETAIL (%) ADVANCES (%) 7 3 36,5 R1 143bn R797bn 63,5 90 Ecobank presence Nedbank presence South Africa International Ecobank and Retail Wholesale Nedbank presence The rest of Africa NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 3 BEING POSITIONED FOR VALUE CREATION REFLECTIONS FROM OUR CHAIRMAN As a trusted brand with a growing footprint in Africa and innovative new products and services, Nedbank is well positioned to build on the positive and sustainable impact it has already made. The social and economic impact of Covid-19 is unlike anything we have seen before. Global markets and equities have come under pressure and in SA we have had the dual impact of the lockdown as well as the ratings downgrades. We are more focused than ever on remaining future fit in fulfilling our role to our clients, our staff, shareholders and broader society. Vassi Naidoo, Chairman In a difficult environment, the beginning of a new year always brings It comes as no surprise that company profits and household finances with it a sense of renewed hopefulness and optimism that things will be deteriorated during the year. In particular, the increase in impairments better in the year ahead. In 2018, Cyril Ramaphosa became President off a low base had a negative impact on Nedbank’s headline earnings and expectations of a better year for South Africa in 2019 surged. We in 2019. had great expectations that the right medication (no matter how bitter) Given the challenging macroeconomic environment, we will, as always, would be administered to fix a nation reeling from the impacts of state continue to look for innovative ways to assist our clients to weather the capture. It was not to be in 2019. storm and deliver great client experiences to ensure their loyalty and The factors largely responsible for much of SA’s economic woes are not our continued license to operate. new and have remained mostly unaddressed for more than a decade and as a result economic growth has continued to trend downwards. 50 YEARS ON THE JSE This ‘slow squeeze’ in economic growth and sagging tax revenues, has in Nedbank celebrated its 50th year as a listed company on the large part been attributed to the lack of progress on the much-needed Johannesburg Stock Exchange in 2019. There is a certain amount of structural reform, compounded by the rapid growth in the public sector agility that has helped us navigate both the headwinds and tailwinds wage bill, increased government spending commitments and the erosive over the past 50 years and speaks to our sustainable business impact of wasteful and corrupt spending over the past decade. More practices, and improved risk management and overall governance over recently, the perilous financial and operational state of most major SOEs the years. has compounded the strain on government’s finances. The unreliable and Notwithstanding the challenges outlined above, the SA we operate in increasingly expensive electricity supply has come at a huge economic today is far removed and a much better place to do business than it was cost. 50 years ago. The market is larger and more inclusive. I believe Nedbank Regulatory, legislative and policy uncertainties continued to weigh on has the potential to bring significant tangible value to SA’s future business and investor confidence. While government has promised through its experience and expertise and its strong desire to partner to bring clarity, progress has been frustratingly slow and patchy. with government, labour and civil society in realising the vision and goals, Uncertainties persist and disputes continue around land reform, National set out in our country’s Constitution and the National Development Plan. Health Insurance, the mining charter, the new competition policy, further rounds of debt relief as well as proposed legislation on intellectual A TRANSITIONING SKILLSET AND property rights. WORKFORCE The controversial and damaging visa regulations for adults travelling New technologies are impacting customer behaviours and how they with children were finally scrapped. President Ramaphosa hosted the consume banking services. A constantly learning workforce that is second annual SA Investment Conference, promising to cut red tape adaptable to these changes is a key competitive advantage and and reduce the cost of doing business. More investment commitments reskilling is therefore a strategic imperative for us to remain relevant. were made by private firms. The Minister of Energy finally released the This has meant that many roles continue to be impacted by digitisation. long-awaited Integrated Resource Plan that envisions a greater role for As a result, 2019 required of us to step up our efforts of reskilling and renewable energy and independent power producers although traditional redeployment, to ensure that redundancies and retrenchments were coal-fired power and Eskom are still expected to play a dominant role. done responsibly and staying true to our commitment to only retrench as the last resort. SA managed to stave off a sovereign-risk-rating downgrade by Moody’s in 2019. However, SA was subsequently downgraded in March 2020 by In 2018, the President called on business to play an active role in the fight both Moody’s and Fitch, retaining a negative outlook given the ongoing against poverty, unemployment and inequality to help build an inclusive, risks, particularly in the light of the Covid-19 pandemic. growing and transforming economy for the benefit of all South Africans. NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 4 Given the challenges facing SA, we know this meaning particularly as the rate at which most impacted, banking regulators have begun requires collaboration from all sectors of some jobs may become obsolete or irrelevant to introduce capital and liquidity relief measures. society – and at scale; it cannot be business due to new technologies is rapidly increasing. For SA, this will be another blow to an already as usual. The work being done by the YES initiative RESHAPING FINANCE stagnant economy. There is no doubt that turbulent times lie ahead and we will all have to is very important and significant in creating At the World Economic Forum in January adjust to the new normal post the pandemic. sustainable work opportunities for unemployed 2020, BlackRock, the world’s largest asset youth. manager and one of our shareholders, APPRECIATION noted that climate change would lead We have embraced our role as change agents Thank you to our 29 403 employees who remain to a ‘fundamental reshaping of finance’. and active contributors to building a thriving committed to living our purpose and serving Nedbank endorses the objectives of the society and are extremely proud to have our 7,8 million clients. Your work goes beyond United Nations Framework Convention welcomed 3 315 recruits to Nedbank and our our lending and transactional activities and I on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and of the implementation partners in May 2019. From am proud to be associated with you. During the Paris Agreement to prevent dangerous being one of the first to sign the CEO initiative lockdown period, as a consequence of Covid-19, anthropogenic interference with the climate and making the biggest commitment to YES, you have further shown your dedication and system by limiting the global average surface we understand the need to partner with our tenacity by enabling us to continue to serve temperature rise to well below 2˚C versus social partners to accelerate economic growth. our clients and the broader societies through the long-term preindustrial level. As part of a complex and difficult time – I am deeply our journey as a purpose-led business, we LEADING WITH are committed to playing a leading role in grateful. INTEGRITY AND addressing climate change in ways that are Thank you to our Chief Executive, Mike Brown, and the executive team for their leadership EMPATHY sensitive to the local socioeconomic context and climate vulnerability. and skilfully steering the ship in stormy waters. The risk and corporate governance landscape The team quickly pivoted to manage the crisis is changing rapidly. Corporate conduct Nedbank’s climate change journey continues brought on by Covid-19 and I am confident in continues to come under scrutiny. Evolving to mature through the development of our the leadership team’s ability to successfully governance and controls for automation, big policy regarding the financing of thermalnavigate us through this extraordinary time. data and digitisation have introduced new coal mining and related activities. As part of this ongoing and maturing journey, we will Thank you to my fellow Nedbank questions to a board attempting to steer continue to engage with clients, shareholders, boardmembers for their support and a special a ship in uncertain waters. The Nedbank governments, relevant non-government word of appreciation to Joel Netshitenzhe. His board continues to adapt to this changing organisations and thought-leaders so as wisdom, guidance, intellect and experience environment. What remains important, to ensure we continue to play an important will be missed during our board deliberations. however, when presented with these new risks, role in leading the energy transition through In addition, thank you to Peter Moyo for his from cyberrisk to contemplating regulatory innovative solutions and appropriate contribution and involvement with the group change from emerging technologies, is that financial choices. Our governance has been since his appointment in 2018 in terms of the Nedbank remains guided by our values. Our further bolstered by the establishment relationship agreement between Old Mutual responsibilities and our commitment to our of a new Climate Risk Leadership Group. Limited and Nedbank Group. purpose will not change. This formal governance committee, under In Charles Dickens’ novel Great Expectations, In response to the recent dramatic changes in the chairmanship of the Nedbank Chief the author was persuaded to write a happier the macro environment and the impact of the Risk Officer, guides Nedbank with regard ending to the book after the original ending Covid-19 pandemic, the board of directors has to the process of measuring, assessing was deemed too sad. Our country is at a unanimously agreed to a zero percent increase and disclosing its financial exposure to turning point and skilful, economic leadership is in non-executive directors’ fees for the period climate-related risks. This committee is needed. Implementing some of the good plans 1 July 2020 to 30 June 2021. also supported by a Climate Task Team mentioned in the 2020 State of the Nation Ongoing vigilance is required to ensure that that assists with the operationalisation of address combined with some conviction in the public trust that has been established over strategic climate-change-related decisions. getting the nation’s finances in order could see our long history – through sound governance In 2019 we signed up to be part of the UNEP a dramatic turn in investor confidence toward and good conduct – is secure. FI Task Force for Climate-related Financial SA and hopefully we can write a new ending to Disclosures working group, which will enable this story. DIGITAL DISRUPTION us to learn from others in the sector as well as participate in the development of tools From a Nedbank perspective we are preparing Digital disruption is the new normal. The digital to assess the physical and transitional risk to be future-fit. As a trusted brand with a banking race has begun as a sprint, but it is that climate change poses for banks. We growing footprint in Africa and innovative going to be a marathon, and we continue with commit to report on Nedbank’s approach new products and services, I believe Nedbank our investments in this area. I am mindful that to measuring, disclosing and assessing our is well positioned to build on the positive and the winners have not emerged yet, despite exposure to climate-related risks. sustainable impact it has already made. We what many may infer. look forward to continuing delivering on our The Fourth Industrial Revolution presents as I am pleased that Nedbank has once again purpose to use our financial expertise to many challenges as it does opportunities. achieved a level 1 BBBEE contributor status do good for individuals, families, businesses Today we have digital capabilities that have for the full year 2019 under the Amended and society. In the challenging economic the power to transform experiences; improve Financial Sector Code in South Africa. We environment of 2020 we are committed to connectivity and knowledge sharing between have always seen transformation as one support and work alongside our clients and humans; creating access; improving lives and of the key strategic focus areas for our staff alike in what is likely to be a long road to indeed customer outcomes. business and this achievement demonstrates recovery post the pandemic. I would also like our ongoing commitment to sustainable to assure our shareholders, that while we won’t I would like to take this opportunity to welcome transformation. escape the market impact that has plagued the Professor Tshilidzi Marwala to the Nedbank board, who brings extensive knowledge and A NEW NORMAL sector, the board together with management, are working tirelessly to manage through experience in these specific digital capabilities At the time of concluding this note, the this difficult period and continue to build a and insights. Covid-19 pandemic had reached our shores sustainable bank. The Nedbank board has spent a lot of time and all indications point to a global human and on Nedbank’s strategic response to this economic catastrophe. changing environment from a culture, staff Economists and analysts worldwide are and client point of view. We recognise that the Vassi Naidoo predicting a global recession for 2020. challenge of the digital talent gap is no longer Chairman Central banks have already started just an organisational issue; it is a nationwide introducing fiscal and monetary actions, and challenge. The result is that talent acquisition, with the banking sector likely to be one of the training and upskilling will take on a whole new NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 5 OUR VALUE-CREATING BUSINESS MODEL Key drivers of change in our business model THE MACROECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT Managing through a difficult SA environment and investing in the For a discussion of our material matters refer to pages 35 to 44 in our 2019 Integrated Report. rest of Africa for the long term O UR C APITAL S . . . . . . E NAB L E VALU E ADD IN G INPUTS Financial • Equity of R98bn (2018: R91bn) EAS S AR • Strong CET1 capital ratio: 11,5%, well above minimum regulatory requirement of 7,5% C U • Banking advances of R764bn (2018: R713bn) C FO GI New loan payouts TE ▲ 15% • Deposits of R904bn (2018: R826bn) RA ST to R208bn Intellectual UR • Tenth-most valuable SA brand (2018: ninth) and fourth-most valuable SA banking O brand (2018: fifth) CREDIT • Market-leading IT capabilities (Managed Evolution and Digital Fast Lane) • A leader in renewable-energy finance, corporate and commercial-property lending, UT EXTENSION small business services, retail vehicle finance, card acquiring, digital client value S Extend credit through responsible lending OU propositions, asset management and wealth management De practices (eg mortgages, live TP ri credit cards, vehicle finance, overdrafts, and personal ng Human and business loans) • A total of 29 403 employees (2018: 31 277), embracing a culture that is: ES TI i es n »» client-driven and people-centred; TI V nova »» increasingly innovative and competitive; and I rienc USINESS »» strong in compliance and governance RY B ASSET  URPOS RP • Reward structures linked to performance and value drivers Assets under AND WEALTH tive, m AC management arket-leading client expe • R760m invested in employee training, including upskilling employees for MANAGEMENT OU E digital transformation (2018: R468m) ▲ 11,4% Provide solutions • Experienced and diverse executive team and a strong board to manage, to R331bn protect and • A transformed workforce grow wealth MA RI P Manufactured R • 117 core IT systems (2018: 119), which are being modernised as OU part of our technology journey • R9,6bn invested in our technology platform since 2010 (2018: R7,4bn) • 692 outlets (covering more than 84% of the population in SA), 4 398 ATMs and TRANSACTIONAL ng Facilitate payments wi 101 000 point-of-sale devices (2018: 800, 4 462 and 96 000 respectively) Gro and transactions • Market-leading digital products, services and client value propositions rt ou Social and relationship t • 7,8 million total clients (2018: 7,9 million) ac 22,9bn ns ra transactions • Embracing sustainable development financing to meet the SDGs as well na processed as responsible ESG practices io lba • One of SA’s most transformed banks nk i ng ▲ 3,8% • Solid relationships across all stakeholders fra nc h is ef as ter th a n th e ma rket Natural • We impact the natural environment directly in our operations and indirectly through the financing of client activities: »» leader in renewable-energy financing; and »» a total of nine Green Star-rated buildings NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 6 DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION OF SOCIETY SCARCE AND TRANSFORMATION WITHIN ENVIRONMENTAL EVOLVING SKILLS From physical products, services CONSTRAINTS Transforming and enabling our and channels to digital and Delivering on our purpose and the SDGs workforce for the future client-centred ACTIVITIES TH AT CR EAT E ... . . . VALU E FOR OU R S TAK E H OLD ER S. OUTCOMES frica netProv Financial woridin go k in A + Distributed R7,1bn in dividends – ROE of 15,0%, down from 16,8%, ur c STAKEHOLDERS IMPACTED lien ice s c ia + Cost-to-income ratio improved however above cost of equity of 14,1% ts l se wi – Share price down by 22,0% th rv from 57,2% to 56,5% ina ac ce n be + NAV per share up by 3,7% – Headline earnings R12,5bn, down 7,2% Deposits ss stto f ▲ 9,5% th th e to Intellectual e to R904bn st ss f becce + IT modernisation programme (ME): + Attracted market-leading ha er 70% complete skills in areas such as data ls t cia wi + Implemented a market-leading end-to-end analytics, IT, equities and FUNDING AND an ts PU in n retail digital onboarding capability (Eclipse) advisory solutions DEPOSITS clie UT + First SA bank to launch an open-banking – Delay in juristic onboarding rk in Raise funding and ou r application programming interface capability to 2020 O wo provide savings and net (API) platform ing investments products TS es vid vic Pro Human OU Maintained employee motivation, Improved staff satisfaction R a Afric skills and diversity through: levels: Y BUSINESS A + R17,3bn paid in salaries and benefits eratio + 75% staff engagement, + Percentage salary increase for AR above the average industry nally excellent in all we do C unionised staff greater than level of 67% INSURANCE AND R3,1bn Being operationally ex IM TI OTHER SERVICES management Digitisation and automation of benefits V + A more transformed workforce (79% black PR Offer insurance the workforce environment: solutions (eg paid I and 62% female representation) + Altogether 620 employees celle  URPOS (2018: R2,4bn) RP life and home Staff attrition of 10,8% up from 10,1%, reskilled or redeployed OU insurance cover) – 158 staffmembers E although still below industry benchmark nt in of 11–13% retrenched ES Manufactured TI Bei + Digital product sales up to 21% of total sales SA branches reduced by 2,5% ng o + Digitally active clients up to 1,8m (+16%) p – Data security issue at + Digitised 114 of targeted > 180 branch TRADING all w premises of third-party ed services provider – no Nedbank Provide trading and o Uptime of application systems at 99,1% systems or client accounts global marketses (marginally down on 2018) were compromised related solutions ou Ma tco n m Trading ag Social and relationship i ng ic value at risk ec + The only large SA bank to increase Net + Responsible procurement on scom Promoter Score in 2019 ▲ 7,2% arc + Growth in main-banked clients in the practices (> 75% locally isee procured) to R31,4m ur tim middle and professional segments + MSCI ESG rating improved oso p im o re + Number of client complaints down 26,5% pt st from A to AA oo rce + R11,6bn direct and indirect tax contributions – Decline in main-banked st ou res ce + More than 3 300 YES recruits for 2019 clients in the entry-level nom ce eco c ar + and youth segments gs R130m socioeconomic spend ag ise in Manic ou + Maintained level 1 BBBEE contributor status es tcom Natural + The first SA commercial bank to launch a green bond on the JSE + Positive outcome + Disbursed R27bn renewable-energy deals adding 3 517 MW to the national grid – Negative outcome + Carbon-neutral operations and effectively net-zero operational water usage Neutral outcome + Supporting the transformation of the energy system over time through interventions such as our new Thermal Coal Policy NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 7 OUR PURPOSE, VISION AND VALUES OUR To use our financial expertise to do good for PURPOSE individuals, families, businesses and society OUR VISION OUR BRAND PROMISE To be the most admired financial services provider in Africa by our staff, clients, shareholders, regulators and society NEDBANK SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT FRAMEWORK L IN V E S T M E N CIA T Our purpose guides our strategy, behaviours SO E and actions towards delivery of long-term RA T value. We are aware that operating a PO successful and sustainable business CO R A BLE DEVELOP ME IN NT requires a thriving economy, a wellS TA FIN SU AN functioning society and a healthy C environment. We also know that we have E a responsibility and an opportunity to contribute to these. As such, our response cannot be a S I ON secondary aspect of our business AT ER – it must be central to it, with a OP commitment to sustainable development as the only reasonable response. We believe that this approach is not only desirable but also achievable. For Nedbank, this is the future we want. And we are committed to doing our share to realise it. Mike Brown, Chief Executive OUR EMPLOYEE VALUE PROPOSITION: BEING THE DIFFERENCE THAT IMPACTS OUR WORLD PurposeService High Growth and Diversity and led excellence performance development inclusion OUR VALUES Integrity Respect Accountability People-centred Client-driven NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 8 DELIVERING VALUE BY DELIVERING ON OUR PURPOSE We understand that our success depends on the degree to which we deliver value to society. It is therefore important to understand our role in society and how society can be different, because Nedbank is a part of it. Banks play a crucial role in facilitating economic activity and enabling sustainable growth and development by moving capital from where it is to where it is required. A deep understanding of one’s purpose helps to guide strategy and decisionmaking in this regard and should result in an optimal balance between long-term value creation and shortterm results. SHAREHOLDERS STAFF The financial capital we source from our equity and debt Our 29 403 staff are key to making Nedbank a great investors and our retained earnings enable business continuity place to bank and work. Motivated and skilled staff, and growth, including strategic investments. together with efficient and value-creating solutions, services and operations, offer value to our clients. Value is created through … Staff, as part of society, contribute materially to the • increasing net asset value, returns, dividends and share price; communities in which they live and work. • maintaining a strong balance sheet to protect against downside risk; Value is created through … • sustainably investing in and growing our client franchises and • employing citizens in the jurisdictions in which we our people; and operate; • following good governance and sustainable business • rewarding staff for the value they add; practices that ensure a sustainable business for the long term. • creating job opportunities as we grow; • encouraging our staff to embrace technological changes, further their careers and improve our GOVERNMENT services and products; and The tax we pay and investments in bonds we make as part of • contributing to the transformation towards an our statutory liquid asset requirements are imperative for the inclusive society through employment equity and economic and social development of the countries in which we operate. gender equality. Value is created through … • contributing meaningfully to government budgets through our NEDBANK GROUP own corporate taxes and staff paying personal taxes; and A strong and profitable business enables • investing in government and public sector bonds as required by continued investment in our staff and prudential regulation, thereby supporting the funding needs of operations, which in turn creates value for government. our clients, shareholders and society at large. Trust is core to our relationships with all our stakeholders and to creating value. REGULATORS Regulation ensures a sound and stable banking system, which reduces systemic risk and promotes the healthy functioning of an economy in which all stakeholders prosper. CLIENTS Good governance and compliance support client confidence Our clients remain our largest source of deposits, in Nedbank and reduce the potential for reputational risk. We which enable us to fund lending activities. Gaining have a responsibility to comply fully with the regulations of the more clients and deepening existing relationships countries in which we operate. result in greater revenue growth, while responsible banking practices and worldclass risk management Value is created through … mitigate bad debts. • embracing sustainable banking practices and regulatory compliance, which enable a safe and stable banking system Value is created through … and a thriving society. • safeguarding deposits, investments and wealth, while growing returns; BROADER SOCIETY • providing credit that enables wealth creation, We embrace our role in society as an active contributor to sustainable development and job creation in line building a thriving society and can do this only with engaged with the SDGs; communities that have aligned values. • facilitating transactions that are the backbone of economic value exchange; Value is created through … • enabling financial inclusion by providing the • transforming economies and society positively through our previously unbanked with access to affordable lending and transactional activities, which are increasingly products; aligned with the SDGs; • providing financial education and advice; and • playing a meaningful role in the broader society as a • developing innovative solutions that meet our procurer and consumer of goods and services; and clients’ specific needs. • making a difference through our partnerships and CSI activities. Read more about our value creation for our stakeholders on pages 74 to 87 of our 2019 Integrated Report. NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 9 CREATING VALUE IN A SUSTAINABLE MANNER THROUGH OUR STRATEGY REFLECTIONS FROM OUR CHIEF EXECUTIVE In March 2020, just as we closed the chapter on our 2019 financial year, the rapid escalation of the Covid-19 pandemic and the Moody’s and Fitch downgrades of the SA sovereign credit ratings combined to place unprecedented challenges on the SA economy. 2020 will require us to focus on keeping our staff safe and to support our clients in managing through this difficult period, while maintaining our responsibilities to all our other stakeholders and the economies where we operate. While it is not possible at this stage to predict accurately what the outcomes of these health and economic challenges may be for our country or our industry, Nedbank is well prepared to play our part. Mike Brown, Chief Executive A VERY DIFFICULT OPERATING ENVIRONMENT In my 10 years as Chief Executive and six years as Chief SA is now in the longest economic downswing since Financial Officer before that, outside of the global financial records began in 1945. This was mainly due to severe crisis a decade ago, the operating environment in 2019 was and frequent power outages, the unsustainable fiscal the most difficult I have experienced in SA and in Africa. Given trajectory and ongoing policy uncertainty, combined with a recent events, 2020 will be significantly more difficult. deteriorating global outlook. Under these difficult domestic conditions, company profits and household finances Economic growth in SA during 2019 was much slower than deteriorated during the year, resulting in subdued credit expected as recessionary conditions prevailed and GDP demand, lower transactional volume growth, downward growth ended the year at 0,2% compared to our expectations revaluations of equity portfolios and rising defaults across of 1,3% at the start of the year. the SA banking industry. 2019 TIMELINE MARCH APRIL MAY JUNE JULY • Launched SA’s first • Listed SA’s first • Launched Eclipse, our end• Board strategy • Zimbabwe zero-monthly-fee commercial green to-end digital onboarding day. designated as account. bond on the JSE. solution for individual clients. hyperinflationary • Launched SA’s first • Nedbank signed the • Nedbank Group AGM. effective from API platform. CEO Pledge. 1 July 2019. • SA held national elections. NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 10 In our Nedbank Africa Regions’ operations, DELIVERING ON OUR money management changes. In hyperinflation eroded the value of the addition, a total of 175 500 clients Zimbabwean dollar as the country PURPOSE attended financial wellness workshops transitioned from a dual-currency system Our purpose remains core to what we do, and a further 6,1 million individuals were to a monocurrency Zimbabwean dollar irrespective of the environment around us. reached through radio and television system, with the inflation index reaching Our purpose gives us our social licence to shows, reinforcing our message around 552% in December 2019. Elsewhere operate and is well aligned with the theme money management, touching on topics in SADC, conditions were similarly of stakeholder capital emerging from such as budgeting, savings and debt challenging given their dependency and Davos this year and the social compacting management. integration with the SA economy. Further messages from the State of the Nation • Lastly, we retained our level 1 BBBEE north, conditions in Nigeria remained address in SA. I believe that any business contributor status. difficult for our associate investment in that sees itself as separate to the society Ecobank Transnational Incorporated (ETI), from both an economic and regulatory in which it operates will not be successful and sustainable over time. It is very difficult GOOD STRATEGIC perspective. to operate a successful business in an AND OPERATIONAL unsuccessful society. Our purpose – to PROGRESS OUR FINANCIAL use our financial expertise to do good We continued to make good strategic and for individuals, families, businesses and PERFORMANCE IN society – is what we are about and what operational progress throughout the year. 2019 WAS BELOW we do to help society prosper. It has kept A key achievement in 2019 was the launch EXPECTATIONS us sustainable and successful over that of our simplified digital onboarding time and celebrating our 50th year of capability for individual clients, coupled In this environment Nedbank Group’s being listed on the JSE in 2019 is testimony with the ability to apply digitally for a financial performance was below to this. personal loan and transactional account. expectations as headline earnings declined 7,3% to R12,5bn and the group produced We also concluded pilots for cards, This year we have continued to bring our an ROE of 15,0%, above our cost of equity investment products and overdrafts. purpose to life and a few highlights stand of 14,1%. In addition to the challenging This is fundamentally changing how we out for me: environment, headline earnings were do business, sell products and service impacted by additional items in the second • In April 2019 we activated our our clients. half of the year, including accounting for commitment to the YES initiative, At the end of 2019 more than 70% of the effects of hyperinflation in Zimbabwe, placing 3 315 previously unemployed personal loans and transactional products the early exercise of an option that will youth both directly and through were sold through this new platform and increase our shareholding in Banco Único sponsored placements to give through our apps or the web. In 2020 we to 87,5% (subject to regulatory approval), them their first job opportunity. It is aim to roll out digital onboarding and sales the downward revaluation of a number unfortunate that in 2020 we will have to to our wholesale clients (juristic) and have of private-equity investments and the scale back on this. our top 10 products digitised. This is a key increase in impairments off a low base • Nedbank became the first commercial part of establishing Nedbank as a leader in to just above the mid-point of our target bank to launch a green bond on the digital innovation. range of 60 bps to 100 bps. JSE and at our upcoming AGM we will be proactively putting two climateServices previously only available through The underlying franchise performance change-related resolutions to the vote our staff-assisted channels such as was solid and we produced good balance as we continue to strive to impact the changing your PIN or freezing a card, are sheet growth with banking advances up environment positively. This builds on now available on our digital channels – an 7,2%, deposits up 9,5% and assets under our leadership position in renewableincrease from 70 in 2018 to 114 in 2019, and management increased 11,4%. Good cost energy financing, our operations being we plan to have more than 180 self-service management, due to lower variable carbon-neutral and offsetting our water options available on our app and web remuneration and the ongoing benefits usage through the removal of invasive channels by the end of 2020. from optimisation of processes and alien plants. operations as part of our digital journey, Implementation at scale is never easy, and resulted in our cost to-income ratio • We brought our purpose to market we had to overcome some initial challenges improving from 57,2% to 56,5%. Our IFRS through our brand essence of being on stability and response times. These 9 fully phased-in CET1 capital ratio of money experts who do good and our were addressed by our IT and operational 11,5%, average LCR for the fourth quarter payoff line of ‘see money differently’. teams and by November, and in particular of 125% and an NSFR of 113% are all Basel Our ‘Money secrets’ campaign got South during Black Friday, we processed more III-compliant, well above regulatory minima Africans talking about money as a first than 30% higher volumes than the prior and reflective of a strong balance sheet. step to making positive and sustainable year and our new systems were stable. AUGUST NOVEMBER MARCH 2020 • Nedbank celebrates • Nedbank the only bank to improve its NPS in 2019. • Moody's and Fitch downgrades of SA's 50 years of being • Option to increase shareholding in Banco Único to 87,5%. sovereign-credit rating to subinvestment grade listed on the JSE. and retained a negative outlook. • S&P and Moody’s changed SA sovereign-credit-ratings outlook to ‘negative’. • Covid-19 pandemic emerged in SA. • Board signs off the 2020 to 2022 business plan. • President Ramaphosa announces a nationwide lockdown effective from 26 March 2020. NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 11 REFLECTIONS FROM OUR CHIEF EXECUTIVE continued When you manage money well, you can only 1,7% during 2019 and the cost-toyear for our operations in SADC, while make a real difference in people’s lives, income ratio reducing from 57,2% to 56,5%. our strategic partner in West Africa, ETI, and the launch of our refreshed loyalty experienced pressure in its operations in and rewards programme in the second As we digitise services that were Nigeria. half of 2019 embraces our purpose of previously offered only inbranch, we are using our financial expertise to do good. also benefiting from efficiencies as the cost In this context, we continue to optimise The programme assists, incentivises and to onboard and serve our clients decreases our portfolio in SADC to position us for rewards the right money management significantly – more and more transactions the long term: behaviours while doing good for society. In are performed seamlessly and from end to end without human intervention. Our • Following a strategic review, we 2020 we will expand this programme to Target Operating Model programme disposed of our 100% shareholding in offer more benefits to clients. (TOM 1.0) recorded additional savings of Nedbank Malawi and the transaction We are also innovating around ecosystems R480m in 2019, with cumulative savings concluded in the first quarter of 2020. and will launch some exciting innovations now amounting to R1,1bn at 31 December Nedbank Malawi was a small bank in a to the market in the year ahead. To enable 2019, which is ahead of our R1,0bn target small market and only contributed 0,1% this, we have made investments in data, by 2019 and on track to exceed the to the assets and headline earnings of platforms and interfaces. Another example R1,2bn target by 2020 (as disclosed in the the group. in 2019 was Nedbank becoming the first corporate performance targets in our • Operating in Zimbabwe remains bank in Africa to launch an application long-term incentive scheme). challenging as policy uncertainty, programming interface (API) platform increased government expenditure that is aligned with international Open We are currently strategising about a and a lack of foreign direct investment Banking Standards, making it possible TOM 2.0, which will look at the shape of our have severely damaged the for approved African fintechs to develop branch infrastructure in the context of an Zimbabwean economy, contributing to innovative digital services. To date, over increasingly digital world, a shift in our RBB hyperinflationary conditions. This had 100 fintechs and clients of Nedbank have structure to be more client-centred, as well a negative R142m headline earnings received access and we have successfully as shared services optimisation across the impact on the group compared to a launched integrated solutions in our group. We anticipate targets for TOM 2.0 positive R108m of headline earnings personal loans business. will be communicated to the market in in 2018. In 2020 we will be focusing on early 2021. the reconfiguration of the shape of our These innovations, along with many others, balance sheet and business operations position us well to protect and grow our FOCUSING ON OUR in the country where we have R123m of revenues and compete against existing competitors as well as new entrants. PEOPLE AS OUR capital invested alongside a loyal client base and staff contingent. BUSINESS TRANSITIONS Doing good for clients also means focusing • We are increasing our shareholding Rapid technological advancement and on improvements in client satisfaction in Banco Único in 2020 from 50% plus changing client behaviours have been levels, leading to more clients doing more one share to approximately 87,5% the catalyst for many organisations in of their banking with us and, in turn, and the transaction is expected to the financial services sector to reshape leading to a more sustainable and valuable be concluded in the first half of 2020, their business models in order to remain Nedbank business. Our successes in 2019 subject to regulatory approval. This relevant and competitive, and Nedbank is have been acknowledged by our clients as positions us well to benefit from the no different. We are doing everything we well as independent surveys and league growth opportunities in Mozambique can to make sure this transition is fair and tables. A few highlights include: particularly around liquefied just, and in line with our history and values natural gas. • Nedbank being the only SA bank to to ensure that job losses are only as a very last resort. With regard to ETI, our focus will remain improve its Net Promoter Score during on the delivery of the ETI board-driven the year and becoming the secondGlobally, administrative jobs are being agenda, commercialisation of initiatives highest-rated bank in the Consulta replaced increasingly by digital solutions and the increase of business flows. The customer satisfaction index. and during 2019 our overall headcount recent drop in the oil price is likely to • The Nedbank Money and Private Wealth reduced by 1 874, mainly through natural add to the already difficult conditions in apps continue to be rated at the top-end attrition. Through our Agility Centre we Nigeria and increases the risk of future of the SA peer group. placed 620 staffmembers in other internal impairment of our investment in ETI. • On wholesale league tables, CIB jobs and limited retrenchments to 158. We continued to lead industry league tables continue to focus on training, developing LOOKING AHEAD TO and reskilling our people to be prepared in various categories, coming first in dealflow for M&A advisors and third in for this ongoing digital transformation. THE CHALLENGES OF deal value for M&A sponsors, as well In addition, our cultural transformation 2020 as winning the Dealmakers M&A BEE programme and new Ways of Work In recent weeks we have seen the deal of the year. The business was also practices continue to transform Nedbank increasing impact of Covid-19 on ranked number one for debt capital to become more client-focused, digital, individuals, families, businesses, societies market bond issuances in 2019. competitive and agile. and countries as infection rates • Nedgroup Investments was named escalate around the world and here in Offshore Management Company of the STRATEGIC PROGRESS SA. In response to this, governments Year for the fifth consecutive year at the IN THE REST OF AFRICA everywhere are implementing Raging Bull Awards. emergency lockdown measures to Operating in the rest of Africa remains curb the spread of the virus and these As a bank, while we cannot control the volatile and challenging, and our success in turn are having enormous impacts economic environment around us, we have in this area needs to be measured over on economic activity. The duration and to do all that we can to focus on those the long term. The continent provides a impact of these interventions are not things that we can control, and in this compelling long-term growth opportunity possible to forecast accurately. I would regard expense management has been a for Nedbank as our SA clients expand in like to assure stakeholders that we are big focus with overall expenses increasing sub-Saharan Africa. 2019 was a difficult NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 12 working tirelessly to ensure that we are able The SA banks through the Banking APPRECIATION to deal with this escalating challenge. While Association of South Africa (BASA) are Our people are at the heart of what we our number-one focus is on the health and actively engaged with SARB and have do and the value we deliver. Thank you safety of our staff as we continue to serve agreed to do all in their power to play their to all Nedbankers for the incredible work our clients given that banking is an essential role in supporting their clients and the you do, particularly in the challenging time service, we have pivoted our strategy to economy in this period while at the same we are facing, and bringing our purpose increase focus on managing liquidity, capital, time preserving the safety and soundness to life. We thank our 7,8 million retail and market and credit risk alongside ongoing of the financial system. We commend wholesale clients for choosing to bank scenario modelling and stress testing. SARB on the proactive stance they have with Nedbank and we appreciate the taken in amending certain prudential In early March 2020 at the time we released support of shareholders as well as all other regulations and guidelines to enable banks our 2019 results, the Nedbank Economic stakeholders who continue to work with to increase their support of clients and the Unit forecast SA’s GDP growth prospects us to create a better SA and an African economy in these difficult times. to remain subdued at 0,7% in 2020 and 1,1% continent for all its people. in 2021, undermined by persistent energy Nedbank Group’s capital position remains I would like to thank the Chairman, the constraints, weak government finances solid with large liquidity buffers, having board and my executive team for their and slow progress in structural reforms. reported a CET1 capital ratio of 11,5%, well continued guidance and support. A special As highlighted in our results, our financial above the regulatory minimum of 7,5% word of appreciation to Brian Kennedy, guidance that we released on 3 March 2020 and strong liquidity metrics evidenced in who retired at the end of March 2020 for growth in DHEPS for the full year 2020 a liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) of 125% and was instrumental in building Nedbank to be around nominal GDP growth was and net stable funding ratio (NSFR) of CIB as one of SA’s strongest corporate based on this macroeconomic outlook. 113% at 31 December 2019. At time of and investment banks. Congratulations writing Nedbank Group remained in full As a result of the rapid escalation in the to Anél Bosman on her appointment compliance with all prudential regulatory impact of the Covid-19 pandemic since as Managing Executive: CIB to replace requirements. 3 March 2020 and the 35-day lockdown in Brian and to Terence Sibiya, Managing SA, together with the Moody’s downgrade In 2019 as we celebrated 50 years of Executive: Nedbank Africa Regions, on his and noting the high degree of forecast risk being listed on the Johannesburg Stock appointment to the Group Exco. I am also in this environment – on 14 April 2020 the Exchange this year, I reflected on the grateful to Brian Kennedy for agreeing Nedbank Group Economic Unit updated our resilience we have displayed and the to remain as a special advisor to CIB for macroeconomic outlook and we now expect ups and downs we have had over time. the next six months in the context of the a GDP decline of 7% in 2020. Growth in 2020 will be a challenging year, but this current environment. 2021 is expected at 2% off a low base. As a reflection filled me with optimism and result of this change in our macroeconomic confidence that no matter what challenges outlook, on 14 April 2020 we have withdrawn there are in the years to come, Nedbank is the financial guidance we issued as part well equipped to adapt and thrive over the of our 2019 financial results announcement long term. Mike Brown on 3 March 2020. Revised guidance will Chief Executive be provided when economic outcomes and regulatory interventions become more certain. NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 13 RESPONDING TO THE IMPACT OF COVID-19 While our material matters on the following pages set the agenda for our strategic actions over the coming years, from March 2020 we witnessed the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on individuals, families, businesses, societies and countries as infection rates escalated around the world and in SA. In response to this, governments globally have implemented emergency measures to curb the spread of the virus. At Nedbank we have and continue to work tirelessly to ensure that all our stakeholders deal with this escalating challenge. Our primary focus is on the health and safety of our staff alongside the continuous and uninterrupted provision of worldclass banking and other financial services to our clients. Financial markets dropped sharply and market movements are more volatile than during the global financial crisis as investors reduced their risk appetite and grappled with estimating the economic impacts of Covid-19 – with many economists predicting that some form of global recession is likely. In addition, global oil markets have also dropped sharply following disagreements between Russia and Saudi Arabia on levels of supply. Events like these are difficult to predict and referred to as 'black swan' events – meaning they are rare events that can have extreme consequences. On their own, the spread of Covid-19 or the oil price fall would be difficult for many parts of the world to deal with, but together they are exceptionally challenging. Despite various scientific and forecasting models, the real long-term impact of these events on economic growth will only emerge over time – but in the short term economic activity in many places has dropped materially and financial markets are likely to continue to be volatile as more data on infection rates and economic activity emerges. This is likely to be particularly the case in SA as our economy was already under stress, so these events could not have come at a worse economic time for our country. COVIDCOVID19 19 SA GOVERNMENT’S WHAT WE HAVE DONE RESPONSE IN RESPONSE President Ramaphosa announced a While the circumstances leading to this outbreak are nationwide lockdown effective from midnight, largely out of our control, at Nedbank we manage the 26 March 2020, resulting in non-essential escalating spread by being proactive and responsible. services being closed for a period of 35 days. We have implemented precautionary and preventative Banks have been declared an essential actions to help ensure the health and wellbeing of all service during the 35-day lockdown. As a our staff, clients and other stakeholders, and to ensure result, all Nedbank essential banking services Nedbank’s business continuity and continuous service to will remain open during the lockdown to our valued clients. ensure clients can continue to access essential financial services while keeping our staff safe We have established the Market Crisis 2020 and Covid-19 through the significant health and safety Exco Committee to oversee our actions and manage measures taken. the unfolding risks. This committee is supported by the Pandemic Steering Committee, focusing on operational The banks through the Banking Association matters, including managing business continuity plans, of South Africa (BASA) have agreed to do all the Liquidity Covid-19 Crisis Steering Committee focusing in their power to play their role in supporting on maintaining a healthy liquidity position and the Credit their clients in this period of enormous Covid-19 Crisis Committee looking at and managing challenge for all South Africans while at credit risks as they emerge and working with BASA on the same time preserving the safety and regulatory relief required to enable banks to continue soundness of the financial system. supporting their clients through the crisis. In addition, our various clusters have specific working groups in place to Similar measures have been taken by manage through the crisis. governments in other African countries. NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 14 Below are some of the key actions we have implemented to date. »» Matters related to temporary capital relief to alleviate risks posed by the Covid-19 pandemic – The PA has implemented Staff measures to reduce the specified minimum requirement • We activated our business continuity plans, tailored for the Covid-19 of capital and reserve funds to be maintained by banks, in pandemic and the 21-day lockdown. order to provide temporary capital relief to enable banks to counter economic risks to the financial system as a whole • All staff who are able to work from home have been allowed to do and to individual banks. These measures are intended to so – 81% of our staff were equipped to work remotely because of provide relief to banks in response to the Covid-19 pandemic, our continued focus on technology enablement. thereby enabling banks to continue providing credit to the • Various critical functions that cannot function remotely continue real economy during this period of financial stress. to operate at Nedbank premises, and we split up teams between offices, different floors and resumption sites. »» Matters related to the treatment of restructured credit exposures due to the Covid-19 pandemic – The PA is • A dedicated Nedbank Covid-19 portal was established to provide supportive of Covid-19-related relief initiatives, such as information on our policies, health precautions, ICAS support, FAQs payment holidays being offered by banks, in order to and other staff updates regularly. provide relief to certain borrowers who were up to date • All conferences, functions, training and other events were prohibited. at 29 February 2020 in an effort to mitigate the impact • The health and safety of our staff remain paramount and we have of the pandemic. Consequently, the PA has implemented increased focus on sanitation and health practices. measures to ensure that these initiatives, such as holidays, do not result in unintended consequences such as Clients inappropriate higher capital requirements. In response, • While there will be changes to how we operate, providing excellent the PA has provided temporary relief for qualifying loans service to all our clients and maintaining all Nedbank’s business from portions of Directive 7/2015 dealing with distressed operations and services at the highest level possible continue as restructures. Importantly, this relief covers retail, SME and before. corporate loans, including all specialist asset classes such as commercial property. • Although with reduced physical presence, we continue to enable and educate our clients around banking through our mobile and »» Temporary measures to aid compliance with the liquidity web capabilities. Clients are encouraged to use Nedbank’s digital coverage ratio during the Covid-19 pandemic stress period – channels and other self-service options, so they stay safe by The PA has deemed it appropriate to amend the minimum LCR doing their banking at home with all the security they require. requirement temporarily to 80% effective from 1 April 2020. The implementation of our digital onboarding, sales and servicing »» Recommendations on the distribution of dividends on capabilities has proven to be beneficial in this time and we continue ordinary shares and payment of cash bonuses to executive to focus on further rollout during the year. officers and material risk takers, in the light of the negative • Nedbank is committed to supporting clients during this time of economic impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. uncertainty and have a number of solutions available to assist We continue to work closely with our regulators to manage clients in good standing who are impacted by this pandemic. We are emerging risks, ensure liquidity and support of the SA banking working alongside and support our clients with suitable individual system. solutions to manage cashflow challenges they may experience. This support includes deferring payments (or part thereof) for a suitable Society period, extending existing loan periods or extending additional If ever there was a time to be the difference that impacts our credit to manage short-term cashflow shortfalls. In this context we world; if ever there was a time to be stronger together, the time is expect impairments to increase. now. At Nedbank we will continue to use our financial expertise, in this difficult time, to do good. Regulators SARB and the Prudential Authority (PA) announced various measures • All Nedbankers are called upon to embrace our Nedbank to support the banking system in SA. These include: Pledge to be mindful and to set an example not only for other Nedbankers, but for our families, clients and communities in • Liquidity – a number of changes were made to SARB's current preventing the spread of Covid-19. liquidity management strategy to assist domestic banks in their role • We continue to pay our exempt microenterprises within seven of supporting the domestic financial system, including individuals, days and qualifying SMEs within 30 days from invoice for SMEs, corporates and asset managers. Some of the changes services rendered. include: • Our market-leading digital banking solutions support clients to »» SARB will provide supplementary overnight repos, inject more do payments remotely and from home as we support efforts liquidity into the system if required and give banks access to to ‘flatten the curve’. standing facilities as provided for in times of market stress. Domestic banks will use these facilities as and when required • Nedbank is one of the four leading banks that will administer to assist with the orderly transmission of liquidity through the the South African Future Trust scheme (established by Nicky banking system. and Jonathan Oppenheimer) to facilitate the distribution of loans to small businesses. This will be at no cost to the fund »» To add liquidity to the financial system, SARB will buy government and we have also waived our normal credit fees for all loans securities in the secondary market across the yield curve. approved under the scheme to maximise the funds available to • Guidance notes and directives – the PA additionally announced recipients. various guidance notes and directives to support the SA banking • We will be donating R12m towards Covid-19 relief efforts – of system. These include: that R5m specifically for the Red Cross. »» Matters relating to the application of International Financial • For the duration of the current lockdown and to help those Reporting Standard (IFRS) 9 in response to the Covid-19 pandemic most vulnerable in our society, we have significantly reduced – Banks should carefully assess all reasonable and supportable our charges for South African Social Security Agency (SASSA) information that is available to make a distinction between those grant beneficiaries and increased the number of pay points accounts/portfolios whose credit risk has increased significantly they can use to collect their grants, which will help maintain (stage 2 or 3) and those whose credit risk has not increased social distancing in queues at bank branches and retailers. significantly (stage 1). If accounts that are not expected to remain This means SASSA beneficiaries will have more options for in good standing post the relief measures or despite the relief collecting their grants, including using ATMs at reduced costs. measures, still exhibit signs of distress, they should be modelled SDGs IMPACTED: in a way that illustrates the increase in credit risk (stage 2 or 3). In addition, since these relief measures are intended to provide temporary relief, it is unlikely that these would result in substantial modifications resulting in derecognition of the financial assets. NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 15 COVID19 Given the unfolding impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, our targets and guidance are at risk. On 14 April 2020 we have withdrawn our financial guidance until we have more clarity and certainty of the impact on our business. WHAT WE HAVE DONE IN RESPONSE continued Shareholders Our focus in this uncertain period remains on credit, liquidity and capital. We are managing emerging risks, monitoring our exposures/positions given material market movements, managing liquidity and capital levels, as well as working with regulators to ensure a stable banking system (see key regulatory actions on the previous page). As at 14 April 2020, Nedbank has complied with all minimum regulatory requirements, including LCR, NSFR and capital ratios. Shareholder concerns around credit risk have increased. To this end, we have reviewed key risk portfolios and continue to manage emerging risks through the crisis: • Oil and gas – a review of Nedbank exposures highlights no immediate issues at US$25–US$30/barrel and many clients have hedges in place for the next 6-18 months and/or their cost of production ensures profitability at these lower oil prices. • Aircraft finance – general pressure is experienced, and we expect to support clients through this difficult period. Our exposure to SAA, which is the largest proportion of our exposure, is government guaranteed. • Key sectors are being monitored, including hospitality, hotels, SMEs, retail shopping centres (and the broader commercial-property portfolio), exporters and mining companies. Consumers are likely to be under pressure, but will likely benefit from lower petrol prices and reduced interest rates. As noted, we will continue to work closely with our clients to assist them through this period. • Single stock futures, contracts for difference and share-based lending deals show no material issues. • From a trading perspective we remain profitable and have benefited from increased volatility and hedging activity into the lockdown. We expect client volumes to drop off as a result of both the lockdown and the slowdown in economic activity. • ETI Nigeria is likely to be impacted by lower oil prices and there is now an increased risk of impairment on Nedbank's ETI investment. • We continue to conduct stress testing and analysis to understand the potential impact on the bank and our clients. While confidence and client activity are likely to be negatively impacted, we are focusing on what we can control, in particular costs and progressing strategic initiatives that support revenue growth and efficiencies through the cycle. AS WE ENTER THE COVID-19 CRISIS WE ARE IN A STRONGER POSITION THAN AT THE TIME OF THE GLOBAL FINANCIAL CRISIS HEADLINE EARNINGS (Rm) LOAN GROWTH NUMBER OF CLIENTS STRONG LIQUIDITY POSITION (CAGR%) (m) (% as at 31 December 2019) 100% regulatory minimum requirement 20,1 16,3 6,0 3,3 125 113 06-08 15-19 LCR NSFR Wholesale Retail STAGE 3 OVERAGE CET1 RATIO FUNDING TENOR (%) (%) (%) 4,1 1,6 LT 19,2 21,1 30,2 MT 19,9 21,0 22,9 ST 32,0 33,9 38,0 8,22 9,92 11,5 60,9 57,9 46,9 2008 2009 2019 2008 2009 2019 2008 2009 2019 1 Includes dormant account closures. 2 Core equity tier 1. NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 16 RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES IN OUR OPERATING ENVIRONMENT Our material matters are reflected in our key risks and opportunities and represent the issues that have the most impact on our ability to create sustainable value for our stakeholders and influence our business model. While these issues change over time as new trends and developments shape the macro environment and our stakeholders’ needs evolve, the broad themes have remained consistent over the past few years. Our material matters are: the SA macroeconomic environment; managing growth opportunities versus volatility in the rest of Africa; transformation of society within environmental constraints; changing relationships between business, government, labour and civil society; disruptive technologies and digital adoption; requirements for scarce and evolving skills; increased competition and the threat of new entrants; and demands on governance, regulation and risk management. These have been amended to reflect the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic where relevant. SA MACROECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT As a financial services provider we are highly connected to and interdependent on the macroeconomic environment, especially in SA, where we currently generate more than 90% of our earnings. Our ability to create value is dependent on key economic drivers, our response to them and their impact on our stakeholders. A key recurring topic during our discussions with the investment community over the past few years has been the subdued level of economic growth in SA and Nedbank’s outlook for the macroeconomic environment. Rather than an instantaneous acceleration in economic growth, the turnaround story for SA is that we are in the early stages of an institutional turnaround. To build both business and consumer confidence, and to attract local and foreign investment, which would support higher levels of inclusive growth, SA needs policy certainty and structural reforms to be implemented. These are dependent on the progress we make on the political and institutional turnaround that is currently underway and the extent to which we, as a country, manage various risks and uncertainties such as electricity supply stability, policy certainty and the country’s fiscal position. The endgame is higher levels of inclusive growth, which will support job creation and reduced levels of unemployment, poverty and inequality. Progress on structural reforms and policy certainty – too slow. Early stages Structural Improved Increased Increased Job creation of an reforms levels of levels of local levels and reduced: institutional and policy business and and foreign of inclusive • unemployment; turnaround certainty. consumer investment. economic • poverty; and in SA. confidence. growth. • inequality. NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 17 RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES IN OUR OPERATING ENVIRONMENT continued Scenarios for the short to medium term In the context of challenging macroeconomic dynamics we have created scenarios that represent the underlying assumptions for our three-year planning (2020 to 2022), stress testing and communication to the investment community. These scenarios were set in January 2020 and formed the base case of our 2020 financial guidance, which is no longer valid. Given the developments in March 2020 around lower oil prices and the emerging and unknown impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on both global and local economic growth, we have updated our January 2020 base case scenario titled: 'More of the same' with a new base case scenario titled: 'Managing through the Covid-19 crisis' based on our revised April 2020 economic forecasts. We additionally introduced a severe stress scenario (should the crisis not be contained in a reasonable period, both globally and locally in SA and the rest of Africa). January 2020 scenarios ‘More of the same’ scenario January 2020 ‘Seeing light’ scenario January 2020 The January 2020 base case scenario formed the foundation of our initial In this January 2020 scenario government financial planning. In this scenario the pace of structural reforms remains embraces the need for structural reforms and slow. The fight against corruption continues, but ideological and other policy certainty. The state not only presents divisions within the ruling ANC party persists, undermining policy clarity and a pragmatic strategy for structural reform decisive action on key regulation, legislation and infrastructure. While some but starts implementation in a determined, concessions are made towards allowing greater private sector involvement systematic and pragmatic manner, with in energy generation and other systemically important infrastructure misplacement and other costs well managed markets, the status quo largely persists. Electricity constraints, coupled and contained. Confidence improves and with weak government finances and persistent policy uncertainty, keep fixed-investment activity gradually picks up confidence fragile, fixed-investment activity contained and job creation around the second half of 2021, resulting in limited. A Moody’s downgrade of the SA sovereign-credit-risk rating to some recovery in job creation. As the economy subinvestment grade was expected, and materialised in March 2020. Its slowly gathers some pace, government impact was largely discounted as CDS spreads and bond yields already finances strengthen moderately, and Moody’s traded above countries with similar ratings. Its impact is largely discounted maintains the country’s investment grade and investors seek higher yields. However, sentiment swings between riskcredit risk rating. The rand is supported by on and risk-off conditions, while a Chinese economic recovery is expected greater investor confidence and helps to in H1 2020 post the Covid-19 impact. Economic growth in SA recovers only keep inflation in check, creating some scope slowly but remains at generally weak levels of less than 1,5% per annum for lower and steady interest rates. Credit over the next three years, primarily given the shortage of electricity supply demand recovers as household and business and loadshedding at stage 1 and 2 for the next 18 months. These subdued confidence and finances improve, and defaults demand conditions assist to contain inflation, which is forecast to hover decrease. Globally, trade wars subside and around the 4,5% mid-point of SARB’s target range. While scope for further commodity prices gain momentum, while we monetary easing exists, these are balanced by adverse consequences of experience risk-on conditions and containment heightened fiscal and ratings risks, keeping the rand vulnerable to sudden of Covid-19. (This scenario is no longer relevant changes in foreign investor sentiment. Interest rates are assumed to given the impact of the Covid-19 crisis.) remain steady at current lower levels throughout the forecast period (with some probability of further decreases), providing some relief to indebted consumers. March 2020 scenarios 'Managing through the Covid-19 crisis' scenario ‘Sinking into darkness’ scenario April 2020 April 2020 In this high-risk and high disinflationary scenario the The global economy enters recession in 2020 and growth recovers global impact of the Covid-19 pandemic extends into off a low base thereafter. Capital flows are erratic due to a riskQ3 2020 but is eventually brought under control. off environment. Deflationary pressures mount given the slump in Commodity prices rise briefly in H2 2020 before drifting oil prices. Major central banks keep interest rates low and continue lower. A risk-off environment remains despite monetary to inject liquidity. Locally, we see temporary cohesion around accommodation. Locally, poor service delivery, the land Covid-19 containment but concerns around corruption and direction issue and SOE reforms lead to social discontent and around economic policies return. The 'State of disaster' eases unrest. Loadshedding continues and remains a problem. some pressure on Eskom. Later in the year power outages return. The fight against corruption loses momentum and State reforms are limited and government finances deteriorate attempts to resolve policy paralysis fail; public finances further. The lockdown is assumed to last 35 days and economic worsen, prompting further sovereign credit ratings activity slowly builds up. Economic growth enters recession with downgrades. This scenario assumes the initial lockdown GDP declining in 2020 by 7% before recovering off a low base. fails to contain the spread of the virus and is further The Moody's sovereign-credit-rating downgrade is discounted by extended to 42 days, with the bulk of the economy the market. Inflation declines to below the mid-point of the MPC's remaining in shutdown for an extended period. The target range (3,9%) in 2020 and remains subdued thereafter. economy contracts sharply in 2020 and at a lower level in Interest rates in 2020 decline by 250 bps and moderate tightening 2021. Company failures rise and unemployment spikes. As is only expected from late 2021. Credit growth declines despite a result consumer spending is negatively impacted and distressed borrowing and Covid-19 support measures. Corporates fixed investment remains weak, only recovering late in drawdown facilities and many industries experience stress, while the period. Credit growth declines and recovery off a low households extend borrowing but banks remain cautious of higher base only starts in 2021. Arrears and bad debts worsen. levels of indebtedness during the crisis. NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 18 SA INFLATION SA AVERAGE PRIME INTEREST RATE SA GDP GROWTH* (%) (%) (%) 8 12 4 2 6 10 0 -2 4 8 -4 -6 2 6 -8 -10 0 4 -12 2019 2020 2021 2022 2019 2020 2021 2022 2019 2020 2021 2022 More of the same (January 2020) Managing through the Covid-19 crisis (April 2020) Seeing light (January 2020) Sinking into darkness (April 2020) SA INDUSTRY CREDIT GROWTH (%) COVID19 12 Given the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on commercial property, some 10 investors are concerned about Nedbank's exposure. As a market leader in 8 commercial-property finance, Nedbank has a well-diversified commercial6 property finance book managed by an experienced team. The portfolio 4 contains good-quality collateralised assets with low average loan-to-value 2 ratios (December 2019: 48%), underpinned by a large cash-producing asset 0 pool and a strong client base, meaning that many clients can manage -2 short-term cashflow disruptions with their own resources and Nedbank -4 is well positioned to provide additional support on a case-by-case basis -6 to clients in good standing, as contemplated in the PA's directive on the -8 treatment of restructured credit exposures due to the Covid-19 pandemic. -10 2019 2020 2021 2022 Our opportunities Our key risks and mitigating actions Economic recovery – An improvement in socioeconomic conditions, Economic recovery – For banks an ongoing uncertain economic under both ‘More of the same’ and ‘Seeing light’ scenarios, supports environment would have a negative impact on earnings growth banks. Opportunities include improving sentiment and confidence potential under both a 'Managing through the Covid-19 crisis' and driving higher levels of corporate and consumer spending and a ‘Sinking into darkness’ scenario. Key risks include slow advances investment, growth in infrastructure, an increase in mergers and growth, particularly muted retail lending and corporates not investing, acquisitions activity, and potential alleviation of stress for consumers lower interest rates (endowment impact), slower transactional volumes as interest rates remain flat or decrease further. Given Nedbank’s that impact revenue growth and higher bad debts driven by job losses wholesale-banking bias, we are well positioned in CIB to grow and corporate defaults. Managing costs wisely is an imperative, as we strongly when business confidence returns, while RBB will gain from discuss on page 53. improved consumer confidence and Nedbank Wealth will benefit as COVID19 equity markets recover. Given the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic The Covid-19 pandemic is likely to result in more challenging this is only likely in 2021. economic conditions with an increased focus on credit risk, liquidity management and capital preservation. Its financial impact is still Growing our transactional-banking franchise faster than the market emerging and not fully quantifiable. Managing scarce resources to optimise economic outcomes Exposure to SOEs – Nedbank’s exposure to SOEs is limited and loans to Eskom and SAA are largely guaranteed by government. This risk is For more details on our strategic focus areas and discussed further on page 51. strategic enablers refer to pages 45 to 59 of our 2019 Integrated Report. 1 Business (global and country) risk 3 Liquidity risk 4 Credit risk 5 Capital risk 6 Market risk 9 Reputational (and association) risk For more details on our top 12 risks refer to pages 62 to 64 of our 2019 Integrated Report. How does this material matter impact our business model? In a difficult SA macroeconomic environment, we are accelerating delivery of digital innovations and the drive for greater levels of digital sales and service to improve client satisfaction, explore new revenue streams beyond banking and reduce costs. The focus on risk management, and credit risk, in particular, increases. The behavioural outcomes of the Covid-19 pandemic is likely to drive increased levels of digital adoption and promote greater levels of flexible work practices. NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 19 RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES IN OUR OPERATING ENVIRONMENT continued MANAGING GROWTH OPPORTUNITIES VERSUS VOLATILITY IN THE REST OF AFRICA Against a muted SA economic outlook, sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) is considered to be an attractive long-term investment region, fuelled by its strong economic growth potential. Strong population growth, a long-term rise in the middle-class population, urbanisation trends, increasing technology usage and abundant natural resources are key drivers for investments in SSA. In the short term, the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic is likely to have an adverse effect on economies. African governments are driving efforts to tackle infrastructure bottlenecks and improve SA GDP VS SSA GDP (EXCLUDING SA the regulatory environment to attract foreign direct investment, along with additional AND NIGERIA) GROWTH – 2019 TO 2021 opportunities brought about by the recent ratification of the African Continental Free Trade (%) Area Agreement (AfCFTA). Continued implementation of the agreement should boost intraAfrica trade in the medium to long term. Banking penetration still remains relatively low in many African countries, creating an opportunity for established banks from well-developed financial markets to grow. Mobile 0,2 0,7 4,5 2,0 4,9 and digital technologies, driven largely by fintech companies, are gradually boosting (7,0) financial inclusion in SSA. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) revised GDP growth for SSA (excluding SA and Nigeria) in 2020 to 0,7% and forecast sustained levels of growth above 4% thereafter, on a sustainable basis, much faster than SA. In SADC, where Nedbank operates, the economy of Zimbabwe will continue to be challenging given hyperinflationary conditions, while Mozambique has significant growth potential in the long term given gas exploration possibilities. Other SADC countries closer to SA are expected to recover in line with SA’s economic prospects. Key markets in which ETI operates, such as Ghana and Côte d’Ivoire, 2019 2020 2021 should see some improvement, but operating conditions in Nigeria remain challenging from SA GDP growth % both an economic and regulatory perspective. SSA GDP growth (excluding SA and Nigeria) % Similar to SA, governments across the rest of Africa have implemented various emergency measures to curb the spread of Covid-19. These measures will negatively impact in-country Source: Nedbank and IMF (April 2020) economic growth, along with the effects of a global recession, particularly for those economies dependent on the export of resources. Our opportunities Our key risks and mitigating actions Expansion into the rest of Africa– The ongoing opportunity for us is Zimbabwe – We are conscious of the challenging environment to support our SA clients who continue to expand into faster-growing in Zimbabwe and its impact on our staff, clients and operations. markets in the rest of Africa, leveraging SA’s position as the gateway Consequently, we have begun to reconfigure the business operations to Africa and using the unique expertise of our partners in operating in to respond to the new market realities. The balance sheet size of our emerging markets. Read more on page 54. Zimbabwean operations is less than 0,2% of the group. ETI (sustainability of earnings) – Risks around our strategic partner, Managing scarce resources to optimise economic outcomes Ecobank, which is more directly exposed to Nigeria, remain top of mind. ETI has delivered good performances in its West African business and Providing our clients with access to the best financial services network in Africa seen a recovery in Central, Eastern and Southern Africa, but this is offset by economic and regulatory challenges impacting its Nigerian For more details on our strategic focus areas and business. As a 21% shareholder we continue to work with the ETI board strategic enablers refer to pages 45 to 59 of our 2019 to improve governance, risk practices and unlock growth opportunities. Integrated Report. COVID19 The Covid-19 pandemic is likely to result in more challenging economic conditions with an increased focus on credit risk, liquidity management and capital preservation. It’s financial impact is still emerging and not fully quantifiable. 1 Business (global and country) risk 8 Regulatory, accounting and compliance risk 9 Reputational (and association) risk 11 Strategic execution risk For more details on our top 12 risks refer to pages 62 to 64 of our 2019 Integrated Report. How does this material matter impact our business model? Increasing our exposure to the rest of Africa requires investment for the future and this will be realised only in the medium to long term. To date we have replaced our core banking system in our subsidiaries, rolled out new products and are leveraging our SA digital innovations for deployment in these countries. We are increasing our shareholding in Banco Único (Mozambique) to 87,5% and have sold our operations in Malawi (where we had a 1% market share) to position the group for the future. NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 20 TRANSFORMATION OF SOCIETY WITHIN ENVIRONMENTAL CONSTRAINTS The World Economic Forum (WEF) has highlighted geopolitical and geoeconomic tensions, along with domestic political strains in many countries, as key hurdles to addressing the most urgent global risks effectively. The lack of progress in addressing these risks is driving greater levels of sociopolitical tension. Environmental risks remain among the same time, they agree that there are 2 0C globally, 4 0C in SA – top global risks identified by the WEF, significant economic opportunities if In this scenario the western half both in terms of likelihood and potential the right strategies are implemented. of SA becomes hotter and drier impact. These include extreme weather, Climate-related losses will be experienced and the eastern half of natural disasters, water crises and failure of unequally, with the highest economic costs SA experiences a climate change mitigation and adaptation. being felt by large economies, and the potential increase in The interconnectedness of these risks risk of exposure, death and non-economic sporadic and severe with human wellbeing means that they costs being more severe in poorer storms. pose increasing systemic challenges to economies. communities, corporations and governments. In SA, the Western Cape’s brush with Day Understanding the potential impact of Zero and the continued extreme water climate change 3 0C globally, 6 0C in SA – In this shortages being experienced in many other Southern Africa is particularly vulnerable scenario there is a general parts of the country emphasise how heavily to climate change because of its trend towards a hotter we rely on the environment for economic geographic positioning with local average and drier climate, with prosperity and social stability, and how temperature increases anticipated to be greater water much a natural ecosystem failure puts the twice that of the global average. As such shortages and wellbeing of communities at risk. and according to the Paris Agreement it is higher temperatures essential then to limit the global average experienced. Global inequality (between countries) may temperature increase to 1,5 0C above have decreased in recent years, but within preindustrial levels. The consequences for many countries, including SA with its high not doing so will have serious economic, 4 0C globally, 8 0C in SA – and growing unemployment rate of 29%, it social, and environmental implications for In this scenario almost half of the continued to rise. While the IMF forecasts the the region and on, among other things, Northern Cape is no longer slowest growth in the global economy since human discomfort/health, rainfall patterns commercially viable 2008/09, the drive to address inequality, and agriculture potential. for agriculture as is unemployment and poverty on the African The NBI Climate mApp demonstrates the much of the continent cannot stall. potential impacts on SA using a number Western Cape, Unless this fundamental interdependence of different climate change scenarios. We due to severe of human development and environmental have used this data as input into scenario water shortages. wellbeing is properly appreciated, modern planning as it relates to prospects for Extremely high economies will remain under threat. More our own business and those of our clients, temperatures in northern Limpopo and than 200 of the globe’s largest companies as shown alongside. We plan to expand the northern part of North West would have estimated that climate change could this type of analysis into the future as we require farmers to use expensive irrigation cost them (and their shareholders) nearly deepen our insight into climate-changemethods. US$1 trillion if no action is taken. At the related risks. Our opportunities Our key risks and mitigating actions SDGs – The use of innovative financial solutions to meet clients’ needs as Climate change – The impacts of climate change include: more natural they relate to meeting the SDGs represents a significant opportunity and disasters and increased costs to rebuild (or retrofit) infrastructure we have positioned delivery on our purpose and therefore on the SDGs where required; increased energy costs, water shortages and quality at the heart of our strategy, using this to create an enduring competitive issues; and increased food prices and shortages. Extreme weather advantage. As shown above, as we build insights and capabilities in the events impact clients, and ultimately insurers through higher claims. future, we will be able to manage climate-change-related risks proactively The imperative to protect essential ecosystem services provided by and develop new solutions to assist our clients to prepare for the future. our environment, amid growing social and political pressure, leads to certain industries becoming less viable, resulting in potential job losses. Managing scarce resources to optimise economic outcomes 1 Business (global and country) risk 9 Reputational (and association) risk For more details on our strategic focus areas and 12 Climate risks strategic enablers refer to pages 45 to 59 of our 2019 Integrated Report. For more details on our top 12 risks refer to pages 62 to 64 of our 2019 Integrated Report. How does this material matter impact our business model? We are selectively tilting financing decisions to support the SDGs, providing an additional lens to growing certain products and market segments over time. Our Thermal Coal Policy and focus on renewable-energy solutions are key examples, as shown on pages 60 to 61 of our 2019 Integrated Report. NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 21 RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES IN OUR OPERATING ENVIRONMENT continued CHANGING RELATIONSHIPS BETWEEN BUSINESS, GOVERNMENT, LABOUR AND CIVIL SOCIETY Government, business, labour and civil society all understand the imperative to address weak economic conditions and high levels of unemployment, avert further sovereign-credit-rating downgrades and increase levels of inclusive growth to ensure a better life for all. Working together towards a common goal will assist the SA economy in reaching its full potential and reducing inequality and poverty. CEO Initiative and other areas of focus Constructive national dialogue • As South Africans, we have a The value-adding outcomes to date • At Nedbank, we have deliberately constitutional duty and obligation to include, among others: taken a more active stance on some recognise and redress the injustices and key issues facing our country. As a inequalities of the past, while working to • Of the R1,5bn committed by the purpose-led organisation that uses build a society based on the rule of law private sector for investment in small ‘our financial expertise to do good’, that aims to improve the quality of life of enterprises to drive job creation, the we added our voice to the land reform all citizens. SME Fund has accumulated R1,2bn of debate by making written submissions COVIDinvestible capital to date. 19 through various forums (including the • The YES initiative has registered Banking Association of South Africa, The Covid-19 pandemic could 575 companies to date, with 32 360 Business Leadership South Africa, be a catalyst for closer working committed work opportunities Business Unity South Africa and relationships between business, provided by business for youth interns. Nedlac) to Parliament. government, labour and civil society as we all work together towards a • Considerable investment in the • We have also made written common goal of slowing the spread REIPPPP that has led to 3 517 MW submissions through various forums of the virus, and implement social of energy generation, and round 5 is to Parliament in relation to the and economic actions to manage expected to be concluded in 2020 or National Health Insurance Bill and have through the crisis. early 2021. sought to engage with a number of stakeholders, including the Office of • Improvement of governance in some the Minister of Health and the Board SOEs and working on a resolution of Healthcare Funders, to discuss the to address operational and funding pros and cons of introducing national challenges at Eskom. health insurance as well as make • Regular meetings to update credit proposals in relation to the practical rating agencies on the progress made approach to the rollout thereof. to avert further sovereign-credit• We are actively fighting financial rating downgrades. However, given crime, and as part of this, we continue the deterioration in the country’s fiscus to provide input into the Zondo and risks such as Eskom, major credit Commission of Inquiry into State rating agencies have downgraded the Capture. We realise that business SA sovereign and retained a negative cannot afford to sit back and watch outlook. what happens on matters of national • The launch of a US$100bn investment significance. drive over the next five years, supported by an investment summit that received commitments of R300m in 2018 and R360m in 2019. Our opportunities Our key risks and mitigating actions Conscious capital– Opportunities for Nedbank include initiatives that Sovereign-credit-rating downgrade – Nedbank is well-positioned to drive inclusive and sustainable economic growth. This should place deal with a higher-stress environment, such as the Moody’s downgrade SA in a stronger position over the medium to long term and create of SA’s sovereign-credit rating on 27 March 2020, and therefore a supportive environment for banks to improve returns and growth. consequential bank credit ratings downgrades will have a limited direct At Nedbank, we will continue to contribute to important debates on impact. Our readiness to deal with any potential shocks compares key issues, work closely with government, labour to ensure positive favourably with our readiness during the 2007/08 global financial crisis outcomes for our citizens, and contribute our fair share through the (a prior high-risk event). SDGs and the SME Fund. 1 Business (global and country) risk 9 Reputational (and association) risk Managing scarce resources to optimise economic outcomes For more details on our top 12 risks refer to pages 62 to 64 of For more details on our strategic focus areas and our 2019 Integrated Report. strategic enablers refer to pages 45 to 59 of our 2019 Integrated Report. NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 22 DISRUPTIVE TECHNOLOGIES AND DIGITAL ADOPTION As the world becomes increasingly digitised, all industries are feeling the impact of the pervasiveness of technology. Financial institutions have seen leading indicators of this revolution as it changes all aspects of providing financial services and creates new opportunities – from digitisation of financial services, enhanced client experiences and new products and channels, to evolving organisational structures and internal processes, as well as new staffing and skills requirements. Digital adoption is likely to accelerate to mitigate the impact of reduced mobility due to the Covid-19 pandemic. New digital technologies are reshaping SMARTPHONE AND INTERNET PENETRATION the value proposition of existing financial (% of total population) products and services and how these are delivered to and consumed by clients. The digitisation of banks includes embracing and leveraging mobile technology, fintech partnerships, cloud computing, big data, advanced analytics, machine learning, blockchain technology, artificial intelligence, robotics and biometrics in the optimisation of legacy IT infrastructure as well as in the pursuit of new revenue channels and opportunities. Banks (which have both the scale and position of trust with clients) 95 82 87 77 76 64 67 41 65 38 56 36 42 13 are increasingly partnering with fintechs, enabling faster delivery of new innovations. UK US Russia Brazil Turkey South Africa Nigeria The adoption and application of modern Internet 2017–2018 Smartphone 2017–2018 tooling enable more rapid software engineering development and scaling of Source: Newzoo’s Global Mobile Market Report, 2019; The World Bank, 2018 delivery, which allow for faster innovation and digitisation. In SA and the rest of Africa, internet and The dark side of the global technology revolution is that financial crime has increased smartphone penetration remains low and dramatically, evidenced by the increase in the number, intensity and sophistication of below that of both developed markets high-profile cyberattacks. These attacks are usually aimed at accessing, changing or and emerging markets such as Russia, destroying sensitive information, extorting money from users or interrupting normal China, Brazil and Turkey, while mobile business processes. Banks have become attractive targets for cyberattacks because of phone penetration is higher. As penetration their key role in payment and settlement systems, the volume of sensitive client information increases over the next few years, driven they hold and the potential adverse impact of interfering with the smooth functioning of by increased bandwidth, a reduction in banking services. A survey conducted by the WEF has indicated that globally cyberattacks data costs and the introduction of more are among the top five risks, while our Internal Risk and Governance Framework similarly affordable smartphones, usage of digital includes cyberrisk as a key priority. banking products and services should increase. Our opportunities Our key risks and mitigating actions Revenue growth and cost optimisation – Opportunities for Nedbank Cyberrisk – Since 2016, cyberrisk has been identified and listed as include gaining client transactional volumes and revenue by continuing a Nedbank top 10 risk and it has become more important given the to respond to the digital challenge in an agile and client-centred manner, digitisation of products and services. improving efficiency through technology (lower cost to serve) and bringing new digital offerings to market quicker. In 2020 Nedbank will 2 People and operational risk 7 Cyberrisk 11 Strategic execution risk be launching various innovations to expand beyond banking, building on foundations put in place such as APIs, and learnings from our existing For more details on our top 12 risks refer to pages 62 to 64 of ecosystem plays. our 2019 Integrated Report. Delivering innovative market-leading client experiences How does this material matter impact our business model? Digital transformation is fundamentally changing the way Growing our transactional-banking franchise faster than the market we do business, from client onboarding and products sales to servicing. We are moving away from paper-intensive, Being operationally excellent in all we do predominantly staff-assisted channels to more effective and cost-efficient digital solutions that also drive improved levels For more details on our strategic focus areas and of client satisfaction. Read more about this on pages 46 to 49. strategic enablers refer to pages 45 to 59 of our 2019 of our 2019 Integrated Report Integrated Report. NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 23 RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES IN OUR OPERATING ENVIRONMENT continued REQUIREMENTS FOR SCARCE AND EVOLVING SKILLS The pace of change in banking is accelerating, and digitisation is at the forefront of the change in the industry, with strong competition to deliver superior client experiences and pressure to remain competitive. Global banking industry trends indicate a large impact on the workforce as a result of digitisation relating to skill sets and a reduction in organisation sizes. Consumer behaviours and uptake of Readying the workforce for the future Reskilling and upskilling the digital offerings influence the roles • The emergence of fintechs, • As skills retention and development and skill sets required for banks to grow cryptocurrencies, digital interaction, are crucial to improving SA’s global our business. In addition, the increase artificial intelligence and agile work competitiveness, it is critical that we take of millennials in the workforce requires environments prompts companies to an active role in supporting the existing learning offerings that meet their needs shift their focus to understanding the workforce through reskilling and upskilling. to keep their skills relevant to meet the key skills financial services will require Companies need to create enabling demands of the ever-changing operating in the future. In SA technology jobs environments, and individuals need to environment. were the most sought-after positions adopt a proactive approach to their own in 2019, with developer skills (Java, learning. Shortages and competition for critical skills PHP, web, .Net, etc) in highest demand. are rising globally, and this is also true for • Innovative partnerships must be explored SA and the African continent, particularly • The new world of work is rapidly with non-financial-services sectors technologyand digital-related skills. becoming a reality and entails a to absorb reskilled individuals in their Routine-based and semiskilled roles difficult transition for thousands of respective sectors. External partnerships are expected to become increasingly workers and companies in SA and and funding opportunities with BANKSETA redundant due to advances in new around the world. New roles are are some of the avenues banks are technologies, process automation and emerging and require capabilities and already leveraging to aid in the reskilling increased digital adoption. skills that are scarce and critical to the and outskilling of the workforce. future success of businesses. Existing • Leaders need to be equipped to embrace roles will change and therefore the and lead the change, despite constant need for proactive investment is ambiguity and uncertainty, to instil a SA UNEMPLOYMENT required to develop new capabilities culture of learning. Organisations should (%) and skilled talent globally within recognise the risk that skill shortages pose organisations and at graduate levels. to delivery on their business strategies 29,1 • SA has approximately 1,6 million youth and need to continue to invest in the (15–24 years) who are unemployed. development of skills. 25,5 Nedbank is committed to our role in COVID19 the broader SA society and is now Covid-19 impact one of many companies, as agreed Flexible work practices, health and between leading CEOs and the safety and employee wellbeing have 2010 2015 2019 government, that are participating become increasingly important as and carrying the costs of employment companies respond to Covid-19 opportunities to previously through alternative work practices and unemployed youth as part of the YES implementing business continuity plans. initiative. Our opportunities Our key risks and mitigating actions Creating a strong EVP – At Nedbank, we continue to evolve our Skill shortages – We are taking an active role in supporting our leadership, people and support practices towards delivering a more staffmembers through reskilling and upskilling for new emerging roles, positive employee experience as we aim to attract, develop and including learnership programmes, with digital learning platforms and retain scarce skills. Read more on pages 57 to 75. ‘life-long-learning principles’ being introduced to enable a future-fit workforce. In addition, we are bringing young and skilled talent into the organisation to infuse creativity and innovation beyond what we have Managing scarce resources to optimise economic outcomes created so far. To address skill shortages we continuously invest in skills development. For more details on our strategic focus areas and strategic enablers refer to pages 45 to 59 of our 2019 Employee stress, health and safety – The intensifying pace of change Integrated Report. in the workplace, coupled with political, social and economic distress in our society, means that employees are experiencing higher levels How does this material matter impact our business model? of stress and are looking to Nedbank for more support than ever New Ways of Work, introduced into Nedbank during 2017, before. Our Employee Wellbeing Programme offers confidential continues to change the way we work and organise ourselves. (outsourced) counselling services to staff facing stress at work and in Read more about this on page 5. their personal lives. 2 People and operational risk 11 Strategic execution risk For more details on our top 12 risks refer to pages 62 to 64 of our 2019 Integrated Report. NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 24 INCREASED COMPETITION AND THREAT OF NEW ENTRANTS Competitors in the banking sector have evolved to include new entrants, fintech disruptors and big-tech disruptors. These disruptors are revolutionising the banking experience for clients, but many battle to scale and achieve financial sustainability. While many fintech players have found The past two years saw the launch of value propositions by various new entrants in the SA it hard to scale and are increasingly banking system. SARB has granted banking licences to Discovery Bank, TymeBank, PostBank partnering with traditional banks, and Bank Zero. Some of these new entrants focus primarily on transactional services and big-tech disruptors such as Google, deposits and they are challenging existing banks with innovative digital solutions. Amazon, Facebook, Apple and Microsoft (GAFAM), Alibaba and Tencent have the Discovery Bank – Its proposed differentiation is around behavioural banking, underpinned by financial muscle, as well as the ability ‘Vitality Money’, which aims to help clients improve their financial standing. Discovery Bank aims to scale, and are therefore arguably a to integrate with other Discovery products clients may require, resulting in more affordable life greater threat to traditional banks. With insurance, faster growing investments, smarter insurance and convenient health payments. the introduction of third-party wallets Source: www.discovery.co.za/assets/discoverycoza/corporate/investor-relations/discovery-iar-2019.pdf like Samsung Pay, Apple Pay, AliPay and Google Pay and equivalent business models, banks face the risk of brand TymeBank – A digital bank founded on simplicity, transparency and affordability with no dilution and need to reintermediate branches and its core banking system is hosted securely in the Cloud. TymeBank continues themselves into the client’s day-toto expand its range of transactional solutions (money transfers, and current and savings day activities and lifestyle. Against this accounts). It differentiates itself through its efficient client onboarding, low fees and higher trend there is evidence of global banks interest rates on deposits. It is currently testing an unsecured lending offering. increasingly partnering with these bigSource: www.tymebank.co.za/about/ tech disruptors. PostBank – Focuses primarily on financial inclusion, currently providing deposit and savings Disruptors usually start small, creating services to 11 million social grant beneficiaries, with plans to expand services to include credit solutions that serve an unserved facilities (specifically development funding to SMEs) and a full transactional offering. market or client need. As demand increases, the disruption becomes more mainstream and eventually overtakes Bank Zero – As a mutual bank, clients can become shareholders and include individuals and the performance of the incumbent businesses. Focuses on app-based banking solutions, with transactional banking services set to companies, products or services. commence through the launch of a debit card in H1 2020. Incumbents that do not respond fast enough get disrupted. However, while disruptors or challengers may be Capitec acquisition of Mercantile Bank – According to Capitec, the acquisition of Mercantile will more innovative and agile, incumbents fast-track Capitec's objective to expand its focus to a broader bank strategy. The acquisition do have large advantages of their was approved towards the end in October 2019. own. These include a history and a Source: Fin 24 Mboweni approves Capitec acquisition of Mercantile track record, existing scale benefits, established and strong brands, Telecommunications providers are also expanding their services beyond their core business, significant data sets, intellectual as evident in MTN’s mobile money service (MyMo), which was launched early 2020 in SA, property and annuity cashflows to allowing customers to send, receive, and save money, as well as pay for goods using their fund innovations at a scale that smaller cellphones. fintechs do not have. Our opportunities Our key risks and mitigating actions Accelerating innovation in a client-centred manner – Competition Pressure on revenues – Multiple options available to clients, loss continues to keep SA banks on their toes, challenging them to respond of market share and loss of revenue are key risks should our through new innovative solutions. Incumbent banks have the advantage digital offerings not remain competitive, digital banking become a of strong brands, an available client base and data, and strong balance commodity and not a differentiator, or new competitors capture a sheets. Nedbank’s leadership in digital innovation has supported the bank significant share of revenues. We are responding to these risks by to improve its offerings to clients, and client satisfaction as shown on bringing various innovations to market (as shown on pages 46 to 49), page 86. Investment into expansion opportunities into commercialisation as well as executing our cost optimisation initiatives on page 53. of data, adjacent markets and beyond-banking solutions has accelerated and we plan to launch a revolutionary solution in 2020. 2 People and operational risk 11 Strategic execution risk Delivering innovative market-leading client experiences For more details on our top 12 risks refer to pages 62 to 64 of our 2019 Integrated Report. Growing our transactional banking franchise faster than the market Being operationally excellent in all we do For more details on our strategic focus areas and strategic enablers refer to pages 45 to 59 of our 2019 Integrated Report. NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 25 DEMANDS ON GOVERNANCE, REGULATION AND RISK MANAGEMENT The financial services industry worldwide has seen an exponential increase in regulations since the global financial crisis. These regulations have placed new demands on banks, resulting in, among others, increased cost of banking. We support the intention of increased global regulations to protect our stakeholders from potential bank failures, therefore regulatory compliance and alignment with emerging risk management practices are our key strategic imperatives. Looking forward, the focus of SA regulations, its feasibility assessment relating credit RWA calculation rules for in line with global trends and regulations, is to the introduction of bail-in debt portfolios subject to the standardised to shift the culture and behaviours within instruments designed to recapitalise approach; using a new standardised the industry, to reinforce financial stability a bank in resolution. This is expected approach for the calculation of credit and to maintain the soundness of financial to be promulgated in H1 2020 and the valuation adjustment and operational institutions while servicing and protecting assumed costs associated with DIS will RWAs; and setting a floor on the clients. Below are a few top-of-mind items be incurred from H2 2021. group RWAs equal to 72,5% of RWAs for the financial services industry: calculated on a revised standardised • National Credit Amendment Act approach. The capital floors’ effective • Financial Sector Conduct Authority (NCAA) – Signed into law in 2019, the date is 2022, but Nedbank will only (FSCA) – SA’s FSCA has issued a act aims to provide relief to oversee the full impact in 2026. As these number of draft regulatory instruments indebted, low-income clients who have Basel III reforms have yet to be that seek to regulate the conduct of exhausted all other means of removing converted into national law, there financial institutions in the SA market. themselves from over-indebtedness. is still uncertainty regarding the These include the Conduct of Financial Once operational, the debt intervention interpretation of some of the rules, Institutions Bill (COFI) and the draft provisions will impact consumers with such that reliable impact estimates Conduct Standards for Banks (Conduct gross monthly income less than or in SA are not yet available and are Standards), which are currently equal to R7 500, unsecured debt of less expected to be delayed in light of the undergoing redrafting pursuant to than or equal to R50 000, and who are Covid-19 crisis. extensive public consultation processes, considered ‘critically indebted’ by the NCR. An independent socioeconomic • Mandatory Audit Firm Rotation – The which Nedbank provided substantive impact assessment study found that Independent Regulatory Board for input into. the impact of the act is net-negative for Auditors’ (IRBA’s) Mandatory Audit Firm • Resolution Regime – The National the SA economy and consequently an Rotation (MAFR) rules, are effective Treasury and SARB have released the industry working group has been tasked from 1 April 2023 requiring that if a firm Financial Sector Laws Amendment with giving effect to the aims of the has served as an appointed auditor for Bill, which once promulgated will give Amendment Act, ie debt relief for low10 or more consecutive financial years effect to the Resolution Framework. In income, financially distressed individuals before the financial year commencing 2019 SARB released a discussion paper in a cost-effective and equitable on or after 1 April 2023, then the audit reconfirming that the Deposit Insurance manner. Nedbank, as a member of firm may not accept reappointment as Scheme (DIS) will be created with the BASA, is actively participating in the auditor. establishment of the Corporation for operationalisation of this process. Insurance Scheme (CODI), which will For further information on our • Basel III reforms – Basel III reforms approach to MAFR refer to collect deposit insurance levies and announced in December 2017 include: pages 69 and 79 of our 2019 deposit insurance premiums. In addition first-loss-after-capital (FLAC) debt »» placing a floor on certain model Integrated Report. instruments would be introduced in the inputs for portfolios subject to the future, but only after SARB has finalised AIRB approach; introducing new Our opportunities Our key risks and mitigating actions Leverage strengths – A key opportunity for Nedbank is implementing Regulatory sanction and fines – Fines relating to market conduct regulatory requirements in a client-centred, integrated and synergistic and non-adherence to legislation have increased significantly as seen manner. Our Case in Point on page 81 illustrates how we have leveraged across the globe. Regulators are increasing pressure on the financial technology to comply with regulation. services industry to comply with various regulations and treat clients fairly and we have increased our focus to comply and implemented Managing scarce resources to optimise economic outcomes corrective actions where we fall short. Impact of new regulation – The implementation of new regulations, Being operationally excellent in all we do such as the NCA, COFI, DIS and Basel III reforms, are manageable within existing time frames and we do not foresee any material negative financial impact on the group as a result thereof. 8 Regulatory, accounting and compliance risk 10 Conduct risk For more details on our strategic focus areas and For more details on our top 12 risks refer to pages 62 to 64 of strategic enablers refer to pages 45 to 59 of our 2019 our 2019 Integrated Report. Integrated Report. NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 26 OUR STRATEGIC FOCUS AREAS AND ENABLERS In response to the rapidly changing operating environment and needs and expectations of our stakeholders, we developed five strategic focus areas that drive the activities in our value-creating business model. These strategic focus areas are underpinned by strategic enablers, which are catalysts for delivering our strategy and achieving our short-, mediumand long-term targets. Delivering innovative market-leading client experiences Growing our Being Managing Providing our clients transactional-banking operationally scarce resources to with access to the franchise faster than excellent optimise economic best financial services the market in all we do outcomes network in Africa CREATE GREAT CLIENT EXPERIENCES AND GROW CLIENTS ENABLED BY ... Technology People Managed Evolution and Digital Fast Lane and Brand DELIVERED THROUGH ... Target Operating Model (TOM) Largely by new Ways of Work LEADING TO ... Client growth Operating and client satisfaction efficiencies RESULTING IN ... Revenue Cost growth savings FINANCIAL TARGETS1 Medium term Long term ROE ≥ 17% ROE COE + 4% Cost-to-income ratio ≤ 53% Cost-to-income ratio ≤ 50% 1 Financial targets were set on the base case macroeconomic assumptions in January 2020 shown on page 37. Given recent developments around the Covid-19 pandemic, we withdrew our financial guidance on 14 April 2020 and our mediumand long-term targets are under review. NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 27 OUR STRATEGIC FOCUS AREAS AND ENABLERS continued DELIVERING INNOVATIVE MARKET-LEADING CLIENT EXPERIENCES Financial services providers that respond best to the digital challenge in a client-centred manner will continue to improve client satisfaction and as a result gain a disproportionate share of client revenues. Technological developments at the same time provide opportunities for improving efficiency, thereby bringing new digital offerings to the market quicker, and lowering the cost to serve, as well as optimising the overall cost base through the reduction of branch sizes and ancillary costs. Our aspiration is to be Africa’s number-one digital financial services provider, aiming to achieve 75% of our sales through digital channels, 70% of our clients being digitally active, an NPS (client satisfaction) of at least 60% and a reduction in our cost-to-income ratio to less than 53% over the medium term and less than 50% over the longer term. These aspirations are informed by global benchmarks, derived from financial services providers that are regarded as leaders in digital transformation, such as Sberbank, DBS and ING. Our strategy is underpinned by technology and people as key enablers, and three key outcomes, namely to digitise, to delight and to discover or disrupt. LONG-TERM ASPIRATIONS To be Africa’s number-one digital financial services player 75% 70% 60 < 50% digital sales1 digitally active clients2 NPS3 Cost to income , 58,6% , 57,2% , 56,6% < 50% DIGITISE DELIGHT DISRUPT Market-leading, cost-efficient Distinctive omnichannel client Disruptive client growth digital-platform clients can experience (simple, fast). through ecosystems and access core products and innovation. services digitally. 1 Sales across digital channels as a percentage of total sales. 2 Digitally active clients are clients who have actively used a digital channel over a 90-day period, as a percentage of total clients. 3 NPS refers to consumer NPS, not digital NPS. NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 28 Reflecting on 2019 and looking ahead Our strategy is underpinned by technology and people as key enablers, and three key objectives to digitise, to delight and to discover or disrupt. DIGITISE In RBB we have proactively enabled capability to digitise the Stokvel Account clients with limited data and device 6,2 million clients to do their banking on opening process for enhanced client memory access to online banking. our digital channels and are now focusing experience. The key benefits since the • We introduced a market-first lifestyle on increasing active usage, currently launch in May 2019 include: capability, HeyNed, a digital concierge 1,8 million clients, up 16% yoy, as we enhance »» transactional sales through digital that gives clients a 24/7 personal functionality and ease of use. To increase channels increasing from 37% in Q2 assistant in their pockets and the ability digital activity we plan on launching 2019 to 76% in the fourth quarter, to purchase funeral policies on the app. campaigns and initiatives such as while personal-loans digital sales smartphone partnerships to increase client • The Nedbank Private Wealth app, which increased from 14% to 61% over the had been ranked second-best globally access to smartphones; increasing Wi-Fi same period and sales through the access in our branches to ease the data by Cutter Associates International Money app increased from 2% to 14% Research, increased app downloads by burden, supported by the introduction of total sales; and of Money App Lite for data-sensitive 58% yoy. clients and lower-end devices; enabling »» the cross-sell of a transactional • In Nedbank Africa Regions we launched of the push notification functionality to account linked to the sale of a the Nedbank Money app in Namibia, keep clients up to date with new features personal loan is three times higher eSwatini and Lesotho, leveraging off and security measures; and rolling out than on historic channels. the Nedbank Money app platform in campaigns to drive client education around • In 2020 we will extend this digital SA. The new app has an additional our digital channels, supported by inbranch onboarding capability to our juristic 60 new features when compared with education through deployment of digital clients (businesses) and by the end its predecessor, the Nedbank App Suite, specialists (digital genies). of 2020 we aim to have digitised the and has been well received by clients, remainder of our top 10 products registering a 94% increase in active From a digital-sales perspective we in an omnichannel environment, app users. increased sales through our digital including home loans, vehicle finance, channels (% of total sales) from 12% in 2018 The Money app, which makes banking stockbroking, forex and student loans. more convenient for our retail clients, to 21% in 2019, accelerating as we target 45% in the medium term and 75% in the Additional self-service options for has been downloaded 3,9 million times, long term. Key strategic developments functions that were previously only in with more than 832 000 clients using it include: branches or through staffed channels actively, up 85% yoy. were released on the Nedbank Money • The launch of our end-to-end digital app and the new Nedbank Online Banking • In Nedbank Wealth, our insurance client onboarding capability for site, taking the total digital functions to business was the first-to-market insurer individuals (Eclipse), together with the 114 (compared with 70 in 2018). We aim to in SA to have chatbot functionality and ability to sell transactional accounts as reach more than 180 services by the end we have made significant strides in well as personal loans, and pilots for of 2020. remaining ahead through delivering liveinvestment products, credit cards and agent service functionality and funeral overdrafts. The staff-assisted channel We continue to invest in our banking app quoting capabilities. was rolled out to more than 3 400 to enhance client experience, with key frontline users in RBB and onto web, developments such as the following: app and self-service kiosk channels • To improve digital uptake the Money in the second half of the year. We App Lite was launched in H2 2019, giving also leveraged our USSD onboarding End-to-end digital client onboarding, digitising our top 10 products and more than 180 services by end-2020 H1 2019 H2 2019 H1 2020 H2 2020 H2 2021 ✔ Juristic client CLIENTS Individual client onboarding onboarding Juristic client onboarding ✔ ✔ CHANNELS Inbranch Web and app ✔ ✔ • Personal loans • Card issuing (1) • Card issuing (2) PRODUCTS • Transactional products • Investments (1) • Investments (2) • Home loans (1)* • Home loans (2)* • Overdrafts (1) • Overdrafts (2) Investments include unit trusts and retirement • Vehicle finance* annuities (additional benefit) • Stockbroking* • Forex* • Student loans SERVICES 86 114 > 180 1 The number (1) refers to first minimal viable product launch on the new platform; (2) refers to additional enhancements. * Delivery timelines remain under review given dependencies on other core Managed Evolution programmes. NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 29 OUR STRATEGIC FOCUS AREAS AND ENABLERS continued DELIGHT Through our digital innovations we aim to deliver innovative market-leading client experiences. The outcomes of these are described in more detail on page 58 of our 2019 Integrated Report. Key developments to support improved client experiences include the following: • Launching the simplified end-to-end digital onboarding process, which allows our clients to open a FICA-compliant account faster through our staff-assisted service and self-assisted channels – web, app and self-service kiosk. As a key pain point for both banks and consumers, this capability is an obvious game changer. Client and product onboarding for individual clients now follows the full end-to-end process on the Eclipse platform and has resulted in the following benefits: client-centred onboarding (once for life); single onboarding foundation for most of our core products (transactional accounts, personal loans, card, selected investment products and overdrafts); reduced account opening times and disbursals (enabled by a seamless and consistent onboarding experience across our automated front-, middleand backoffice processes); digital FICA, biometrics and signing of contracts (no paper); and lower cost of client onboarding. • Our juristic onboarding, to be landed in 2020, will benefit our business and corporate clients by providing a single entry point into the Nedbank digital world for businesses. Clients will use a single set of login credentials to access initially the bank’s primary digital transactional channels where they are able to take up a number of core banking products as well as access over 120 services, digitally. This solution is underpinned by worldclass security and, for the first time, we will be able to identify digitally the people who are mandated to take up products and perform other super-user-type functions on behalf of a juristic entity, enabled by the General Authorisation Extract of Minutes (GAEM) capability. Holistically, the new portal offers clients unprecedented convenience and flexibility, and significantly simplifies client experience when engaging with the bank. • In H2 2019 we launched the first phase of our new and exciting money manager programme (loyalty and rewards solution). This builds on our existing Greenbacks programme, which has just been voted the third-best loyalty and rewards programme in SA and number-one banking loyalty and rewards programme in the 2019 Sunday Times Top Brand Survey. The new programme offers clients triple benefits: incentives for better money management, earning rewards, and more ways of doing good for society (in line with our purpose). Over the next year we will expand the programme by rolling out further packages as well as further enhancements to both the Greenbacks functionality on the Money app and the new Greenbacks app to continue enhancing client experience and to help clients manage their money better and be rewarded for it. Recent innovations and client value propositions Value for clients Value for Nedbank Progress in 2019 Stokvel Account – A safe, easy and effective solution Market penetration into Attracted over with no transactional fees that allows groups of segments where Nedbank 4 300 stokvel individuals to manage group savings better, with did not have a strong groups, representing added benefits such as best-in-market burial cover presence. more than 149 000 and vouchers for discounts up to 10% for selected members. stores for each member. Karri app – An integrated payment collection and A good starting point to Active users up 240% reconciliation capability enabling parents to make accelerate our ecosystemand transactional school-related payments within seconds – at the based solution for schools, value up 280%. same time relieving schools from the burden of cash thereby solidifying our Now used in more payments and management, and eliminating the need relationships with schools to than 500 schools for children to carry cash. expand our offering across in SA. the ecosystem. Mostly five-star ratings in the app stores. MobiMoney – A mobile-based account with zero Market penetration into More than 240 000 monthly fees that anyone with a valid SA identity number segments where Nedbank users, up 53% yoy. can open anywhere in a few seconds. did not have a strong presence. Extraordinary Life chatbot – A faster investment Reduced account-opening More than 18 500 process (end-to-end in as little as 10 minutes), no costs and as a new channel, a investors use this paperwork (100% digital) and tailored, personalised source of additional revenue. platform. guidance suggesting the best combination of products to maximise an individual’s savings. Unlocked.Me – An ecosystem that addresses multiple Our first exploration into Client registrations aspects of consumers’ lives – work, lifestyle and money, platforms, aimed at growing exceed 100 000. and includes access to career advice, job opportunities our youth market share, and general working life tips. changing the perception about Nedbank and creating new revenue streams with beyond-banking offerings. Ecobank–Nedbank crossborder remittance solution – New source of revenue in While uptake has Low-cost, fast and convenient solution allowing people a market segment where been disappointing, living and working in SA to send money instantly to Nedbank did not have a going forward friends and families in 33 countries across the continent presence. we will leverage at affordable rates. Nedbank clients do not have to partnerships to go through the hassle of going into a branch to make increase adoption. transfers, therefore saving them time. NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 30 DISRUPT As traditional revenue streams come under API_MARKETPLACE, approved serving their needs in the moment pressure, banks are increasingly looking partners can leverage the bank’s data with relevant recommendations and for revenue growth opportunities beyond and financial capabilities to integrate offers. banking. In the past few years we have with our standard, secure and scalable »» Two solutions already on the market introduced beyond-banking initiatives, APIs. The ongoing cost of this channel are Market Edge, which uses pointsuch as value-added services on our is materially lower than traditional of-sale data to assist clients to make digital channels (eg buying electricity, channels. informed business and strategic data, airtime and lottery tickets), • In our digitisation focus we are also decisions and in CIB we have a Client Unlocked.me, the Karri app and digital improving on how we can leverage data Intelligence Platform that gives us solutions and platforms that create for commercial value. Banks have large insight into client profitability and risk delightful client experiences that place and rich databases, which can be used and opportunities for cross-selling. Nedbank in a strong position to compete to personalise solutions to enable us to with new entrants and existing banks in the »» Our focus on the commercialisation use information as a service and provide of big data will accelerate in the next market. We continue to invest in data and insight into optimising operations. platform-related activities as we evolve few periods as we use our rich data our business model continually to underpin »» In 2019 we delivered the data to personalise product offerings for future growth. infrastructure, data pipelines, models our clients and enable data-driven and analytics that will generate data cross-selling and client engagements. • Nedbank was the first bank in Africa to insights based on user events and We are starting to use artificial launch an API platform that is aligned activities. We have built an artificial intelligence and data to create with the Open Banking Standard. The intelligence and machine-learning interactions with clients that address Nedbank API_MARKETPLACE is an infrastructure to support both their relevant needs, at a relevant easy-to-use, secure offering that allows ongoing data-driven insights and time and in their relevant language approved partners to create innovative real-time delivery of insights into and imagery across the most optimal and disruptive solutions that put client clients, merchants and tenants based platforms. experience first. By using Nedbank on their behaviour on the platform, CASE Leveraging digital innovations to fundamentally IN POINT SDG IMPACTED: change our personal-loan business We have been transforming In 2019 Nedbank became the first bank to introduce an API platform, which allows our partners personal loans in a short space and fintechs to use our APIs to integrate banking solutions into their channels to pay, access of time from a product that was transactional accounts, obtain credit and source various pieces of information. This digital capability sold in branches and through has now enabled us to build a personal-loan API that external partners can plug into their frontends the call centre (2018), involving to offer a Nedbank loan seamlessly and securely to drive sales on their websites. A few clients went lots of paper and handoffs, live in 2019, including Cashbuild, SwitchPay and Karri, with many more to follow in 2020. to an efficient, fully end-toend digital solution on all our Complex, bank-driven Simplified client-centred banking channels (2019). Our Simplified client-centred process (branch and call process on all bank digital channels contribution now process on any channel centre) channels represents more than 32% of total volumes, driven primarily by the scaling of the personal loans on the Nedbank Money app. More than 20% of personal loans disbursed to Nedbank clients in Q4 2019 came through this channel, up from < 1% in the • Fulfilment contained prior year. The same digital within retailer’s client experience enabling existing experience • Seven screens from • Direct payment to retailer clients to take up a loan in six • Clients submit documents interest to fulfilment • Secure integration clicks and in under three minutes • Wet signature required • Digital signature between retailer and bank was also launched across ATMs and kiosks. 2018 2019 2020 Key risks in implementing the strategy Innovations fail to deliver market-leading client experiences – Client satisfaction measures indicate that Nedbank is highly rated and scores are improving. Our approach to adopt the international ‘gold standard’ (the best globally) and involve clients in the product development processes (design thinking) mitigates the risk and we are continuously adding new value-adding services to ensure that products and services evolve as clients’ needs change. Shortage of key skills globally – The shape and makeup of the workforce of the future are evolving. The development of a workforce with the right skills for today and tomorrow has become an increasing priority in our people agenda, with many key skills being scarce globally. The war for talent in critical segments continues to intensify, particularly in areas such as technology, data, user design and engineering disciplines. We have developed a Strategic Workforce Plan to address these skills gaps proactively, through developing, reskilling, retaining and hiring critical skills to achieve our strategic objectives. NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 31 OUR STRATEGIC FOCUS AREAS AND ENABLERS continued MANAGING SCARCE RESOURCES TO OPTIMISE ECONOMIC OUTCOMES Through managing scarce resources to optimise economic outcomes, we leverage our areas of strength, while reducing downside risk in higher-risk products or businesses. Maintaining a solid balance sheet ensures that we remain resilient in tough times and are able to leverage new growth opportunities. This strategic focus area centres on managing scarce resources such as capital, longdated liquidity and costs to optimise economic outcomes and thereby increase our economic profit, being the excess of ROE above COE through cycles. Internally, this is referred to as portfolio tilt. Financing activities that support the SDGs is a specific tilt that will receive increased focus in the years to come as we deliver on our purpose and contribute positively to society and the environment. Reflecting on 2019 and looking ahead • We have tilted our portfolio to grow selectively in key advances categories. After having derisked our home loan and personal-loan books in previous years, we are now growing in line with the market. We are also growing our vehicle finance market share, where we have a competitive advantage. Looking forward, we will continue to tilt our portfolio over the medium to long term to grow in home loans and the lower-risk segments of personal loans. In personal loans we are leveraging digital channels to reach a greater part of the market without changing our risk appetite. • Corporate credit growth has accelerated up from 2018 levels and we were seeing some improvement in loan payouts before the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. As business confidence improves in the medium-to-long term off a low base, we expect stronger growth in years to come. In commercial-property finance, where we have a market-leading position, we will continue to be selective, given the underlying stresses in the market, such as increased levels of vacancies. • On the following pages we illustrate our primary focus on growing our transactional advances, deposits and revenues, through continuing our focus on growing our transactional franchise. • The ability to grow our transactional-banking franchise and tilt our portfolio, as noted above, will be impacted this year by the Covid-19 pandemic as we shift our focus to supporting our existing clients through these challenges times. • The ultimate measure of optimisation of economic outcomes is our ROE (excluding goodwill), which decreased to 16,0% as impairments increased off a low base and revenues were impacted by a difficult macroeconomic environment in SA. Given our focus on revenue growth drivers and cost optimisation initiatives, we expect to see continued ROE improvement in the medium and long term. • Future details on how we pivot our strategy to be confirmed once we have more certainty around the medium-to-long-term impacts of the Covid-19 pandemic. Nedbank looking ahead Standard (prior to Covid-19 pandemic – Market share % Nedbank Absa FirstRand Bank Other currently under review) Home loans 14,4% 23,1% 21,0% 33,9% 7,6% Front book Maintain, with focus on Vehicle and asset finance 36,4% 19,7% 28,6% 13,7% 1,6% cross-sell Grow faster than market and Credit card 13,0% 25,1% 27,4% 25,1% 9,4% cross-sell with transactional account Middle market, entry level Personal loans 10,2% 11,1% 23,6% 16,3% 38,8% < R5 000/month segment Core corporate loans 21,2% 21,1% 21,5% 19,1% 17,1% Maintain market share Commercial mortgage loans 38,7% 15,2% 7,0% 16,9% 22,2% Grow in line with market Household deposits 16,9% 22,0% 21,9% 18,9% 20,3% Grow ahead of market Non-financial corporate Grow with focus on deposits 16,5% 17,0% 24,7% 27,3% 14,5% transactional NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 32 Sustainable development financing • In the second half of 2019 Nedbank engaged Steward Redqueen, an international strategy consultancy, to help us understand how the bank's lending portfolio may be impacting the sustainable development agenda positively and negatively. This was done to help inform our strategic portfolio tilt so that we continue to increase financial flows in support of activities that positively correlate to the SDGs, while mitigating the potential negative impacts of our funding. • Drawing on an extensive body of academic research, the methodology used begins by identifying the positive and negative impact potential of almost 1 000 economic activities (as defined by standardised industry codes) against the 17 SDGs and 169 underlying targets and then maps these on to Nedbank's book to create an impact map. The impact map demonstrates the potential positive and negative impacts of the industries that we finance. • This impact map provides us with new insights that will help to inform target-setting and business appetite. These insights will also allow us to engage proactively with clients to develop new products and services that will address the sustainable development agenda. Key risks in implementing the strategy Weaker macroeconomic environment leading to slower revenue growth and an increase in bad debts – In 2019 this key risk did play out in our business and will continue to be a risk particularly in light of the Covid-19 pandemic as described on pages 14-16. Exposure to SOEs – Our exposure to SOEs remains at less than R18bn in 2019 (or less than 2% of advances), 40% of which has government guarantees. Through collaborative engagement across the industry we are supporting SOEs where good governance and clear strategies are in place, however Covid-19 has placed additional strain on these SOEs and government's ability to provide financial support. ENSURING AND PROTECTING VALUE Group Credit Committee (GCC) 'The challenging macroeconomic and political environments in SA and globally, exacerbated by loadshedding, low economic growth and policy uncertainty, adversely affected Nedbank’s credit portfolio by increasing consumer distress, therefore Errol Kruger impairments, across all industries. (Chair) The GCC provides independent oversight of credit risk, to ensure a high-quality and adequately impaired credit portfolio. We continue to support our clients while managing the capital and impairment impact, particularly given the new challenges of Covid-19.' Ensuring and protecting value in 2019 Focus for 2020 and beyond In the pursuit of credit risk resilience during 2019, the GCC: • Oversee initiatives to support clients during the • Monitored and oversaw the group’s • Oversaw the technical delivery of Covid-19 crisis, in conjunction with regulatory high-quality credit portfolio, despite the DebiCheck system. guidance. prolonged, adverse macroeconomic • Approved IFRS 9 macroeconomic • Assess the impact on IFRS 9 (impairments) and environment resulting in a 66% yoy scenario forecasts. RWA (regulatory capital) in conjunction with increase in impairments and increase regulatory guidance. • Approved the refreshed Credit Risk in CLR to 82 bps: Appetite Framework. • Assess the impact of the Moody’s sovereign»» CIB yoy increases were driven by credit-rating downgrade of SA on the credit • Monitored Nedbank Africa five clients. portfolio. Regions, especially hyperinflation in »» RBB had poor collections in MFC. Zimbabwe. • Oversee the implementation of the revised • Ensured high credit risk across all Strategic Portfolio Tilt strategy (2020–2022). • Enhanced the Model Risk sectors was managed through early Management Framework (beyond • Review and refresh the group’s CLR target range. identification of distressed portfolios credit models). • Review policies and procedures for DebiCheck. and the Watchlist process, which includes state-owned entities. • Oversee the enhancement of climate risk policies. Stakeholders Top 12 risks 1 Business (global and country) risk A comprehensive GCC report Staff Clients is available online in our 2019 4 Credit risk Governance and Ethics Review 8 Regulatory, accounting and compliance risk at nedbankgroup.co.za. Shareholders Regulators 12 Climate risks NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 33 OUR STRATEGIC FOCUS AREAS AND ENABLERS continued GROWING OUR TRANSACTIONAL-BANKING FRANCHISE FASTER THAN THE MARKET Our transactional-banking strategy starts by creating market-leading client experiences that will lead to growing and retaining our clients, and deepening our share of wallet as we convert new and existing clients into main-banked and Total employees transactional-banking Total employees clients. Growing our transactionalTotal employees (permanent staff) (permanent staff) banking franchise faster than the market improves our ROE(permanent staff) over time, as deposits and transactional revenue consume less capital and add to our funding pool. At the same time, earnings volatility is reduced as more stable sources of income are increased. RETAIL MAIN-BANKED CLIENTS CIB PRIMARY CLIENT WINS (m) (m) 2,7 2,78 2,78 2,98 2,95 22 39 26 30 32 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Reflecting on 2019 and looking ahead Growing our transactional-banking franchise remains a major • In Wealth we continue our drive to distribute our asset focus in RBB. We have grown our client base since 2015 despite management and insurance solutions into the group's client base. increasing competition and new entrants. Of our 7,5 million retail Business Banking’s market share increased from 21,5% in 2018 clients in SA, 5,9 million have some form of transactional product to 22,0% – the highest market share gain across all banks as with Nedbank. The current cross-sell ratio of 1,3 (number of measured by the KPI Research Business Electronic Banking and products per customer) means there is still significant opportunity Tracking Study 2019. to provide holistic customer value propositions. Disappointingly, notwithstanding strong retail advances growth In 2019 our focus shifted towards increasing cross-selling and of 6,9%, we lost market share of household deposits, from 18,0% in deepening our share of wallet. Despite survey data showing an 2018 to 16,9% in 2019, due to aggressive competitor pricing. overall loss of market share to 11,2%, retail transactional NIR growth of 6,3% in Retail remained solid, reflective of our existing clients In CIB we have won major transactional accounts during 2019, doing more business with us. including major private sector and municipal transactional-banking accounts. • Under our strict definition of retail main-banked clients we have 2,95 million clients who regularly bank with us. Although • We gained 32 primary clients in 2019 and have gained more than overall slightly down on 2018, we grew strongly in the middle, 20 every year since 2014, which provide valuable underpinning to professional and small-business-client segments, and lost some ongoing NIR growth. market share in entry-level and youth segments. Our focus to • We intend to grow our transactional-banking share by crossgrow and win back market share includes initiatives such as selling client coverage and achieving deeper client penetration. Unlocked.Me for the youth, launched in January 2019. It delivers banking value through a zero-monthly-fee account and lifestyle • Our CIB NIR-to-advances ratio, a key indicator of cross-sell and value through great deals on tech and fashion and assisting the ability to leverage our strong balance sheet to grow NIR at clients to unlock their career potential with job search support 2,1% remained above our target of 2,0%. including access to up to 500 jobs online. Our SADC businesses client base declined by 1,0% to 336 000 due • This growth, along with improved levels of client satisfaction, to the closure of dormant accounts. The newly launched products positions us well to compete against new entrants. As a bank and digital innovations started delivering benefits, attracting new for all, we will continue to focus on the youth and ELB, leveraging clients, but overall client numbers were offset by the cleanup of digital while ensuring effective migration to a rising middle dormant accounts, and the revenue per client increased by 4,5%. market, where we focus on retention and on the deepening of relationship through cross-selling. Key risks in implementing the strategy New entrants – New entrants are positioning themselves to capture a share of retail deposits and transactional-banking revenues. We welcome competition, as it drives us to focus even more on our clients, their needs and delivering innovative solutions. The new innovations we launched in 2019, as shown on pages 46 to 49, enable Nedbank to remain highly competitive. NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 34 BEING OPERATIONALLY EXCELLENT IN ALL WE DO Our strategic approach to cost management is to invest sustainably in the franchise to unlock future growth potential, at the same time managing our expenses by delivering synergies and efficiencies to reduce our cost-to-income ratio over time. Over the past few years we have invested significantly in the franchise to support long-term growth, and by extracting efficiencies we have been able to maintain expenses growth at or below the levels of our peers. Some of the investments we have made include completing key foundation projects as part of the technology journey and investing in digital and core systems as well as in regulatory compliance. TOTAL EMPLOYEES GROSS OPERATING INCOME GROWTH RATE (Permanent staff) LESS EXPENSES GROWTH RATE (JAWS RATIO) (%) 2,7 0,6 1,3 31 312 32 401 31 531 30 887 29 213 (1,5) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Reflecting on 2019 and looking ahead We have identified key business areas for reducing our cost-to• Branch floor space has been reduced by more than 41 500 m2 income ratios to assist the group in meeting its ≤ 53% target in the to date and we plan to achieve more than 49 000 m2 by 2020 medium term and ≤ 50% in the long term (these targets are under (a revision of our 2020 target of 45 000 m2), equating to review given the economic impact of the Covid-19 pandemic). The key approximately 23% of our branch floor space in 2014. developments in 2019 include the following: • Through space optimisation initiatives we have also managed • Cost-efficiency programmes and adoption of digital solutions to reduce our campus sites from 31 to 27, with a longer-term enabled us to reduce headcount by 1 874 (mainly through natural target of 23. In the next few years we will continue to optimise attrition) and optimised our staffed points of presence by the portfolio by enhancing workstation utilisation to greater than closing 21 outlets, resulting in the net reduction of physical points 100% (from the current 90%), by enabling flexible office constructs of presence (while maintaining our coverage of the bankable to support more dynamic ways of work, while creating further population at 84%). We are evolving our physical distribution to value and cost-reduction opportunities. Since 2016 we have saved become more digitally and technology focused, while optimising 53 000 m2 (over and above the 41 500 m2 saved in our branches). our footprint. • We have implemented more than 300 software robots to date • Additional self-service options for functions that were available (robotic process automation) to enhance efficiencies and reduce previously only in branches or through staffed channels were processing errors in administratively intense processes. released on the Nedbank Money app and the new Nedbank Online • Good progress was made with our Target Operating Model Banking site, taking the total digital functions to 114 (from 70 in (TOM 1.0) initiatives, with cumulative savings of R1 147m achieved 2018). to December 2019, ahead of our R1,0bn pretax 2019 target, and • Benefits of increasing the number of self-service devices are we are on track to exceed the R1,2bn target by 2020. This model illustrated in the increasing volumes of cash being handled by our is linked to our long-term incentive scheme. Looking forward, we Intelligent Depositor devices, now at 73% from 61% in 2018. are strategising around further optimisation opportunities, in context of an increasingly digital world, with TOM 2.0. Read more • We deployed 27 net new self-service kiosks across our branch about this on page 55. network, enabling clients to undertake a range of self-service transactions, including ATM limit changes and overseas travel • Our total procurement cashflow spend declined by 3%, reflecting notifications. Along with the increased services available on the good cost management and centralisation of purchasing. Over the app, these investments enabled us to reduce teller activity by 24,5%, past 12 months, we reduced paper consumption by 25%, mainly while freeing up capacity in our branches and staffed channels. through reduced printing and digitisation of forms and statements. Key risks in implementing the strategy IT investments do not deliver expected returns and/or cost more than planned – IT investments and product innovations could fall short of expected revenue growth and efficiencies, while increasing expenses growth (IT amortisation costs). Nedbank follows a rigorous process in the approval of business cases to ensure they are net-present-value (NPV) positive unless they are purely regulatory-related. Our annual IT cashflow spend peaked in 2019 and is expected to decline in the coming periods. Our technology strategy, described on page 55, mitigates excessive IT costs, particularly as the investments relating to our foundational programmes and the regulatory costs are mostly behind us. NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 35 OUR STRATEGIC FOCUS AREAS AND ENABLERS continued PROVIDING OUR CLIENTS WITH ACCESS TO THE BEST FINANCIAL SERVICES NETWORK IN AFRICA This strategic focus area aims to drive a greater earnings contribution from faster growth in the economies of the rest of Africa over the long term, while providing geographic diversification benefits and enabling our clients to access the largest banking network in Africa. Nedbank’s African client base and SA relationship in terms of which we are hyperinflationary reporting effective clients who want to grow into the rest actively working to unlock crossborder 1 July 2019 and this resulted in Nedbank of Africa seek to benefit from one-stop transactions and build a deal pipeline Group booking a net monetary loss of financial services solutions. Shareholders by leveraging our individual strengths. R296m in H2 2019, with a headline loss seek exposure to this higher-growth • Through our CIB franchise we leverage after tax and minorities amounting region through investment in wellour industry sector expertise and to R142m. We continue to monitor managed SA banks that follow a riskactively participate in deals on the the developments related to the mitigated, capital-efficient approach. continent. reintroduction of foreign currencies as With Nedbank having strong, specialised a medium of exchange in response to skills and our complementary strategic Reflecting on 2019 and the economic challenges heightened by partnerships through Ecobank, QNB, Bank looking ahead Covid-19. of China and Old Mutual Limited, we are • We accounted for the acceleration of • In SADC we continued to build scale in a strong position to play a key role in an option to increase our shareholding and optimise costs. We have launched funding and structuring infrastructure in Banco Único (Mozambique) from a number of new digital products and and capital-intensive projects, as well as 50% plus one share to approximately we continue to grow our distribution leveraging incountry and crossborder 87,5%. The transaction is expected to be footprint. To drive digital and banking opportunities. concluded in H1 2020. transactional business we launched Much of the SA skills base in infrastructure, the Nedbank Money app in Namibia, • ETI has reported 11 consecutive telecommunications, resources, retail, eSwatini and Lesotho, leveraging off quarters of profit to 30 September construction, property finance and the Nedbank Money app platform in 2019 and is making good progress renewable energy is transportable and SA. The new app has an additional with its transactional-banking and can be applied to business opportunities 60 new features when compared with digital strategy while optimising its in the rest of Africa. Our investment in its predecessor, the Nedbank App cost base. Asset quality and credit risk our own businesses in SADC will continue Suite, and we will continue to expand management remain key priorities to provide an opportunity for client gains functionality in the years ahead. It has for the ETI board and executive, and, as a result, new revenue growth been well received by clients, as we particularly in a challenging Nigerian opportunities, particularly those driven by registered a 94% increase in active app environment where regulatory changes digital solutions. users during the year. and economic challenges persist. For Q3 • Following a strategic review we 2019 ETI achieved a strong performance Nedbank has a three-pronged strategy from core West African operations announced the disposal of our 100% for growth in the rest of Africa: and an improved performance in the shareholding in Nedbank Malawi, which was completed in Q1 2020. Nedbank Central, Eastern and southern africa • In SADC – which contain countries more Malawi was a small bank in a small (CESA) business, while the economic integrated with the SA economy – we market and contributed less than 0,1% environment and ETI’s performance in own, manage and control five banks to Nedbank Group’s headline earnings Nigeria remained challenging. (excluding Malawi, where we disposed of our operations). and total assets, with its market share • Through our board representation in ETI in Malawi approximately 1%. we work with like-minded shareholders • In Central and West Africa – which • Operating in Zimbabwe remains who have a common purpose of contain countries farther away from challenging as policy uncertainty, strengthening the Ecobank franchise. SA and where Nedbank does not have increased government expenditure and Through our collaboration more than a competitive advantage – we have an a lack of foreign direct investments 110 Nedbank wholesale clients are alliance with Ecobank that provides our have severely damaged the banking with ETI across the continent in clients with access to markets in which Zimbabwean economy, contributing countries where Nedbank is not present. we do not have a presence. Ecobank has to hyperinflationary conditions. Our gross return on the original cost of a top-three position in 14 countries. Our The country officially adopted our ETI investment improved to 10,7%. alliance is underpinned by a commercial Key risks in implementing the strategy Volatility and uncertainty in African economies – While our Zimbabwean operations remain small in the group context, we are conscious of the challenging environment and its impact on our staff and clients. We continue to monitor developments in Zimbabwe brought about by currency shortages and pressure on the fiscus. The turnaround in ETI continues, but risks remain, especially in ETI’s Nigerian portfolio. We closely monitor these risks on an ongoing basis as active members on the ETI board. The impact of the Covid-19 pandemic and significantly lower oil prices are likely to have a significant negative impact on the economies of many African countries. NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 36 STRATEGIC ENABLERS Our strategic enablers are enterprise initiatives that allow us to deliver on our strategic focus areas and targets by changing the way we operate. These enablers are closely related to the capitals defined by the IIRC. Target Operating Model (manufactured and human capital) We are creating a future-fit organisation by evolving our business model and capabilities to be more competitive, TARGET OPERATING agile and digital. In 2017 we launched new Ways of Work (nWoW), refining and embedding the approach in 2018 and MODEL SAVINGS 2019. To date, more than 3 000 staffmembers are working according to this new approach and we aim to increase (Rm) this number incrementally to support an optimal agile scaling framework. nWoW uses a human-centred design to unlock innovative client solutions rapidly – conceptualised, developed and landed in the hands of clients to meet their needs in an agile construct. We are using squads, tribes and chapters to deliver innovation successfully both internally to drive efficiency within Nedbank and externally to deliver client-centred solutions supporting our purpose of using our expertise to do good. A squad (10–12 people) is a crossfunctional team, combining resources with different areas of expertise to develop minimum viable products (MVPs) and solve client pain points within 12-week cycles, consisting of six two-week iterations called ‘sprints’. We have made progress by achieving R1,1bn in cumulative efficiencies towards meeting our long-term incentive scheme targets to unlock R1,0bn of savings by 2019 and R1,2bn by 2020. We are currently strategising about a TOM 2.0, which will look at the shape of our branch infrastructure in the context of an increasingly digital world, a shift in 1 147 our RBB structure to be more client-centred, as well as shared services optimisation across the group. We anticipate 283 680 targets for TOM 2.0 will be communicated to the market in early 2021. This will support us reaching our cost-toincome targets of ≤ 53% in the medium term and ≤ 50% in the longer term. 2017 2018 2019 Technology enablers (manufactured and intellectual capital) Our strategy is to become a more client• The foundational programmes have Digital Fast Lane – capability to accelerate focused, digital, competitive and agile bank now largely been completed and the launch of new innovations and through our Managed Evolution and the integration of the foundational Digital Fast Lane technology strategies capabilities was built into our In 2017 we launched a capability to we are now able to launch new digital onboarding and servicing programmes accelerate the launch of innovative CVPs innovations and CVPs at a significantly from 2010 to 2019 and has enabled the – we call this our Digital Fast Lane. This faster rate than in the past. speedier launch of various marketcapability has enabled the delivery of leading innovations. various new innovations in quick succession Our approach to innovation delivery by leveraging agile development through our aligned technology strategies • Our Managed Evolution programme is methodologies (including scrum, Scaled adopts global gold standards and has now approximately 70% complete and Agile Framework (SAFe) and Kanban), enabled us to commercialise marketwe plan to be materially complete by partnering with fintechs, integrating client leading and innovative new products end-2020. feedback in the development process and enhancements at a higher delivery • Importantly, the key foundations of our and adopting a ‘gold standard’ approach cadence than before, while improving client IT and regulatory infrastructure are now (building and innovating around worldclass experiences. in place – this enables us to shift focus standards and client experiences). Our IT much more to the exciting aspects of foundations, along with this capability, are Managed Evolution – modernisation of CVPs and new innovations. enabling us to bring new client-centred our core banking environment innovations to market much quicker. • We continue to rationalise, standardise As reported previously, in 2010 we and simplify our large core-to-banking Most of the innovations described on embarked on what we termed a ‘managed systems and have reduced these from page 48 have been delivered through evolution‘ approach to transform and 250 in 2010 to 117 on our journey to have our Digital Fast Lane capability. In 2019 digitise our core IT systems over time. 85 by 2020 and 65 to 75 in the medium approximately 80% of all technology This is central to delivering innovative, term. The ongoing rationalisation of the projects were delivered leveraging agile market-leading client experiences, while core-to-banking operating systems (in methodologies (either hybrid or the new ensuring we remain at the forefront of addition to the ongoing rationalisation agile methodology), compared with only cyberresilience. We have studied many of other ancillary systems) continues to 21% two years earlier. banks across the world and concluded that render intended benefits, including reduced this is the most cost-effective and efficient infrastructure, support and maintenance approach to core systems replacement. costs, reduced complexity and increased IT PROJECT DELIVERY This programme remains the bank’s IT agility in adopting new innovations. METHODOLOGY transformation enabler, providing the (% of completed projects) CORE SYSTEMS platforms to be leveraged for improved (%) client experience and improved operational Rationalise, standardise and simplify efficiency. The modernisation of our core banking environment, with the aim of addressing existing pain points as well as future-proofing Nedbank in the face 65-75 of evolving regulation and competitive market changes, remains our priority. Similarly, this modernisation enables us to simplify our product and system 250 171 152 142 128 119 117 85 landscape, while enabling our clients to ‘10 ‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 ‘18 ‘19 ‘20 MT access the requisite product and services targets digitally on the channel of their preference. NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 37 STRATEGIC ENABLERS continued ENSURING AND PROTECTING VALUE Group Information Technology Committee (GITCO) 'GITCO ensures alignment and implementation of an effective and properly resourced Mantsika Matooane (Chair) IT strategy that enables the organisation to remain competitive, and monitors the effectiveness of all governance functions pertaining to the group’s technology capability. The ability to enable staff to work remotely during the Covid-19 pandemic in a short period of time is evidence of Nedbank's technology leadership.' Ensuring and protecting value in 2019 Focus for 2020 and beyond Digitise implementation of Nedbank Digitise • Monitored system availability and Africa Regions’ IT strategy. • Monitor the material completion of the Managed Evolution IT stability. Disrupt strategy. • Oversaw the implementation of • Became the first bank • Monitor the group’s IT Risk, Cybersecurity and Regulatory Eclipse, Nedbank’s new client and in Africa to launch Change Portfolio. product onboarding system. an application programming • Ensure improved availability and stability for clients. • Monitored the execution and interface (API) platform which • Monitor the implementation of wholesale clients onboarding successful implementation of is aligned with international using Eclipse. digital programmes. Open Banking standards. • Reviewed Nedbank’s • Oversaw good progress in Delight cybersecurity status and embedding the Digital Way • Ensure alignment and prioritisation to advance the group's improvements. of Working. data capability. • Monitored the first phase of • Ensure improved availability • Monitor the acceleration of Nedbank Africa Regions’ IT Nedbank’s cloud migration. and stability for clients. strategy. Delight • Monitor the implementation of Disrupt wholesale clients onboarding • Oversee the successful deployment of the group’s platform • Monitored IT resource and skills using Eclipse. play. levels. • Reviewed progress of maturation • Ensure that appropriate frameworks and policies are in of the group’s data capability. place to effectively monitor different models being explored to position banking in the Fourth Industrial Revolution. • Monitored the effective Stakeholders Top 12 risks 2 People and operational risk A comprehensive GITCO report Staff Clients 7 Cyberrisk is available online in our 2019 Governance and Ethics Review at Shareholders Regulators 8 Regulatory, accounting and compliance risk nedbankgroup.co.za. 11 Strategic execution risk Brand 2020 (intellectual capital) Doing good as a purpose-led brand Brand 2020 is aimed at entrenching Nedbank’s As a bank that is fully committed to doing good for society, we, at Nedbank, know that new brand positioning of ‘see money differently’. being a purpose-led organisation is the non-negotiable cornerstone of everything we The new positioning has helped to differentiate do. As such a purpose-led brand, we actively seek out opportunities where we can apply the Nedbank brand through a marketing our expertise to help society develop and grow, with the ultimate objective of enabling a focus on brand value drivers and assisted better life for all. in entrenching our brand essence of ‘money And our delivery on this absolute commitment is fuelled by our Nedbank brand promise to experts who do good’, driving up the bank’s help our clients, and indeed all South Africans, to see money differently. We know that money being considered as a bank of choice. The well managed can make a real and lasting difference in people’s lives. We also know that outcomes are also evident in Nedbank’s ranking every person, family, business and community is different – and so we take a highly focused in SA, having moved from fifth to fourth place in approach to realising our purpose and brand promise uniquely through every area of our the local competitor set according to the Brand business. Finance 2019 brand evaluation study. ‘See money differently’ is relevant and transcends all the For our individual clients delivering on this purpose and promise comes from a real segments we service. understanding of people’s hopes, needs, dreams and aspirations, and a proven ability to provide them with the banking, financial and investment solutions to maximise their Our ‘Money Secrets’ brand campaign has been chances of achieving those life goals. positively received, getting South Africans to talk about money as a first step to making At a business banking level we do good for our clients by always looking at the bigger positive and sustainable money management picture, and carefully factoring in every requirement and facet of the business, its owners, changes. staff and customers, to maximise positive outcomes for all. Nedbank is the fourth most valuable banking Our corporate clients know they can depend on us to provide them with impactful brand in the country, according to Brand solutions that enable them to achieve enduring success and maximise their own positive Finance’s 2020 Global 500 Banking report. impact on the world. Looking forward, we will continue to build on Ours is a groupwide, integrated, purposeled approach to banking that resonates the positive momentum gained and further deeply with our clients, as was evidenced by Nedbank’s number-one ranking in the 2019 leverage the Nedbank brand and purpose as BrandsEye Banking Sentiment Index. Ultimately, our brand promise and our purpose powerful enablers of our vision to be the most are delivered through an understanding of our clients; insight into their money habits, admired financial services provider in Africa. challenges, and desires; and a total commitment to using our experience and financial expertise to help them transform their futures for good. NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 38 People 2020 (human and underrepresented race groups and the attrition of African talent at seniorand middlemanagement levels. Remediation plans were developed to address these root causes intellectual capital) and will be a key focus going forward. Our staff and corporate culture remain • Leadership – Our leadership development programmes are constantly evolving to align key competitive differentiators and we with the required organisational capabilities to execute the strategy. They are aimed acknowledge the importance of positioning at equipping leaders to lead in environments of ambiguity and exponential change. The Nedbank as an employer of choice. Our Nedbank leadership, evolution, alignment and development (LEAD) journey is the vehicle employee experience and people practices through which we enable Nedbank leaders to create strategic alignment and build the are evolving as we are executing against necessary leadership capabilities. During 2019, 246 senior leaders participated in a our People 2020 strategy. In response variety of immersive learning experiences, including local and international development to the changing context within which programmes. we operate, our people strategy was refreshed to ensure that our direction • Culture – An important driver for retaining key talent is to ensure that the right-fit culture remains relevant and supportive of our is translated into a positive lived experience for staffmembers. Our Compass survey, strategy. conducted in 2019 (introduced in 2017), indicated that Nedbank staffmembers had high levels of pride in the Nedbank brand and purpose. The high levels of change in the • Talent – We recognise that proactivity organisation and the turbulent context we find ourselves in, contribute to increased levels is required to ensure a steady supply of stress, impacting our ability to manage change and innovation is an ongoing priority. of right-fit talent, especially when new • Employee value proposition (EVP) In 2019 we developed a compelling and roles are introduced with scarce-skill differentiated EVP to attract talent with scarce skills, top graduates and young requirements. Our integrated talent professionals. This EVP defines the essence of Nedbank – what makes us unique and management practice (launched in what we stand for. It articulates why staffmembers are proud and motivated to work 2018) has resulted in solid succession here, what Nedbank expects from them and what they can expect in return. The EVP pipelines. In 2019 we completed a promotes the concept that as a purpose-led organisation, our staffmembers can be the diagnostic exercise to understand the difference that impacts our world. barriers to achieving representation of The launch of Nedbank’s EVP aligns well with our required culture and includes the following five themes: PurposeService High Growth and Diversity and led excellence performance development inclusion PURPOSE-LED SERVICE EXCELLENCE HIGH PERFORMANCE GROWTH AND DEVELOPMENT DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION Our purpose is clear: We are one team and It’s in our nature to look Growth comes from We strive to create a to use our financial we deliver worldclass at the world differently. striving to be a better culture of inclusion and expertise to do good. service with purpose. Our purpose fuels us version of ourselves belonging. to make an impact each day. This is what drives us Our clients are our Celebrating diversity, and this drives us to to be the difference everything. Together, We never stop we welcome everyone perform better, work that impacts our we show up for them developing ourselves, and anyone who shares smarter and reach world every day. in big and small ways, bringing our potential our passion for our higher. Integrity, good ethics rewarding the trust to life by making purpose. and values-based they have placed in us. This strong results the most of every We treat each behaviour are our orientation is supported learning opportunity The extra mile? It is colleague, stakeholder way of life. We act by our developmental and facing challenges the new standard, and client with care, with purpose in every approach to with courage. because going the respect and integrity – step, spreading the performance distance makes the With our finger on the because that is who Nedbank magic to management. When difference. pulse and our eyes on we are. we are good at what bring about positive we do, our clients see tomorrow, we seize When things go wrong, change, because money differently every opportunity we communicate managing money with and live better lives to make an impact, openly to learn from purpose makes a real as a result. That is the with an unshakeable mistakes, reminding difference in people’s impact we are after. shared passion. ourselves to be the lives and in our world. difference that impacts our world. NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 39 RECOGNITION AND RATINGS Awards are not our primary measure of success. However, the recognition that we received in 2019 serves as external confirmation that we are on the right path as we strive to deliver on our purpose. Awards received in the 2019 financial year included the following: • 2019 Trialogue Survey – Rated first by NPOs for the fifth • 2020 Euromoney Private Banking and Wealth Management consecutive year. Improved our ranking by other corporates Survey – Nedbank Private Wealth named Top Private Bank from third place in 2018 to second place in 2019. and Wealth Manager in SA for ESG/Social Impact Investing and Our sustainability credentials include the following: Philanthropic Advice. • Carbon-neutral status – Africa’s first carbon-neutral financial • 2020 Raging Bull Awards – Nedgroup Investments named organisation. Carbon-neutral since 2010. Offshore Management Company of the Year for the fifth year in a row. • FTSE4Good Index – A global responsible-investment index for companies that demonstrate strong environmental, social and • 2019 Wealth Briefing MENA Region Awards – Nedbank Private governance practices. Included in 2019. Wealth (International) named Best Boutique Private Bank. • FTSE/JSE Responsible Investment Top 30 Index – Constituent • 2019 Sunday Times Top Brand Awards – Nedbank placed second of the index. in the Overall Favourite Brand category and won the Business Green Award for the preservation of the natural environment. • Dow Jones Sustainability Emerging Markets Index 2019 – A global performance benchmark for companies in terms of • 2019 Hollard Sport Industry Awards – Nedbank won Activation corporate sustainability. Included since 2004. Inclusion helps of the Year and Best Use of PR awards category for its work on attract investment to the company. Nedbank Cup #TeamUp4KZN. • SA Carbon Disclosure Project Index 2019 – Scored a ‘B’ for • 2019 EY Excellence in Integrated Reporting Awards – Nedbank performance. Score recognises our corporate environmental achieved first place with honours at the 2019 EY Excellence in action on climate change. Integrated Reporting Awards (second year in a row). • WWF-SA Water Source Areas partnership (2019–2023) – • 2019 CSSA/JSE Integrated Reporting Awards – Overall winner Invested R25m (R5m annually over five years) to safeguard at the 2019 Chartered Secretaries Southern Africa Johannesburg critical water source areas, improve rural livelihoods and Stock Exchange Integrated Reporting Awards, which recognises promote land stewardship. and celebrates excellence in integrated reporting. • WWF Nedbank Green Trust partnership – Invested over • 2019 South African Reward Association Awards – Won the R300m since the trust’s inception in support of over 200 Remuneration Report Award in recognition of the outstanding environmental projects throughout SA. contribution made in reporting on remuneration issues in a trustworthy and transparent manner. • WWF-SA Water Balance Programme (2011–2018) – Invested R14m in national water security to help increase water supply • 2019 All Africa Business Leader Awards, hosted and supported by and deliver economic and social benefits through job creation. CNBC Africa – Nedbank won the Company of the Year Award. • WWF-SA Sustainable Agriculture Programme (2013–2018) • 34th Investment Analysts Society Awards – Overall winner at the – Invested R18m as official sponsor. Partnership helped Investment Analysts Society of South Africa Awards, winning the to promote and support national sustainable agricultural Best Reporting and Communication Award and voted the leader production practices. in the banking sector for the 2018 financial year (second year in a row). • Green buildings – Nedbank occupies nine Green Starrated buildings with 16 Green Star ratings across various • 2019 Banker Africa: Southern Africa Awards – Rated as the Best rating certifications, including Office and Existing Building Corporate Bank in SA. Performance. • 2019 Top Brands Awards – Placed third in the Business Social • Independent ESG ratings – Nedbank rates well among its Investment Award category. global peer group. Nedbank ESG ratings We appreciate the important role that ESG scores and ratings play in enabling stakeholders to evaluate the positive and negative impacts of our business on society – and hence its true value – in addition to more traditional financial metrics. Our ESG scores as rated by a number of key rating agencies are disclosed below, indicating Nedbank performs well against its peers. 0 5 FTSE Russell Among top 6% Nedbank ESG ratings of global banks Nedbank 2019: 4,7 Peer benchmark CCC AAA MSCI Among top 13% ESG ratings of global banks 10 largest banks: BB Nedbank 2019: AA RobecoSAM 0 100 Included in DJSI Emerging Corporate Sustainability Markets Index after DJSI for Assessment (DJSI) Industry average: 46% Nedbank 2019: 76% 15 years and one of only two SA banks DA+ ISS Among top 20% ESG ratings of global banks Industry Nedbank 2019: C average: D+ 0 100 Sustainalytics Ranked 13th out of 357 banks ESG ratings (with similar market Industry average: 59% Nedbank 2019: 83% capitalisation) NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 40 VALUE FOR STAKEHOLDERS Nedbank is part of a greater socioeconomic ecosystem and we recognise that we are dependent on robust relationships with all other stakeholders. We appreciate the role played by all of our stakeholders and are committed to nurturing impactful relationships that deliver mutual benefits. + = NET INTEREST IMPAIRMENT OTHER VALUE INCOME LOSSES ON LOANS BANKING ADDED AND ADVANCES INCOME1 R30 167m R6 129m R26 139m R50 177m DIVIDEND PAID TO SHAREHOLDERS RETENTIONS FOR GROWTH SHARE (NET OF TAX)2 (NET OF TAX)2 (Rm) (Rm) 6 504 6 373 6 790 7 240 9 497 7 508 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 13,5% 14,9% GOVERNMENT HOW STAFF EXPENSES (TAXES)2 VALUE ADDED (NET OF TAX)2 (Rm) (Rm) IS ALLOCATED 23,2% R50 177m (2018: R51 471m) 25,5% 9 802 10 603 11 632 12 781 13 361 12 780 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 22,6% 0,3% OTHER SOCIOECONOMIC EXPENDITURE DEVELOPMENT SPEND (Rm) (Rm) 10 826 11 513 11 337 168 124 130 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 1 Other banking income includes non-interest revenue, non-trading and capital items, and share of profits of associate companies. 2  alue for government (taxes) includes direct taxes, payroll tax, dividend withholding tax and cash payments made to SARS in respect of value-added tax. V As a result, the amounts for the dividend paid to shareholders, staff expenses and retentions for growth may not agree with the amounts disclosed for the group‘s annual financial statements. OUR STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT FRAMEWORK While the Group Exco has ultimate responsibility for our group’s stakeholder engagement The following pages efforts, the process of engaging with stakeholders is decentralised to form part of the provide an overview of operations of our various clusters and business areas. Cluster-based stakeholder engagement how we delivered value is governed by a comprehensive group stakeholder engagement framework and policy, which to our stakeholders in include our corporate identity and communication guidelines. Each business area is required to 2019 and of prospects report regularly on its stakeholder engagements through the Group Exco. for future value creation. NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 41 INVESTING IN OUR Quality of relationship: STAFF Falling short Excelling We assess the quality of the relationship with our staff through the value we created in 2019, including the performance against the specific key performance indicators discussed below. Our assessment is subjective but informed by our staff engagement score of 75%, ongoing investment in our people, progress on transformation metrics but offset by an attrition level of 10,8% and high levels of entropy (measured in 2018). CASE The Nedbank IN POINT Agility Centre In line with our purpose we make every effort to mitigate against the adverse impact of Delivering value to staff in 2019 the Fourth Industrial Revolution + We paid R17,3bn in remuneration and benefits. and, in particular, the digitisation of products and services and its + T  here was an ongoing reduction in the wage gap between unionised staff (7,0% average effect on the nature of work and increase) and management (average below 4,5% increase). In 2020, continuing this skills. Redeployment of impacted trend and indicative of the difficult environment, executive management will receive no staffmembers takes precedence, increases. with retrenchment being a last resort. + We refreshed our EVP by launching our exciting People Promise (shown on page 57). • During 2019 we improved our + Staff engagement at 75% is positive and well above the industry average of 67%. redeployment process and + W  e did ongoing development and training (R760m spend, up 62% yoy), with an increased operationalised the Agility focus on digital leadership and capabilities. Centre to support staffmembers impacted by restructuring. As + O  ur new Ways of Work practices to transform Nedbank into a more agile organisation a result, we redeployed 620 are evident in the formation of more than 150 squads and 1 550 staffmembers working staffmembers into alternative according to this new approach. roles within Nedbank. + T  here are positive indicators of the Nedbank culture shifting to be more commercially • Impacted staffmembers were focused, client-centred and innovative, (evident in the client satisfaction metrics on also offered outplacement page 76 and new market-leading innovations on page 48). support, including group sessions on stress management, resilience+ T  ransformation metrics continue to improve as we become a more diverse and inclusive building and coping strategies; employer. Female staff representation is at 62% and black staff at 79%. individual sessions on lifestyle choices, effective action plans and R  educed headcount as we increasingly digitise our operations, mostly through 10,8% guidance on available options; natural attrition (below the industry benchmark of 11%-13%). introduction to recruitment and headhunting companies; + O  ur redeployment programme, through our Agility Centre, reskilled and placed more workshops on CV-writing, than 620 staff. personal branding, interview – We regrettably retrenched 158 staffmembers (0,5% of total staff). skills, social media networking and innovative ways to enter the – E  ntropy scores (20%) as measured in our 2018 survey (conducted only every two years) market; and sessions on employee were negatively impacted by the large-scale organisational change. benefits and financial wellbeing. • Reskilling and upskilling are provided and our learning strategy was redesigned to enable a lifelong learning culture, STAFF TRANSFORMATION – ACI and create a workplace where ATTRITION EMPLOYEES AS PERCENTAGE staffmembers can realise their (%) OF TOTAL (%) potential. Industry levels 11%–13% • Nedbank offers severance pay that is set above the legislated minimum of one week’s pay per completed year of service. SDG IMPACTED: 9,9 9,6 10,6 10,1 10,8 76,5 77,1 76,9 77,4 79,5 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 42 VALUE FOR STAKEHOLDERS continued CREATING GREAT Quality of relationship: EXPERIENCES FOR CLIENTS Falling short Excelling We assess the quality of the relationship with our clients through the value we created in 2019, including the performance against specific key performance indicators discussed below. Our assessment is subjective but informed by the improved levels of client satisfaction in retail, league table rankings in wholesale banking and the market-leading innovations that have made a difference in our clients’ lives. CASE IN POINT Making Nedbank Delivering value to clients in 2019 Greenbacks even more + W  e made R208bn (up 15% yoy) in new loan payouts to enable clients to finance their rewarding and inclusive homes, vehicles and education, and grow their businesses. The past year saw us extensively + Improved levels of client satisfaction as evidenced by Nedbank being the only large bank revamping our loyalty and rewards to have recorded an increase in Net Promoter Score and now ranks number one among programme – Greenbacks. the large SA banks in the SAcsi index. The focus of Greenbacks has shifted from a pure points-based + N  edbank’s apps are rated at the top end of SA banks in both the Apple App and Google redemption programme to one that Play stores. equips our clients with the tools, + We launched three zero-monthly-fee accounts and kept annual fee increases at inflation. information, and incentives to enable them to become better money + W  e made banking more convenient with further enhancements to functionality across managers. self-service and online channels. • Linked to a range of Nedbank + W  e launched various innovations, including end-to-end digital client onboarding of products such as transactional, individuals, new loyalty and rewards programme, API_MARKETPLACE and many more. savings and loans accounts, the programme encourages + W  e improved the Nedbank brand value ranking among SA banks, moving from fifth to and incentivises better banking fourth position. behaviours, including the use + In wholesale league tables continued to lead in various categories, including first by of card payments as a safer, dealflow for merger-and-acquisition advisors, third by deal value for merger-andmore easily trackable alternative acquisition sponsors, and won the Dealmakers M&A BEE Deal of the Year. to cash; greater use of digital banking channels, which are + O  ur asset management business Nedgroup Investments, was named Offshore cheaper and more convenient; and Management Company of the Year for the fifth consecutive year at the Raging Bull the development of savings and Awards. investment habits. Greenbacks has no inbuilt limitations on  iven the extent of new digital innovations, we have seen a slight decrease in system G rewards earnings based on uptime, although it is still well above the 10-year average. programme tiers or levels. Instead, Greenbacks gives every – A  data incident at a third-party service provider in early 2020 exposed some of our programme member access to clients’ data. While the data included personal information of some clients, our clients’ the full spectrum of partner deals bank accounts have not been compromised in any manner whatsoever. Nedbank from the outset. remains vigilant in its efforts to contain cybercrime. • The charitable component of the Greenbacks programme has also been enhanced. Members are still able to donate their Greenbacks CLIENT APP RATINGS NET PROMOTER SCORES – SA BANKS value to causes close to their (%) (%) hearts, but every member also has the opportunity to link their Greenbacks membership to one of the four Nedbank affinities (Green, Children’s, Sport and Arts), which means that, as they use any of their Nedbank products, we make contributions on their behalf, but at no cost to them, to a vast range of social and environmental > 60 > 55 10,8 2,6 9,9 3,3 3,7 3,7 4,4 4,6 4,6 26 9,9 37 38 34 projects across the country. Bank Bank Bank Bank Nedbank Nedbank Bank 2017 2018 2019 Digital Average Leading SDGs IMPACTED: A B C D Money Wealth E channels SA international banks banks NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 43 DELIVERING CONSISTENTLY Quality of relationship: TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS Falling short Excelling We assess the quality of the relationship with our shareholders through the value we created in 2019, including the performance against specific key performance indicators discussed below. Our CASE IN POINT assessment is subjective but informed by our Key issues we engaged on positive AGM outcomes, independent reporting and financial communication awards, top-tier ESG We proactively communicate our strategy and activities to shareholders through ratings and an attractive dividend yield, offset by a poor share price performance in 2019 (but leading an active investor relations programme. Our management meets regularly with the in 2018) impacted by a weaker-than-expected investment community while our board, through our Chairman and Lead Independent financial performance. Director, engages on ESG-related matters. The following were the key topics discussed during our more than 300 engagements in 2019: MAIN 2019 TOPICS Delivering value to OF DISCUSSION OUR RESPONSE AND ACTIONS shareholders in 2019 + G ood strategy and operational A difficult Banks are integrated into the economy and ecosystems performance, supported by solid macroeconomic they operate in and SA banks have noted a slowdown balance sheet growth, improved environment – The SA in earnings growth during 2019, particularly as client satisfaction metrics (only bank environment continues to impairments increased off a low base and revenue to have increased NPS) and greater remain challenging for growth slowed. At Nedbank, expenses continue efficiencies (cost-to-income improved our clients and Nedbank. to be well managed (up 1,7%) as we respond to a to 56,5%). slower revenue growth environment and diligent cost management, lower variable-costs reduction and + D ividend per share for the full year optimisation initiatives. was flat on 2018, notwithstanding a 6,7% reduction in HEPS. Increased competition We welcome competition as it drives continued focus – The impact of new on innovation, client satisfaction and competitive + NAV per share up by 3,7%. challenger banks in 2019 pricing. Nedbank is well positioned to compete for and some peers being and gain share of clients’ wallet, given our technology + T ransparent ESG disclosure and topmore aggressive around investments over the past few years and the launch of tier ESG ratings their lending practices various digital innovations. Our simplified digital client + A ll resolutions passed at our 52nd needs to be kept in mind. onboarding solution, as well as our new loyalty and AGM. rewards programme, positions us well against new competitive threats. In addition, in 2019 we launched + G ood relationships with the three zero-monthly-fee accounts, which enabled investment community (overall winner Nedbank to improve its affordability rating among SA at the 34th Investment Analysts banks to second best (Consulta). Society of South Africa Awards – Best Reporting and Communication). Impairments increasing Although impairments increased strongly off a low off a low base – Investors prior-year base, and we saw stresses in both our retail + M arket-leading disclosures and were concerned about and wholesale portfolios, the group’s CLR at 82 bps reporting (various reporting awards). increases in impairments remains within our TTC target range of 60 bps to and risks relating to 100 bps. RBB is operating within the lower end of its + V aluation metrics that remain the group’s commercial TTC target range of 130 bps to 180 bps, while the CIB attractive – price to book: 1,2 times property exposures and CLR is within its 15 bps to 45 bps TTC target range. and dividend yield: 6,6%. SOEs. In response to investor concerns around industry – F inancial performance below challenges in commercial property, we hosted an expectations in a difficult investor day in August 2019 to demonstrate the macroeconomic environment as benefits of our market-leading commercial-property reflected in a 6,3% decline in the finance business, prudent valuation processes and DHEPS. The ROE of 15,0% remained methodologies, low loan-to-values across the portfolio above COE (14,1%). and that impairments are adequate. While we – T he share price was down by 22,0%, acknowledge that the CLR will increase in this business, reflecting investor concerns around we have confidence that our quality portfolio will stand Nedbank’s relatively larger exposure us in good stead over time. to the SA economy, corporate SA Nedbank Africa Regions ETI has delivered 11 consecutive quarters of profits to (including commercial-property – Ongoing ETI recovery 30 September 2019 but continues to be exposed to finance) and interest rates. This is seen as positive, but the economic and regulatory challenges in Nigeria and, underperformance follows on from a declining ETI share more recently, the reduction in oil prices. Outside of the Nedbank share being the best price prompted investors Nigeria, ETI continues to deliver a robust performance performing bank share in 2018, to raise questions in many of its businesses. up by 7%. about potential future impairments. NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 44 VALUE FOR STAKEHOLDERS continued KEY ISSUES WE ENGAGED ON continued MAIN 2019 TOPICS OF DISCUSSION OUR RESPONSE AND ACTIONS Financial targets – In 2017, based on our macroeconomic forecasts at that time, Higher ROEs and a lower we set ourselves specific 2020 targets of an ROE (excluding cost-to-income ratio are goodwill) of greater than or equal to 18% and a cost-to-income key to Nedbank being an ratio of lower than or equal to 53% as a pathway to ongoing attractive investment. and sustainable improvements in the key metrics that support shareholder value creation. The actual macroeconomic conditions have been materially worse than our 2018 forecast and the targets we set for 2020 will not be met. As a result we have revisited our guidance on these two measures and introduced targets for the medium (two to three years) and long term (five years and more). We have also revised our ROE target to include goodwill. Given the Covid-19 pandemic we have withdrawn our financial guidance on 14 April 2020 and our mediumand long-term targets are under review. Moody’s sovereignOur CET1 ratio at 11,5% remains well above regulatory credit-rating downgrade requirements of 7,5%, and is within our board-approved – Concerns around target range of 10,5% to 12,5%. We estimate that the Moody’s the potential impact downgrade will result in an immaterial increase in RWA and of a downgrade to have an immaterial impact on CET1. The PA has recommended subinvestment grade on that no distribution of dividends on ordinary shares and Nedbank’s capital and payment of cash bonuses to executive officers and material therefore dividend policy. risk takers occur in 2020, in light of the negative economic impact of the Covid-19 pandemic and the temporary regulatory capital relief provided by the PA. The guidance does not apply to the Nedbank Group 2019 final dividend declared on 3 March 2020 however the board is supportive of the guidance and the need to conserve capital in a challenging economic environment. Mandatory audit firm Following a tender process, Ernst & Young was appointed as rotation (MAFR) – Nedbank and Nedbank Group’s new joint external auditor Some shareholders alongside Deloitte, effective 7 and 10 May 2019 respectively. early-adopt MAFR Shareholders approved Deloitte and Ernst & Young as auditors principles in their proxy for 2019 at Nedbank Group’s 52nd AGM with 84,4% and 99,9% voting. votes of approval, respectively. We continue to reiterate our commitment to fully implement MAFR for our 2024 financial year. However, we believe there are risks in concurrent change in external auditors given the size and complexity of a banking institution. S90(2) of the Companies Act is also an impediment to MAFR. Remuneration – Following engagements with shareholders and enhancements There are ongoing to our remuneration practices, we were pleased that enhancements to the resolutions relating to our Remuneration Policy and Nedbank remuneration implementation report received more than 98% of votes of scheme. support at our 52nd AGM. We had further discussions with shareholders on enhancements to our CPTs for 2020 and concluded that there was broad shareholder support for the cost-to-income ratio to replace the existing strategic KPIs (transactional-banking market share and Target Operating Model), with a 20% weighting to align with our strategic intent and industry developments of improving cost-to-income ratios in the context of the digitisation of financial services. Climate-related Nedbank contributes 3,83% (2018: 4,86%) of our total group disclosures – advances to renewable-energy generation projects. Our Nedbank’s positioning climate journey is evolving and our metrics will evolve and relating to fossil-fuel developed in line with our new Thermal Coal Policy. The financing and climate risks. Thermal Coal Policy translates into our total committed SDGs IMPACTED: thermal coal facilities being 0,7% of total group advances. Our Thermal Coal Policy excludes lending to Eskom. NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 45 Key shareholding changes In 2019 we noted a reduction in our international shareholding, primarily driven by reduced appetite by foreign investors for SA-related investments given the deteriorating SA macroeconomic environment and increased risk such as energy security and the risk of a Moody’s sovereign-credit-rating downgrade. % holding % holding 2019 2018 Major shareholders/managers Old Mutual Life Assurance Company and Associates1 24,1 24,5 Public Investment Corporation (SA) 10,8 9,4 Coronation Fund Managers (SA) 7,5 7,3 Allan Gray Investment Council (SA) 5,4 5,1 BlackRock Incorporated (International) 3,6 3,7 Nedbank Group treasury shares 3,2 3,3 The Vanguard Group Inc (International) 3,0 2,9 Sanlam Investment Management (SA) 2,4 1,9 Dimensional Fund Advisors (US, UK and AU) 2,1 1,6 Lazard Asset Management (International) 2,1 3,0 GIC Asset Management (Pty) Ltd (International) 2,1 2,7 Index-classified shareholders 21,3 19,8 International shareholders 26,2 29,3 Old Mutual retains a strategic minority shareholding in Nedbank Group, held through its shareholder funds, under the terms of the relationship agreement. 1 The above shareholding is inclusive of funds held on behalf of other beneficial holders. INDEX-CLASSIFIED SHAREHOLDING FOREIGN SHAREHOLDING (December, %) (December, %) 10,3 12,0 11,5 19,8 21,3 13,8 17,8 18,1 29,3 26,2 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2019 votes Important resolutions for 53rd in favour % AGM (2020) Note Ordinary resolution 3.1 and 3.2: 84,4 • Reappointment of Deloitte Shareholders will be asked to approve Ernst & Young and Deloitte as Nedbank’s 99,9 • Reappointment of Ernst & Young auditors for 2020. Advisory endorsement on a nonbinding basis of the following: • The Nedbank Group 98,5 Remuneration Policy • The Nedbank Group Remuneration Our Remuneration Policy remains a focus and we continue to engage proactively 99,1 implementation report with our shareholders to get their feedback. Ordinary resolutions 4.1, 4.2, 4.3 N/A, and 4.4. For the first time we put the members of our Group new in • Appointment of the Nedbank Audit Committee forward for appointment by 2020 Group Audit Committee members shareholders. Ordinary resolution 6.1 and 6.2 N/A, • Adoption and public disclosure of an new in energy policy 2020 Climate change is becoming increasingly important. The board endorses two • Authority to report on the resolutions for shareholders to vote on. The first relates to disclosing Nedbank’s N/A, company’s approach to measuring, Thermal Coal Policy in April 2020 and an energy policy to be disclosed in April new in disclosing and assessing its 2021 and the second relates to Nedbank’s approach to measuring, disclosing and 2020 exposure to climate-related risks. assessing the group’s financial exposure to climate-related risks. NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 46 VALUE FOR STAKEHOLDERS continued ENSURING AND PROTECTING VALUE Group Related-party Transactions Committee (GRPTC) ‘2019 marked the first year for Nedbank without a controlling shareholder and a Mpho Makwana free float of approximately 80%. A special thanks to Mr Wyman, the former Chair of (Chair) GRPTC, for his stewardship of the managed-separation (MS) process.’ Ensuring and protecting value in 2019 Focus for 2020 and beyond • The GRPTC oversaw the Nedbank and Old Mutual • Continue to monitor and review of related-party commercial business transactions underpinned by Old transactions with Old Mutual Limited. Mutual’s strategic shareholding in Nedbank. • Monitor and review all related-party transactions above • Post the successful implementation of the odd-lot offer in R50m and those below R50m at the GRPTC’s discretion, December 2018, the GRPTC ensured that it monitored and if required to do so. advised on unclaimed odd-lot offer fundholders. • The GRPTC ensured the accurate disclosure of on-balancesheet transactions in the annual financial report in terms of IAS24: Related-party Disclosures. Stakeholders Top 12 risks 8 Regulatory, accounting and compliance risk A comprehensive GRPTC report Shareholders is available online in our 2019 9 Reputational (and association) risk Governance and Ethics Review 10 Conduct risk Regulators at nedbankgroup.co.za. 11 Strategic execution risk NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 47 ENSURING SUSTAINABLE BANKING WITH OUR Quality of relationship: REGULATORS Falling short Excelling We assess the quality of the relationship with our regulators through delivering on our commitments in 2019, including the performance against specific key performance indicators discussed below. Our assessment is Regulatory subjective but informed by the alignment with regulatory requirements and remedial action, where required, compliance for offset by fines paid in 2019. CASE competitive IN POINT Delivering on our regulatory regulatory requirements, including a advantage commitments in 2019 focus on the Financial Intelligence Centre Digital clients demand fast, safe and Amendment Act (FICAA), IFRS 9, risk data Regulatory scrutiny aggregation and risk reporting (RDARR), easily accessible banking services. + In line with international and local trends we and legislation on anti-money-laundering Our onboarding system, Eclipse, has observed an increase in regulatory scrutiny (AML), combating the financing of embraced digital solutions to fulfil and inspections. Regulatory reviews were terrorism (CFT) and sanctions. compliance requirements, thereby attended to with significant attention to accelerating the adoption of digital detail, professionalism and prompt reaction + M  arket conduct regulations were innovation and avoiding a one-sizeto matters raised. implemented to promote fair, transparent fits-all approach to compliance risk and responsible treatment of financial management and the design of + Our strategic response to the high execution services clients in SA. For us, meaningful controls. risk and regulatory-change agenda market conduct goes beyond just treating comprises a comprehensive regulatoryclients fairly, it is about ensuring that clients • Using our financial expertise change programme under the leadership of receive the outcomes they want and – The demands of digitisation the Group Technology Executive, facilitating deserve. necessitate that legal, compliance the evolution from short-term to long-term and operational risk controls are sustainable solutions, with regulatory risks Regulatory fines customisable and embedded in our being managed through various steering – N  edbank Africa Regions received fines to client onboarding processes. Key to committees, change programmes and Exco the total of R 17,5m (0,7% of total Nedbank the design of compliance controls and board committees. Africa Regions expenses) in Namibia, is the creation of excellent overall Mozambique (Banco Único), Lesotho client experiences, developed with + A  s part of strengthening our approach to and Malawi relating to regulatory nonthe imperatives of frictionless, regulatory change, we have refreshed the compliance and we have remedial actions hassle-free client service, while Nedbank Regulatory Risk and Compliance in place. We maintain and continuously we comply with worldclass risk Forum, which is chaired by the Group Chief enhance our control environment to ensure management practices, including Compliance Officer. This is a Group Executive that we have the appropriate controls in robust controls to prevent money Forum that is aimed at, among others, place to manage our compliance risk and laundering. The controls we identifying upcoming regulatory changes minimise regulatory fines. developed include the utilisation across all jurisdictions in which the Nedbank of biometrics, optical character Group operates and making decisions in Regulatory compliance recognition, third-party data relation to the establishment and tracking of regulatory programmes for the Nedbank + W  e complied with all key aspects of verification sources such as the Basel III requirements, with a CET1 Department of Home Affairs and Group in order to deal proactively with ratio of 11,5%, which is above the SARB credit bureaus, machine-learning upcoming regulatory changes. In addition, requirement of 7,5% and within the models and internal systematic we have established a Regulatory Advocacy midpoint of our target range of 10,5%– controls that serve a dual fraudOffice that is aimed at directly lobbying with 12,5%. With regard to the LCR we have prevention and client identification regulators, policy makers, Parliament and achieved 125%, and NSFR at 113%, both and verification purpose. Each other stakeholders in relation to regulatory above the 100% regulatory minimum control provides another layer of change matters that impact the bank, its requirement. assurance, thereby enhancing the clients and other stakeholders and also lobby overall level of compliance with on matters of national importance such as + W  e paid R11,6bn in direct, indirect and regulatory requirements. nation building. This has strengthened our staff taxes to support the governments ability to have constructive discussions with and societies in which we operate. • Meeting regulatory requirements our regulators on matters of common interest. – FICA client identification and BBEEE verification on Eclipse comprise + We continued to work closely with all + W  e retained our level 1 BBBEE contributor several controls, which, in our regulators to ensure delivery of the status measured under the Amended FSC, combination, provide better various regulatory programmes, with solid for the second consecutive year in 2019. overall assurance compared results achieved in 2019 across various to traditional processes where identity documents were used as the primary means of identity CET1 BBBEE CONTRIBUTOR STATUS verification. The combination (%) (%) of controls provides greater Target range 10,5–12,5 assurance to regulators that the bank is able to verify that Level 1 Level 1 prospective and existing clients are whom they purport to be, Level 2 Level 2 Level 2 more especially when processing applications in a non-face-to-face environment. SDG IMPACTED: 11,3 12,1 12,6 11,7 11,5 XX 77,1 76,9 77,4 79,5 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 48 VALUE FOR STAKEHOLDERS continued CONTRIBUTING TO A Quality of relationship: THRIVING SOCIETY Falling short Excelling We assess the quality of the relationship with society through the value we delivered in 2019 in line with our sustainable development framework. Our assessment is subjective and informed by our continued contribution towards a thriving society and a healthy environment. Sustainable development finance progress Delivering value to society by delivering on our purpose SDG 4: QUALITY EDUCATION • Over the past five years, we have provided approximately The SDGs represent a universal agreement on the economic, 5 500 students with student loans to the value of R191m. social and environmental priorities to be met by 2030. They offer a powerful lens through which to identify opportunities for • We have provided almost R7bn in funding for over 23 000 business innovation and growth, and an objective mechanism student beds since 2015. In 2019 we invested a total of R1,8bn through which Nedbank can assess and report delivery on our (2018: R446m), which delivered an additional 8 292 beds. purpose. We therefore focus on the most material goals and targets through our three main points of leverage – Sustainable Development Finance, Operations and CSI. The Nedbank Sustainable Development Framework focuses management’s attention and resources in areas where we believe we can deliver the most impact. Given that the greatest contribution that a bank will make is through its commercial offer, we give primacy to the Sustainable Development Finance lever, ie delivering products and services that generate revenue for Nedbank, value for clients and SDG solutions for society. Of the 17 SDGs we have prioritised nine that we believe represent the most exciting opportunities for Nedbank to develop innovative banking products and services that will deliver on unmet client needs. In 2018 we allocated those nine SDG 6: CLEAN WATER AND SANITATION goals to nine group executives, some of whom have begun • Financing of R556m to the TCTA for three ongoing water demonstrating ownership and accountability for driving projects that are of key importance to the country’s water Nedbank’s groupwide response to their respective SDG. supply. Despite ownership of the SDGs at a group executive level, we have yet to set firm targets commensurate with the • Provision of a R550m general banking facility to Rand Water business opportunities embedded in the SDGs and our 2019 to help with the supply of bulk potable water. Sustainable Development Finance efforts still fall short of what • Financing of R160m towards the Stellenbosch municipality is possible for a bank of our stature in the SA economy. As infrastructure upgrade, including water reticulation such we must continue to increase our efforts to close this gap and water treatment plants as well as a new sewerage in 2020 and follow the example set by other leading banks treatment plant at Plankenburg. that are continuing to ratchet up their actions aligned to being responsible financial institutions. • Over the past five years more than R93m has been invested in 41 water and conservation projects through the WWF Despite these shortcomings, important progress was made Nedbank Green Trust. With 11 of those projects at an in enabling Nedbank to ramp up its ambition to become investment of nearly R23m particularly focused on water a purpose-led organisation in 2019. There was a pleasing (fresh and marine). increase in the lending into embedded generation for clients as well as the launch of our first green bond on the JSE and SDG 7: AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY further innovations in the agriculture space. Some of these • In all REIPPP projects to date we have arranged 42 efforts are summarised below. transactions in renewable-energy projects, underwriting a NEDBANK’S SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT total of R35,9bn and paying out R27bn. FRAMEWORK • We concluded deals worth over R700m with leading L IN V E S T M E N CIA T RA E SO developers in the embedded energy generation space as well as our commercial and agriculture clients, in the process T PO CO R DEVELOP ST AIN A BLE ME NT FIN establishing ourselves as a leading financier in this sector. SU AN C E • We funded Africa’s first commercial floating solar park on the dam of a fruit farm outside Franschhoek. It can produce S up to 60 kW of power, effectively allowing the uninterrupted I ON ER AT functioning of the farm and generating significant energy savings. OP • In 2019 we were the first commercial bank in SA to launch a green bond on the JSE. The instrument was significantly oversubscribed, and raised R1,7bn in investment proceeds, all of which is being applied to deliver financial support to solar and wind-renewable-energy projects. Based on the success of the first green bond, we issued a second one that raised a For full details, please refer to the 2019 Nedbank further R1bn. Sustainable Development Review available at nedbankgroup.co.za. NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 49 SDG 8: DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH SDG 11: SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES • Banking solutions for individuals and small groups included • We provided R1,1bn for the development of affordable three zero-fee propositions for individuals, a stokvel product housing for lower-income households, bringing our five-year with unique funeral benefits and discounts on goods for stokvel investment in this key sector to R4,2bn. Nedbank Home Loans members, and a concierge service called HeyNed that links also provided R1,034m worth of home loans to clients in the clients to a range of suppliers (including small businesses and affordable-housing market. BEE suppliers). • We provided funding of R790m for the construction • In 2019 we advanced R3,4bn (2018: R2,8bn) to small-business of buildings that conform to green building standards, clients served in our Small Business Services division. supplementing the R10bn lent over the past five years. Nedbank also occupies nine Green Star-rated buildings with • To date the Nedbank and Old Mutual Black Business 16 Green Star ratings across various rating certifications. Partners’ (BBP) Legacy Programme has disbursed R187,43m (2019: R26m) across the three investment streams of small• We invested a minority equity interest in scale farming commercialisation, support for entrepreneurs WhereIsMyTransport, a big data platform for sustainable and the development of township economies. mobility in urban transport systems. SDG 9: INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND SDG 12: R  ESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND INFRASTRUCTURE PRODUCTION • We participated in a syndicated loan facility, providing • As part of our commitment to the promotion of recycling, we US$30m for the Ethiopian Railways Corporation (ERC) to help concluded a R700m term funding facility for Mpact Limited, with the construction of a 404 km strategic railway corridor. the largest paper and plastic packaging and recycling business in southern Africa. In addition, a R126m facility to • We provided R400m in funding to aid the expansion of another recycling company will see approximately 2,5 million Community Investment Ventures Holdings (CIVH), an emerging PET bottles being recycled daily. Africa telecommunications powerhouse that is investing in new infrastructure on the continent to increase telecommunications • Nedbank developed an innovative funding solution designed access. to support farmers directly (or through a financing arrangement with their local cooperative) with sustainable • We helped deliver a US$294m buyers’ credit facility for the farm interventions, ranging from water storage maximisation government of Zambia under UK Export Finance’s Direct solutions and soil health interventions to cutting-edge Lending scheme, which will be used to fund the design, irrigation equipment and shade-netting to reduce evaporation. construction and equipping of three district hospitals and 108 minihospitals throughout Zambia. SDG 15: LIFE ON LAND SDG 10: REDUCED INEQUALITIES • In 2019 we took our partnership with WWF-SA to the next level by entering into a five-year, R25m water source area • Our crossborder remittance solution allows documented conservation partnership. The focus of this programme people living and working in SA to transfer money to is on the protection and development of effective water friends and family members in 33 African countries. In ecosystems that balance the need to protect SA’s essential 2019 approximately R1,1m was transferred by clients using water source areas, while at the same time supporting this solution. communities that rely on these areas for their livelihoods. • We saw increasing numbers of clients transacting online, • We provided R320m in mining rehabilitation guarantees and primarily through their mobile devices, with growth in digitally invested R700 000 in a WWF Nedbank Green Trust Project active clients of 16%. The number of digitally enabled retail called the Mining Incubator. clients has increased to over 6,1 million, with approximately 95% of our Business Banking clients digitally enabled. • In the past five years we have reached just over 7,5 million people across SA through various financial education initiatives, including workshops and mass media. NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 50 VALUE FOR STAKEHOLDERS continued Operations Responsible finance We have been carbon-neutral since 2010, One of the 17 risk categories actively and follow a ‘reduce first, then offset’ managed by Nedbank is social and CASE Green bond a approach. As such, our own carbon environmental risk. Our primary exposure IN POINT to such risks results from our lending and first for SA reduction efforts prioritise raising internal awareness and driving behavioural change, investment activities. We actively manage With this certified green bond, after which we offset remaining carbon these risks using SEMS and by ensuring that we are aligned with industry best Nedbank is taking a leadership through carbon credits from African projects that demonstrate meaningful practice and environmental, social and role on green finance in social and environmental impact. human rights benchmarks. SA. Building climate-based and sustainable investment With a total carbon footprint of 188 443 We also take a partnership approach to tCO2e for the year, our overall reported all sensitive investments, working closely markets to help nations GHG emissions decreased by 4,34% with our clients and relevant authorities achieve their NDC targets in absolute terms from 2018 to 2019. to maximise benefits and minimise the requires financial institutions Pleasingly the overall carbon footprint negative impacts of these activities. In 2019 – banks, insurers and pension came in at less than 200 000 tCO2e for the most significant application of SEMS the second time under the comprehensive within our specific business units was as funds – to step up. Nedbank boundary as used since 2009. Year on follows: has done just that. year, the carbon emissions per FTE decreased by 3,37% to 6,09 tCO2e and • In our Investment Banking and Client Sean Kidney emissions per square metre of office Coverage divisions all new applications CEO of Climate Bonds Initiative space increased by 2,28%. In 2019 we and credit risk reviews of high-risk generated approximately 687 MWh of our transactions were included in the SEMS own energy which equates to 0,5% of our assessment process and externally total electricity use. assured. In total 526 deals were Corporate social investment assessed. This represents a decrease During 2019 we continued to refine our NEDBANK GROUP 2019 from the 688 assessments completed strategy of investing in fewer, high-impact, CARBON FOOTPRINT* in 2018. The number of transactions SDG-aligned projects. While the number (%) assessed in Property Finance for 2019 of projects supported has consequently was 1 012. These transactions were reduced by 70% over the past three years, 0,78 specifically screened for environmental the total number of beneficiaries has 5,04 risks ranging from contamination to increased substantially, as has the positive water risk. impact of our investment on the lives of these 20,69 • In our Business Banking operations we beneficiaries. In 2019 the total value of CSI have identified and defined high-impact support and investment delivered across our 188 442,45 industries. In 2019, 861 clients (2018: group was R130m (2018: R124m). 0,74 tCO2e 1 125) involved in these sectors were In 2019 the Nedbank Affinity Programme assessed. The reduction in the number was integrated into the current Nedbank of reviews is due to a tightening of the Greenbacks programme. During the period, scope and application of the Social and 72,76 Nedbank Affinity donations totalled R33,5m Environmental Risk Framework that (2018: R27,2m). ensures only high-impact transactions are included. Clients previously assessed, which then had no further lending TOTAL CSI Scope 1: Diesel, refrigerant, etc (%) requests or changes in their businesses Scope 2: Electricity or operations, were also excluded in 1 1 2019, to streamline the process. Scope 3: Office paper Education • In 2019 our SEMS was also rolled out 15 Scope 4: Commuting to Nedbank’s Africa Regions, including Skills developme Scope 5: Business travel Namibia, Lesotho, Zimbabwe and 4 Community deve Malawi. (including Children’s A * Resource consumption not reflected above R130m includes water consumption of 254 801 k 12 53 Staff volunteeris (2018: 284 053 k ) 183 tonnes (2018: 195 tonnes) Responsible investment of waste sent to landfill and 616 tonnes With R331bn in assets under management, Green (2018: 723 tonnes) of waste recycled. we acknowledge the far-reaching Sports implications of how we invest. We 14 We continue to set reduction targets to Arts embarked on an extensive responsible limit the impact of our operations on the investment (RI) review of assets 1 1 under environment. These targets clearly specify management in 2019. The aim is to the carbon emissions and resource usage advance the RI standing across the full Education levels to which we aspire as a group and 15 range of Nedgroup Investments’ funds. The that we use to guide behaviour at group, Skills development review saw R271bn of clients’ assets being cluster, business unit, team and individual assessed against4these RI pillars. Community development level. (including Children’s Affinity donations) R130m 53 For more information on our 12 Staff volunteerism operational footprint and its Green scope and boundaries refer to the Sustainable Development Review Sports at nedbankgroup.co.za. 14 Arts NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 51 Banks and other financiers have • Use our financial expertise – In 2019 • To do good for society – For Nedbank the debt difficulty in finding investable Nedbank became the first commercial capital markets present an ideal mechanism ESGor sustainability-focused bank in SA to launch a green bond on the to bridge the gap between the desire by investment opportunities that meet JSE. The bond, which was significantly companies and investors to contribute to the all the necessary regulatory and oversubscribed, raised R1,7bn in achievement of the SDGs, and the specific compliance requirements and have investment proceeds, all of which is being investment actions that represent such a a clear potential to deliver solid applied to deliver financial support to a contribution. In addition, the bonds deliver the returns for investors and have a number of solar and wind-renewablebenefit of relative financial security for investors positive impact on the environment. energy projects that we have identified in a difficult SA macroeconomic environment Social and environmental impact as having the potential to deliver positive, with ongoing energy shortages – the proceeds bonds (most often called ‘social’ long-term sustainable-energy outcomes adding momentum to the country’s renewable‘green’ or ‘sustainable’ bonds) are a for the country. Based on the success of energy efforts. The Carbon Trust and Climate proven way to mobilise the financial the first green bond, we issued a second Bonds Initiative has confirmed that the projects resources of capital markets and bond towards the end of 2019 that raised referenced by the bond assist in limiting climate apply them directly in support of a further R1bn and will also be applied in change in line with the Paris Agreement. projects that address issues, such support of renewable-energy projects. as climate change; energy; food and This bond capitalises on Nedbank’s SDGs IMPACTED: water security; social and economic extensive experience in the sector, which inequality; and environmental includes the funding of 42 transactions, degradation. worth R40bn, across the first four rounds of the country’s REIPPP. ENSURING AND PROTECTING VALUE Group Transformation, Social and Ethics Committee (GTSEC) ‘At Nedbank we are financial experts who do good – we are committed to authentic Mpho Makwana organisational transformation by creating an empowering and ethical culture and (Chair) delivering innovative, market-leading client experiences. We do business responsibly and ethically. Our ethics philosophy underpins a relationship of trust with our internal and external stakeholders and our actions demonstrate that we act in their best interests.’ Ensuring and protecting value in 2019 Focus for 2020 and beyond • Conducted an indepth review of the governance and • Guide the enhancement of the culture of ethics and ethical institutionalisation of ethics. leadership at Nedbank. • Monitored progress on employment equity, focusing on • Monitor African representation in middle and senior underrepresentation and higher attrition rates of Africans in management and building a culture of inclusivity. senior and middle management. • Continue oversight of the YES initiative. • Oversaw the YES initiative, providing first-employment • Monitor employee wellbeing. opportunities for 3 315 youths. • Oversee implementation of the People Change Plan. • Oversaw measurement against the amended FSC for the industry. Nedbank retained level 1 BBBEE contributor status. • Oversee the development of the bank’s sustainable finance offering as part of delivering on the bank’s purpose. • Oversaw employee wellbeing initiatives. • Monitor the building of a client-focused organisational • Reviewed shifts in Nedbank’s culture agenda using the culture. Compass Survey results to address areas of vulnerability. • Oversee the bank’s approach to climate-related risks. • Oversaw delivery on the bank’s purpose referencing the SDGs as measures of such delivery. • Oversaw the bank’s response to climate change from an operational perspective. • Oversaw the incorporation of Treating Customers Fairly principles according to market conduct requirements. Stakeholders Top 12 risks Staff Clients 2 People and operational risk A comprehensive GTSEC 8 Regulatory, accounting and compliance risk report is available online in our 9 Reputational (and association) risk 2019 Governance and Ethics Shareholders Regulators Review on our group website 10 Conduct risk at nedbankgroup.co.za. Society 11 Strategic execution risk 12 Climate risks NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 52 STAKEHOLDER VALUE CREATION – KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Key performance indicators How it links to value yoy change Staff FSEX Staff costs and benefits (Rbn) Remuneration and benefits to staff Annual salary increase – unionised staff (%) Salary increases for bargaining unit staff Training spend (Rm) Investment in staff development Staff attrition (%) Ability to retain and rotate skills Staff engagement Staff engagement drives higher levels of productivity Transformation of Nedbank staff profile broadly in line with Transformation – black staff demographics of society Transformation – female staff Progressing gender diversity Clients FSEX Loan payouts (Rbn) New loan payouts to clients Consumer – Net Promoter Score (NPS) Quality of service experience reflected in reputational NPS System availability System uptime to enable uninterrupted financial processing Average annual price increase Value-for-money banking Service high-net-worth ranking Quality of service to high-net-worth individual clients Investment performance in asset management business Investment performance for clients Brand value ranking in SA (banking) Enhancing client awareness, association and loyalty Nedbank Money app average rating Delivering market-leading client experiences Nedbank Private Wealth app average rating Delivering market-leading client experiences SA Customer Satisfaction Index (SAcsi) Overall satisfaction with our products and services Banking Ombudsman cases in favour of Nedbank (%) Quality of service experience through effective complaints handling Shareholders FSEX Share price performance (%) Share price appreciation Full-year dividend per share (cents) Dividend for shareholders Full-year dividend per share cover (times) Dividends for shareholders Price-to-book ratio Valuation indicator of the Nedbank share MSCI ESG rating ESG rating of most influential ratings agency Regulators FSEX CET1 ratio – Basel III (%) Strength of capital position LCR ratio – Basel III (%) Strength of liquidity position NSFR ratio – Basel III (%) Strength of stable funding Regulatory fines or penalties (Rm) Indicator of adherence to regulatory requirements Taxes – direct, indirect and staff (Rbn) Contribution to the fiscus BBBEE contributor status Reflection of corporate transformation Society FSEX Consumer finance education (participants) Value through education Total socioeconomic spend (Rm) Contribution to society Local procurement spend (% of total) Supporting local suppliers Renewable-energy lending (Rbn) Commitment to renewable-energy deals Carbon footprint offset to neutral (tCO2e) The impact of our business on the environment Social and environmental management system (SEMS) deals reviewed1 The impact of our business on the environment and society Finance assessed under Equator Principles (US$m) The impact of our business on the environment and society Carbon footprint per fulltime-equivalent employee (tCO2e) The impact of our business on the environment Quality of relationship: FS: Falling short EX: Excelling 1 SEMS deals reviewed relate to deals in our CIB business. NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 53 COVID19 Given the unfolding impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, our targets and guidance are at risk. On 14 April 2020 we have withdrawn our financial guidance until we have more clarity and certainty of the impact on our business. 2019 2018 2017 Benchmark Outlook/Target Assurance 17,3 17,5 16,5 N/A Maintain competitive remuneration [MO] [FS] Above the increase for 6,3 7,0 8,0 N/A [MO] management 760 468 355 N/A Continue to invest in staff [LA] 10,8 10,1 10,6 11–13% Maintain at or below industry levels [MO] [LA] 75 Biennial survey 79 Global industry average at 67% Improve [IN – Compass survey] 78,5 77,4 76,9 Not publicly available for all peers Continue driving transformation [LA] 61,8 61,8 62,12 Not publicly available for all peers Continue driving transformation [LA] Continue to extend credit 208 181 153 N/A [MO] responsibly 38 37 26 34 industry average Improve [LA] [IN – Consulta] 99,1 99,2 99,3 N/A > 99,1% [LA] At inflation At inflation Below inflation N/A Below inflationary increases [MO] 5th 4th 3rd No 1: Investec No 1 in the industry [MO] No 1: PSG Top offshore Top offshore Top offshore No 2: Standard Bank Rating among top 3 [IN – Raging Bull awards] manager in SA manager in SA manager in SA No 3: FNB 4th 5th 5th N/A Top-2 bank brand [IN – Raging Bull awards] [IN – iOS and Android 4,4 N/A N/A Best banking app ratings Maintain top rating app stores] [IN – iOS and Android 4,6 N/A N/A Best banking app ratings Maintain top rating app stores] Continue strong performance 80,2 79,3 76,3 78,2 industry average [IN – Consulta] [LA] in client satisfaction Committed to providing 72,3 75,5 77,8 68,7% peer average [IN – [Ombudsman] [LA] worldclass service (22,0) 7,3 7,5 -8,4% (FINI 15) Perform above peers [IN – JSE] 1 415 1 415 1 285 Within our 1,75 times to 2,25 times N/A [MO] [FS] target range 1,84 1,97 1,91 1,2 1,6 1,5 2,1 times peer average No 2 bank by 2020 [IN – JSE] AA A A 10 largest banks : BB Maintain ESG leader rating [IN -MSCI] 11,5 11,7 12,6 SARB: > 7,5 10,5–12,5% [MO] [OV] 125,0 109,4 116,2 SARB: 100% for 2019 > SARB minimum of 100% [MO] [OV] Pro forma 113,0 114,0 SARB: 100% for 2019 > SARB minimum of 100% [MO] [OV] compliant Zero, although risk of fines has 17,5 8,7 1 N/A [MO] [OV] increased 11,6 10,6 9,8 N/A Responsible taxpayer [OV] Top-tier bank, but dti level 1 1 2 Nedbank: no 1 bank [MO] [OV] impacted by new codes Maximum alignment of impact 175 500 175 000 200 000 N/A [MO] [LA] with strategy Nedbank top Performer in 130 124 168 Spend greater than R100m [MO] [LA] Trialoge CSI Handbook > 75 > 75 > 75 According to FSC > 75% [MO] [LA] 27,0 22,8 18,4 Nedbank: no 1 bank R40bn committed [MO] 188 441 196 992 205 569 Nedbank market leader Maintain carbon neutrality [LA] 526 688 632 Leader in disclosure Enhance SEMS integration [MO] [LA] 75 538 75 Enhance Equator Principles Leader in disclosure [MO] [LA] (1 deal) (15 deals) (1 deal) integration Leader in performance on the Continue to reduce our impact 6,09 6,30 6,37 [MO] [LA] Carbon Disclosure Project through reduction targets External limited assurance on selected sustainability information LA IN Information sourced from external sources, eg independent surveys. and the application of the FSC and the group’s BBBEE status. Assurance Related opinions are available at nedbankgroup.co.za. Independent oversight by regulatory bodies, including SARB, FSCA indicators OV and various financial-sector ombudsman offices. Management and board oversight through rigorous internal Financial information extracted from the 2019 Nedbank Group MO FS reporting governed by the group’s ERMF. Limited Audited Annual Financial Statements. NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 54 TEN YEAR REVIEW NEDBANK GROUP LIMITED: STATISTICS AND RATIOS for the year ended 31 December 2019 2018 2017 Share statistics Earnings per share: – Headline cents 2 605 2 793 2 452 – Diluted headline cents 2 565 2 736 2 406 – Basic cents 2 500 2 768 2 417 – Diluted basic cents 2 462 2 712 2 372 Dividends/Distributions: – Declared per share cents 1 415 1 415 1 285 – Paid/Capitalised per share cents 1 440 1 370 1 240 – Dividend/Distribution cover times 1,84 1,97 1,91 Net asset value per share cents 18 204 17 560 16 990 Tangible net asset value per share cents 15 426 14 917 14 626 Shares: – Gross number in issue m 497 493 498 – Treasury shares m (16) (16) (16) – Net number in issue m 481 477 482 – Weighted-average number m 480 483 481 – Fully diluted weighted average m 487 493 490 Share price and related statistics Nedbank Group traded price: – Closing cents 21 430 27 472 25 610 – High cents 29 074 31 300 26 797 – Low cents 21 205 22 711 20 000 JSE banks index – closing 8 731 9 162 9 619 JSE all-share index – closing 57 084 52 737 59 505 Market capitalisation Rbn 106,5 135,5 127,6 Number of shares traded m 337,4 325,9 306,0 Number traded to weighted-average number of shares % 70,3 67,5 63,6 Value of shares traded Rm 84 564 87 003 66 009 Value traded to market capitalisation % 79,4 64,2 51,7 Price/earnings ratio historical 8,2 9,8 10,4 Price to book times 1,2 1,6 1,5 Dividend yield1 % 6,6 5,2 5,0 Earnings yield % 12,2 10,2 9,6 Closing price/Tangible net asset value times 1,4 1,8 1,8 2019 2018 2017 Performance ratios Net interest income to interest-earning banking assets % 3,52 3,65 3,62 Non-interest revenue to total income % 46,3 47,4 46,6 Credit loss ratio – banking advances % 0,82 0,53 0,49 Non-interest revenue to total operating expenses % 80,8 82,1 80,7 Cost-to-income ratio % 56,5 57,2 58,6 Expenses to average assets % 2,94 3,12 3,06 Effective taxation rate % 22,8 25,2 25,5 Return on total assets % 1,13 1,33 1,22 Return on risk-weighted assets % 1,99 2,40 2,28 Return on equity % 15,0 16,8 15,3 Return on equity (excluding goodwill) % 16,0 17,9 16,4 Assets and related ratios Advances: – Gross advances Rm 814 367 751 793 722 331 – Impairment of advances Rm (17 534) (15 488) (12 002) Net advances Rm 796 833 736 305 710 329 Impairment of advances to gross advances % 2,2 2,1 1,7 Assets: – Total assets on statement of financial position Rm 1 143 349 1 043 912 983 314 – Assets under management Rm 331 136 297 338 312 313 Total assets administered by the group Rm 1 474 485 1 341 250 1 295 627 Capital and related ratios Total equity attributable to ordinary equity holders Rm 87 597 83 778 81 823 Regulatory capital:2 – Tier 1 Rm 80 402 73 524 70 715 – Total qualifying capital Rm 94 242 86 951 81 909 Risk-weighted assets2 Rm 628 723 586 626 528 207 Group capital adequacy ratios:2 – Common equity tier 1 % 11,5 11,7 12,6 – Tier 1 % 12,8 12,5 13,4 – Total % 15,0 14,8 15,5 Employee statistics and ratios Number of employees3 29 213 30 877 31 531 Operating income per employee R000 1 713 1 655 1 534 Expenses per employee R000 1 102 1 024 945 Headline earnings per employee R000 428 437 374 1 Dividend yield is calculated as the pretax dividend declared per share divided by the closing share price. 2 Ratios and balances for 2013 to 2019 were calculated according to Basel III principles and for 2012 according to Basel II.5 principles. Ratios and balances for 2010 and 2011 were calculated according to Basel II principles. 3 Excludes temporary staff and agency contractors. NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 55 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2 400 2 284 2 127 1 884 1 640 1 365 1 104 2 350 2 242 2 066 1 829 1 590 1 340 1 069 2 121 2 261 2 109 1 877 1 632 1 367 1 084 2 077 2 219 2 049 1 822 1 583 1 341 1 050 1 200 1 107 1 028 895 752 605 480 1 140 1 105 965 802 680 533 442 2,00 2,06 2,07 2,11 2,18 2,26 2,30 15 830 15 685 14 395 13 143 11 721 10 753 9 831 13 723 13 794 12 553 11 346 9 989 9 044 8 160 496 494 499 510 508 507 515 (17) (17) (33) (49) (50) (52) (66) 478 477 466 461 457 455 449 478 474 464 460 456 453 444 488 483 478 474 471 462 458 23 813 18 861 24 900 21 000 18 800 14 500 13 035 23 900 27 102 25 115 21 925 18 881 15 445 15 000 16 575 16 900 19 087 16 540 18 501 12 360 11 725 7 755 6 107 7 300 5 775 5 336 4 118 4 099 50 654 50 694 49 771 46 256 39 250 31 985 32 119 118,1 93,2 124,3 107,2 95,4 73,6 67,1 294,7 195,8 213,5 220,5 149,8 206,1 265,2 61,7 41,3 46,0 47,9 32,9 45,5 59,7 58 800 45 545 47 670 41 690 32 527 28 578 35 379 49,8 48,9 38,4 38,9 34,1 38,8 52,7 9,9 8,3 11,7 11,1 11,5 10,6 11,8 1,5 1,2 1,7 1,6 1,6 1,3 1,3 5,0 5,9 4,1 4,3 4,0 4,2 3,7 10,1 12,1 8,5 9,0 8,7 9,4 8,5 1,7 1,4 2,0 1,9 1,9 1,6 1,6 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 3,41 3,30 3,52 3,57 3,53 3,48 3,35 47,1 47,7 46,9 47,7 46,8 46,1 44,3 0,68 0,77 0,79 1,06 1,05 1,13 1,36 82,9 83,3 82,8 86,4 84,4 81,5 79,6 56,9 56,1 56,5 55,2 55,6 56,6 55,7 3,00 3,01 3,15 3,13 3,09 3,01 2,81 24,9 24,0 25,3 25,2 26,8 25,2 20,7 1,23 1,25 1,27 1,23 1,13 0,99 0,82 2,23 2,30 2,24 2,21 2,08 1,86 1,51 15,3 15,7 15,8 15,6 14,8 13,6 11,8 16,5 17,0 17,2 17,2 16,4 15,3 13,4 719 226 693 043 624 116 590 828 538 036 510 520 488 452 (12 149) (11 411) (11 095) (11 456) (10 870) (11 497) (11 226) 707 077 681 632 613 021 579 372 527 166 499 023 477 226 1,7 1,6 1,8 1,9 2,0 2,3 2,3 966 022 925 726 809 313 749 594 682 958 648 127 608 718 273 327 257 295 212 013 190 341 150 495 112 231 102 570 1 239 349 1 183 021 1 021 326 939 935 833 453 760 358 711 288 75 733 74 754 67 024 60 617 53 601 48 946 44 101 65 987 60 085 55 131 53 605 46 227 41 707 36 861 77 719 70 522 64 385 61 637 53 483 50 884 47 372 509 268 501 243 440 696 392 926 359 658 331 980 323 437 12,1 11,3 11,6 12,5 11,4 11,0 10,1 13,0 12,0 12,5 13,6 12,9 12,6 11,7 15,3 14,1 14,6 15,7 14,9 15,3 15,0 32 401 31 312 30 499 29 513 28 748 28 494 27 525 1 400 1 304 1 271 1 186 1 106 987 859 875 834 804 760 715 664 603 354 346 324 294 260 217 158 NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 56 TEN YEAR REVIEW NEDBANK GROUP LIMITED: CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME for the year ended 31 December Rm 2019 2018 2017 Interest and similar income 83 680 75 941 75 299 Interest expense and similar charges 53 513 47 122 47 675 Net interest income 30 167 28 819 27 624 Impairments charge on financial instruments 6 129 3 688 3 304 Income from lending activities 24 038 25 131 24 320 Non-interest revenue 25 997 25 976 24 063 Operating income 50 035 51 107 48 383 Total operating expenses 32 179 31 632 29 812 Zimbabwe hyperinflation 296 Indirect taxation 1 096 942 1 001 Profit from operations before non-trading and capital items 16 464 18 533 17 570 Non-trading and capital items (651) (164) (224) Profit from operations 15 813 18 369 17 346 Share of gains/(losses) of associate companies 793 528 (838) Profit before direct taxation 16 606 18 897 16 508 Direct taxation 3 796 4 762 4 209 Profit for the year 12 810 14 135 12 299 Profit attributable to: – Ordinary shareholders 12 001 13 376 11 621 – Holders of preference shares 313 323 338 – Holders of additional tier 1 capital instruments 478 267 252 – Non-controlling interest – ordinary shareholders 18 169 88 Profit for the year 12 810 14 135 12 299 Headline earnings 12 506 13 495 11 787 The group adopted IFRS 16 on 1 January 2019 and prepared the information for the year ended 31 December 2019 in accordance with IFRS 16. Information for 2010 to 2018 has been prepared in accordance with IAS 17 and has not been restated. The group adopted IFRS 9 on 1 January 2018 and prepared the information for the years ended 31 December 2018 and 2019 in accordance with IFRS 9. Information for 2010 to 2017 has been prepared in accordance with IAS 39 and has not been restated. On 1 January 2013 the group adopted IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12 and restated 2012 information. The information for 2012 to 2018 was prepared in accordance with IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12. Information for 2010 and 2011 was not restated for the adoption of IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12. NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 57 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 73 395 60 289 52 619 46 087 44 730 42 880 44 377 46 969 36 404 29 658 24 867 25 050 24 846 27 769 26 426 23 885 22 961 21 220 19 680 18 034 16 608 4 554 4 789 4 506 5 565 5 199 5 331 6 188 21 872 19 096 18 455 15 655 14 481 12 703 10 420 23 503 21 748 20 312 19 361 17 324 15 412 13 215 45 375 40 844 38 767 35 016 31 805 28 115 23 635 28 366 26 110 24 534 22 419 20 563 18 919 16 598 927 783 635 601 561 505 447 16 082 13 951 13 598 11 996 10 681 8 691 6 590 (1 363) (141) (103) (50) (30) (14) (91) 14 719 13 810 13 495 11 946 10 651 8 677 6 499 (105) 871 161 27 1 1 14 614 14 681 13 656 11 973 10 652 8 677 6 500 3 955 3 519 3 468 3 016 2 865 2 174 1 364 10 659 11 162 10 188 8 957 7 787 6 503 5 136 10 132 10 721 9 796 8 637 7 449 6 190 4 811 361 371 323 292 293 281 266 78 88 70 69 28 45 32 59 10 659 11 162 10 188 8 957 7 787 6 503 5 136 11 465 10 831 9 880 8 670 7 483 6 184 4 900 NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 58 TEN YEAR REVIEW NEDBANK GROUP LIMITED: CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION At 31 December Rm 2019 2018 2017 Assets Cash and cash equivalents 14 149 13 162 16 900 Other short-term securities 64 451 79 362 92 775 Derivative financial instruments 35 243 22 692 29 904 Government and other securities 128 510 96 791 49 241 Loans and advances 796 833 736 305 710 329 Other assets 15 393 19 836 14 589 Current taxation assets 281 186 211 Investment securities 28 961 22 404 19 803 Non-current assets held for sale 735 305 388 Investments in associate companies 3 917 4 041 3 553 Deferred taxation assets 389 254 189 Investment property 56 Property and equipment1 11 977 9 371 8 902 Long-term employee benefit assets 5 602 4 966 5 924 Mandatory reserve deposits with central banks 23 486 21 629 19 222 Intangible assets 13 366 12 608 11 384 Total assets 1 143 349 1 043 912 983 314 Equity and liabilities Ordinary share capital 481 477 482 Ordinary share premium 18 096 17 315 18 688 Reserves 69 020 65 986 62 653 Total equity attributable to ordinary equity holders 87 597 83 778 81 823 Holders of preference shares 3 222 3 222 3 222 Holders of additional tier 1 capital instruments 6 850 3 397 2 635 Non-controlling interest attributable to ordinary shareholders 780 874 859 Total equity 98 449 91 271 88 539 Derivative financial instruments 27 991 20 003 23 367 Amounts owed to depositors 904 382 825 804 771 584 Provisions and other liabilities2 23 297 25 602 23 292 Current taxation liabilities 161 363 259 Non-current liabilities held for sale 598 Deferred taxation liabilities 939 669 761 Long-term employee benefit liabilities 2 533 2 749 3 525 Investment contract liabilities 24 571 20 035 18 134 Insurance contract liabilities 715 1 829 2 277 Long-term debt instruments 59 713 55 587 51 576 Total liabilities 1 044 900 952 641 894 775 Total equity and liabilities 1 143 349 1 043 912 983 314 The group adopted IFRS 16 on 1 January 2019 and prepared the information for the year ended 31 December 2019 in accordance with IFRS 16. Information for 2010 to 2018 has been prepared in accordance with IAS 17 and has not been restated. The group adopted IFRS 9 on 1 January 2018 and prepared the information for the years ended 31 December 2018 and 2019 in accordance with IFRS 9. Information for 2010 to 2017 has been prepared in accordance with IAS 39 and has not been restated. On 1 January 2013 the group adopted IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12 and restated 2012 information. The information for 2012 to 2018 was prepared in accordance with IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12. Information for 2010 and 2011 was not restated for the adoption of IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12. NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 59 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 26 384 22 840 13 339 20 842 14 445 13 457 8 650 84 679 75 614 67 234 42 451 43 457 35 986 27 044 17 633 30 488 15 573 13 390 13 812 12 840 13 882 51 048 43 060 27 177 32 091 26 753 30 176 31 824 707 077 681 632 613 021 579 372 527 166 499 023 477 226 14 077 8 984 8 715 8 673 9 488 12 051 10 014 574 1 032 291 565 246 698 483 16 582 13 155 20 029 19 348 16 213 14 281 11 918 287 2 16 12 508 8 5 4 210 9 579 7 670 1 101 1 032 568 936 494 227 309 216 541 266 284 22 32 130 214 205 614 199 8 969 8 784 7 773 6 818 6 398 6 312 5 612 5 203 5 055 4 546 2 980 2 095 2 118 2 052 18 700 16 232 14 911 13 231 12 677 11 952 11 095 10 083 9 010 8 579 8 290 7 922 7 777 7 494 966 022 925 726 809 313 749 594 682 958 648 127 608 718 478 477 466 461 457 455 449 18 043 17 569 16 781 16 343 16 033 15 934 15 522 57 212 56 708 49 777 43 813 37 111 32 557 28 130 75 733 74 754 67 024 60 617 53 601 48 946 44 101 3 222 3 561 3 561 3 473 3 561 3 561 3 560 2 000 756 436 326 246 213 178 153 81 711 78 751 70 911 64 336 57 375 52 685 47 814 13 296 33 628 15 472 16 580 13 454 13 853 12 052 761 542 725 851 653 450 602 952 550 878 524 130 492 393 34 667 23 240 13 788 14 682 15 526 14 751 18 245 214 412 134 301 193 200 191 36 804 1 182 931 789 793 1 345 1 804 3 448 3 074 3 071 1 842 1 913 1 479 1 414 15 342 10 988 11 747 11 523 9 513 8 237 7 309 2 922 3 618 4 171 3 321 2 979 2 005 1 392 52 076 44 982 35 638 33 268 30 298 29 442 26 104 884 311 846 975 738 402 685 258 625 583 595 442 560 904 966 022 925 726 809 313 749 594 682 958 648 127 608 718 NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 60 TEN YEAR REVIEW NEDBANK GROUP LIMITED: SEGMENTAL REPORTING for the year ended 31 December Nedbank Corporate and Total Investment Banking 2019 2018 2019 2018 Statement of financial position (Rm) Assets Cash and cash equivalents 37 635 34 791 1 798 4 719 Other short-term securities 64 451 79 362 30 773 53 946 Derivative financial instruments 35 243 22 692 35 174 22 653 Government and other securities 128 510 96 791 63 270 51 131 Loans and advances 796 833 736 305 395 589 358 639 Other assets 80 677 73 971 17 122 16 719 Intergroup assets – – Total assets 1 143 349 1 043 912 543 726 507 807 Equity and liabilities Total equity 98 449 91 271 34 885 33 555 Derivative financial instruments 27 991 20 003 27 973 19 986 Amounts owed to depositors 904 382 825 804 379 656 348 310 Provisions and other liabilities 52 814 51 247 8 426 15 878 Long-term debt instruments 59 713 55 587 705 979 Intergroup liabilities – – 92 081 89 099 Total equity and liabilities 1 143 349 1 043 912 543 726 507 807 Statement of comprehensive income (Rm) Net interest income 30 167 28 819 7 390 7 246 Impairments charge on financial instruments 6 129 3 688 917 103 Income from lending activities 24 038 25 131 6 473 7 143 Non-interest revenue 25 997 25 976 8 175 8 521 Operating income 50 035 51 107 14 648 15 664 Total operating expenses 32 179 31 632 6 604 6 572 Net monetray loss 296 – Indirect taxation 1 096 942 181 86 Profit/(Loss) from operations2 16 464 18 533 7 863 9 006 Share of gains/(losses) of associate companies 793 528 121 (83) Profit before direct taxation2 17 257 19 061 7 984 8 923 Direct taxation2 3 942 4 807 1 836 2 197 Profit after direct taxation2 13 315 14 254 6 148 6 726 Profit attributable to non-controlling interest: – Ordinary shareholders 18 169 (19) 12 – Preference shareholders 313 323 – Additional tier 1 capital instrument noteholders 478 267 Headline earnings/(loss)4 12 506 13 495 6 167 6 714 Selected ratios Non-interest revenue to total income (%) 46,3 47,4 52,5 54,0 Non-interest revenue to total operating expenses (%) 80,8 82,1 123,8 129,7 Cost-to-income ratio (%) 56,5 57,2 42,1 41,9 Effective taxation rate (%) 22,8 25,2 23,0 24,6 Revenue (Rm)3 56 164 54 795 15 565 15 767 1 Includes all group eliminations. 2 These items are presented on a headline earnings basis and therefore exclude the impact of non-trading and capital items. 3 Revenue is calculated as net interest income plus non-interest revenue. 4 Includes the effect of hyperinflation. Depreciation costs of R2 454m (2018: R1 512m) and amortisation costs of R1 232m (2018: R1 033m) for property, equipment, computer software, capitalised development and other intangible assets are charged on an activity-justified transfer pricing methodology by the segment owning the assets to the segment utilising the benefits thereof. During the year management determined that the results of the group’s investment in Ecobank Transnational Incorporated (ETI) should be reported solely as part of the Nedbank Africa Regions Cluster’s performance, and the previous distinction between managed operations and ETI is therefore no longer required. NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 61 Nedbank Retail and Business Banking Nedbank Wealth Nedbank Africa Regions Centre1 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 6 168 3 105 1 746 1 562 6 341 5 615 21 582 19 790 20 701 18 833 4 083 4 776 8 894 1 807 7 6 38 10 24 23 848 668 64 392 44 992 349 396 326 763 30 741 31 111 21 678 21 037 (571) (1 245) 10 610 10 762 24 238 19 630 4 898 4 915 23 809 21 945 11 577 14 984 499 497 (12 076) (15 481) 377 751 355 614 77 433 71 142 38 385 37 518 106 054 71 831 30 573 28 471 4 204 4 225 5 943 6 812 22 844 18 208 – 6 5 11 12 1 338 901 322 520 40 060 39 495 30 223 29 472 115 542 86 007 5 829 3 534 29 703 24 764 1 891 894 6 965 6 177 2 448 1 089 – 317 328 56 243 53 191 – 3 460 2 653 – (95 541) (91 752) 377 751 355 614 77 433 71 142 38 385 37 518 106 054 71 831 19 831 18 692 1 148 1 113 1 547 1 627 251 141 4 823 3 433 57 39 233 113 99 15 008 15 259 1 091 1 074 1 314 1 514 152 141 13 318 12 591 3 436 3 484 1 220 1 206 (152) 174 28 326 27 850 4 527 4 558 2 534 2 720 – 315 20 384 20 032 3 113 3 012 2 427 2 416 (349) (400) 296 548 275 113 108 58 37 196 436 7 394 7 543 1 301 1 438 (247) 267 153 279 672 611 7 394 7 543 1 301 1 438 425 878 153 279 2 059 2 114 259 305 (64) 23 (148) 168 5 335 5 429 1 042 1 133 489 855 301 111 32 153 5 4 42 50 271 273 478 267 5 293 5 379 1 042 1 133 457 702 (453) (433) 40,2 40,2 75,0 75,8 44,1 42,6 65,3 62,9 110,4 115,7 50,3 49,9 61,5 64,0 67,9 65,5 70,6 70,2 27,8 28,0 19,9 21,2 (15,0) 2,6 33 149 31 283 4 584 4 597 2 767 2 833 99 315 NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 62 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE STANDARDS INDEX For the 2019 financial year we have used the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards for sustainability reporting. GRI UNGC Disclosure GRI disclosure title option Reference Principles Organisational profile 102–1 Name of the organisation Core Nedbank Group Limited 102–2 Activities, brands, products, and Core Nedbank Group at a glance 1–10 services Our value-creating business model Our organisational structure, products and services Sustainable Development Finance 102–3 Location of headquarters Core Nedbank 135 Rivonia Campus, 135 Rivonia Road, Sandown, Sandton, Gauteng, SA 102–4 Location of operations Core Nedbank Group at a glance 1–10 Company structure Reflections from our Chief Financial Officer 102–5 Ownership and legal form Core Nedbank Group at a glance Company structure 102–6 Markets served Core Nedbank Group at a glance 1–10 Our value-creating business model Our organisational structure, products and services 102–7 Scale of the organisation Core Nedbank Group at a glance 1–10 Our value-creating business model Our organisational structure, products and services Reflections from our Chief Financial Officer Ten-year Review Sustainable Development Finance Workforce profile 102–8 Information on employees and other Core Workforce profile 1–2, 3–6 workers 102–9 Supply chain Core Preferential procurement, enterprise and supplier 1–10 development Governance and Ethics Review 102–10 Significant changes to the Core None for the period 1–10 organisation and its supply chain 102–11 Precautionary principle or approach Core Managing social and environmental risk 1–10 Governance and Ethics Review 102–12 External initiatives Core Recognition and ratings 1–10 Governance and Ethics Review 102–13 Membership of associations Core Good governance underpins 1–10 our delivery on purpose Strategy 102–14 Statement from senior Core Reflections from our Chairman 1–10 decisionmaker Reflections from our Chief Executive 102–15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Core Risks and opportunities in our operating environment 1–10 Our strategic enablers Making tradeoffs and impact on our capitals Value for stakeholders Sustainable Development Governance Framework Managing social and environmental risk Pillar 3 Risk and Capital Management Report NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 63 GRI UNGC Disclosure GRI disclosure title option Reference Principles Ethics and integrity 102–16 Values, principles, standards, and Core Our purpose, vision, brand and values 1–10 norms of behaviour Governance and Ethics Review 102–17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns Core Governance and Ethics Review 1, 2, 10 about ethics Pillar 3 Risk and Capital Management Report Governance 102–18 Governance structure Core Reflections from our Chairman 1–10 Our board and board committees Sustainable Development Governance Framework Governance and Ethics Review 102–19 Delegating authority Sustainable Development Governance Framework 1–10 Governance and Ethics Review 102–20 Executive-level responsibility for Sustainable Development Governance Framework 1–10 economic, environmental and social Governance and Ethics Review topics 102–21 Consulting stakeholders on Reflections from our Chairman 1–10 economic, environmental and social Our board and board committees topics Sustainable Development Governance Framework Stakeholder Report Governance and Ethics Review 102–22 Composition of the highest Our board and board committees 1–10 governance body and its committees Governance and Ethics Review 102–23 Chair of the highest governance Our board and board committees 1–10 body Governance and Ethics Review 102–24 Nominating and selecting the highest Our board and board committees 1–10 governance body Governance and Ethics Review 102–25 Conflicts of interest Governance and Ethics Review 1–10 102–26 Role of highest governance body in Governance and Ethics Review 1–10 setting purpose, values, and strategy 102–27 Collective knowledge of highest Our board and board committees 1–10 governance body Governance and Ethics Review 102–28 Evaluating the highest governance Governance and Ethics Review 1–10 body’s performance 102–29 Identifying and managing economic, Risks and opportunities in our operating environment 1–10 environmental and social impacts Our board and board committees Sustainable Development Governance Framework Governance and Ethics Review 102–30 Effectiveness of risk management Our board and board committees 1–10 processes Risks and opportunities in our operating environment Sustainable Development Governance Framework Value for stakeholders Stakeholder Report Governance and Ethics Review Pillar 3 Risk and Capital Management Report 102–31 Review of economic, environmental Our board and board committees 1–10 and social topics Risks and opportunities in our operating environment Sustainable Development Governance Framework Value for stakeholders Stakeholder Report Governance and Ethics Review Pillar 3 Risk and Capital Management Report 102–32 Highest governance body’s role in Group Transformation, Social and Ethics Committee 1–10 sustainability reporting 102–33 Communicating critical concerns Governance and Ethics Review 1–10 102–34 Nature and total number of critical 2019 key board discussions 1–10 concerns The number of issues is not disclosed. 102–35 Remuneration policies Remuneration Report 1, 2, 3–6 NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 64 GRI UNGC Disclosure GRI disclosure title option Reference Principles 102–36 Process for determining Remuneration Report 3–6 remuneration 102–37 Stakeholders’ involvement in Remuneration Report 3–6 remuneration Board committee feedback: Group Remuneration Committee Notice of 53rd AGM Form of proxy 102–38 Annual total compensation ratio Tracked and monitored internally but not reported 3–6 publically Remuneration Report 102–39 Percentage increase in annual total Tracked and monitored internally but not reported 3–6 compensation ratio publically Remuneration Report Stakeholder engagement 102–40 List of stakeholder groups Core Value for stakeholders 1–10 Stakeholder Report Governance and Ethics Review 102–41 Collective bargaining agreements Core Managing our employee relations 3 102–42 Identifying and selecting Core Value for stakeholders 1–10 stakeholders Stakeholder Report Governance and Ethics Review 102–43 Approach to stakeholder Core Value for stakeholders 1–10 engagement Stakeholder Report Governance and Ethics Review 102–44 Key topics and concerns raised Core Value for stakeholders 1–10 Stakeholder Report Governance and Ethics Review 102–45 Entities included in the consolidated Core About our integrated report financial statements Company structure 102–46 Defining report content and topic Core About our integrated report boundaries 102–47 List of material topics Core These are determined from our materiality process and 103–1 through our core function of being a bank. 103–2 Economic performance, compliance (environmental, 103–3 social, product responsibility) employment, training and education, diversity and equal opportunity, human rights investment, non-discrimination, local communities, anticorruption, product and service labelling, client privacy, product portfolio and active ownership. Risks and opportunities in our operating environment Stakeholder Engagement Policy Our strategic enablers Stakeholder value creation – progress and outlook Ten-year Review 102–48 Restatements of information Core No reclassifications and restatements were made for the period 102–49 Changes in reporting Core None 102–50 Reporting period Core About our integrated report 102–51 Date of most recent report Core About our integrated report 102–52 Reporting cycle Core About our integrated report 102–53 Contact point for questions Core Contacts regarding the report 102–54, Claims of reporting in accordance Core Our report is in accordance with the core requirements 102 55 with the GRI Standards of the GRI Standards About our integrated report 102–56 External assurance Core About our integrated report Validating our sustainability journey Report from the independent auditors NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 65 GRI UNGC Disclosure GRI disclosure title option Reference Principles Economic performance 201 Management approach disclosures Core See 102–47 – Economic performance 201–1 Economic performance – Direct Core Our value-creating business model 1–10 economic value generated and Reflections from our Chief Financial Officer distributed Ten-year Review Value for stakeholders Pillar 3 Risk and Capital Management Report 201–2 Economic performance – Financial Risks and opportunities in the operation environment 7–9 implications and other risks and Making tradeoffs and impact on our capitals opportunities due to climate change 201–3 Economic performance – DefinedRemuneration Report 3 benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 201–4 Economic performance – Financial No financial assistance received from government assistance received from government 203–1 Indirect economic impacts – Sustainable Development Finance 1, 2, 7–9 Infrastructure investments and Transformation Report services supported 203–2 Indirect economic impacts – Transformation Report 1–10 Significant indirect economic impacts Sustainable Development Review Developing our workforce for the future 204–1 Procurement practices – Proportion Preferential procurement, enterprise, supplier 1–10 of spending on local suppliers development Governance and Ethics Review NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 66 GRI UNGC Disclosure GRI disclosure title option Reference Principles Energy 302–1 Energy – Energy consumption within Carbon footprint measurement 1, 2, 7–9 the organisation 302–3 Energy – Energy intensity Carbon footprint measurement 1, 2, 7–9 302–4 Energy – Reduction of energy Carbon footprint measurement 1, 2, 7–9 consumption Emissions 305–1 Emissions – Direct (scope 1) GHG Carbon footprint measurement 1, 2, 7–9 emissions 305–2 Emissions – Energy indirect (scope 2) Carbon footprint measurement 1, 2, 7–9 GHG emissions 305–3 Emissions – Other indirect (scope 3) Carbon footprint measurement 1, 2, 7–9 GHG emissions 305–4 Emissions – GHG emissions intensity Carbon footprint measurement 1, 2, 7–9 305–5 Emissions – Reduction of GHG Carbon footprint measurement 1, 2, 7–9 emissions 305–6 Emissions – Emissions of ozoneCarbon footprint measurement 1, 2, 7–9 depleting substances (ODS) Compliance (environmental) 307 Management approach disclosures Core – Environmental compliance 307–1 Environmental compliance – NonCore None for the period 1, 2, 7–9 compliance with environmental laws and regulations FS1 Policies with specific environmental Core Sustainable Development Governance Framework 1, 2, 7–9 and social components applied to Managing social and environmental risk business lines Governance and Ethics Review FS2 Procedures for assessing and Core Sustainable Development Governance Framework 1–10 screening environmental and social Managing social and environmental risk risks in business lines Committed to responsible investment Governance and Ethics Review FS3 Processes for monitoring clients' Core Sustainable Development Governance Framework 1–9 implementation of, and compliance Managing social and environmental risk with, environmental and social requirements included in agreements or transactions FS4 Processes for improving staff Core Managing social and environmental risk 1–10 competence to implement the Reduction targets environmental and social policies and Pillar 3 Risk and Capital Management Report procedures as applied to business Governance and Ethics Review lines FS5 Interactions with clients/investors/ Core Value for stakeholders 1–10 business partners regarding Corporate social investment environmental and social risks and Stakeholder Report opportunities Carbon offset projects FS9 Coverage and frequency of audits Core Assurance statement 1–9 to assess implementation of environmental and social policies and risk assessment procedures FS15 Policies for the fair design and sale of Core Committed to responsible investment 1,2 financial products and services Managing social and environmental risks Delivering innovative market-leading client experiences Growing our transactional banking franchise faster than the market Pillar 3 Risk and Capital Management Report NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 67 GRI UNGC Disclosure GRI disclosure title option Reference Principles Employment 401 Management approach disclosures Core See 102–47 – Employment 401–1 Employment – New employee hires Core Our workforce in review 1, 2, 3–6 and employee turnover 401–2 Employment – Benefits provided Remuneration Report 1, 2, 3–6 to fulltime employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees 404 Management approach disclosures Core See 102–47 – Training and education 404–1 Training and education – Average Core Developing our workforce for the future 1–6 hours of training per year per employee 404–2 Training and education – Developing our workforce for the future 1–6 Programmes for upgrading Equipping our leaders to lead employee skills and transition Managing our talent assistance programmes 404–3 Training and education Performance management 1–6 Diversity and equal opportunity 405 Management approach disclosures Core See 102–47 – Diversity and equal opportunity 405–1 Diversity and equal opportunity – Core Our board and board committees 1–6 Diversity of governance bodies and Our workforce in review employees Governance and Ethics Review Human rights investment 412 Management approach disclosures Core See 102–47 – Human rights investments 412–3 Human rights assessment – Applying the Equator Principles 1–10 Significant investment agreements Governance and Ethics Review and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening 412–2 Human rights assessment – Core Governance and Ethics Review 1–10 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 68 GRI UNGC Disclosure GRI disclosure title option Reference Principles Non-discrimination 406 Management approach disclosures Core See 102–47 – Non-discrimination 406–1 Non-discrimination – Incidents of Core Governance and Ethics Review 1–6 discrimination and corrective actions taken Local communities 413 Management approach disclosures Core See 102–47 – Local communities 413–1 Local communities – Operations Core Applying the Equator Principles 1–10 with local community engagement, Corporate social investment impact assessments, and Stakeholder Report development programmes Transformation Report FS13 Access points in low-populated or Core Improving financial inclusion 1–10 economically disadvantaged areas Transformation Report by type FS14 Initiatives to improve access to Core Access to financial services 1, 2 financial services for disadvantaged Transformation Report people Anti-corruption 205 Management approach disclosures Core – Anti-corruption 205–1 Operations assessed for risks Core Pillar 3 Risk and Capital Management Report 10 related to corruption Governance and Ethics Review 205–2 Communication and training Pillar 3 Risk and Capital Management Report 10 about anti-corruption policies and Governance and Ethics Review procedures 205–3 Confirmed incidents of corruption Pillar 3 Risk and Capital Management Report 10 and actions taken 415–1 Political contributions Nedbank policy does not allow for contributions to 10 political parties Products, service and labelling 417 Management approach disclosures Core – Products, service and labelling 417–1 Requirements for product and Detailed product brochures that comply with all relevant 1, 2, 7–10 service information and labelling legislation, such as the National Credit Act, are available for the group’s clients. Relationship managers are also responsible for explaining the characteristics, benefits and implications of products to clients in accordance with the Financial Advisory and Intermediary Services Act. Product policies and procedures and product review committees are in place. 417–2 Incidents of non-compliance Core A total of 26 incidents of non-compliance were identified 10 concerning product and service internally concerning product and service information information and labelling and labelling, but no fines or warnings were issued by Regulators. 22 of the findings have been resolved and the remaining four are receiving management attention to remediate. All findings are tracked to resolution. 102–43 Approach to stakeholder Value to stakeholders 1–10 engagement Stakeholder Report 102–44 Key topics and concerns raised Value to stakeholders 1–10 Stakeholder Report NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 69 GRI UNGC Disclosure GRI disclosure title option Reference Principles Customer privacy 418 Management approach disclosures Core See 102–47 – Customer privacy 418–1 Substantiated complaints concerning Core No complaints were received from the Information 1, 2, 10 breaches of customer privacy and Regulator during 2019. Internally, there were 120 losses of customer data privacy related incidents with only one being material. This material incident involved a data breach at a third party where changes to security configurations allowed for the breach to occur. This matter was reported to the Information Regulator. Remediation efforts for all incidents include improved third party management controls, updated privacy risk management (i.e. improved Privacy Impact Assessments) and additional focused training and awareness initiatives. Compliance (society, product and service) 419 Management approach disclosures Core – Socioeconomic compliance 419–1 Non-compliance with laws and Core Nedbank Africa Regions received fines to the total of 1–10 regulations in the social and R17,5m in Namibia, Mozambique (Banco Unico), Lesotho economic area and Malawi relating to regulatory non-compliance. One specific instance, Namibia, includes a daily fine of R54 000 for non-compliance beyond 31 December 2019. Remedial actions are in place. We maintain and continuously enhance our control environment to ensure that we have the appropriate controls in place to manage our compliance risk and minimise regulatory fines. Product portfolio FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for Core Overview of Nedbank Group business lines by specific region, size Our value-creating business model (eg micro/SME/large) and by sector Our organisational structure, products and services Ten-year Review FS7 Monetary value of products and Core Applying the Equator Principles 1, 2, 7–10 services designed to deliver a Sustainable Development Finance specific social benefit for each Transformation Report business line, broken down by purpose FS8 Monetary value of products and Core Applying the Equator Principles 7–9 services designed to deliver a Sustainable Development Finance specific environmental benefit for each business line, broken down by purpose Active ownership FS10 Percentage and number of Core Managing social and environmental risk 1–10 companies held in the institution's portfolio with which the reporting organisation has interacted on environmental and social issues FS11 Percentage of assets subject to Core Committed to responsible investment 1–10 positive and negative environmental Ten-year Review or social screening FS12 Voting policies applied to Core Proxy voting guidelines: environmental or social issues for Responsible Investing Guidelines: shares over which the reporting organisation holds the right to vote shares or advises on voting NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 70 CONTACT DETAILS Iram Hayath Executive Head: Reputational Risk & Ethics Group Compliance iramh@nedbank.co.za Kerri Savin Snr Manager: Sustainability Strategy and Reporting Group Strategy kerris@nedbank.co.za DISCLAIMER Nedbank Group has acted in good faith and has made every reasonable effort to ensure the accuracy and completeness of the information contained in this document, including all information that may be defined as ‘forward-looking statements’ within the meaning of United States securities legislation. Forward-looking statements may be identified by words such as ‘believe’, ‘anticipate’, ‘expect’, ‘plan’, ‘estimate’, ‘intend’, ‘project’, ‘target’, ‘predict’ and ‘hope’. Forward-looking statements are not statements of fact, but statements by the management of Nedbank Group based on its current estimates, projections, expectations, beliefs and assumptions regarding the group’s future performance. No assurance can be given that forward-looking statements will be correct and undue reliance should not be placed on such statements. The risks and uncertainties inherent in the forward-looking statements contained in this document include, but are not limited to: changes to IFRS and the interpretations, applications and practices subject thereto as they apply to past, present and future periods; domestic and international business and market conditions such as exchange rate and interest rate movements; changes in the domestic and international regulatory and legislative environments; changes to domestic and international operational, social, economic and political risks; and the effects of both current and future litigation. Nedbank Group does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements contained in this document and does not assume responsibility for any loss or damage arising as a result of the reliance by any party thereon, including, but not limited to, loss of earnings, profits, or consequential loss or damage. NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2019 71 nedbankgroup.co.za
