2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Nets Corporate Social Responsibility 2019 Table of contents Towards a more digitised Europe 3 About this report 4 Our business model 5 Corporate Social Responsibility at Nets 7 Driving digitisation 8 Responsible operations 10 Responsible employer 12 Assessment of our risk within Corporate Social Responsibility 14 Focus areas for 2020 15 2/15 Nets Corporate Social Responsibility 2019 Towards a more digitised Europe The payments industry is undergoing a period We invest in, operate and maintain a worldof unprecedented change. New technologies, class infrastructure for our customers, enabling new players, and new regulation all shape the them to serve their customers in the best future of payments to the benefit of businesspossible way. We work continuously to earn es and citizens that gain still easier access to and renew the trust of our many stakeholders secure, stable and innovative solutions. At Nets, and the public, and we collaborate in making we are playing our part in shaping the future sustainable business solutions in a responsible of the payments industry. We take our role in manner by ensuring that respect for human the transformation seriously and we work with rights and the environment are integral parts of international standards on responsible business the daily running of our business. conduct and aim at becoming a leading European payments player. While citizens, businesses and governments experience a gradual increase in efficiency, For Nets, 2019 marked a year of profound transparency and simplicity through digitalichange, where we worked hard to get our acquisation of everyday lives and routines, we also sitions in the DACH region and Poland fully interecognize the challenges that digitisation could grated into the Nets Group. These developments bring to some. Digital products and solutions put have made Nets a genuine European payment demands on the end-user, and not all groups of UN Global Compact into our business and sation, responsible employer and responsible service provider with on the ground operations in society benefit equally from digitalisation. to strengthen our framework across the Nets operations. We are committed to continuing the in thirteen European countries. We therefore see it as part of our responsibility Group. 2019 also marked a landmark on our journey. to contribute to digital inclusion by involving responsibility journey as we relocated to new With our transformation from a Nordic to a stakeholders and helping to advance digital and more sustainable headquarters. Finally, we Sincerely, European payment service provider we are capabilities and skills. thoroughly strengthened our supplier managealso faced with the challenge to transform ment framework with regards to ensuring the our efforts in the corporate responsibility and In 2019, we filed our first Communication on respect for the environment and human rights sustainability area. We are fortunate that we can Progress to the UN Global Compact, and we throughout the supplier value chain. build on our Nordic experiences and consolihave thereby started our journey of reporting date our efforts at group level, and we see it as externally on our corporate responsibility activThis report is our second Communication on Bo Nilsson an opportunity to bring the positive impacts of ities in a more systematic way. We will continue Progress report in which we describe our proCEO of the Nets Group digitisation to new frontiers across Europe. our commitment to integrate the 10 principles gress in three thematic areas driving digiti3/15 Nets Corporate Social Responsibility 2019 About this report This report collects and describes the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) framework and achievements of the Nets Group in 2019. The report serves as Nets’ Communication on Progress to the UN Global Compact for 2019. Assessment of Corporate framework and governance, activities and key Social Responsibility initiatives achievements in on our three thematic areas of Overview of how Nets implements the ten In 2019, Nets has continued to strengthen the corporate responsibility, our assessment of risk principles of the UN Global Compact CSR framework which was formalised in 2018 within corporate responsibility, and finally our when we became UN Global Compact signatofocus areas for 2020. UN Global Compact CSR activity & Page number ries. Our long tradition of working with CSR has Principles Nets policy area in this report been consolidated and formalised across the It is the second progress report and it covers a Group due to good work from policy owners, the year where Nets has expanded to new countries Principles 1-2 Supplier Code Page 10 guidance provided by the CSR Steering Commitand fully integrated businesses in countries Human rights of Conduct tee, and ultimately the Board of Directors who outside the Nordic region. It has, therefore, been Human and Labour Page 12 approved updated group-wide CSR policies in a challenge to collect data and to measure it Rights June 2019. against targets set previously. As a starting Diversity Page 13 point the data in this report describes the Nets Principles 3-6 Supplier Code Page 10 Our corporate responsibility framework builds Group at the end of 2019, if data for the Nordic Labour rights of Conduct on the ten principles of the UN Global Compact region is being used, it will be mentioned specifiWork environment Page 13 and consists of 9 policies with individual targets cally. The data are collected and calculated and dedicated policy owners. The Nets CSR polacross the Nets Group to quantify and report Principles 7-9 Energy consumption Page 11 icy sets the strategy and is described on page 7. on the activities carried out by Nets to impleClimate and environment Waste management Page 11 ment the CSR policies. Going forward, we aim at Reduction of CO2Page 9 The structure of this report strengthening our data collection methodology emissions This report is divided into seven sections and to be able to build on the experiences we describing our business model, our CSR have gathered so far. Principle 10 Whistleblower scheme Page 10 Anti-corruption Anti-Bribery & Corruption Page 10 4/15 Nets Corporate Social Responsibility 2019 Our business model We see a rapid development in payments these years with digitalisation influencing our habits and behaviour within banking, shopping and life in general. Nets plays a key role in this digital transformation by developing secure and responsible payment solutions. Our starting point a digital transaction such as a payment, an Based on the dedicated work of more than authentication or a digital login. We operate a 4,000 Nets employees, we strive to foster a deeply entrenched network which connects culture of security, stability, trust, innovation merchants, financial institutions, enterprises and and easiness to become the preferred payment consumers, enabling them to make and receive partner for European merchants and issuers payments and use value-added services. of payment instruments. Our strong presence throughout the payments value chain, our We have our core business in the following scalable platforms, and our deep-rooted local 3 areas: knowledge are key to ensure that we provide the best possible digital payment experiences 1. Merchant Services for our customers. Our Merchant Services business offers payment acceptance solutions across channels (in-store, What we do online and mobile) with the broadest range of We provide a number of digital services and payment methods and value-added service for facilitate secure data processing as part of the electronic receipts and loyalty solutions, all with transaction between our customers and end-usa simple and fast set-up. This enables merers. Whether it is for buying groceries, paying chants to accept payments, easily and without bills online or dealing with public authorities, friction regardless of channel, to receive the setonline services offer greater convenience and tlement in their bank account and get detailed free up time in people’s everyday lives. Behind reconciliation information and statistics, all in this seemingly simple exchange of services different currencies and frequencies depending is a complex web of processes, initiated by on merchant needs and consumer preferences. 5/15 Nets Corporate Social Responsibility 2019 We help customers around the clock 16:30 12:34 20:40 On the way home from work, buying a shirt for the party Paying for lunch next Friday Buying groceries by means of facial online 07:35 recognition 21:48 Whether they are buying groceries, shopping safely on the mobile or dealing with public authorities, we help our Buying my train customers free up time in consumers’ Filing in my ticket with an app everyday lives self-assessment tax return online 2. Issuer and eSecurity Services and instant payment services, and e-billing we help issuers stand out through best-in-class Our customer promise Our Issuer and eSecurity Services business solutions. In August 2019, these services were payment solutions in a digital world where We have made a promise to put our offers a one-stop-shop for payment processing divested to MasterCard. Upon regulatory apend-user differentiation defines the winners. custo­­m­­ers first in everything we do. In services, a full range of Fraud & Dispute servicprovals expected in 2020, these services will be For individual end-users we provide secure and a world of constant change, listening to es, a tailored Consumer Management Services transferred to MasterCard. reliable payments and communication channels our customers to predict their needs and solution, innovative, flexible and reliable mobile which respect and protect data in the best poscreate best-in-class experiences for them payment solutions, as well as data analytics Value creation sible way. At the same time, we drive forward is important like never before. We have ensuring high quality and cost efficiency. We empower merchants to benefit from digitisation of European societies in a way that discovered a need for a stable and secure the digitisation of payments, we help them underpins financial inclusion, increases efficienpayment service provider that makes it 3. Corporate Services successfully start up and grow, reduce cost, cy, and reduces transactional cost related to easier for banks and merchants to do Our Corporate Services business offers acrisk and complexity, and to improve customer cash handling and manual paper work. busi­ness and, in turn, make life easier for count-to-account services, including clearing experience and business insights. In parallel, end-users. 6/15 Nets Corporate Social Responsibility 2019 Corporate Social Overview of the three pillars and their foundation Responsibility at Nets Easiness Security Digital & Stability Inclusion Nets plays an important role in digitalising the society and we take our role and responsibility seriously. We therefore work with Pillar 1 business partners and stakeholders to prevent negative impact Environmental Driving digitisation Diversity on society as we strive to be responsible and transparent in the Policy Policy way we develop secure business solutions. As a signatory to the CSR UN Global Compact we are committed to integrate human rights, at Nets environmental and anti-corruption measures into our daily work. Anti-Bribery & Corruption Pillar 2 Pillar 3 Human & Labour Rights Policy Responsible Responsible Policy operations employer Our approach to CSR Our CSR framework Whistleblower Ethical Our approach to CSR is derived from our Nordic Our CSR framework has over the past years Policy Policy heritage and the way we have contributed to the been formalised and since 2018, the framework Work development of digital payments and related has been governed by our CSR policy and eight Supplier Code Environment services in the most digitised region in Europe. detailed policies embedding the ten principles of of Conduct Policy Nets has played a key role in shaping a new the UN Global Compact. Our framework consists digital reality based on stability, security and reof three strategic pillars: Driving digitisation sponsible innovation. It’s our ambition to turn a Responsible employer Responsible operations. complex reality into easy, intuitive and customer-oriented solutions developed in a responsible Our CSR governance structure Pillar 1 Pillar 2 Pillar 3 and sustainable way which will ensure that we Nets’ policies have been adopted by the Board Driving digitisation Responsible operations Responsible employer remain a reliable hub of the European payments of Directors and the overall responsibility for is based on our commitis based on our commitis based on our commitment industry. CSR at Nets lies with the Executive Committee, ment to provide easy and ment to ensure responsible to respect human rights, the which has appointed a Steering Committee to secure payment solutions business conduct throughout well-being and development Our commitment to corporate responsibility oversee the implementation. The daily work on to all – something we strive our value chain and in our of our employees and in is aligned with our ambition of becoming a policy activation is carried out by the respective to do through the products, policies for Anti-Bribery and our policies for Human and European payments champion while recognispolicy owners with the assistance of the corposervices, and partnerships Corruption, Whistleblowing, Labour Rights, Diversity, Work ing and respecting the social, environmental rate responsibility department. we provide to customers and Environment, and our SuppliEnvironment and our Ethical and economic impact that Nets has through the the end-users. er Code of Conduct. Policy. digitisation of the countries in which we operate. 7/15 Nets Corporate Social Responsibility 2019 Pillar 1 Driving digitisation Our approach to digitising society is based on three strategic themes: Case Training of Nets employees Easiness easier products and solutions We are committed to deliver digital solutions that drive is the foundation for growth and progress, Nets employees must be well-informed the development towards a digitised, paperless, and and our digital solutions drive this develand trained to understand the dangers opment and will ensure reduction of enviwhen fraudsters try to steal and abuse cashless society. We want to ensure that digitisation ronmental impact, cost savings for society, credentials or other valuable pieces of of society is based on services and products that bring and allow citizens to reap the benefits of information. As a central part of this, we social, environmental, and economic benefits to society, smarter and easier digital technologies. have in 2019 continued issuing short businesses, and end-users. e-learning modules (NanoLearnings) to all Security & Stability driving reliable employees to raise awareness and drive digital ecosystems that unlock new and the right behaviour related to information better opportunities for financial institusecurity. In 2019, we also introduced the tions and merchants, while always delivgamified phishing training tool – HoxOUR KEY ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2019 value and security to banks, merchants and ering unrivalled security and stability. We Hunt – aimed at making employees Security and stability consumers by hindering fraudulent transactions strive to provide a multi-layered security better at recognizing phishing e-mails. In 2019, focus has been on the security agenda in real-time. This has generated solid results so architecture and a strong security culture At the beginning of the campaign, 87% of comprising several internal and external that fraud related losses are today record low, internally. employees were to successfully recognize projects. This encompasses the systematic even though attempts of fraudulent behaviour simulated phishing e-mails. At the end of reporting of all detected attempts of phishing, are historically high. For Dankort alone, 2019 Digital Inclusion smarter and easier 2019, this number increased to 95%. That smishing or other examples of digital fraud, and marked an all-time record low with a drop of digital technologies are not always accesis a very high success rate showing that automation of the take-down of phishing sites 46% in crime-related losses. sible for all groups of end-users. We are Nets employees have become very good has been a key focus for us. Throughout 2019, committed to work to include the needs of at recognizing fraudulent e-mails. we have become a leading provider of inforIn March, Nets joined the Danish ICT Industry special groups such as children, elderly mation alerts to the safeguarding initiative “Mit Association (ITB)’s Code on reporting security people, and vulnerable groups. Digitale Selvforsvar” that seeks to guide Danes flaws. The Code provides guidance to external to navigate safely on the web. stakeholders on how to handle and report to Nets if a security incident is detected in any Throughout 2019, Nets has taken fraud monitorof our systems etc. To support this, we have ing and prevention to a new level using artificial developed a website that describes how we’re intelligence with launch of our new anti-fraud handling potential issues and allows external engine Nets Fraud Ensemble. This brings added parties to report on incidents via an online form. 8/15 Nets Corporate Social Responsibility 2019 Easiness & Digital Inclusion In 2019, we supported the roll-out of the Case donation platform “Tryg Overskud” where The MyPayments app Dankort is being used as the payment engine. empowers merchants to When enrolled users shop, they obtain bonuses that can again be donated for selected charity plan, optimize and grow purposes. Our direct work with charity organisausing data tions was enhanced in 2019, where we extended the existing donations program coupled to use Nets MyPayments app gives merchants a of Betalingsservice by charity organisations orsmart overview of their business and new ganised by ISOBRO. Together with Danish banks insights about their customers. This enawe increased donations by 500%. bles merchants to track development from week to week, to know when business is 2019 was the year where the free growth enpeaking, if customers are recurring, how hancing business insight tool, MyPayments, was they perform against benchmarks, and introduced to merchants in still more European other important aspects that empower and countries. The MyPayments app empowers enable merchants to optimize their busimerchants to find a smart real-time overview ness based on card transaction data. of their business and customers to grow their business further. At the MPE conference in Berlin, the MyPayments app was awarded the Best Data Analytics and Science Award. Nets digitisation services reduces CO2-emissions At Nets, we digitally sign about 12 million documents per year, send 70 million digital invoices and have about 1 billion documents archived digitally. Our ediEX platform for invoice distribution helps Nordic companies move invoices from paper to digital, and in total the signing and digital invoicing services bring about a positive environmental impact of 10,000 tons CO2-emissions saved on an annual basis. 9/15 Nets Corporate Social Responsibility 2019 Pillar 2 Responsible operations Our approach to Responsible operations Case New sustainable head­quarters in Ballerup, As an international payments company Denmark We aim to run our business in an environmentally conscious connecting consumers, businesses, and manner and to act with integrity. We support a preventative financial institutions across Europe, we Relocating to new headquarters, the consider it our responsibility to ensure following sustainability measures have approach to environmental challenges, and we are committed sound business practises throughout our been taken: to set reduction targets for our operations and work with our value chain. Our goal is to build business business partners and suppliers to ensure environmentally relationships with our suppliers and • Increasing focus on waste management: friendly business solutions across the value chain. partners based on trust and long-term Shifting to bio-degradable disposable cooperation to deliver environmentaltableware in all relevant areas and ly friendly and sustainable business mandatory sorting of waste at all waste solutions and gain mutually beneficial stations to minimise amount of unsorted KEY ACHIEVEMENTS FOR 2019 To certify that all employees are aware of the business relationships. waste. Supplier Code of Conduct rules with which they must comply, we have set For 2019, we set out the ambition to upgrade the target that all employees receive adequate We are committed to ensure responsibility • Sustainable canteen: Specific measures our supplier processes. In the fall, we launched annual training with a response rate above 75%. throughout our value chain, and we incorin place to minimise CO2 emissions, a pilot phase in which suppliers were asked Following the adoption of the updated Anporate human and labour rights, environreduce plastic waste and disposable to self-assess and document their corporate ti-Bribery & Corruption policy in 2019, work has mental measures and ethical standards tableware – all by 25%. responsibility efforts. We have evaluated the been initiated to develop a new robust training into our Supplier Code of Conduct. We process and results, and for 2020 we will adjust programme for all employees. The new training have established internal policies and • Car-pooling: Introducing car-pooling app the process based on our findings to ensure program is expected to be rolled out during first guidelines to ensure employees act with with motorist association FDM and sura thorough supplier assessment and a strong half of 2020. integrity and do not engage in any actions rounding companies offering employees supply chain management with regards to corinvolving corruption and/or bribery and new options of getting to and from work porate responsibility related risks. Whistleblower scheme understand the importance hereof. reducing congestion, pollution, and travel The whistleblower scheme of the Nets Group time. Anti-Bribery & Corruption continues to be in effect, allowing employNets has a zero tolerance for bribery and ees, the Executive Management, the Board of corruption, and we condemn it in all its forms. Directors and external stakeholders to report Together with our Ethical Policy, our Anti-Bribviolations or misconduct, or suspicions thereIn 2019, six reports were submitted via our contained a first name and no description of ery & Corruption Policy conveys this stance to of. Customers, vendors, consultants and other whistleblower channel. Two of the reports did the issue, and one report was investigated by ensure that our employees act with integrity external parties can report under the whistlenot concern Nets at all, and two of the reports the external law firm but was assessed to be and do not engage in any actions involving blower scheme through our website. Any reports were out of scope concerning identity theft unfounded. corruption and/or bribery. received are investigated by an external law firm. and a phishing attempt. One of the reports only 10/15 Nets Corporate Social Responsibility 2019 Environmental performance* 2019 2018 Differential Reduction in CO2 2,993 tonnes of 3,718 tonnes of 2019 saw an increase in air travel comemissions from travCO2 saved CO2 saved pared to 2018 due to extensive M&A el between locations and integration activities Reduction in energy Energy consumption Energy consumption 2019 resulted in a lower decrease consumption reduced by 3.5% reduced by 13.5% than in 2018. However, in total, energy compared to 2018 compared to 2017 consumption has been reduced by more than 25% since 2014, exceeding the target of a 15% reduction in 2020 compared to 2014 Amount of unsorted 238 tonnes 227 tonnes 2019 saw several re-construction and waste unsorted waste unsorted waste re-location projects, including moving to a new HQ, driving up waste volumes Paper consumption 1,8m sheets a 14% 2.1m sheets a In total, paper consumption has been reduction compared 13% reduction comreduced by 75% since 2014, signifito 2018 pared to 2017 cantly exceeding the target of a 15% reduction in 2020 compared to 2014 * The data comprises the Nordic activities as we establish a new unified methodology for measuring and calculating across newly acquired units. Environment and climate change In November, Nets moved to our new headquarOur environmental policy entails commitments ters in Ballerup, Denmark. Circular economy and targets for reducing CO2 from travels, has been a central tool in the renovation of the reducing energy consumption, reducing use of office buildings that now constitute the new paper, as well as sorting and reducing waste. headquarters. The ambitious approach of restorOverall, 2019 came with good progress on these ing and reusing materials at the headquarters parameters and for both energy consumption has resulted in a more sustainable outcome and paper consumption we have significantly with a minimum amount of resources wasted. outperformed our 2020 targets. At the new headquarters, a set of measures were implemented to make sure that new green practices were promoted. 11/15 Nets Corporate Social Responsibility 2019 Pillar 3 Responsible employer Our approach to Responsible employer Case Personal Growth at Nets Our overall aim is to be a responsible emContinuous professional development is We respect and prioritise the well-being of our employees ployer and provide a secure work place important because it ensures employees across locations and countries, and we strive to have the and an encouraging working environment. continue to be competent in their work. Our framework is guided by the United Nets’ ambition is to support employees’ best possible physical and psychological work environment, Nations’ Declaration of Human Rights employability in Nets and beyond. by providing a non-discriminatory, safe, and healthy work and the ILO Declaration on Fundamental place for all, and we put focus on preventing work-related Principles and Rights at Work. The aim is In 2019, a new concept “Personal illness. Our aim is to provide all employees with a healthy to ensure that we as a Group stay focused Growth” was launched gathering all on non-discrimination and protection development initiatives under the headline work-life balance to reconcile the demands of working life against harassment and continue to work “Powered by Growth” that works by the and family life. on eliminating work-related illnesses 70/20/10 principle of 70% learning on the and improving the health and safety of job; 20% social learning; and 10% formal employees. learning. KEY ACHIEVEMENTS 2019 Human and labour rights Further to this, we are committed to In 2019, focus on personal growth was Ethical policy At Nets, we expect all our employees to take ensuring that our employees continuously increased by: As a key player in the digital payments co-ownership of their own development to stay increase their “employability” through eco-system, it is imperative to ensure that every employable within and beyond Nets. One of the continuous development adding new com•launching a digital learning platform decision made at Nets is ethically sound and new features introduced in 2019 is an on-line petencies throughout their careers at Nets. for all employees responsible. Our “ACT” values (Accountable, learning platform providing everyone with Customer-driven, Together) lie at the core of learning opportunities at any time and on any • updating the corporate training curri­ everything we do, and Nets’ Ethical Policy is device. The learning platform was introduced culum and offer training within industry based on them. in Germany during Q3 and will be introduced in and grow at Nets’, with a 2025-target score of matters, sales and Agile Croatia and Slovenia early 2020. By end-De75/100. For 2019, the result was 68* putting In 2019, we upgraded the ethical guidelines to cember 2019, a total of 2.585 employees have us on track towards reaching the longer-term • re-igniting the impACT concept by makbecome an ethical policy that all employees logged into the platform and the average time target. ing development talks a natural compomust comply with. Going forward, all new emspent on the learning platform is 3,1 hours. nent of individual check-ins with leaders ployees will be introduced to our ethical policy Diversity as part of the onboarding to Nets. For 2019, our target was to reach a score of Nets aspires to be an attractive workplace for all 66/100 in the employee engagement survey current and future employees. We aim to offer * Using Nordic figures to compare year on year. Going question on ‘I have good opportunities to learn employment on an equal basis, ensuring that forward, we will establish group-wide benchmarks. 12/15 Nets Corporate Social Responsibility 2019 all our colleagues have equal opportunities for broaden the field of candidates as much as promoting their careers in the company, regardpossible, to give men and women equal opporless of their nationality, ethnicity, disability, age, tunities. gender, sexual orientation, religion, or belief. The Board of Directors of Nets A/S has set the It is important for Nets that executives have target to have at least two female members. By the right skill-set, irrespective of gender. When year-end 2019, we were on track to meet that filling management positions, Nets strives to target having two female members of the Board of Directors of Nets A/S, corresponding to 50%. Work environment Case We are committed to provide the best possible Women in Tech physical and psychological working environment, providing a safe and healthy workplace We have set-out new initiatives to increase for all. We therefore run an annual employee the number of women in Tech in Nets. We engagement survey, two shorter pulse surveys have done this by and a leadership effectiveness survey each year to give employees the opportunity to provide • forming/joining professional networks in feedback and to strengthen our company culRead more about Denmark, Sweden and Norway ture and working environment. our CSR activities and policies at • launching an internal Advisory Board For 2019, the target was to reach a score of 73* in Nets’ employee engagement survey, with • advertising for Tech positions using our a 2025 target of 80/100. The 2019 target was nets.eu/about-nets/csr new employer branding concept «powreached. ered by personality» showcasing female faces for tech positions Further, at Nets we continuously work to prevent and reduce work-related illnesses. In 2019, the number of work-related accidents with absence was two, while a series of actions were initiated to prevent and handle stress and to strengthen focus on well-being at work. * Using Nordic figures to compare year on year. Going forward, we will establish group-wide benchmarks 13/15 Nets Corporate Social Responsibility 2019 Assessment of our same time, we have a process for responsible procurement, asking our suppliers to sign and adhere to our Code of Conduct, while asking a We run the training regularly to ensure that our employees do not become complicit in irresponsible and unethical activities. We also have a risk within Corporate selected group of suppliers to provide self-assessments, while others are controlled through on-site audits. whistleblower scheme that gives our employees and external stakeholders the opportunity to report cases. Social Responsibility Negative impact on labour rights There is a risk that our employees are disMisapplication of customer data Every day, Nets processes and stores large criminated against or are not thriving at work. amounts of data related to the processing Therefore, we are committed to promote a of financial transactions between millions of A part of our efforts in the CSR field is to assess our risk healthy work place with focus on the physical accounts in multiple countries. We recognize the and evaluate to what extent we have solid processes in and psychological working environment. We risk impact we pose to society if our core prodhave processes in place to follow developucts and services are not up and running, and to place to prevent a negative impact on society. We have ments closely in this area, and we also monitor bolster customer confidence and instil custombased our risk assessment on the four themes from the employee satisfaction through the annual sater trust, we have put in place comprehensive UN Global Compact and have identified certain risks isfaction survey which is conducted throughout programs to protect consumer and customer that run across the three pillars of our CSR framework. the Nets Group privacy and we work continuously to improve the resilience of our systems and platforms Risk of being associated to corruption and to increase awareness on cybersecurity Nets is growing and enlarging the geographical and information security internally and among We work to minimise the risks and have collecttargets and monitor and evaluate the developfootprint to cover more European countries, and stakeholders. ed them in the following five categories: ments on an annual basis. we recognize an increasing risk of becoming exposed to corrupt activities. As a signatory to Negative impact on the environment Negative impact on human rights the UN Global Compact, we are committed to and climate In parallel with our European expansion we actively combat corruption in all its forms. In general, Nets’ products and services are have seen a growth in the number of suppliers We train all employees in our ethical about digitalising processes and replacing paper to Nets Group. This increases the risk that we policy and anti-bribery and corruption and thereby also reducing the CO2-footprint. We could indirectly be complicit in abuse of human policy through mandatory e-learning. do, however, also operate out of office buildings and labour rights, which could lead to fines, which consume energy, and we depend on data customer loss and damaged reputation. As a warehouses that can contribute to a high enersignatory to UN Global Compact, we are comgy consumption if not monitored and managed mitted to actively ensure that human and labour correctly. We have established an internal envirights are protected and respected throughout ronmental management system which focuses our supply chain. We have therefore strengthon the areas we consider most relevant for our ened our procurement set-up aiming to reduce business, and we have established reduction the number of suppliers to Nets Group. At the 14/15 Nets Corporate Social Responsibility 2019 Focus areas for 2020 Since we formalised our CSR framework in 2018 the world has developed tremendously in several areas. The Nets Group has also grown in that period and expanded to new countries and cultures. We therefore see the need to focus our CSR efforts in the following areas: • Reviewing all our CSR policies and assess the targets for 2025 • Further strengthening our due diligence processes in our responsible procurement process • Develop and strengthen our data collection to be able to report comprehensively on our Environmental, Social and Governance performance • Anchor our CSR efforts internally in Nets across the enlarged Group • Map and select the relevant UN Sustainable Development Goals that Nets will commit to contribute to 15/15
