2019 Universal Registration Document including the Annual Financial Report and the Integrated Report CONTENTS 1 INTEGRATED REPORT 2 Presentation of Carmila 4 Message from the CEO Financial and non-financial performance Purpose statement 10 6 12 5 ORGANISATION AND RISK MANAGEMENT 119 5.1 The organisation of the Group 120 Business model 16 and relationship with the Carrefour Transforming and creating local places 18 group of living 5.2 Risk factors 127 Enhancing the range of retailers and services 24 5.3 Insurance 138 Connecting up retailers and consumers 30 5.4 Risk management and internal control 139 Innovating and investing for tomorrow 36 5.5 Arbitration and judicial proceedings 144 And the outlook for the future? 42 5.6 Significant agreements 144 5.7 Research and development, 144 patents and licenses 2 ASSETS AND VALUATION 43 6 GOUVERNANCE AND CAPITAL 145 2.1 Competitive advantages 44 6.1 Corporate governance 146 2.2 Key figures concerning the portfolio 45 6.2 Compensation granted to executive 170 2.3 Asset valuation 46 corporate officers 2.4 Overview of valuation reports 50 6.3 Share capital and shareholder 186 prepared by the independent external structure appraisers of Carmila 6.4 The AFEP-MEDEF Code's 195 2.5 Extension pipeline 51 apply or explain rule at 31 December 2019 6.5 Regulated agreements and 195 2.6 Detailed presentation of the 54 commitments under Articles L. 225-38 operating asset base of Carmila et seq. and L. 225-42-1 of the French at 31 December 2019 Commercial Code 6.6 Statutory Auditor’s report on 195 3 the Corporate Governance Report ACTIVITY 59 DURING THE YEAR 3.1 3.2 Selected financial information Financial statements 60 61 7 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 197 3.3 Analysis of the activity 65 7.1 Annual consolidated financial 198 statements at 31 december 2019 3.4 Corporate Social Responsibility 72 7.2 Statutory auditors’ report on the 240 3.5 Digital marketing 73 consolidated financial statements 3.6 Business Development 73 7.3 Statutory financial statements 243 3.7 Comments on the year’s activity 75 7.4 Management report to shareholders 258 3.8 EPRA performance indicators 77 7.5 Statutory Auditors’ report 261 3.9 Financial policy 81 on the financial statements 3.10 Equity and shareholding 83 7.6 Statutory Auditors’ special report 264 3.11 Additional information 83 on regulated agreements and 3.12 Outlook 84 commitments 3.13 Financial information 84 as at 31 March 2020 8 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 267 4 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 85 8.1 8.2 Information on the Company Articles of incorporation and By-laws 268 268 4.1 Non-financial performance statement 86 8.3 Person responsible for the Universal 270 4.2 Other non-financial information 105 Registration Document and certification 4.3 Cross-reference table, methodological 108 notes and report by the Statutory 8.4 Statutory Auditors 271 Auditor 8.5 Person responsible for the information 271 8.6 Documents available to the public 271 8.7 Correspondence tables 272 8.8 Glossary 277 8.9 Information incorporated by reference 278 2019 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT including the Annual Financial Report and the Integrated Report 2019 The Universal Registration Document was filed on 24 April 2020, with the AMF as the competent authority under Regulation (EU) 2017-1129, without prior approval in accordance with Article 9 of said regulation. The Universal Registration Document can be used for the purpose of offering financial securities to the public or admitting financial securities for trading on a regulated market, if it is supplemented by an offering circular relating to the securities and, where applicable, a summary and all amendments made to the Universal Registration Document. The document thus supplemented is approved by the AMF in accordance with Regulation (EU) No. 2017-1129. 1. Integrated Integrated reportReport 1 2019 CONTENTS Presentation of Carmila ...........................4 Message from the CEO ............................ 6 2019 as seen by the management team .............................. 8 Financial and non-financial performance ............................................... 10 Purpose statement ................................... 12 Six values that sum up Carmila .......... 13 About proximity ........................................ 14 Here we act ................................................. 15 Business model ......................................... 16 Transforming and creating local places of living ........................................................................... 18 Enhancing the range of retailers and services .......................................................................... 24 Connecting up retailers and consumers .......................................................................... 30 Innovating and investing for tomorrow .......................................................................... 36 And the outlook for the future? ........................................... 42 2 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 About this Report Carmila has produced this Integrated report for all its stakeholders: investors, tenants and retailers, as well as institutional and local partners. It falls within the framework of a progress initiative and a desire for transparent communication. It also sets out to provide – as part of a close relationship based on trust with each of its stakeholders – a complete overview of the Group, focusing on its governance, challenges, sustainable growth strategy, outlooks and forward-looking vision. Jointly produced by General Corporate Management and all the divisions making up the Group, it provides the tools needed to understand how Carmila performed in 2019 and its prospects for the years ahead. CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 3 PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP Carmila, Carmila, the third-largest listed shopping centre company in mainland Europe, was founded in 1.1 Presentation of Carmila April 2014 by Carrefour and major institutional investors Europe’s to create value from shopping centres attached to Carrefour hypermarkets in France, in Spain and in Italy. third-largest In 2019, Carmila delivered strong growth, demonstrating the success of its business model based on the local leading position of its properties and the energy shopping of its teams. centre company LILLE PARIS FRANCE 129 71.9% NANTES SITES OF TOTAL ASSETS* LYON TOULOUSE NICE €4.6 billion* PORTFOLIO VALUE Complete coverage of the country. Centres located in the leading hubs of urban areas. SPAIN 78 SITES 22.6% BARCELONA OF TOTAL ASSETS* MADRID €1.45 billion* VALENCIA PORTFOLIO VALUE Complete coverage of the country and major urban areas (Madrid, Barcelona, Valencia, etc.). MILAN ITALY 8 5.6% TURIN SITES OF TOTAL ASSETS* €0.35 billion* PORTFOLIO VALUE Presence concentrated in northern Italy, which has greater appeal. * Appraised value including transfer taxes 4 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 CARMILA 4 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP 215 SITES FROM THEN TO NOW 2014 Creation of Carmila on 16 April 2014 at the initiative of Carrefour and its partners. As of the end of 2014, the Group owned 180 shopping €6.4 billion* centres in France, in Spain and in Italy, worth a total of nearly €4 billion. portfolio value, i.e., a 0.3% increase over 12 months 2015 (appraised value including transfer taxes). Launch of the “Un air de famille” concept and of Le Kiosque, a set of local digital and marketing solutions to support retailers. 6,348 2016 Acceleration of initiatives to transform assets: marketing strategy and the first extension retail partners projects. New acquisitions, bringing 88% the total number of assets up to 194 sites worth a total * of €5.2 billion*. leaders or 2017 joint leaders in Merger with Cardety and successful their catchment areas** initial public offering with a capital increase. As of the end of 2017, Carmila owned 206 sites worth a total of €5.8 billion*. 2019 Alexandre de Palmas appointed Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Carmila, effective as of 1 July 2019. Carmila continues its strategy, with a number of major operational successes. To establish what Carmila does as part of a long-term, 96.3% committed approach in relation to its stakeholders, thinking gets under way on its raison d’être with a view financial occupancy to drafting a purpose statement. rate*** * In appraised values, including transfer taxes ** Leaders: shopping centre that is a leader in its zone in terms of number of retail units (codata) or shopping centre with more than 80 retail units in France and 60 in Spain and Italy. Joint leader: shopping centre that is not a leader, but which adjoins a hypermarket that is a leader in its commercial area in terms of sales (Nielsen) or which generates sales in excess of €100 million in France and €60 million in Spain and Italy. *** Excluding 1.8% of strategic vacancies at the end of 2019. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 CARMILA 5 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 5 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Carmila had an excellent year from 1.2 Message an operational from the CEO perspective and is gearing up for the future by developing new structural activities. Alexandre de Palmas Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 2019 was a highly successful year for Rennes Cesson shopping centre which the meaning of our commitment. Carmila, for our teams and our we opened in 2019, and the extension More than ever, we are absolutely retailers, both in terms of the quality of projects currently under way in certain: property is just one aspect our operations and the new business Toulouse and Nice. of our business. Because our vocation we developed. We demonstrated is to simplify and enhance everyday At Carmila, customers are central to agility and effectiveness in embracing life for retailers and customers in the everything we do. We closely monitor a number of new challenges, and regions in which we operate. And major consumer trends and are evidence of our dynamic approach more than ever before, we need to transforming our offering, can be seen in our figures: our innovate, and explore new areas of modernising it and bolstering the recurring earnings per share grew by business. We have already started. services and leisure activities that we 6.6% and our retailers saw a 2.0% provide. In 2019, this meant Thanks to our excellent teams, to their average increase in their revenues. introducing new retailers – such as creativity and the sense of initiative The sheer scope and diversity of our Ikea Design and Le Repaire des and entrepreneurship demonstrated activity is proof of how effective the Sorciers –, introducing pop-up stores throughout the company, we are strategy that we have been deploying and launching Carmila Event, our leaving behind our traditional business for the past five years is, and events management company for and are exploring new avenues, of our ability to innovate. brands in our centres. And it was also setting up joint companies or Carmila’s most distinctive feature is with our customers in mind that we dedicated subsidiaries. This year, the proximity – both geographical created Here we act this year – our we have enjoyed a number of and human – that it continues to programme of responsible initiatives fundamental successes through the maintain with all of its stakeholders: designed to guide everything we are continued deployment of our LouWifi Carrefour Property, with which doing to protect the environment and activities (high-level Wi-Fi services in we work extremely closely, society –, and started rolling out a our centres) and Lou5G (5G antenna representatives of the regions in healthcare offering across our centres. property company), which are helping which we operate, with whom we This offering is highly popular among to bridge the digital divide, and work in consultation, and the retailers consumers, useful to the regions in Carmila Retail Development. We are and tenants that our teams are able which we operate and will be one of the only company on the market to to support thanks to their regional the key areas in which we grow in the offer this investment activity alongside locations. With each of these partners, years ahead. talented young retailers. we endeavour to build relationships To effectively demonstrate our While acknowledging our that are truly human, authentic, commitment to our customers, fundamental role as a commercial frank and caring, adopting a this year we have worked with all property management company, we co-developmental approach in our of our stakeholders and drafted a will go even further in 2020 and in the work together. This is an undeniable purpose statement – a document that years ahead, continuing to invent new strength and these synergies have expresses our whole raison d’être. ways of serving our retailers and our enabled us to create lively, appealing This statement is a compass providing consumers. The ever-changing world and varied centres that are tailored to us with day-to-day guidance and we in which we operate pushes us to go meet the requirements of each region now use it as the basis for everything further forwards and challenge and which prove popular among our we do. Drafting it made us reflect ourselves. Our purpose statement customers. Examples include the on our fundamental role and on forces us to take up these challenges. 6 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 CARMILA 6 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO BIOGRAPHY 2006 Executive Vice President, Casino Développement 2008 Executive Director, Clear Channel France 2013 Executive Director, Gallimard-Flammarion 2015 Executive Director of Concessions for France and Europe, Elior Group 2018 Executive Director Convenience Store, Carrefour France 2019 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Carmila Carmila’s vocation is to simplify the lives of retailers and customers in the hearts of the regions in which we operate. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 CARMILA 7 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 7 THE MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE 2019 as seen by the management team 2019 was a highly successful year for Carmila, illustrating more than ever just how right we were to base our entire approach on proximity, a powerful and popular value that is central to Carmila’s raison d’être.” Alexandre de PALMAS Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Beyond our achievements and our leasing work, 2019 was marked by the launch of Here we act, our programme of responsible initiatives aimed at all of our stakeholders.” Sébastien VANHOOVE Deputy Chief Executive Officer Our strategy is underpinned by robust financial fundamentals and by the creation and deployment of new complementary businesses – such as Carmila Retail Development, LouWiFi and Lou5G – which have become major growth levers.” Géry ROBERT-AMBROIX Deputy Chief Executive Officer The 2% growth in our In Italy this year, we launched retailers’ revenues and the a project to improve our environmental 3.1% organic growth in net performance, which resulted in our five rental income are evidence largest centres – 89.2% of our Italian of how effective our leading assets – being awarded BREEAM local centre model is.” certification.” Pierre-Yves THIRION Maryse BEUCHER Chief Financial Officer Director of Carmila Italy 8 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 CARMILA 8 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 THE MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE With 874 leases (either new ones or renewals), 2019 was a record year, that emphasised just how dynamic our teams are.” The opening of our Rennes Éric ROBERT Cesson extension perfectly illustrates Leasing Director, France our asset value enhancement strategy and our commitment to bolstering local leadership.” Frédéric DESPRES Head of Operations, France The success stories of 2019 can be attributed to our highly committed employees, as well as the retail and entrepreneurial mindset that characterises Carmila.” Marie MUCHIR Human Resources Director Our shopping centres organised more than 1,600 charity initiatives in 2019, demonstrating the key role that they play in breathing life into With more than 238 million regions and enhancing their unity.” views of publications from Igor AGLAT our centres on social networks, National Shopping Centre Director we have created even closer ties with our communities, bolstered by a digital content strategy combining creativity, digital expertise and training for teams.” Quentin JONAS Chief Customer, Digital & Innovation Officer The success of events created Spain has worked by Carmila – such as Carmiday particularly hard and the Smart Shopping Events – on modernising is evidence of our ability its commercial offering, to create relationships based increasing its revenue from on proximity and empathy Specialty Leasing and pop-up with our stakeholders.” stores by +130.7% in 2019.” Morgan LAVIELLE Sebastiàn PALACIOS Communications Director Director of Carmila Spain INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 CARMILA 9 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 9 FINANCIAL AND NON-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Solid 1.3 performance Financial and non-financial performance FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE GROSS RENTAL PORTFOLIO GROSS INCOME ASSET VALUE, INCLUDING in millions of euros TRANSFER TAXES 3 in millions of euros 359.5 340.3 6,404.6 6,421.5 300.9 RECURRING 5,805.5 EARNINGS 2 in millions of euros 222.5 2017 2018 2019 207.5 2017 2018 2019 182.9 NET RENTAL NAV 4 / EPRA NNNAV / INCOME per share in millions of euros 28.29 2017 2018 2019 27.79 27.48 333.2 27.14 313.7 26.53 26.45 276.7 RECURRING EARNINGS / SHARE in euros 2017 2018 2019 1.53 1.53 1.63 ANR ANR ANR ANR ANR ANR Triple Triple Triple net net net 2019 Conversion rate1: 92.7% LTV5 (including transfer taxes) as a percentage 2017 2018 2019 34.0 34.9 30.1 ORGANIC GROWTH (Net rental income on a like-for-like basis) 2019: 3.1% 1 Net rent / Gross rental income ratio 2 EPRA earnings excluding non-recurring items 3 On appraised values including 2017 2018 2019 transfer taxes 4 Net asset value 5 Loan to value ratio : net financial debt / gross asset value (including transfer taxes) as of 31/12/19 10 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 CARMILA 10 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 FINANCIAL AND NON-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE NON-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE SHARE OF SHOPPING CENTRES NUMBER WITH SUSTAINABILITY OF CSR EVENTS CERTIFICATION as a percentage of the portfolio value 75 1,616 Target 1,340 for 2021 61 35 341 28 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER SQM ON A LIKE-FOR-LIKE BASIS (in kWhEF/sqm) 327 327 287 INCREASE IN NUMBER OF B2B MARKETING CAMPAIGNS Change (LE KIOSQUE) 12% VS 2018 11,305 5,745 2017 2018 2019 2,251 GHG* EMISSIONS IN kgCO2e PER SQM IN COMMUNAL AREAS 2017 2018 2019 (SCOPE 1 AND 2) ON A LIKE-FOR-LIKE BASIS 53 46 Change 13% VS 2018 PERCENTAGE 2018 2019 OF EMPLOYEES TRAINED In 2019, for the first time, 65% 84% IN 2018 IN 2019 Carmila is measuring its scope 3 GHG emissions Total scope 3 94%* GHG emissions OF EMPLOYEES GIVEN TRAINING 650 ktCO2e ON ETHICAL RISKS IN 2019 nearly 90% of which are generated by visitor transport * Greenhouse gas * of employees exposed to risk INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 CARMILA 11 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 11 PURPOSE STATEMENT Our purpose statement 1.4 Purpose statement At Carmila, proximity is at the heart of everything we do. We provide everybody with access to a reasoned offering of everyday useful products and services. We connect retailers and customers as closely as possible to living areas. We develop and manage human-sized centres that are practical and friendly, and which create ties, revitalising regions and strengthening their unity. Partnering with our retailers and tenants, we innovate alongside them to develop services which improve our customers’ experiences and provide them with enjoyment and simplicity. Through our proximity to the communities we serve, we are able to fulfil our mission: simplify and enhance everyday life for retailers and customers in all our regions.” In 2019, Carmila defined its raison d’être. It lies behind every decision it makes, as well as informing its behaviour and underpinning the relationships it has with its stakeholders. Involving the stakeholders By choosing to put its purpose into words, Carmila has We have adopted an interactive approach to help committed to asking some fundamental questions about us define our purpose statement. Initially, employees itself and the role it plays in society. This initiative was also were asked about Carmila’s strengths, together with its a way to unite its various stakeholders around a shared values and their expectations. We then used an online aim: move forwards together in the same direction. questionnaire and conducted interviews to find out what Our purpose statement provides us with long-term our retailers and tenants thought. More than 25% of them structure, guiding everything we do – both now and in took part in the initiative. Finally, to consolidate results, the future: our way of designing, renovating and managing we once again asked our employees to share their our shopping centres, the way in which we develop reactions. A number of keywords emerged from new activities and how we support our employees. these discussions which illustrate Carmila’s mindset Serving as a fully-fledged guide, it enables us to project and one powerful concept: proximity. ourselves into the future, while ensuring that we remain Carmila’s purpose statement constitutes faithful to our own, common objective. an acknowledgement of this. 12 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 CARMILA 12 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 SIX VALUES THAT SUM UP CARMILA values that sum up Carmila Our retailers and tenants are better able to talk about Carmila than anybody else. During our thinking and discussions* about our raison d’être, six values emerged in their descriptions of the relationships they have with our company and our team. #Partnership #Retailer spirit #Local roots Association set up to implement Natural aptitude for retail business Being deeply and firmly a joint initiative established in a region For 67% of our tenants and For 79% of our retailers and retailers, one of the greatest 70% of our tenants and retailers tenants, Carmila is a partner that challenges in transforming retail think that Carmila’s regional they can count on. Our teams are is the relationship with customers. coverage is what differentiates agile and available, and there to For us, managing relationships it from other commercial property listen. Working alongside us, they with customers goes hand-in-hand management companies. At a time can easily engage in discussion, with a strong retailer spirit. when uniformity is gaining the and look for and find solutions. Our employees are specialists; upper hand over individuality, each The partnership is the very basis they know how to give each retailer of our 215 shopping centres is for the relationship that we manage the support they need and help deeply rooted in its region and on a day-to-day basis. them boost their local appeal. caters to its specific features. #Utility #Friendliness #Practicality Being useful for meeting a need Positive relationships among Being suitable for a particular use people in our society 74% of our retailers and tenants For 79% of our retail partners, think that a shopping centre should As online retail and digital the shopping centre of the future be practical and useful. Utility is also practices become more popular, will be multifunctional and will offer the value most frequently cited by both retailers and customers are a complete range of stores, services our employees. We are constantly increasingly in search of friendly and tertiary activities. striving to understand what our experiences. We ensure that our That’s exactly how we imagine it customers need so that we can shopping centres are familiar places – practical, since it will be open provide them with a bespoke where people feel good and can to serving new purposes. solution. enjoy themselves… places that facilitate discussions and meetings. * Surveys conducted between September and December 2019 targeting 545 tenants, 40 retailers and Carmila employees. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 CARMILA 13 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 13 PROXIMITY AT THE HEART OF EVERYTHING WE DO For Carmila, proximity isn’t Proximity just a word. It is at the heart of everything we do and everything at the heart of we achieve. This value is the bedrock of our raison d’être, everything we do a value by which we are bound now and by which we will be bound in the future: proximity is the very reason why Carmila exists. Proximity is a bond Proximity is that we strengthen with our way of acting our customers on a daily basis Being rooted into our local communities is a strength, We see each of our stakeholders as a partner. In all and one that we nurture on a daily basis. We know of our dealings with them, we do everything we can our customers very well. It is for their benefit that to create a climate of trust and we cultivate goodwill. we breathe life into our centres; we bring vitality to them, Our trademark is our ability to develop genuine human we organise events that are just the way they want them relationships that are frank and sincere. We see the ability to be – friendly, warm and human. Thanks to our local to listen and show empathy as essential for creating marketing strategy, they are always kept up-to-date with strong and enduring ties with each of our partners. developments concerning the centre and our retailers, they can take advantage of the best benefits and they can engage in discussion on our social networks. Proximity is the very Proximity is what essence of our portfolio we experience every day Proximity is what best characterises our sites. In France, with our retailers in Spain and in northern Italy, we have a network made up At Carmila, we work hand-in-hand with retailers and of 215 sites – unique in terms of the regional coverage tenants, as part of a win-win partnership. Thanks to our that they provide. Close to city centres, seamlessly decentralised organisational structure, our sales and integrated into the urban fabric, our sites are practical centre management teams are able to work as close to and easy to access. No matter how large or small they are, the field as possible as part of a personalised approach. each one is deeply rooted into its surrounding region: They are fully familiar with the local catchment area 88% of our shopping centres are leaders or joint leaders and can provide each of our retailers with bespoke in their catchment areas. They enhance the appeal and appropriate solutions to meet their needs and tackle of their regions and are part of people’s lives. their specific challenges. 14 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 CARMILA 14 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 HERE WE ACT Proximity at the heart here of our programme of we act responsible initiatives How can we engage our customers and retailers and bring them together in pursuit of a more responsible and socially inclusive form of consumption? What action can we take to effectively protect the environment and tackle climate change? How can we make full use of new technologies, particularly digital ones? How can we mobilise our employees to bring about a more respectful form of growth? To answer these questions, in 2019 Carmila created Here we act, a programme of responsible initiatives that it has deployed in France, in Spain and in Italy that focus on taking action in three areas. HERE, WE ACT FOR THE PLANET For Carmila, taking action for the planet means: restructuring our assets so that they meet an ambitious environmental standard, raising people’s awareness of the good habits they need to get into and helping our stakeholders understand climate change. We establish our assets as components in the city of the future We contribute to the fight against climate change We maintain and develop biodiversity HERE, WE ACT HERE, WE ACT FOR THE LOCAL REGIONS FOR EMPLOYEES For Carmila, maintaining the dynamic For Carmila, taking action on an everyday nature of our regions means: basis for our employees means: supporting, fostering relationships, helping, helping them to flourish, achieve satisfaction advising, co-developing and adapting to and surpass themselves, creating a team spirit, etc. the realities of our regions and their talents We help everybody to reveal their potential in a socially inclusive way… with all social and economic players. We take action to create an inclusive and collaborative society We enhance local appeal alongside retailers We guarantee a climate of trust and tenants We breathe life into our centres as areas that encapsulate local life We build local relationships with suppliers and partners INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 CARMILA 15 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 15 BUSINESS MODEL Resources Our sustainable growth strategy 1.5 Business model TALENTS • Business culture based on a dynamic approach, innovation, entrepreneurship and responsible commitment • 231 employees Carmila’s mission, as set • 52% women and 48% men forth in its purpose statement, • 33% of employees in the region is to simplify and improve everyday life for retailers and customers in the hearts of the regions in which FINANCIAL we operate. • Shareholders’ equity – As part of this mission, regardless Group share of €3,540.4 million of circumstances, we go to every • Gross financial debt of €2,416 million with an average term of 5 years effort to generate shared, • LTV* of 34.9 % long-term and inclusive value for all of our stakeholders – employees, customers, retailers, tenants, investors, partners PROPERTY and society as a whole. • 3 countries (129 centres in France, 78 in Spain, 8 in Italy) • 88% of assets are leaders or joint leaders • Extensions in the pipeline for 2020-2024: 19 projects for projected investment of €1.3 billion • Portfolio valued at €6.4 billion** • 6,348 leases ENVIRONMENT OUR PROGRAMME OF RESPONSIBLE • 90% of employees want INITIATIVES to be part of the CSR initiative • Digital environmental management platform here • Partnerships with acknowledged experts we act For the planet LOCAL ROOTS For the local regions • Operating in 180 towns and For employees municipalities • 460 partner associations • Partnerships with start-up and local incubators • 73% local suppliers *Loan to value • Toolbox of multi-local ** Appraised values, including transfer taxes responsible initiatives *** Guaranteed minimum rent • Annual local marketing action plans 16 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 CARMILA 16 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 BUSINESS MODEL Impacts Transforming and Enhancing the creating local range of retailers places of living and services TALENTS Customer experience Mix-merchandising Renovations/extensions Pop-up stores •8  7% of employees satisfied Protecting the Event-oriented services • 2,960 hours of training environment Local partnerships • 94% of employees trained in ethics New usages FINANCIAL •R  ental income of €359.5 million, i.e. 5.6% growth compared with 2018 • Recurring earnings of €222.5 million, i.e. +7.2% growth compared with 2018 OUR MISSION Simplify and enhance everyday life for retailers PROPERTY and customers in all our regions. •R  enovation plan 100% complete • 19 extension projects delivered, amounting to €31.4 million of annualised rental revenue • Annualised GMR*** of €361.7 million ENVIRONMENT • 61% of assets certified in value Connecting up Innovating as of 31/12/2019 retailers and investing • 6% reduction in energy and consumers for tomorrow consumption/sqm (vs 2018 on a like-for-like basis) • 1 tree planted for every sqm Customer knowledge Acquisitions built, amounting to more Local digital marketing New businesses than 38,000 trees since 2017 Life at shopping centres Retail holdings Retailer synergies Social and solidarity economy Diversification of activities LOCAL ROOTS Our assets • 1,616 CSR initiatives in our centres in 2019 • 87% of customers satisfied with their visit Long-term Leader in Dynamic, Preferential • > 760 marketing initiatives partnership our catchment expert and access to all every month to help retailers with areas specialised our centres • 22 tonnes of clothes collected Carrefour teams in charity house clearances in 2019 • 130 retailers are partners of Too Good To Go as of 31/12/2019 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 CARMILA 17 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 17 1.6 Transforming and creating local places of living 18 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 CARMILA 18 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 Transforming and creating local places of living Always ready to listen to consumers, who yearn for shopping centres that are ever closer and more accessible, Carmila designs and operates practical, friendly centres that are human in scale. Constantly being transformed and upgraded, their assets are rooted in their regions and connected to the urban fabric so that everyone can enjoy spending quality time there and make the most of each day. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 CARMILA 19 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 19 TRANSFORMING AND CREATING LOCAL PLACES OF LIVING OUR STRATEGY Transforming assets E  stablishing the leadership positions of assets with extension is what we do best. projects and a renewed merchandise mix We focus on renovating, Since 2016, Carmila has delivered 19 extension developing and and restructuring projects, including Rennes supporting changes Cesson and Bourg-en-Bresse in 2019. To create preference and consolidate leadership in the regions to offer positions at local level, all teams are working hard to design centres that are fully aligned a high-quality customer with the regions in which they are located – a genuinely bespoke effort. Carmila focuses experience and embrace on changing the size of units and attracting new tenants, taking a chance on local brands and a the challenges of urban mix of uses, to create an offer that is perfectly and environmental tailored to local needs. As proof of how effective this strategy is, the majority of our centres are integration.” now nearly 100% leased. Transformation is also targeting historic sites such as Le Géric, the regional shopping centre in Thionville, Sébastien VANHOOVE and the local neighbourhood centre in Meylan, Deputy Chief Executive Officer near Grenoble: no matter how large or small the site is, Carmila is developing them all in response to the challenges of changing retail and urban and environmental integration. I Carmila is also continuing to work with Carrefour, its leading shareholder and the co-owner and n 2014, Carmila launched an ambitious co-operator of its sites, to expand the project renovation programme based on pipeline. At the end of 2019, there were 19 the “Air de famille” concept. This extension projects in the pipeline for 2020–2024, programme was completed in 2018. In 2019, a total projected investment of €1.3 billion. Carmila continued its efforts in the same vein: transforming its shopping centres into S  trengthening local utility lively, warm, connected and friendly places. With up to 1,000 employees per site and The aim is simple: to create spaces where 1,616 initiatives organised in centres in 2019 people can meet and chat, rooted in each on the topics of employment, health, the of the regions in which we operate to give our environment and solidarity, Carmila centres customers what they want, offering them a are leading economic and social actors. When unique experience and making their lives easier. it undertakes transformations, Carmila turns to the region’s architects and businesses, also drawing inspiration from cultural factors specific to each area in designing and developing centres. To strengthen these links with our regions, in 2019 Carmila launched Here we act – its programme of responsible initiatives made up of a series of commitments to stimulate the local economy. As part of its transformation projects, Carmila is thinking about mixed-use places and the development of offices, housing, medical centres, specialist residences and other uses still to be invented. And its purpose is absolutely clear: make its shopping centres even more community-based and useful. — Carmila has a pipeline of projects that are all integrated into their regions and designed to meet new uses, as well as being environmentally friendly. 20 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 CARMILA 20 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 TRANSFORMING AND CREATING LOCAL PLACES OF LIVING — Rennes Cesson has been completely renovated for the 400,000 people living within its catchment area. Rennes Cesson, a successful extension On 26 November 2019, Carmila opened the Rennes Cesson shopping centre extension. It has been entirely redesigned, modernised and enhanced, reinforcing the site’s leading position in the eastern Rennes catchment area. Designed in partnership with Carrefour Mango and Holly’s Diner, the offering “ We are delighted with Property and local stakeholders, in now focuses more on personal and the centre’s extension that parallel with the renovation of the household goods, leisure activities will further enhance the Carrefour hypermarket, the Rennes and dining. It is resolutely playing appeal of La Rigourdière, Cesson extension hosts 35 new shops the regional and innovation cards, the leading commercial and has transformed this historic site with independents and local franchises activity area on the outskirts – formerly a centre offering everyday accounting for more than 50% of all of Brittany. The 70-plus convenience services – into a major stores, and ten new stores for the companies which have set up neighbourhood hub. Unique in the Rennes area, including La Barbe de there and the 1,200 people region, the new centre stands out Papa, By Izea, Crazy Kids and Nicole. who go to work there every thanks to its human scale and ease of A new destination for family fun at this day now have everything access. A garden party feel and interior centre which is perfectly integrated they need.” architecture that is consistent with the within a region that is flourishing green setting of the Vilaine river, a car demographically and economically. Bérénice ROUDET 14 park with rescaled infrastructure, free President of the Rigourdière high-speed Wi-Fi, games for children: Company Association everything has been designed for customers’ comfort and to make their journey more convenient. With the MONTHS OF CONSTRUCTION arrival of Maisons du Monde, H&M, WORK AND AN INVESTMENT OF €28 MILLION. Different strategies for enhancing value Both iconic sites, Le Géric shopping centre in Thionville and Cité Europe in Calais are being completely transformed to enable them to adapt to the new challenges of retail and consumer expectations. Purchased by Carmila in 2015, into 2019 with the arrival of new Le Géric shopping centre tenants and the renovation of the in Thionville is a true local food court. In the Pas-de-Calais institution, the leader in its region, work on redeveloping catchment area. To bolster Cité Europe continues. Fully this leading position, the centre reconfigured to welcome new has been heavily developed shops and convert its stores into over the last four years, with new formats, the shopping centre the acquisition of adjoining will get a 6000 sqm Primark at medium-sized units in 2016, the end of 2020. As the final and then the reconstruction element in its transformation, of the former Go Sport unit the opening of this clothing to turn it into several restaurants brand will drive footfall, helping and the opening of a sports to increase the overall appeal facility in 2017. Changes in of the centre within the region the merchandising mix continued and boosting retailers’ revenue. — In Calais, Cité Europe is in the final stages of its metamorphosis, gearing up to welcome Primark. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 CARMILA 21 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 21 TRANSFORMING AND CREATING LOCAL PLACES OF LIVING 2019 HIGHLIGHTS “ Our work with Carmila involves designing lively spaces that integrate into A PIPELINE the existing environment in terms of architectural OF AMBITIOUS PROJECTS design, the materials used Carmila is working on its development pipeline in close and how they fit into collaboration with Carrefour Property and in consultation the landscape, as we did with local stakeholders. In 2019, two major projects with Rennes Cesson.” were delivered: Rennes Cesson and Bourg-en-Bresse. At the end of 2019, there were 19 projects in the Carmila PHILIPPE MARRAUD GROUP pipeline, two of which are currently in development: Architecture company leading the Rennes Cesson extension Toulouse Purpan, where the priority has been to increase the number of restaurants, and Nice Lingostière, a 15,000 sqm extension with an additional 45 stores. There are eight other priority projects: Vitrolles, 87% Montesson, Antibes, Aix-en-Provence, Thionville, Toulouse Labège, Vénissieux and Tarrasa in Spain. OF OUR CUSTOMERS ARE SATISFIED — “What do I like most about my shopping centre? The family feel, the convenience and the clientele.” — “I particularly like the square where you can get together to have something to eat, chat to your friends, relax.” — “I like how modern the new centre is, with the new shopping area. Everything has been THE REINVENTION OF BOURG-EN-BRESSE refurbished and it’s much nicer.” The Bourg-en-Bresse shopping centre, which reopened in November 2019 after several months of construction work, has undergone a significant — “Since it was transformation. A total of €4.6 million has been invested in renovating refurbished, and this ageing site. The centre has been restructured with, first, the closing particularly since the of a low footfall area so as to open a 2,000 sqm Go Sport and, second, 35 new stores opened, the arrival of JouéClub, on an 800 sqm site. These transformations have it’s like being in a very helped to revive trading, a revival that will be further strengthened pleasant new centre”. by the forthcoming openings of a café, an ATOL optician, a Cigusto Source: Customer barometer, 2019 e-cigarette store, a jewellery store and a Nocibé cosmetics store. 22 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 CARMILA 22 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 TRANSFORMING AND CREATING LOCAL PLACES OF LIVING PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 75% €359.5 million in Gross Rental Income sets + 5.6% vs 2018 ’s as —> f Carmila tified o r e ce to b 2021 by €222.5 million recurring Earnings 2019 + 7.2% vs 2018 19 extensions delivered since 2014 with a total surface area of 162,306 sqm and €435 million of investment here 61% OF CARMILA FACILITIES CERTIFIED AS 19 extensions in the project pipeline by 2024 OF END OF 2019 we act With 43 new certifications representing provisional investment of €1.3 billion obtained this year – 31 in France, 5 in Italy and 7 in Spain – Carmila took a huge 100% step towards meeting its goal of the renovation plan complete, of achieving certification in keeping with the Un air de for 75% of its assets by 2021. As well as certifying famille concept its long-term asset renovation extension projects, Carmila is certifying the way in which sites are operated with the Breeam In-Use assessment methodology, which attests to their environmental performance. THE INITIATIVES MAKING UP THE HERE WE ACT PROGRAMME IMPLEMENTED DURING THE RENOVATION OF THE RENNES CESSON SHOPPING CENTRE: BREEAM certification during the design phase Preservation of biodiversity with 3.7 ha of green spaces and installation of nest boxes, beehives, etc. 7,000 trees planted as part of a reforestation initiative Integration of new forms of mobility: spaces for electric vehicles, a cycle track, etc. CARREFOUR, A PARTNER IN EVERYDAY LIFE Carrefour hypermarkets deliver sound performance in the food sector, with offerings featuring numerous local products. They are what drives footfall for most Carmila shopping centres. Within the framework of its transformation plan, Carrefour continues to innovate, with new types of format. These include the “Next” concept which opened in 2019 in BAB2 (Biarritz), with market, organic and food services areas, and its Drive concept. This dynamic approach is also resulting in numerous omnichannel operations and events, rolled out in synergy with shopping centre management departments… the pursuit of customer satisfaction guiding all of them. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 CARMILA 23 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 23 1.7 Enhancing the range of retailers and services 24 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 CARMILA 24 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 Enhancing the range of retailers and services Carmila’s consumers are always on the lookout for simplicity and practicality, so it constantly adapts its product and service offering to meet expectations in each catchment area. Our challenge? To offer, thanks to our local teams, a useful and relevant selection: a broad and coherent mix, tailored to each centre, an offering that is comprehensive and human in scale, attractive but not excessive so as to promote more responsible consumption. A dynamic, refreshed selection that encourages discovery. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 CARMILA 25 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 25 ENHANCING THE RANGE OF RETAILERS AND SERVICES OUR STRATEGY Retail is in our DNA. E  xpand the retail offering to welcome brands that drive This is what enables us footfall, independent retailers and new concepts to keep our merchandising So as to provide a merchandising mix that mix relevant – ensuring is appropriate for the customers in each region, Carmila uses locally based leasing that it is always tailored teams. Guided by the three watchwords of to the region – and to diversity, complementarity and quality, they work to identify and attract the top retailers. support the performance The challenges are to stand out from local competitors, while refreshing the commercial of retailers in our centres. ” offering and providing a new experience, helping people to discover or rediscover Éric ROBERT regional concepts. Alongside Carrefour and flagship retailers like Mango, Zara, H&M Leasing Director Carmila France and Cultura, Carmila is capitalising on local partnerships, tenants that help it to stand out, and new concepts. It is also refreshing the commercial offering by actively developing pop-up stores, which registered a record year W with 100 new leases signed. Finally, Specialty Leasing enhances the centre as a whole, ith a finger always on the creating events and providing complementary market’s pulse, Carmila relies stores. This activity involves the short-term on its teams’ expertise to renting of sites located in common-use areas understand and explore the and in car parks to brands or retailers. This needs of its customers and to activity saw a 34% increase in 2019. Carmila interpret new trends in consumption. Evidence also launched Carmila Event this year, an of these efforts can be seen in Carmila’s integrated events department that offers outstanding global operational performance: brands, retailers and marketing agencies in 2019, it signed 874 leases in France, in Spain solutions for exhibitions, events and pop-up and in Italy. In a shifting environment and faced sales aimed at shopping centre visitors as with rapid change in the retail sector, Carmila part of road shows, tastings or omni-channel is also seeking to rebalance its merchandising initiatives. mix in favour of promising activities that are popular with customers. More services, more restaurants, more leisure options: these growth sectors now account for nearly 57%* of the tenants in Carmila shopping centres. — Bringing retailers together is a priority for Carmila. With every shopping centre opening, Carmila organises a brunch event for them so as to create a group dynamic. * Distribution of the lease portfolio in the services and restaurant sectors: 18% health and beauty; 18% culture, gifts and leisure; 13% food and restaurant services; 8% services 26 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 CARMILA 26 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 ENHANCING THE RANGE OF RETAILERS AND SERVICES Expert, highly localised teams At Carmila, all our teams work towards the same aim: to make life easier for retailers. They have a major advantage that enables them 311 THE NUMBER OF to deliver on this aim: their local implementation. A genuine understanding of retail, coupled with the listening and they understand their area and its local businesses just as well as they RETAILERS TRAINED empathy skills required to build solid understand the challenges facing WITH DOCTORA RETAIL relationships based on dialogue and national brands. With a finger on the trust: Carmila is lucky to be able to work pulse of the market, the teams also IN SPAIN, A TRAINING with expert employees. Often recruited monitor emerging retail activities. This PROGRAMME THAT from the major retailers themselves, enables them to build up a network ENABLES THEM TO they truly do have retail in their DNA. of entrepreneurs in each region, even INDEPENDENTLY CARRY Our experienced, enthusiastic teams before commercial negotiations begin, OUT DIGITAL MARKETING also have another particularly important to analyse in great detail any changes to ACTIVITIES DESIGNED advantage: they are decentralised. the retail landscape and to identify the Primarily drawn from areas where most appropriate types of business for BY CARMILA EXPERTS. Carmila operates, they live, work and each consumer area. consume in these regions. As a result, — Carmiday, an openhouse for meetings and discussion between Carmila’s teams and retailers, brings together more than 350 participants. The close relationship that links us to our retailers is invaluable. For this, we have services that help them to increase their revenue and we regularly organise events with tenants to bolster this special relationship – such as our paddle tennis tournament, our annual gala evening and Carmiday. Supporting Rocio PALMERO PASTOR retailers from A to Z Leasing Director, Carmila Spain Carmila’s teams are taking a personalised approach to meeting retailers’ needs and supporting them every step of the way, from when they first decide to move in and throughout their trading lives. As the shape of retail and the profiles of entrepreneurs This support continues when the store opens and starts change, Carmila’s teams are able to support each trading: job dating events can be organised to help them project, from the launch of a new concept to the sectoral hire future staff, marketing campaigns can be suggested reconversion of high-potential retailers. They can identify to help enhance the store’s appeal, the sales teams can independent retailers who want to expand and put them access digital support… Carmila’s experts have an answer in contact with national or international brands looking for every challenge. In Spain, for example, 311 retailers for franchisees, such as this photographer who became a received training from doctora retail, a specialist in local De Neuville chocolate retailer in Rennes Cesson. They also marketing, with the aim of enabling them to independently encourage local retailers or new concepts, providing them, carry out the digital marketing activities designed by thanks to their unique regional coverage, with suggestions Carmila experts. Central to these initiatives is the centre’s for locations, unit sizes and lease durations to match each director on-site availability to tenants on a daily basis, requirement. helping them increase their local appeal. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 CARMILA 27 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 27 ENHANCING THE RANGE OF RETAILERS AND SERVICES 2019 HIGHLIGHTS “ Being part of a shopping centre was a new experience for me and I greatly appreciated the bespoke POP-UP STORES GAINING support I received and IN POPULARITY! the straightforward set-up A flexible solution for testing a catchment area, building a brand process made possible or promoting a seasonal offer, pop-up stores – which are leased by Carmila. ” for periods of less than 36 months – are in high demand from retailers. LE REPAIRE DES SORCIERS A genuine stepping stone towards the signing of a traditional lease, they also enable innovative brands to limit their risk when launching. From the Atelier Lego® to Macadam Basket (dedicated to the NBA, the world’s top basketball league), Volkswagen and FanXperience, “ LEGO® is the most popular which showcases branded products from Warner Bros., 114 stores toy brand in France. Our were operating in 2019, representing 86 different retailers in nearly store not only drives footfall 50 shopping centres. These stores are sometimes surprising and to shopping centres… with always offer something different. They win over customers, as shown all the experiences available by the success of Le Repaire des Sorciers (Wizards’ Den) store to try out, it also serves as devoted to Harry Potter: five stores were opened in 2019 generating a way of getting customers lots of buzz, with dozens of articles in the press, thousands to stay longer. ” of comments and videos shared on social media and a clear uptick in footfall in the shopping centres in question on opening days. ATELIER LEGO® CARMILA EVENT parks. Oreo, Badoit, Prince, Netflix, Lexus and Unicef... SERVING BRANDS dozens of brands have On 3 October 2019, Carmila already made use of Carmila officially launched its events Event to put on a road show, department, Carmila Event. launch a new product or As a local medium for even organise a prevention enhancing brand visibility campaign or a cultural or and exposure, working for sporting event. As lively focal and with brands, it organises points that help to increase and coordinates tailored brand awareness, these campaigns in common-use events are opportunities areas of shopping centres, to offer customers new including their entrances, experiences. shopping areas and car 28 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 CARMILA 28 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 ENHANCING THE RANGE OF RETAILERS AND SERVICES PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 874 leases signed in 2019, meaning minimum guaranteed rent of €38.3 million +6.2% increase in Net Rental Income, totalling €333.2 million, including organic growth of +3.1% €14.3 million here OFFERING ALTERNATIVES Net Rental Income from Specialty Leasing and pop-up Committed to encouraging stores + 33.9% vs 2019 more responsible we act consumption and in a bid to respond to customers’ changing needs and requests, 49 Carmila is diversifying leasing managers in 10 regions its offer of second-hand spread over three countries products in its shopping centres. For example, in early 2019, the Montesson centre welcomed the first Rekup-IT store, +2% which specialises in repairing and recycling growth in retailers’ revenues IT equipment and selling reconditioned kit. on a like-for-like basis In Hérouville-Saint-Clair, a Chiffo Bis shop has been opened. This second-hand store is a social enterprise selling clothing, crockery and decorative items +67% at low prices, while working to help its employees increase in retailers supported integrate. These initiatives are also a way by local marketing initiatives over of encouraging customers to sign up for more than six months vs 2018 the zero-waste initiative. “ We are particularly proud to welcome La Chiffo to the Hérouville shopping centre. This social enterprise is an example of our determination to offer our customers new types of stores, while increasing social diversity. ” Delphine MOUTIER Manager of the Hérouville-Saint-Clair “Our recreation park concept and Mondevillage (Caen) shopping centres is multi-generational and perfectly matches the profile of customers at Carrefour shopping centres. Carmila brings us the customers that we are targeting, and we offer them innovative experiences. It’s a win-win partnership!” EXPANDING LEISURE URBAN PLANET JUMP AND WELL-BEING OPPORTUNITIES In 2019, Carmila entered into agreements with several trampoline park companies, including Urban Planet and Flipa Jump. It also signed an agreement welcoming Sano Center to the Ciudad de la Imagen shopping centre in Madrid. Sano Center organises sports training for individuals and small groups, and has been enjoying increasing success in Spain thanks to its ability to forge close relationships with its customers. This innovative service offering will breathe new life into the centre, responding to growing consumer demand for recreation, health and well-being. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 CARMILA 29 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 29 1.8 Connecting up retailers and consumers 30 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 CARMILA 30 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 Connecting up retailers and consumers An attractive shopping centre is a shopping centre that people want to visit and revisit, where they feel good and feel recognised, where discussion with shopkeepers is simple and honest. Carmila connects retailers with customers right at the heart of community areas. The company’s local teams encourage dialogue and cultivate this closeness on a daily basis by organising key events in its centres and offering tailored support to its partner retailers. Communication is both physical and digital, giving life to centres, creating long-term links and invigorating regions. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 CARMILA 31 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 31 CONNECTING UP RETAILERS AND CONSUMERS OUR STRATEGY We are rolling out L  ocal marketing dedicated to performance an omnichannel digital The challenge facing Carmila is clear: to marketing strategy based generate traffic not only to the shopping centre but also – and especially – in each of its shops on a drive-to-store as part of a drive-to-store approach. This is so as to improve the appeal of retailers and help approach. This unique them to increase their revenue. expertise is a strength In 2019, Carmila organised nearly 10,000 local or multi-local campaigns for our centres and their on behalf of its retailers using Le Kiosque, a suite of digital event-management solutions retailers. ” offering extra visibility for sales outlets. These initiatives can form part of a long-term Quentin JONAS support programme – Boost – which 67% more retailers took advantage of in 2019 than Chief Customer, Digital & Innovation Officer in the previous year. These solutions complement the operational marketing action plans rolled out by each centre to grow their brands overall and to increase M their customers’ loyalty. arketing has always been one E  ver stronger physical of Carmila’s strengths, and and digital proximity the company has opted for a targeted approach and distributed To improve the local visibility of shopping marketing. The effectiveness of centres, Carmila is activating three main levers. this approach is based on detailed knowledge The first involves strengthening stores’ digital of consumers in each catchment area and presence for when customers search for the development of high-performance digital shopping information on their smartphones tools. These tools are designed at head office near the centre. In 2019, more than 100 million and then made available to teams in every Google My Business searches led to the pages shopping centre so that they can be adapted of Carmila centres being displayed. for use locally. To further refine its customer This performance is set to improve still further, knowledge, Carmila’s experts have designed since Carmila this year became the first beta personae matching different types of visitor tester in France for Google drive-to-store profile so that personalised communications artificial intelligence. The second pillar involves can be sent to them. winning customers’ loyalty through events organised by each centre manager, usually in partnership with local stakeholders. Information collected during these events, including through games terminals, provides additional data for Carmila’s databases. Finally, to win over the youngest customers, Carmila relies on lively local digital communities. As true local ambassadors, influencers use social media to pass on information about events organised in centres and store offers. Solutions have also been introduced to promote direct dialogue between shopping centres and their customers. In 2019, centres managers published more than 50,000 posts on social media, generating several thousand interactions with customers. — Games terminals, either permanent or associated with a particular event, liven up the customer path and feed the databases. 32 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 CARMILA 32 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 CONNECTING UP RETAILERS AND CONSUMERS — Labège 2 (Toulouse) is using actors “Mélissa and Fred” to create amusing videos that will go viral on the social networks. Creating 360° content campaigns with and for retailers Carmila supports brands to help them increase their local visibility. An approach that involves creating collaborative, structured and effective content, using both physical and digital media. Working together to organise original These vox-pop style short interviews “ The collaboration initiatives that stand out so as to attract in shopping centres are popular with between Carmila and customers to sales outlets and create the customers who feature in them, as Histoire d’Or came about links: this is one of the aims of Le Kiosque, well as with the retailers. At 16 centres, entirely naturally, with the suite of drive-to-store solutions that Chocolate Blind Taste, a campaign the aim of offering our Carmila has rolled out for its retailers. organised with Jeff de Bruges over community a varied range In 2019, Carmila more specifically went Easter generated 160,000 visits to sales of content. Combining it to efforts to co-produce content with outlets and 265,000 views on the social with an influence campaign retailers, supplementing its email, SEO networks. The digital Photos Bonheur was the obvious thing to and event organisation initiatives. campaign in 36 Histoire d’Or stores to do. The partnership went Given customers’ growing enthusiasm celebrate Mother’s Day enjoyed similar particularly well with for new video formats disseminated success. To take part, people simply high-quality benefits.” via social media, Carmila has designed needed to share a “mother and child” and produced a variety of audiovisual photo via a digital platform. Simple, HISTOIRE D’OR content that has gone viral within effective and engaging. Facebook and Instagram communities. Customer knowledge – the key to targeted marketing Knowing your customers well is essential to addressing them in the right way. Carmila makes use of its expertise in data collection and analysis to benefit retailers. In order to send the right communication to the right customer, and adapt all marketing campaigns to people’s “ To encourage centre different expectations, it’s essential to have a detailed customers to visit shops, understanding of his behaviour. Since it was founded, it is important first of all Carmila has made customer knowledge a priority, thanks to listen to them, get to to its Insights and Data team and several in-mall initiatives, know them and understand all of which help afford it a more comprehensive their expectations and understanding of customers. To enrich its local databases, motivations. They need to it relies on its digital expertise, organising games on be constantly asked about interactive terminals set up in shopping centres. In 2019, their levels of satisfaction more than 1.1 million customers played these games in and loyalty, and ongoing Carmila shopping centres. The Insights and Data team dialogue needs to be also carries out numerous customer studies, either by maintained with them mobilising panels of volunteer consumers, via Shopping so as to respond to their Lab (an integrated solution), or by interviewing customers comments and suggestions +25% on site or across catchment areas. Carmila asked more on the social networks. ” than 30,000 customers in 2019 about their reasons for visiting its centres. Thanks to data analysis, five personae Christelle VITTE from customer segments with very different profiles Marketing Studies CUSTOMERS and consumption habits have been identified: employed Manager, Carmila IN DATABASES people, retired people, families, shoppers and students. These profiles help to better target the marketing IN 2019 campaigns made available to tenants in each centre, depending on their objectives. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 CARMILA 33 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 33 CONNECTING UP RETAILERS AND CONSUMERS 2019 HIGHLIGHTS here we act ENCOURAGING LOCAL SOLIDARITY Carmila wants to turn its centres into places encapsulating local life where people can gather. Each centre implements a social action plan, featuring events in partnership with local charities to raise customer awareness or collect donations, such as for WWF Climate Change in Spain. In France, nearly 164 tonnes of food and 22 tonnes of clothing were collected in 2019 for charities such as Emmaüs, Relais, Restos du Cœur, Secours Populaire and the Red Cross. A total of more than 1,600 CSR operations were carried out locally in Carmila centres in 2019, for causes to do with health, well-being, culture, solidarity and – in partnership with Carrefour – the food transition. “ I was looking for funding to develop my Les Petits Pots de Léo project, producing 100% organic pots of baby food made using local products. In partnership with MiiMOSA, the Toulouse Purpan shopping centre helped me raise the funds I needed alongside a crowd-funding campaign on #JeParticipe, the Carrefour platform.” Émilie ROQUES Les petits pots de Léo Project Founder INCREASE CUSTOMER AWARENESS OF SHOPPING CENTRES ON DIGITAL PLATFORMS To optimise the online presence of its 215 shopping centres and improve local SEO, in 2019 Carmila strengthened its partnerships with start-up that have expertise in these areas, such as Partoo (Localoo in Espagne), a specialist in making companies visible online. These “ Listing and updating all teams help centre managers with store information on as their Google My Business pages. The to stores in its centres, has already many platforms as possible idea is to supply Internet users with proved its worth: 101.5 million searches is a priority, at the core of information that is always correct and resulted in the Google My Business tenants’ digital strategy.” consistent, regardless of the platform pages of Carmila shopping centres Patrice BARBESIER or the search engine they use. This being displayed in 2019 – a 188% Partoo Marketing Director service, that Carmila wants to extend increase compared with 2018. 34 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 CARMILA 34 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 CONNECTING UP RETAILERS AND CONSUMERS PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2.8 million opt-in contacts that can be used in the customer databases +25% vs 2018 238 million impressions of the 58,000 Facebook posts published by Carmila centres “ Those who follow LOCAL DIGITAL the shopping centre’s Facebook and Instagram 101 million pages form a genuine searches for Google My Business MARKETING: EXTRA shopping centre pages community that can no SUPPORT longer be ignored when +188% vs 2018 Always there to offer retailers there is an event in store. and shopkeepers the best digital solutions, Le Kiosque has We have everything to gain from making use of 760 operations local digital marketing considerably boosted action the centre’s social media operations organised for retailers in this area. The number of accounts when we’re by Le Kiosque every month local and multi-local initiatives having an event!” organised for them has increased, from 420 marketing CULTURA ÉVREUX +8.4 points solutions introduced at sites of sales outperformance every month in 2018 to more for stores supported by more than 760 in 2019. In parallel, than 6 Le Kiosque campaigns Carmila has continued to improve offered in Paris and in the in 2019, for an investment of retailers’ and tenants’ knowledge regions to share best practices at least €2,000 versus of major local marketing in marketing, for example in their network challenges by holding new Smart terms of presence management, Shopping events, meetings drive-to-store and social content. 25 local ambassadors X 5 vs 2018 THE STRENGTH OF MICRO-INFLUENCING In 2019, Carmila launched season 2 of its programme to recruit local Shop’Influence ambassadors. Chosen from among the customers at each centre, the role of these micro-influencers is to test stores’ products and services and then share their photos, posts and opinions on their blogs or Facebook and Instagram pages. This type of micro-influencing, ultra-targeted for each catchment area, helps to strengthen the link between the shopping centre and its local communities. There are 25 centres in France and Italy that now have local influencers, including Labège 2 near Toulouse, BAB2 in Biarritz and MareMonti in Tuscany. “ I’m proud to be the ambassador for the MareMonti centre and to be able to test and showcase the products sold by retailers. Great experiences that I bring to my community!” @AVIOTTIELENA Italian influencer INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 CARMILA 35 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 35 1.9 Innovating and investing for tomorrow 36 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 CARMILA 36 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 Innovating and investing for tomorrow In a digital world, where retail is changing, regions are becoming urbanised and environmental awareness is on the increase, Carmila is thinking about tomorrow and reinventing itself permanently by opting for useful innovation. With a unique entrepreneurial approach, the company is exploring new paths and new sectors and – alongside retailers – is developing services to improve the customer experience, always aligned with the expectations of regions and its inhabitants. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 CARMILA 37 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 37 INNOVATING AND INVESTING FOR TOMORROW OUR STRATEGY Around our core, A  vital and in-demand entrepreneurial culture traditional business, When it comes to developing new activities, we are developing a wide Carmila has two major advantages. The first is its unique entrepreneurial culture. selection of innovative The company’s teams are dynamic and driven by a true flair for retail and promoting assets. projects to better serve At Carmila, entrepreneurship is more than a state of mind... it is a belief in a necessity: it is our customers while by innovating that we can continue to grow. preparing for the future. ” It is the sustainability of the company’s assets and the regions where it operates that are at stake. The second is the exceptional potential Géry ROBERT-AMBROIX of its assets in terms of the strategic location Deputy Chief Executive Officer and the land reserves transferred by Carrefour around centres. Co-investing in future projects I Carmila’s growth projects are organised into n addition to the acquisition of new three focus areas. First, the creation of joint assets that will allow the company to ventures with promising retailers. Carmila take advantage of opportunities to invests alongside talented business owners. create value and strengthen its regional As a genuine brand booster, these partnerships network, Carmila’s growth potential is promote an updated, diverse merchandising also to be found within its own sites. This is mix in centres. Using the same model of about identifying new ways to create value by financial partnership with professionals, it is offering innovative solutions that serve both launching a health care offering in its centres retailers and consumers. And is why, alongside – something which is much anticipated by its traditional roles of asset management, consumers. As part of the Pharmalley project, building the commercial offering and marketing four pharmacies have been opened this year. initiatives, Carmila is introducing a whole range Finally, via its companies LouWifi, founded of innovative projects and activities. Driven by in 2017, and more recently Lou5G, Carmila new roles and new areas of expertise, these is continuing to expand the roll-out of projects will revitalise the company’s offering, high-quality Wi-Fi in its centres and mobile adding new services or additional retail options. telephone masts on its land. These activities Bringing meaning and growth, useful and allow it to develop its sites while providing aligned with consumer needs and regional connectivity for customers and regions. expectations, they have one goal: to strengthen proximity and make everyday life easier for retailers and customers in all regions. — The Business Development team has expertise and a varied range of talents that can be put to use when developing new activities. 38 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 CARMILA 38 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 INNOVATING AND INVESTING FOR TOMORROW First steps into healthcare at centres “The success of our Health Hubs in To bolster its neighbourhood offering and meet strong demand our centres is largely from consumers and regions for practical and useful services, in based on collaboration 2019 Carmila began to roll out a healthcare offering at its shopping with exceptional local centres. and national partners. Committed, serious professionals who are As bustling hubs at the heart of urban at shopping centres in Laon, Annecy, recognised as such by both areas which are accessible and feature Saint-Jean-de-Luz and La Roche-surpatients and their peers.” free parking, shopping centres are Yon, or will soon be able to. The launch particularly well suited to offering of dental services is also currently Alexandre BARILLET health care options. And it is an idea under consideration. The goal is to offer, Business Development that is popular with consumers: 57%* a few years from now, comprehensive Director of Carmila customers would consider healthcare, covering everything from visiting a medical practice in their preventive to specialist healthcare shopping centre if it had one. and first aid. The challenge for Carmila is to offer * Source: The Carmila Shopping Lab – a selection of services delivered by 499 respondents – 2019 high-quality professionals, mainly through pharmacies operating alongside the existing opticians in centres. The first step was taken in 2019 with the creation, using the proven model of financial partnership with professionals, of Pharmalley, a company that supports talented people who run pharmacies. Four sales outlets already take advantage of this support Helping to reduce the digital divide For Carmila, the establishment of subsidiaries LouWifi and Lou5G is a way to enhance the value of its sites, while helping to reduce the digital divide. Having access to digital technology so its subsidiary LouWifi. The creation of that you can stay in contact with the world Lou5G in 2019 is part of the same objective: anywhere, at any time, is now a factor in to reduce the digital divide and promote social integration. To give as many people the best possible mobile telephone service as possible this opportunity, even in areas in and around its centres by installing where there is very little coverage, 5G antennas on its land. Carmila relies on the expertise Partnerships have been agreed it has acquired in fibre optics with France’s four major mobile by introducing its digital strategy telephone operators, and this has in order to offer a free, already resulted in the installation ultra-high-speed Internet service of 24 antennas this year. in its shopping centres, through 130 A FIRST AGREEMENT SIGNED WITH THE FOUR OPERATORS HAS GIVEN PLACE AT A FIRST PHASE OF DEVELOPMENT OF 130 ANTENNAS. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 CARMILA 39 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 39 INNOVATING AND INVESTING FOR TOMORROW 2019 HIGHLIGHTS INVESTING IN RETAIL CONCEPTS them by funding the work required to open new stores in shopping centres, and by offering them a wide range THAT HAVE A FUTURE of advice on issues such as fitting out sales outlets, Carmila invests in talented entrepreneurs, creating marketing and business development. This human and a unique economic model to help them get off to a financial support helps brands to develop more quickly successful start. To support retailers that it believes have and successfully. Launched in 2017 with La Barbe de Papa a promising future, Carmila has opted for a model unlike (French hairdresser-barber), the model is being rolled any other on the market: the creation of joint ventures. out with three other tenants: Cigusto (e-cigarettes), The principle is straightforward: through Carmila Retail Indémodable (shoes) and Centros Ideal (esthetic centre) Development, its investment subsidiary, it acquires a in Spain. A total of 71 stores have already been opened. minority stake in the retail concepts that it is confident Carmila is continuing its search for promising retail have potential, and that are based on concepts that concepts and aims to be working with a portfolio of 15 to are aligned with its shopping centres. It then supports 20 partners within five years. “ Since we created Centros Ideal, our sole aim has been to grow and expand. In this regard, our agreement with Carmila is a fantastic opportunity and we are continuing our expansion as a leader in the beauty sector. ” CENTROS IDEAL “ We wanted to create a different kind of barber, with locations in shopping centres only. ” LA BARBE DE PAPA BUSINESS True “intrapreneurs”, these people create businesses within DEVELOPER ROLE the business, capitalising Sourcing of promising on its intrinsic advantages, such retail concepts, rolling out as its surface area, car parks, Wi-Fi, installing 5G antennas, roofs and the traffic generated developing a healthcare offering: by sites. Encouraged by Carmila’s business is evolving, an open managerial policy and so are the roles in which and a corporate culture people work. Identifying new focused on the future, business concepts, creating value by development is a unique activity launching new related activities that is synonymous with driving that complement the core growth for Carmila. commercial property business is the role of business developers. 40 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 CARMILA 40 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 INNOVATING AND INVESTING FOR TOMORROW PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 71 shops opened by 4 retail concepts supported by Carmila Retail Development – La Barbe de Papa, Centros Ideal, Cigusto, Indémodable – including 56 in our centres, for total revenues of €2.1 million 8 000 connections / day to LouWifi, the Wi-Fi service in our centres 130 antennas A first agreement signed with the four operators has given here ENRICHING place at a first phase of THE CUSTOMER development of 130 antennas. EXPERIENCE THROUGH 130 retailers we act PARTNERSHIPS WITH INNOVATIVE in Carmila centres are partners of Too Good to Go START-UP as of 31/12/2019 For Carmila, useful innovation means putting forward simple and practical solutions to improve the customer experience. This involves close collaboration with young entrepreneurs who are helping to build the world of tomorrow. At a time when shopping centres need to become truly living spaces, open and omni-channel, Carmila is strengthening its partnerships with local high-tech start-up incubators. This involves establishing local routes, optimising site management and improving the visitor experience. In 2019, it renewed its collaboration with IoT Valley in Toulouse, with which it is now involved in several innovative projects based on the internet of Things. It also entered into partnerships with the Rennes French Tech, start-up Codeploy in Italy and the University of Majorca in Spain. Furthermore, in 2019, Carmila won the Business Immo digital innovation prize in recognition of its use of the IoT for its building management systems and the development of its collaborative platform for managing environmental issues and risks. Useful innovation also means addressing the challenges of the green, social and inclusive economy. To help combat waste, Carmila has started working with Too Good To Go. In 2019, 70,000 baskets of food products with short expiry dates were saved from going to waste, thanks to this partnership involving 130 retailers in 87 partner “ Instead of losing money, centres. Baskets are ordered directly from the the businesses that use website of a nearby participating shopping centre. the application are able to do something useful with With the same aim of reducing waste, Carmila has their unsold products. They signed an agreement with Bilum, an eco-friendly also generate new traffic company specialised in upcycling, to give a second and attract new customers.” life to tarpaulins used on construction sites. Once salvaged and recycled, they are transformed into Stéphanie MOY gifts for customers. Manager, Too Good To Go INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 CARMILA 41 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 41 AND THE OUTLOOK FOR THE FUTURE? Operating centres that are useful to consumers, 1.10 And the outlook for the future? retailers and regions During a period of profound structural change, we are working today and will innovate tomorrow to transform our shopping centres into communities, local hubs where people can gather. 2019 was an extremely Our programme of responsible initiatives eventful year for Here we act will guide us towards Carmila. We must this objective over the coming years. now make what we do more meaningful, But to address the challenges of so that it forms part of a long-term vision. socio-demographic, health and public The drafting of our purpose statement, in utility, social and solidary economy and which we involved retailers, tenants and new usages, we must go further still, employees, was an opportunity to do some and think about each of our acquisitions, fundamental thinking about who we are extensions and redevelopments in a and what we want to be in the future. different way. We must explore new purposes for our centres and begin the Proximity: vital today, transformation of our assets by integrating vital tomorrow housing and tertiary activities: offices, charitable premises, third places, serviced The transformation of retail, a search residences, hotels, business centres for very close proximity, digitalisation, and so on. urbanisation, mobility, diversity, solidarity, sustainable consumption, the environment: to simplify life for tenants and consumers A winning partnership and meet regional challenges, today with Carrefour everything points to a need to create These large-scale, complex projects will ecosystems that are closer to customers. require fundamental changes to be made, Having always integrated these challenges, which means that, starting now, we will we have had a head start. To offer everyone need to examine their legal and economic a unique buying experience and maintain feasibility. To deliver them, we have two our leading position locally, our priority major advantages: our decentralised will always be to operate shopping centres regional organisation and our real estate, that are rooted in their regions, integrated particularly around sites, which we own within their environments, connected to together with our partner Carrefour. and complementing e-commerce, while We are working towards shared interests, still being accessible, welcoming, human and this strategic alignment will enable in scale, and well-thought-out in terms of us to plan our projects securely both design and day-to-day operation. and exclusively. Towards mixed-use projects By continuing to invest alongside tenants with a promising future, by rolling out healthcare services and helping to reduce the digital divide with Lou5G, we are gradually transforming our shopping centres into places of living. 42 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 CARMILA 42 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 2. 2.1 Competitive advantages 44 2.1.1 A major player in the Continental 44 European shopping centre real estate sector 2.1.2 Asset leadership at the heart 44 of the Carmila strategy 2.2 Key figures concerning 45 the portfolio 2.2.1 Description of the portfolio 45 2.2.2 Presentation of Carmila’s most 45 important assets 2.2.3 Classes of assets by type 46 2.3 Asset valuation 46 2.3.1 Trends in the commercial real 46 estate market and the competitive environment 2.3.2 Appraisals and methodology 47 2.3.3 Geographical segmentation 48 of the portfolio 2.3.4 Evolution of asset valuation 48 Assets and 2.3.5 Changes in capitalisation rates 2.3.6 Breakdown of the appraisal values by CNCC typology 48 49 valuation 2.3.7 Reconciliation of the valuation of the assets with the value of the investment properties on the balance sheet 49 2.4 Overview of valuation 50 reports prepared by the independent external appraisers of Carmila 2.4.1 General context of the valuation 50 2.4.2 Valuation considerations 50 and assumptions 2.4.3 Confidentiality and disclosure 51 2.5 Extension pipeline 51 at 31 December 2019 2.5.1 Developments 51 2.5.2 Development pipeline 51 2.5.3 2019 Projects 53 2.5.4 2020 Projects 53 2.5.5 Administrative authorisations 53 2.6 Detailed presentation 54 of the operating asset base of Carmila at 31 December 2019 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 43 ASSETS AND VALUATION 2. Competitive advantages 2.1 Competitive advantages Carmila undertook €6.2 million of renovation work on its asset base in 2019, in particular for the Rennes Cesson, Bourg-en-Bresse and 2.1.1 A major player in the Guéret sites. All sites were delivered at the end of 2019. Continental European Dynamic letting strategy shopping centre real estate Carmila also improved the commercial power of its centres, with sector more than 4,800 leases signed over the 2014-2019 period (of which 874 in 2019) and a consolidated financial occupancy rate of 96.3% at 31 December 2019 against 86.1% at 16 April 2014. Carmila has With more than €6.4 billion in assets and 215 shopping centres and endeavoured to attract strong retail brands and concepts to make retail parks located in France, Spain and Italy, Carmila is the number its shopping centres more attractive. The opening of temporary one listed company in shopping centres adjacent to large food retail pop-up stores and the development of specialty leasing is also brands in continental Europe, and the third largest listed company helping to reinforce the leadership of its shopping centres by in commercial property by market value of its assets at diversifying offerings to satisfy consumers seeking new products 31 December 2019. and innovative concepts. Carmila has a broad portfolio of assets, with strong local leadership in their respective catchment areas. With the quality and positioning Expansion pipeline for shopping centres of its shopping centres, reinforced by a renovation plan for its centres based on the “Air de Famille” concept, Carmila offers tenant Since its creation in April 2014, Carmila has delivered 19 extensions retailers space located in modern shopping centres, designed to for a surface area of 162,306 sq.m and an investment of €435 million. fulfil the requirements and expectations of consumers. The type of Rent creation generated by these extensions was €31.4 million and shopping centres held by Carmila is very diversified, thus enabling the average Carmila yield on cost was 7.2% (incorporating the the main national and international brands to work in several purchase of the share owned by Carrefour). formats, while providing local retailers with an attractive showcase For the 2020-2024 period, Carmila’s expansion pipeline includes environment. 19 projects representing a total forecasted investment of €1.3 billion at 31 December 2019. Developed jointly with Carrefour Property, these expansion projects 2.1.2 Asset leadership at the heart enable Carmila to make its shopping centres more attractive, by of the Carmila strategy adapting to retailers’ needs and to those of their customers. In particular, these extensions will facilitate the opening of mediumsized retailers in shopping centres, real traffic drivers Local asset leadership lies at the heart of Carmila’s strategy: the vast complementing Carrefour hypermarkets, increasing footfall and majority of Carmila’s shopping centres are leaders or co-leaders in enhancing the appeal of these centres. their respective catchment areas. At 31 December 2019, Carmila had 157 leader or co-leader shopping centres, representing 88% of its portfolio. Leader or co-leader status in a catchment area provides a Targeted acquisitions competitive advantage in facilitating the marketing of retail space to Between 2014 and 2019, Carmila acquired 37 shopping centres brands seeking significant and sustainable footfall in a dynamic, adjacent to Carrefour hypermarkets in France, Spain and Italy and high-quality commercial environment. also acquired several units in shopping centres that it already owned, for a total of €2.2 billion, almost all of which was carried out Renovation programme through off-market transactions. These acquisitions had an average net initial yield of 5.9%. Over the 2014-2018 period Carmila completed its renovation programme for a total investment of €350 million, of which €90 million was provided by Carmila and €260 million financed by the Carrefour group, generally the main co-owner of Carmila’s sites. By 2019, almost all of the sites were renovated; centres not renovated at this date, or recently acquired will be renovated shortly. 44 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 ASSETS AND VALUATION Key figures concerning the portfolio 2.2 Key figures concerning the portfolio 2.2.1 Description of the portfolio under long-term leases or ground leases), which are either divided 2 into units or held under co-ownership arrangements. In Spain, Carmila holds, directly or indirectly, the full ownership of its assets At 31 December 2019, Carmila had 215 shopping centres and retail organised through co-ownership arrangements. All of Carmila’s parks adjacent to Carrefour hypermarkets located in France, Spain assets in Italy are fully owned, directly or indirectly. and Italy, valued at more than €6.4 billion including transfer taxes The real estate of Carrefour’s hypermarkets and supermarkets, as and work in progress, for a total leasable area of close to 1.57 million well as the car parks adjacent to the shopping centres held by square meters. Carmila in France, Spain and Italy, are owned by Carrefour group In France, Carmila is the direct or indirect owner of a very large entities. majority of its real estate assets (with the remaining properties held 2.2.2 Presentation of Carmila’s most important assets Out of 215 commercial real estate assets making up Carmila’s portfolio, 15 assets represent 38% of the appraisal value (including transfer taxes) and 27% of the gross leasable area at 31 December 2019. The following table shows information on these 15 properties: Carmila group gross leasable Carmila Group Name of centre, Year of Total number of area share per site city construction Year of acquisition Year of renovation units (sq.m.) (%) FRANCE BAB 2 – Anglet 1967 2014 2017 124 27,016 52.4% Bay 2 2003 2014 103 21,041 37.0% Calais – Coquelles 1995 2014 2019 152 51,167 77.6% Chambourcy 1973 2014 2015 70 21,343 44.0% Évreux 1974 2014 2017 76 37,781 57.0% Montesson 1970 2014 61 13,175 32.8% Orléans Place 1988 2014 2018 69 13,590 53.6% d'Arc Ormesson 1972 2015 2018 123 26,696 14.5% Perpignan Claira 1983 2014 2015 78 21,038 52.1% Saran – Orléans 1971 2014 2017 90 38,846 64.2% Thionville 1971 2016 162 28,348 62.9% Toulouse Labège 1983 2014 129 22,219 44.9% Vitrolles 1971 2018 85 24,275 55.2% Total France 1,322 346,533 SPAIN Fan Mallorca 2016 2016 2016 104 38,141 75.0% Huelva 2013 2014 2013 93 34,036 82.4% Total Spain 197 72,177 TOTAL 1,519 418,710 For a detailed presentation of Carmila’s portfolio of commercial assets, see “Detailed Presentation of the Operating Asset Base of Carmila at 31 December 2019”. CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 45 ASSETS AND VALUATION 2. Asset valuation A shopping centre is defined as a “co-leader” if (i) it is not a “leader” 2.2.3 Classes of assets by type and (ii) (x) it includes the leading hypermarket in its commercial area (for France and Italy) in terms of revenues or for Spain in terms At 31 December 2019, Carmila held 157 “leader” or “co-leader” of leasable area (source: Nielsen database) or (y) the annual revenue shopping centres (as defined below) in their catchment areas (incl. VAT) of the adjoining hypermarket is over €100 million for (representing 74% of the total number of Carmila’s shopping centres hypermarkets in France or €60 million for hypermarkets in Spain or and 88% of its portfolio in terms of appraisal value, including Italy. transfer taxes). A shopping centre is defined as a “leader” if (i) it is the leader in its commercial area by the number of commercial units (source: Codata database, 2019) or (ii) it includes, for shopping centres in France, more than 80 commercial units or, for shopping centres in Spain or Italy, more than 60 commercial units. GAV ITT at 31/12/2019 Gross Asset Value (GAV) Including transfer taxes (ITT) of portfolio (€M) % Market value Number of sites Leader 3,154.2 68% 54 Co-Leader 916.9 20% 31 Other* 544.2 12% 44 France 4,615.3 100% 129 Leader 828.8 57% 31 Co-Leader 470.4 32% 35 Other* 150.1 10% 12 Spain 1,449.3 100% 78 Leader 167.6 47% 3 Co-Leader 99.1 28% 3 Other* 90.2 25% 2 Italy 356.9 100% 8 Leader 4,150.6 65% 88 Co-Leader 1,486.4 23% 69 Other* 784.5 12% 58 TOTAL 6,421.5 100% 215 * Local centres, isolated units. 2.3 Asset valuation 2.3.1 Trends in the commercial real The shopping centre segment has a dynamic and resilient profile with highly visible cash flows supported by a solid, indexed revenue estate market and the base, low vacancy levels notably due to the lease right ownership in France (which encourages tenants wishing to terminate an on-going competitive environment lease to look for their successors themselves) or the restrictive legislation on new developments (e.g. in France the authorisations Commercial real estate is defined as all properties owned by required from the Departmental Commission on Commercial professionals who do not occupy them and who draw income from Development) and the risk sharing across a large number of sites them on a regular basis. Such properties fall into several categories: and leases. It also offers the ability to create value by focusing on merchandising and shopping centre management, renewal and • business properties, which make up the majority of commercial letting negotiations, and by engaging in programs to renovate, real estate assets. Business properties can be divided into four restructure, and extend sites to improve their competitiveness. large classes each covering different segments: (i) offices, Retail property is sensitive to the macroeconomic climate (notably (ii) retail (high street shops, shopping centres and retail parks), growth, inflation, level of employment and household expenditure, (iii) industrial and logistic premises for designing, producing and which impacts prices, the number of transactions, the vacancy and storing goods (warehouses, production premises etc.), and default rates and rent changes, etc.) and to arbitrations with other (iv) service properties, i.e. hotels, health and leisure classes of financial assets. establishments; • other non-residential properties, such as car parks; and The shopping centre market in France • residential properties (other than publicly-owned housing 2019 ended with investment in the retail sector amounting to €4.7 billion, up by 2.2% compared to 2018. 2019 was marked by the entities), including multi-family residential properties. stability of the rental values and the maintaining of investment at a low level according to CBRE, who notes that, similarly to 2018, a reduced number of large-scale transactions represented a substantial proportion of the year's investments. 46 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 ASSETS AND VALUATION Asset valuation The shopping centre market in Spain 2.3.2 Appraisals and methodology Capital invested in Spain in the commercial real estate sector 2 amounted to nearly €2.1 billion in 2019, significantly below 2018, due The investment properties that comprise Carmila’s assets are initially in particular to a lack of opportunities to purchase prime assets on recognised and valued individually at the cost of construction or the Spanish market. It should be noted that the month of December acquisition, including expenses and taxes, then subsequently at their alone accounts for nearly a quarter of the invested amount fair value. Any variation is recognised in the income statement. (€475 million), due to the sale of the Puerto Venecia centre by Intu to Generali – Union. The slowdown in the pace of The fair values used are determined on the basis of the conclusions transactions is also attributable to changes in purchasing habits of independent experts. Carmila uses appraisers to value the whole leading to uncertainty with regard to future gross rental income of its asset portfolio at the end of every half-year. The assets are according to Cushman & Wakefield. However, investors in shopping inspected by the appraisers annually. The expert valuations comply centres remain attracted to quality assets, that still exist on the with the guidance contained in the RICS Appraisal and Valuation market, and that may lead to increased footfall and rental income. Manual, published by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (“Red Book”). In order to conduct their work, the appraisers have access to all the information required for valuation of the assets, and The shopping centre market in Italy specifically the rent roll, the vacancy rate, rental arrangements and According to CBRE, the retail sector represented almost 16% the main performance indicators for tenants (revenues). (vs. 25% in 2018) of total investment in the property sector in Italy in 2019 for a value of €2.0 billion. The amounts invested in shopping They independently establish their current and future cash flow centres declined compared with 2018 due to a lack of prime assets estimates by applying risk factors either to the net rental income available on the market. capitalisation rate or to future cash flows. For buildings under construction, the valuation takes into account Carmila’s competitive environment work in progress as well as the increase in fair value compared to the total cost price of the project (IPUC). Investment properties are and positioning subject to an appraisal while under construction to determine their Carmila assesses its competition on a shopping centre by shopping fair value on the opening date. Carmila considers that a centre basis, in a given catchment area, depending on the site’s development project may be valued reliably if the following three attractiveness to consumers and retailers and if necessary, taking conditions are simultaneously fulfilled (i) all of the administrative other retail formats, such as town centre shopping areas in the same authorisations necessary to complete the extension have been catchment area into account. A site’s attractiveness may also be obtained, (ii) the construction contract has been signed and the measured compared to national or international networks, for large works have begun and, (iii) uncertainty concerning the amount of retail brands. future rent has been eliminated. These competing properties are held by a number of different The appraisers appointed by Carmila are as follows: companies, including: • in France: Cushman & Wakefield and Catella; • institutional investors (insurance companies, pension funds, other asset managers, such as Allianz, APG, NBIM); • in Spain: Cushman & Wakefield and Catella; • real estate companies, most of which are REITs (Real Estate • in Italy: BNP Paribas Real Estate. Investment Trusts, for example listed real estate companies specialising in retail, such as Unibail-Rodamco-Westfield, 2.3.2.1 Comments on the scope Klépierre, Altarea Cogedim, Mercialys and Eurocommercial Properties, or unlisted companies, such as Ceetrus, as well as real • 28% of the sites in France and 21% of the sites in Spain estate companies with more diversified portfolios, such as Merlin (in numbers) were rotated between the appraisers Cushman & Properties); Wakefield and Catella in 2019. • funds dedicated to professional investors or retail funds focusing • Assets acquired in 2018 and extensions delivered in 2018 were on individual investors (for example Amundi, AXA Real Estate, included in the portfolio at their appraised values. CBRE Global Investors, etc.); • In the second half of 2019, Carmila delivered the Rennes Cesson • private equity funds (such as Blackstone and KKR); and extension; this extension is recognised at 31 December 2019 at its • family funds (funds managed by family offices or family real appraised value. estate companies). • Carmila did not acquire any new shopping centre during 2019. Competition among the participants in the shopping centre market • For ongoing extensions (Nice Lingostière) works in progress impacts acquisitions of existing shopping centres and the were recognised in the financial statements as investment development and creation of new shopping centres. Carmila properties carried at cost; the value creation above the cost benefits from access to a wide range of development and price (IPUC) was recognised. acquisition opportunities because of its special relationship with the Carrefour group. CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 47 ASSETS AND VALUATION 2. Asset valuation 2.3.3 Geographical segmentation of the portfolio The valuation of the portfolio (Group share) was €6,421.5 million, including transfer taxes, at 31 December 2019 and breaks down as follows: Gross Asset Value (GAV) Including transfer taxes (ITT) of portfolio 31/12/2019 Country In millions of euros % In number of assets France 4,615.3 71.9% 129 Spain 1,449.3 22.6% 78 Italy 356.9 5.6% 8 Total 6,421.5 100% 215 Apart from the fair values determined by the experts for each Also, this valuation includes Carmila’s share in the investment shopping centre, this assessment takes into account assets under properties valued at fair value held in the subsidiaries consolidated construction that amounted to €68.8 million at 31 December 2019 by the equity method (As Cancelas shopping centre, at Santiago de and the share of the Nice Lingostière extension operation margin of Compostela in Spain, taken into account at 50%) which represents €11.7 million. €68.2 million. 2.3.4 Evolution of asset valuation GROSS ASSET VALUE (GAV) INCLUDING TRANSFER TAXES (ITT) OF PORTFOLIO 31/12/2019 30/06/19 31/12/2018 GAV ITT Change vs. 30/06/19 Change vs. 31/12/2018 GAV ITT GAV ITT in number at current at current (€M) % of assets scope like for like scope like for like (€M) % (€M) % France 4,615.3 71.9% 129 1.2% 0.6% 0.3% -1.3% 4,561.1 71.5% 4,600.3 71.8% Spain 1,449.3 22.6% 78 -0.9% -0.9% 0.0% 0.0% 1,462.0 22.9% 1,449.8 22.6% Italy 356.9 5.6% 8 0.7% 0.7% 0.7% 0.7% 354.3 5.6% 354.5 5.5% TOTAL 6,421.5 100% 215 0.7% 0.3% 0.3% -0.9% 6,377.4 100% 6,404.6 100.0% During 2019, the total value of Carmila’s assets increased by The annual 2019 variation on a like-for-like basis is broken down by €16.9 million; this variation breaks down as follows: country as follows: • the value of the assets, on a like-for-like basis, decreased by • in France, the variation in value on a like-for-like basis is -1.3% -0,9%, i.e. -€56,8 million. The variation on a like-for-like basis which corresponds to -€59.0 million: the impact of the includes shopping centres on a comparable basis, excluding decompression of the capitalisation rates of -2.3% is partially extensions over the period; the impact of the increase in offset by the +1.0% revaluation of rents; capitalisation rates on valuation (-2.2%) is partially offset by the increase in rents over the period (+1.3%); • in Spain, the valuation on a like-for-like basis is stable, the impact of the decompression of the capitalisation rates (-2.2%) is entirely • other changes are due to the extensions. Projects under offset by the increase in rents (+2.2%); construction (Nice Lingostière), are valued by their works in progress as well as their share of the margin (IPUC). Projects • in Italy, the value of the assets, on a like-for-like basis, increased delivered (Rennes Cesson) are recognised in the gross asset by +0.7%, i.e. +€2.4 million. The impact of the change in value at their appraisal value at 31 December 2019. The valuation capitalisation rates is low (-0.3%) and the increase in rents is of the works in progress and IPUC as well as the project delivered +1.0%. in 2019 (Rennes Cesson) is €99.2 million, i.e. a change of +€73.7 million due to extensions in 2019; • no shopping centre was acquired during 2019. 2.3.5 Changes in capitalisation rates NIY NPY 31/12/2019 30/06/2019 31/12/2018 31/12/2019 30/06/2019 31/12/2018 France 5.36% 5.36% 5.22% 5.68% 5.70% 5.54% Spain 6.41% 6.28% 6.23% 6.54% 6.47% 6.40% Italy 6.18% 6.16% 6.16% 6.18% 6.16% 6.16% TOTAL 5.64% 5.62% 5.50% 5.90% 5.91% 5.77% In 2019, the NPY (Net Potential Yield) is up slightly over the total In France, the change in the NPY is 14 bps between 31 December portfolio: +13 bps; this decompression is more significant in France 2019 and 31 December 2018. This increase is the result of two main (+14 bps) and in Spain (+14 bps) while Italy remains stable (+2 bps). factors: the impact of market decompression on capitalisation rates The increase was greater in France in the first half of the year while (+24 bps) offset by the asset management actions (restructuring the second half remained stable. In Spain, the annual rise in NPY was and delivery of extensions -9 bps). The impact of the market spread over the two half years. decompression of capitalisation rates on Carmila’s portfolio remains contained, appraisers having emphasised its considerable resilience compared to the market, owing to the full and recent renovation of the portfolio, tenants’ occupancy cost ratios, and realistic letting values for vacant premises. 48 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 ASSETS AND VALUATION Asset valuation In Spain, the change in the NPY is 14 bps between 31 December 2019 In Italy, the rates were stable over 2019. and 31 December 2018. This change is due to a slight market The change in the NIY in the three countries is comparable to the decompression of capitalisation rates. 2 change in the NPY. 2.3.6 Breakdown of the appraisal values by CNCC typology In accordance with the CNCC typology, the sites are grouped into At 31 December 2019, regional shopping centres and large shopping three categories: regional shopping centres, large shopping centres centres accounted for 81% of the market value of Carmila’s portfolio. and small shopping centres (called local shopping centres in this document). Expertise 31/12/2019 Average GAV ITT net rent Average (€M) % of value (€/sqm) vacant ERV NIY Regional Shopping Centres 1,659.4 36.0% 310 233 5.1% Large Shopping Centres 2,123.0 46.0% 267 267 5.2% Local Shopping Centres 833.0 18.0% 196 123 5.7% France 4,615.3 261 184 5.4% Regional Shopping Centres 360.3 24.9% 206 123 5.6% Large Shopping Centres 750.6 51.8% 198 177 6.6% Local Shopping Centres 338.3 23.3% 289 250 7.0% Spain 1,449.3 217 196 6.4% Regional Shopping Centres 16.8 4.7% 238 6.1% Large Shopping Centres 318.5 89.2% 247 n.d. 6.2% Local Shopping Centres 21.6 6.1% 269 6.5% Italy 356.9 248 n.d. 6.2% Regional Shopping Centres 2,036.5 31.7% 282 230 5.2% Large Shopping Centres 3,192.1 49.7% 242 217 5.7% Local Shopping Centres 1,192.9 18.6% 220 145 6.1% GRAND TOTAL 6,421.5 247 186 5.6% 2.3.7 Reconciliation of the valuation of the assets with the value of the investment properties on the balance sheet (in millions of euros) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 GAV ITT of portfolio 6,421.5 6,404.6 Works in progress -68.8 -62.6 Valuation of the share of equity-accounted investments -68.2 -69.2 Transfer taxes and registrations (excluding equity-accounted investments) -317.4 -319.2 Market value excluding transfer taxes (including IPUC) (A) 5,967.1 5,953.7 IPUC -11.7 0.0 Market value excluding transfer taxes (excluding IPUC) 5,955.4 5,953.7 Fair value of BAC (IFRS 16) (B) 34.5 0.0 INVESTMENT PROPERTY CARRIED AT APPRAISED VALUE (BALANCE SHEET, INCLUDING IPUC) (A+B) 6,001.6 5,953.7 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 49 ASSETS AND VALUATION 2. Overview of valuation reports prepared by the independent external appraisers of Carmila 2.4 Overview of valuation reports prepared by the independent external appraisers of Carmila 2.4.1 General context 2.4.2 Valuation considerations of the valuation and assumptions Context and instructions Information In accordance with Carmila’s instructions (“the Company”) as The Company’s management was asked to confirm that the detailed in the signed valuation contracts between Carmila and the information provided relating to the assets and tenants is complete Appraisers, we have valued the assets held by the Company, taking and accurate in all significant aspects. Consequently, we have account of their ownership (freehold, ground lease, etc.). This assumed that all relevant information known by our contacts within Summary Report has been prepared for inclusion in the Company’s the Company that could impact value has been made available to us annual report. and that this information is up to date in all significant aspects. This includes running costs, works undertaken, financial elements, The valuations were undertaken locally by our valuation teams including turnover rents, lettings signed or in the process of being present in each market. In order to estimate the market value for signed and rental incentives, in addition to the list of let and vacant each asset, we have not only taken into consideration domestic units. retail investment transactions but have also considered transactions on a European level. We confirm that our valuations have been prepared in a similar way to other valuations undertaken in Europe, Leasable areas in order to maintain a consistent approach and to take into We have not measured the assets and have therefore based our consideration all the market transactions and information available. valuations on the leasable areas that were provided to us. The valuations are based on the discounted cash flow method and the capitalisation method, that are regularly used for these types of Environmental analysis and ground conditions assets. We have not been asked to undertake a study of ground conditions Our valuations were undertaken at 31 December 2019. nor an environmental analysis. We have not investigated past events in order to determine if the ground or buildings have been Reference Documents and General Principles contaminated. Unless provided with information to the contrary we have worked on the assumption that the assets are not and should We confirm that our valuations were undertaken in accordance with not be affected by ground pollution and that the state of the land the appropriate sections of the June 2017 Edition (effective from will not affect their current or future usage. 1st July 2017) of the RICS Valuation – Global Standards 2017 (the “Red Book”). This is a valuation basis accepted on an international level. Our valuations are compliant with the IFRS accounting Town planning standards and the IVSC standards. The valuations have also been We have not studied planning consents or other permits and have prepared on the basis of the AMF recommendations on the assumed that the assets have been built and are occupied and used presentation of valuations of real estate assets owned by listed in conformity with all necessary authorisations and that any companies, published on 8 February 2010. Furthermore, they take outstanding legal issues have been resolved. We have assumed that into account the recommendations of the Barthès de Ruyter report the layout of assets conforms to legal requirements and town on valuation of real estate owned by listed companies, published planning regulations, notably concerning the structural materials, fire in February 2000. safety and health and safety. We have also assumed that any extensions in progress are being undertaken in line with town We confirm that we have prepared our valuations as independent planning rules and that all necessary permissions have been external appraisers, as defined by the Red Book standards published obtained. by RICS. Basis of Valuation Titles deeds and tenancy schedules We have relied upon the tenancy schedules, summaries of Our valuations correspond to the Market Value and are reported to complementary revenues, non-recoverable charges, capital projects the Company as both gross values (market value before deduction and the business plans that were provided to us. We have assumed, of transfer costs) and net values (market value after deduction of with the exception of what may be mentioned in our individual asset transfer costs). reports, that the assets are not inhibited by any restriction which could impede a sale and that they are free from any restrictions or charges. We have not read the title deeds and have considered as correct the rental, occupational and all other relevant information that has been provided to us by the Company. Condition of the assets We have taken note of the general condition of each asset during our inspection. Our instruction does not include a building or structural survey but we have indicated in our report, where applicable, any maintenance problems that were immediately apparent during our inspection. The assets have been valued based on the information provided by the Company according to which no deleterious material was used in their construction. Taxation Our valuations were undertaken without taking into account potential sales or legal fees or taxes which would come into effect in the case of a transfer. The rental and market values produced are net of VAT. 50 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 ASSETS AND VALUATION Extension pipeline at 31 December 2019 2.4.3 Confidentiality and disclosure Finally, and in accordance with our standard practice we confirm that our valuation reports are confidential and are addressed solely to the Company Carmila. We accept no liability to third parties. Neither the whole reports, nor any extracts may be published in a document, declaration, memorandum or statement without our written consent as regards the form and context in which this information may appear. 2 In signing this Summary Report, the valuation firms accept no liability for the valuations carried out by the other firms. Jean-Philippe Carmarans Head of Valuation & Advisory France Cushman & Wakefield Valuation France Tony Loughran Partner C&W Valuation & Advisory, Spain Simone Scardocchia Head of Corporate Valuation BNP Paribas Real Estate, Italy Jean-François Drouets Chairman Catella Valuation Ana Flores Head Of Valuation Catella Property Spain S.A. 2.5 Extension pipeline at 31 December 2019 2.5.1 Developments Barcelona – Tarrasa: one of the structuring hypermarkets in the greater Barcelona urban area has strong potential for becoming a regional centre. In each of its markets, Carmila continues to implement its extension Marseille Vitrolles: this centre, acquired by Carmila in 2018, is programme for high-potential shopping centres, and is also adjacent to a structuring hypermarket of the greater Marseille area performing restructuring operations to optimise its centres, increase and is a strong competitor for the Plan de Campagne shopping their yield and enhance their leadership. centre, which is in the saturation phase. Pursuant to the Renovation and Development Agreement, extension Aix-en-Provence: Aix-la-Pioline shopping centre is adjacent to a projects are developed jointly by Carmila and Carrefour. Initially, powerful hypermarket and has loyal customers in its catchment extension projects are researched and defined jointly by a area. partnership committee. Once the pre-rentals of the extension project are deemed satisfactory (approximately 60%), a final project Thionville: the arcade adjacent to the sole Carrefour hypermarket in package is submitted to the relevant decision-making bodies of Lorraine is located in a highly competitive area close to Carmila and Carrefour for approval and the start of work. In order to Luxembourg. The project, comprising a restructuring phase and a ensure that the interests of both parties are met, the Renovation promotional phase, will enable the shopping centre to reinforce its and Development Agreement provides that the financing costs and regional leadership. the development margin achieved for each development project will In particular, three out of the nine flagship projects lie within an be divided equally (50% each) between Carmila and Carrefour. urban context and have a strong potential for mixed use: Once opened to the public, put and call options enable Carmila to Antibes: this centre adjoins the largest Carrefour hypermarket in purchase the entire extension jointly developed with Carrefour. France and intends to maintain its top position by leveraging its exceptional location along the A8 motorway and the extension of the tram line. Carmila hopes to develop a mixed-use project here 2.5.2 Development pipeline which forms part of the new consumption trends. Toulouse Labège: this site will benefit from the completion of the The 2020-2024 expansion pipeline at 31 December 2019 Toulouse metro in 2025 and the presence of a co-leader encompassed 19 projects representing an estimated investment of hypermarket to the south of greater Toulouse. €1.3 billion and an average yield on cost of 7.2%.(1) Vénissieux: the fifth largest Carrefour hypermarket in France is a Nine flagship projects represent 90% of the pipeline by value and solid leader south of Lyon. The urban front site is an opportunity to are based on solid fundamentals: develop a mixed office project. The project, with which Jean-Paul Viguier is associated, will also benefit from the openings of Ikea and Nice Lingostière: this shopping centre is adjacent to the third largest Leroy-Merlin, which will contribute to an increase of 5 million visits in Carrefour hypermarket in France, and benefits from an excellent annual footfall to the area. location at the entrance to the Vallée du Var. During 2019, one project was put on hold: Tourville-la-Rivière in Montesson: this shopping arcade is adjacent to the second largest France; and five projects were under review: Chambéry Bassens, Carrefour hypermarket in France and is located in a very dense Châteauneuf-les-Martigues, Draguignan, and Laon in France, León in catchment area with low competition. The project, for which there is Spain. a review clause, will be presented in CNAC during the first half of 2020. (1) Investment and yield on cost includes Carmila’s share of investment for the 50% of the project for which it is the developer and the purchase price of the 50% owned by Carrefour group. CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 51 ASSETS AND VALUATION 2. Extension pipeline at 31 December 2019 The following table presents the key information on Carmila’s expansion projects for the 2020-2024 period: Full year Estimated additional Planned area Planned cost (1) rental value Yield (Carmila Expansion project Country (sq.m) opening date (€M) (€M) (2) Yield (3) share) (4) 2020 PROJECTS Nice Lingostière France 12,791 2020 Toulouse Purpan France 1,200 2020 Coquelles (restructuring) France 6,000 2020 Laval France 5,600 2021 Total Projects 2020 25,591 118.4 8.0 8.1% 6.8% FLAGSHIP PROJECTS Vitrolles France 16,352 2022 Tarrassa Spain 40,000 2022 Montesson France 31,217 2023 Aix-en-Provence France 5,978 2023 Thionville France 4,161 2023 Antibes France 35,968 2024 Toulouse Labège France 25,231 2024 Venissieux France 42,965 2024 Total flagship projecs 201,872 1,086.8 64.6 7.1% 5.9% OTHER CURRENT PROJECTS Puget-sur-Argens France 1,513 2021 (restructuring) Roanne Mably France 2,788 2021 Burgos Spain 5,000 2021 Francheville (stripmall) France 3,430 2022 Thiene Italy 9,600 2022 Nantes Beaujoire France 6,200 2023 Orléans Place d'Arc France 10,528 2023 Total other current projects 39,059 104.4 7.4 7.6% 7.1% Total projects controlled (5) 266,522 1,309.7 80.0 7.2% 6.1% Projects being studied (12 projects) TOTAL PROJECTS BEING 22,601 STUDIED (1) Total investment represents Carmila's projected share (50% of the investment) plus Carrefour's share (50% of the investment and 50% of the margin) to be acquired upon delivery. (2) Includes projects for the promotion of extensions excluding restructuring. (3) Expected net annualised rents divided by the total estimated investment amount (excluding restructuring). (4) Expected net annualised rents, divided by the total amount of the investment, including transfer taxes and Carrefour’s share that is acquired upon delivery (excluding restructuring). (5) Controlled projects: post-2019 projects for which studies are at a very advanced stage and Carmila controls the land or the building rights, but for which administrative authorisations have not necessarily all been obtained. 52 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 ASSETS AND VALUATION Extension pipeline at 31 December 2019 2.5.3 2019 Projects • Laval (53) – Extension project for the shopping centre located at the entrance of the city centre. 2 In the 2nd half of 2020, Carmila will start to work on the extension • Bourg-en-Bresse (01) – Restructuring project of a shopping project for the Laval shopping centre located very close to the city centre close to the city centre centre. The extension will increase the centre's GLA by 5,602 sqm At the end of 2019, Carmila delivered the Bourg-en-Bresse and will include 26 new stores, with a renewed and varied offering: restructured centre. The new arcade particularly includes a Go Sport leisure goods, clothing and restaurants, in particular a Burger King. store, and Joué Club, thereby revitalising this centre which has a loyal and recurring customer base. • Rennes Cesson (35) – Extension project for a shopping centre 2.5.5 Administrative authorisations benefiting from a strategic location at the entrance to the city In November 2019, Carmila inaugurated the extension to the Rennes Building permits Cesson shopping centre. The centre is located in the main technology park in the Rennes urban area. The extension enabled A building permit is required in order to construct new buildings or the size of the arcade to be doubled, now 12,823 sq.m., housing to renovate existing buildings where the renovations change the 70 stores. The extension was delivered entirely let with a intended use of the buildings and modify the supporting structure or differentiating and enriched customer experience in the catchment the facade, or create additional floor area or footprint of more than area. The customer experience was built around several themes twenty square meters. including differentiation from local competitors (thanks to retail Four building permits were granted for projects in the pipeline: brands such as Holly’s Dinner, Avril, Nicole or Made in Dé), the (re)discovery of regional or local concepts (Bessec, Iona Bis or • Nice Lingostière; Macadam Basket), around dynamic customer-focused retail brands • Toulouse Purpan; (H&M, Mango and Maisons du Monde). • Calais Coquelles; • Marseille Vitrolles. 2.5.4 2020 Projects Authorisations to operate retail facilities • Toulouse Purpan (31) – Creation of a retail park in the Toulouse An authorisation to operate a retail facility is required for the Purpan shopping centre. creation of a store or retail complex with retail space of more than Following a full renovation of the hypermarket, Carmila will extend 1,000 sq.m. or for an extension of a store or retail complex that its offer within the Toulouse Purpan Carrefour shopping centre in contains or will contain more than 1,000 sq.m. of retail space. This the first half of 2020. Located in an urban environment, the regulation primarily applies to food stores, retailers, and artisanal shopping complex will accommodate five new brands (catering, services. leisure and sport) in the form of a retail park covering 3,100 sq.m. Projects requiring construction permits are eligible for a “one-stop • Calais Coquelles (62) – Major restructuring to improve the retail shopping” procedure in which the project leader files a single momentum in this historic centre and prime site. application for both the construction permit and authorisation to operate a retail facility. In the summer of 2020, Carmila plans to complete the restructuring of the shopping mall in the Carrefour Cité Europe shopping centre, To date six CDAC/CNAC have been obtained for projects in the located at Coquelles in the urban district of Calais. In particular, the pipeline: restructuring will include a Primark store, with a sales area of more • Nice Lingostière – CNAC; than 6,000 sq.m on two levels, a direct connection with the cinema and simplification of the customer circuit, thus completing the • Toulouse Purpan – CDAC; transformation and relaunch of the retail momentum of this leading site. • Calais Coquelles – CDAC; • Nice Lingostière (06) – Extension project for a landmark leisure • Laval – CDAC; complex in France's fifth city. • Marseille Vitrolles – CDAC; In the second half of 2020, Carmila plans to open the extension of the Carrefour shopping centre located at Nice Lingostière. The • Montesson – CDAC. centre is located in a well-known leisure complex offering an appealing range of food outlets, clothing stores and numerous services. The extension will increase the centre's GLA from 7,811 sq.m. to 20,602 sq.m., covering a total of 92 stores. CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 53 ASSETS AND VALUATION 2. Detailed presentation of the operating asset base of Carmila at 31 December 2019 2.6 Detailed presentation of the operating asset base of Carmila at 31 December 2019 Carmila Group Carmila Group Year of Year of Year of Total number gross leasable area share per site Name of centre, city construction acquisition renovation of units (sq.m.) (%) FRANCE Aix-en-Provence 1971 2014 2015 40 8,327 31.3% Amiens 1973 2014 2014 18 4,432 25.2% Angers – Saint-Serge 1969 2014 2015 27 5,206 24.5% Angoulins 1973 2014 2015 34 4,804 22.6% Annecy Brogny 1968 2014 2015 23 4,444 24.6% Antibes 1973 2014 2014 35 4,830 22.6% Athis-Mons 1971 2014 2014 46 10,117 44.9% Auch 1976 2014 2014 13 928 16.3% Auchy-les-Mines 1993 2014 2015 27 2,761 26.1% Auterive 2011 2014 19 6,674 36.8% Bab 2 – Anglet 1967 2014 2017 124 27,016 52.4% Barentin 1973 2016 14 7,403 14.5% Bassens (Chambéry) 1969 2014 2014 19 2,719 17.1% Bay 1 2004 2014 26 8,767 32.9% Bay 2 2003 2014 103 21,041 37.0% Bayeux Besneville 1974 2014 2014 9 585 11.0% Beaucaire 1989 2014 2015 33 6,839 21.4% Beaurains 2 2011 2014 10 4,364 39.8% Beauvais 1969 2014 2016 15 3,299 21.1% Berck-sur-Mer 1995 2014 2014 34 11,220 60.3% Besançon – Chalezeule 1976 2014 2018 30 16,836 52.0% Bourg-en-Bresse 1977 2014 2019 19 5,845 19.2% Bourges 1969 2014 2016 49 7,218 31.7% Brest Hyper 1969 2014 2014 45 18,268 41.0% Calais – Beau Marais 1973 2014 2015 21 5,123 28.3% Calais – Coquelles 1995 2014 2019 152 51,167 77.6% Chambourcy 1973 2014 2015 70 21,343 44.0% Champs-sur-Marne 1967 2014 2014 19 1,770 15.5% Charleville-Mézières 1985 2014 2014 26 2,481 17.5% Château Thierry 1972 2014 2015 9 652 8.8% Châteauneuf-les-Martigues 1973 2014 2016 21 12,745 12.5% Châteauroux 1969 2014 2014 24 6,977 22.4% Cholet 1970 2014 2014 32 5,362 16.9% Condé-sur-L'Escaut 1987 2014 2015 6 529 9.6% Condé-sur-Sarthe 1972 2014 2014 33 9,282 71.8% Crèches-sur-Saône 1981 2014 2015 57 19,008 48.7% Denain 1979 2014 2016 8 636 6.0% Dinan Quevert 1970 2016 19 3,199 Douai Flers 1983 2014 2015 47 7,263 20.7% Draguignan 1992 2014 2017 26 5,761 39.1% Échirolles (Grenoble) 1969 2014 2014 32 4,765 20.6% Épernay 1970 2014 2016 10 1,057 9.0% Épinal 1983 2014 2016 23 19,122 100.0% Épinay-sur-Orge 1992 2015 1 54 Étampes 1983 2014 2015 3 878 7.7% Évreux 1974 2014 2017 76 37,781 57.0% Feurs 1981 2014 2019 6 1,025 12.1% Flers Saint-Georges-des-Groseillers 1998 2016 14 1,892 30.8% Flins-sur-Seine 1973 2014 2014 17 4,663 21.3% Fourmies 1985 2014 2016 14 1,869 16.1% Francheville 1989 2014 2015 23 2,433 33.0% 54 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 ASSETS AND VALUATION Detailed presentation of the operating asset base of Carmila at 31 December 2019 Carmila Group Carmila Group Year of Year of Year of Total number gross leasable area share per site Name of centre, city construction acquisition renovation of units (sq.m.) (%) Gennevilliers Goussainville 1976 1989 2014 2014 2015 2015 17 28 2,422 3,175 14.1% 38.1% 2 Gruchet 1974 2014 2015 29 11,844 38.7% Gueret 1987 2014 2019 14 3,410 17.0% Hazebrouck 1983 2014 2014 15 1,307 17.3% Hérouville-Ste-Clair 1976 2014 2016 48 14,405 47.0% La Chapelle-St-Luc 2012 2014 2015 45 21,824 58.0% La Ciotat 1998 2014 2015 16 619 5.3% La Roche-sur-Yon 1973 2014 2015 13 1,298 16.4% Laon 1990 2014 2015 37 8,043 91.1% Laval 1986 2014 37 7,205 42.0% Le Mans 1968 2014 2014 21 1,919 11.9% L'Haÿ-Les-Roses 1981 2014 2016 14 568 2.6% Libourne 1973 2014 2014 19 4,150 18.0% Liévin 1973 2014 2014 23 3,027 7.0% Limay 1998 2014 9 329 4.8% Lorient 1981 2014 2014 31 12,424 31.5% Mably 1972 2014 2017 29 13,293 34.8% Meylan (Grenoble) 1972 2014 2014 14 1,685 9.2% Mondeville 1970 2014 3 2,401 2.6% Mondeville HE 2013 2014 28 29,834 50.0% Mont-Saint-Aignan 1987 2015 33 3,049 13.8% Montélimar 1985 2014 2016 8 7,689 34.0% Montereau 1970 2014 2015 11 867 10.4% Montesson 1970 2014 61 13,175 32.8% Montluçon 1988 2015 2016 32 3,478 23.0% Nantes Beaujoire 1972 2014 2015 34 4,648 22.0% Nantes St-Herblain 1968 2014 2015 13 1,467 12.1% Nanteuil-Les-Meaux (GM) 2014 2015 8 811 100.0% Nanteuil-Les-Meaux (PAC) 2014 2014 5 4,927 100.0% Nevers-Marzy 1969 2014 2016 56 20,078 49.7% Nice Lingostière 1978 2014 2014 48 6,493 25.4% Nîmes Sud 1969 2014 2015 21 2,969 14.4% Orange 1988 2014 2014 36 5,215 29.3% Orléans Place d'Arc 1988 2014 2018 69 13,590 53.6% Ormesson 1972 2015 2018 123 26,696 14.5% Paimpol 1964 2014 2016 14 2,656 20.8% Pau Lescar 1973 2014 2017 76 11,977 31.0% Perpignan Claira 1983 2014 2015 78 21,038 52.1% Port-de-Bouc 1973 2014 2015 26 6,037 30.6% Pré-Saint-Gervais 1979 2016 19 1,619 Puget-sur-Argens 1991 2015 2017 51 4,638 28.4% Quetigny 2014 2014 5 7,365 100.0% Quimper – Le Kerdrezec 1978 2014 2016 40 8,520 26.1% Rambouillet 2017 2017 4 4,848 Reims – Cernay 1981 2014 2016 21 3,393 26.8% Rennes Cesson 1981 2014 2014 70 12,912 31.0% Rethel 1994 2016 2017 16 3,381 35.7% Saint-Jean-de-Luz 1982 2014 2017 15 2,598 33.9% Saint-Lô 1973 2016 2016 11 1,085 18.5% Saint-Martin-au-Laërt 1991 2014 2016 9 858 15.6% Salaise sur Sanne 1991 2014 2014 45 7,197 40.6% Sallanches 1973 2014 2016 12 1,915 17.0% Sannois 1992 2015 2015 36 3,810 27.4% Saran – Orléans 1971 2014 2017 90 38,846 64.2% Sartrouville 1977 2014 2014 37 5,597 26.6% Segny 1980 2014 2017 17 3,258 30.0% CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 55 ASSETS AND VALUATION 2. Detailed presentation of the operating asset base of Carmila at 31 December 2019 Carmila Group Carmila Group Year of Year of Year of Total number gross leasable area share per site Name of centre, city construction acquisition renovation of units (sq.m.) (%) Sens Maillot 1970 2014 2016 9 1,848 20.4% Sens Voulx 1972 2014 2016 7 595 5.8% St-André-Les-Vergers 1975 2014 2016 7 1,096 5.2% St Brieuc – Langueux 1969 2014 2017 46 13,924 37.1% St-Égrève 1986 2014 2014 35 9,389 13.3% St-Jean-de-Védas 1986 2014 2014 32 3,105 18.6% Stains 1972 2014 26 2,970 16.7% Tarnos 1989 2014 2014 27 4,108 29.0% Thionville 1971 2016 162 28,348 62.9% Tinqueux 1969 2014 2015 31 5,917 22.6% Toulouse Labège 1983 2014 129 22,219 44.9% Toulouse Purpan 1970 2014 2015 45 16,074 36.4% Tournefeuille 1995 2014 20 5,685 39.5% Trans-en-Provence 1976 2014 2016 28 3,923 31.6% Uzès 1989 2014 2015 19 1,287 15.3% Vannes – Le Fourchêne 1969 2014 2014 68 8,924 41.2% Vaulx-en-Velin 1988 2014 2016 45 6,603 34.3% Venette 1974 2014 2015 40 6,830 24.8% Vénissieux 1966 2014 2016 25 4,441 12.0% Villejuif 1988 2014 2015 34 4,149 4.2% Vitrolles 1971 2018 85 24,275 55.2% SPAIN Albacete – Los Llanos 1989 2014 36 7,479 23.3% Alcala de Henares 2007 2014 2016 21 1,667 17.3% Alcobendas 1981 2014 2016 46 3,515 23.7% Alfafar 1976 2014 2015 32 7,175 29.7% Aljarafe 1998 2018 41 11,961 35.8% Almería 1987 2014 2014 21 1,024 10.0% Alzira 1991 2014 2017 18 7,712 18.3% Antequera 2004 2018 2017 58 11,804 65.3% Azabache 1977 2014 2016 32 5,839 22.4% Cabrera de Mar 1979 2014 2014 28 14,240 17.9% Caceres 1998 2014 2015 15 1,514 11.7% Cartagena 1998 2014 2016 14 1,097 14.5% Castellón 1985 2014 2015 22 2,664 8.6% Ciudad de la Imagen 1995 2014 2016 23 2,039 14.2% Córdoba – Zahira 1977 2014 16 996 7.4% Dos Hermanas (Sevilla) 1993 2014 2017 17 1,411 13.4% El Alisal 2004 2014 2016 40 15,161 43.9% El Mirador 1997 2016 43 9,845 50.4% El Paseo 1977 2018 57 10,454 18.5% El Pinar 1981 2014 2014 35 4,360 14.0% Elche 1983 2014 2015 17 10,086 Fan Mallorca 2016 2016 2016 104 38,141 75.0% Finestrat – Benidorm 1989 2014 2016 23 2,227 16.3% Gandía 1994 2014 2015 19 2,040 13.3% Gran Via de Hortaleza 1992 2018 69 6,267 27.2% Granada 1999 2014 2015 26 2,673 15.7% Huelva 2013 2014 2013 93 34,036 82.4% Jerez de la Frontera – Norte 1997 2014 2017 46 6,899 37.5% Jerez de la Frontera, Cádiz – Sur 1989 2014 2016 39 3,994 18.9% La Granadilla 1990 2014 2014 16 1,029 7.0% La Línea de la Concepción, Cádiz – 1997 2014 2016 47 8,892 36.5% Gran Sur La Sierra 1994 2018 78 17,611 18.9% Leon 1990 2014 2016 17 2,486 18.6% Lérida 1986 2014 2014 12 512 8.8% Los Angeles 1992 2014 2016 42 6,772 34.4% 56 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 ASSETS AND VALUATION Detailed presentation of the operating asset base of Carmila at 31 December 2019 Carmila Group Carmila Group Year of Year of Year of Total number gross leasable area share per site Name of centre, city construction acquisition renovation of units (sq.m.) (%) Los Barrios Algeciras Lucena 1980 2002 2014 2014 2015 2016 28 13 2,353 1,394 16.4% 11.4% 2 Lugo 1993 2014 2017 17 2,201 11.1% Málaga – Alameda II 1987 2014 2016 31 8,839 37.6% Málaga – Los Patios 1975 2014 2018 39 6,770 21.4% Manresa 1991 2018 30 2,331 13.1% Merida 1992 2014 2017 20 2,601 10.4% Montigala 1991 2016 2018 58 10,668 43.7% Mostoles 1992 2014 2016 24 3,291 20.1% Murcia – Atalayas 1993 2016 43 11,275 45.2% Murcia – Zaraiche 1985 2014 2014 23 2,566 14.1% Oiartzun 1979 2014 2014 14 729 5.5% Orense 1995 2014 2016 18 4,131 82.9% Palma 1977 2014 2014 22 579 5.9% Paterna 1979 2014 2016 18 1,679 9.2% Peñacastillo 1992 2014 2014 53 10,259 42.0% Petrer 1991 2014 2016 28 4,056 23.4% Plasencia 1998 2014 13 1,299 11.9% Pontevedra 1995 2014 2014 16 1,681 13.0% Reus 1991 2014 2014 27 2,933 21.2% Rivas 1997 2014 2016 25 2,159 21.5% Sagunto 1989 2014 10 968 11.9% Salamanca 1989 2014 2016 14 795 7.6% San Juan 1977 2018 29 7,084 24.5% San Juan de Aznalfarache, Sevilla 1985 2014 2015 34 4,999 21.5% San Sebastián de los Reyes 2004 2014 2016 21 2,336 12.7% Sestao 1994 2014 2016 19 1,317 48.8% Sevilla – Macarena 1993 2014 2016 23 1,882 14.6% Sevilla – Montequinto 1999 2014 2016 14 9,995 7.7% Sevilla – San Pablo 1979 2014 2014 29 3,258 15.8% Talavera – Los Alfares 2005 2014 2016 53 20,506 76.7% Tarragona 1975 2014 2017 18 3,420 11.4% Tarrasa 1978 2018 37 7,502 31.6% Torrelavega 1996 2014 2016 17 2,144 9.7% Torrevieja 1994 2014 2014 16 1,700 11.5% Valencia – Campanar 1988 2014 2016 29 3,099 16.7% Valladolid 1981 2014 2017 33 3,272 17.5% Valladolid II 1995 2014 2017 19 3,551 21.5% Valverde Badajoz 1996 2014 2015 28 2,688 Villanueva 1995 2014 2016 10 687 10.2% Villareal de los Infantes 1995 2014 2016 13 939 10.3% Zaragoza 1989 2014 2015 19 4,301 23.4% As Cancelas wholly-owned (50% of assets held, based 2012 2014 2012 115 50,264 on the equity method) CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 57 ASSETS AND VALUATION 2. Detailed presentation of the operating asset base of Carmila at 31 December 2019 Carmila Group Carmila Group Year of Year of Year of Total number gross leasable area share per site Name of centre, city construction acquisition renovation of units (sq.m.) (%) ITALY Massa 1995 2014 2016 44 8,231 45.9% Burolo 1996 2014 2016 10 946 10.9% Vercelli 1987 2014 2016 20 3,098 24.1% Paderno Dugnano 1974 2014 2019 73 15,508 47.6% Gran Giussano 1997 2014 2017 48 9,338 47.4% Thiene 1992 2014 2015 40 6,016 44.7% Turin 1989 2014 2014 12 1,193 12.7% Limbiate 2006 2015 1 1,923 4.4% Assago 1988 2015 1 2,380 5.0% Nichelino 1995 2014 2017 66 41,694 27.0% 58 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 3. 3.1 Selected financial 60 information 3.2 Financial statements 61 3.2.1 Consolidated statement 61 of comprehensive income 3.2.2 Consolidated statement 62 of financial position 3.2.3 Consolidated Cash Flow 63 statement 3.2.4 Statement of changes 64 in consolidated equity 3.3 Analysis of the activity 65 3.3.1 Economic environment 65 3.3.2 Retailer activity 65 3.3.3 Letting activity 66 3.3.4 Structure of leases 68 3.3.5 Financial occupancy rate 71 3.3.6 Occupancy cost ratio of retailers 71 Activity 3.4 Corporate Social Responsibility 3.4.1 Pillar 1: Here we act for the local 72 72 during the year regions 3.4.2 Pillar 2: Here we act for the planet 3.4.3 Pillar 3: Here we act for employees 72 72 3.5 Digital marketing 73 3.6 Business Development 73 3.6.1 Carmila Retail Development 73 3.6.2 Health Hub 73 3.6.3 LouWifi 74 3.6.4 Lou 5G 74 3.7 Comments on the year’s 75 activity 3.7.1 Gross rental income (GRI) 75 and Net Rental Income (NRI) 3.7.2 Operating expenses 76 3.7.3 EBITDA 76 3.7.4 Net financial income (expense) 76 3.8 EPRA performance 77 indicators 3.8.1 EPRA earnings and recurring 77 earnings 3.8.2 EPRA Cost Ratio 78 3.8.3 Going concern NAV, EPRA NAV 78 and EPRA NNNAV 3.8.4 EPRA vacancy rate 79 3.8.5 EPRA yield: EPRA NIY and EPRA 80 Topped-Up NIY 3.8.6 EPRA investments 80 3.9 Financial policy 81 3.9.1 Financial resources 81 3.9.2 Hedging instruments 82 3.9.3 Cash 82 3.9.4 Rating 82 3.9.5 Dividend distribution Policy 82 3.10 Equity and shareholding 83 3.11 Additional information 83 3.11.1 Changes in governance 83 3.12 Outlook 84 3.13 Financial information 84 as at 31 March 2020 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 59 ACTIVITY DURING THE YEAR 3. Selected financial information 3.1 Selected financial information FINANCIAL INFORMATION FROM THE INCOME STATEMENT (in millions of euros) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Gross Rental income 359.5 340.3 Net Rental Income 333.2 313.7 EBITDA (excluding fair value adjustments)(1) 282.6 264.3 Change in fair value adjustments on investment properties -90.2 13.6 Operating income 191.8 275.0 Net financial income/(expense) -58.1 -58.6 Consolidated net income – Group share 108.2 163.6 Earnings per share(3) 0.79 1.20 EPRA earnings(2) 218.5 202.5 EPRA earnings(3) 1.60 1.49 Recurring earnings(4) 222.5 207.5 Recurring earnings per share(3) 1.63 1.53 (1) For a definition of EBITDA (excluding fair value) and the reconciliation with the closest IFRS indicator see Section “Comments on results for the year”. (2) For a definition of “EPRA earnings”, see the Section “EPRA performance indicators”. (3) Number of average shares: 136,408,412 at 31 December 2019 and 135,860,096 at 31 December 2018. (4) Recurring earnings are equal to EPRA earnings excluding certain non-recurring items. See the Section “EPRA Performance indicators”. SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION FROM THE BALANCE SHEET (in millions of euros) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Investment properties (carried at fair-value excluding transfer taxes) 6,001.6 5,953.7 Cash and cash equivalent investments 174.2 207.1 Financial debt (current and non-current) 2,416.0 2,389.9 Shareholders’ equity – Group share 3,540.4 3,646.9 FINANCIAL INFORMATION RELATED TO KEY INDICATORS AND RATIOS (in millions of euros) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Net financial debt 2,241.8 2,177.2 Loan-to-value ratio ITT (LTV)(1) 34.9% 34.0% Interest Coverage Ratio (ICR)(2) 5,0x 4,9x EPRA net asset value, excluding transfer taxes 3,799.4 3,876.1 EPRA net asset value, excluding transfer taxes, per share(3) 27.79 28.39 Gross asset value (including transfer taxes, including works in progress) 6,421.5 6,404.6 (1) LTV including transfer taxes and work in progress: ratio between the value of the investment properties (including transfer taxes and work in progress) and net financial debt. (2) Ratio of EBITDA (excluding fair value adjustments) to net financial costs. (3) Year end, fully diluted, on the basis of 136,705,504 shares at 31 December 2019 and 136,538,931 shares at 31 December 2018. 60 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 ACTIVITY DURING THE YEAR Financial statements 3.2 Financial statements 3.2.1 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income (in thousands of euros) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Gross Rental income 359,457 340,250 Charges rebilled to tenants 79,359 74,799 Total Income from rental activity 438,816 415,049 Real estate expenses -21,214 -18,659 Rental charges Property expenses (landlord) -71,307 -13,111 -71,076 -11,656 3 Net Rental Income 333,184 313,658 Operating expenses -52,840 -50,574 Income from management, administration and other activities 10,477 4,595 Other income 1,407 6,631 Payroll expenses -25,145 -24,839 Other external expenses -39,579 -36,961 Allowances for depreciation of fixed assets, amortisation of intangible fixed assets and provisions -3,493 -3,508 Other operating income and expenses 1,343 -277 Gain (losses) on disposals of investment properties and equity investments -610 -1,796 Change in fair value adjustment -90,172 13,586 Share in net income of equity-accounted investments 4,376 3,882 Operating income 191,788 274,971 Financial income 559 384 Financial expenses and allowances -57,277 -54,011 Cost of net indebtness -56,718 -53,627 Other financial income (expenses) -1,389 -4,931 Net financial income/(expense) -58,107 -58,558 Income before taxes 133,681 216,413 Income tax -25,277 -52,804 CONSOLIDATED NET INCOME 108,404 163,609 Group share 108,213 163,557 Noncontrolling interests 191 53 Average number of shares comprising Carmila's share capital 136,408,412 135,653,512 Earnings per share, in euros (Group share) 0.79 1.21 Diluted average number of shares comprising Carmila's share capital 136,705,504 135,860,096 Diluted earnings per share, in euros (Group share) 0.79 1.20 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (in thousands of euros) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Consolidated net income 108,404 163,609 Items to be subsequently recycled in net income -10,923 -4,152 Cash-flow Hedges (effective part) -10,923 -2,978 Fair value of other financial assets -1,174 Related income tax Items not to be subsequently recycled in net income 106 Re-valuation of the net liabilities under defined-benefit schemes 106 Related income tax CONSOLIDATED NET COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 97,481 159,563 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 61 ACTIVITY DURING THE YEAR 3. Financial statements 3.2.2 Consolidated statement of financial position Assets (in thousands of euros) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Goodwill Intangible assets 4,262 4,556 Property, plant and equipment 4,244 2,062 Investment properties carried at fair value 6,001,608 5,953,655 Investment properties carried at cost 68,785 62,605 Investments in equity-accounted companies 52,459 49,766 Other non current assets 12,427 11,948 Deffered tax assets 11,548 7,776 Non current assets 6,155,332 6,092,368 Investment properties held for sale Trade receivables 117,105 123,616 Other current assets 69,127 217,244 Cash and cash equivalent 178,172 70,518 Current assets 364,404 411,378 TOTAL ASSETS 6,519,736 6,503,746 Liabilities & shareholders' equity (in thousands of euros) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Share capital 820,091 819,370 Additional paid-in capital 2,129,169 2,268,204 Treasury shares -2,676 -3,861 Other comprehensive income -42,906 -31,983 Consolidated retained earnings 528,543 431,612 Consolidated net income – Group share 108,213 163,557 Shareholders' equity – Group share 3,540,434 3,646,899 Noncontrolling interests 5,612 5,781 SHAREHOLDER’S EQUITY 3,546,046 3,652,680 Non-current provisions 6,865 5,685 Non-current financial debt 2,295,954 2,301,426 Lease deposits and guarantees 77,722 76,454 Non-current tax liabilities and deferred tax liabilities 175,685 159,261 Other non current liabilities 7,489 7,473 Non current liabilities 2,563,715 2,550,299 Current financial debt 160,313 82,885 Bank facilities 4,141 5,617 Current provisions 658 Trade payables 28,855 28,370 Fixed assets payables 81,674 52,141 Current tax and payroll related liabilities 49,356 44,237 Other current liabilities 84,978 87,517 Current liabilities 409,975 300,767 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY 6,519,736 6,503,746 62 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 ACTIVITY DURING THE YEAR Financial statements 3.2.3 Consolidated Cash Flow statement (in thousands of euros) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Consolidated net income 108,404 163,609 Adjustments Elimination of income from equity-accounted investments -4,376 -3,882 Elimination of depreciation, amortisation and provisions 659 6,350 Elimination of change in fair value adjustments 85,563 -11,388 Elimination of capital gain/loss on disposals 879 1,371 Other non-cash income and expenses 3,567 -1,501 3 Cash-flow from operations after cost of net debt and tax 194,696 154,559 Elimination of tax expense (income) 25,277 52,804 Elimination of cost of net debt 55,462 53,628 Cash-flow from operations before cost of net financial debt and tax 275,435 260,991 Change in operating working capital 7,718 -17,247 Change in lease deposits and guarantees 1,259 4,387 Income tax paid -2,795 -6,012 Cash-flow from operating activities 281,617 242,119 Change in scope of consolidation Change in fixed assets payables 29,533 -19,610 Acquisitions of investment properties -120,845 -571,903 Acquisitions of other fixed assets -185 -502 Change in loans and advances 782 3,019 Disposal of investment properties and other fixed assets 5,467 19,163 Dividends received 1,684 1,480 Cash-flow from investment activities -83,565 -568,353 Share capital increase 36,350 Transactions in share capital of equity accounted companies Net sale (purchase) of treasury shares 1,185 -1,893 Issuance of bonds 50,000 350,000 Issuance of new bank loans 75,235 10,000 Loan repayments -100,000 -2,322 Display of short term investments in other current receivables 145,020 -145,053 Interest paid -56,019 -44,138 Interest received 559 384 Dividends and share premiums distributed to shareholders -204,903 -101,461 Cash-flow from financing activities -88,923 101,867 CHANGE IN NET CASH POSITION 109,130 -224,367 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 63 ACTIVITY DURING THE YEAR 3. Financial statements 3.2.4 Statement of changes in consolidated equity Additional Other Consolidated Consolidated Shareholders' Non Share(in thousands Share paid-in Treasury comprehensive retained net income – equity – controlling holders' of euros) capital capital shares income earnings Group share Group share interests equity BALANCE AT 810,360 2,321,671 -2,653 -27,937 121,234 313,787 3,536,462 5,999 3,542,461 31 DECEMBER 2017 First application 19,754 19,754 19,754 of IFRS 9 BALANCE AT 810,360 2,321,671 -2,653 -27,937 140,988 313,787 3,556,216 5,999 3,562,215 1 JANUARY 2018 Share capital 9,010 27,340 36,350 36,350 transactions Share-based -1,501 -1,501 -1,501 payments Treasury share -1,208 -1,208 -1,208 transactions Dividend paid -80,807 -20,384 -101,191 -271 -101,462 Allocation of income 313,787 -313,787 0 0 Net income 163,557 163,557 53 163,610 of the year Gains and losses recorded directly in equity Cross charging of OCI 2,608 2,608 2,608 to income Change in fair value of -1,174 -1,174 -1,174 other financial assets Change in fair value of -5,586 -5,586 -5,586 hedging instruments Actuarial gains and losses on retirement 106 106 106 benefits Other comprehensive -4,046 -4,046 0 -4,046 income Other changes -1,278 -1,278 -1,278 BALANCE AT 819,370 2,268,204 -3,861 -31,983 431,612 163,557 3,646,899 5,781 3,652,680 31 DECEMBER 2018 Share capital 721 -721 0 0 0 transactions Share-based -17 -17 -17 payments Treasury share 1,185 1,185 1,185 transactions Dividend paid -138,314 -66,229 -204,543 -360 -204,903 Allocation of 2018 163,557 -163,557 0 0 net income Net income 108,213 108,213 190 108,404 of the year Gains and losses recorded directly in equity Cross charging of OCI 1,944 1,944 1,944 to income Change in fair value of 0 0 0 other financial assets Change in fair value of -12,867 -12,867 -12,867 hedging instruments Actuarial gains and losses on retirement 0 0 0 benefits Other comprehensive -10,923 -10,923 0 -10,923 income Other changes -380 -380 -380 BALANCE AT 820,091 2,129,169 -2,676 -42,906 528,543 108,213 3,540,434 5,612 3,546,046 31 DECEMBER 2019 64 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 ACTIVITY DURING THE YEAR Analysis of the activity 3.3 Analysis of the activity 3.3.1 Economic environment GDP growth Unemployment rate Inflation 2018 2019E 2020E 2018 2019E 2020E 2018 2019E 2020E France 1.7% 1.3% 1.2% 9.1% 8.5% 8.2% 0.9% 0.6% 0.8% Italy 0.7% 0.2% 0.4% 10.6% 10.0% 10.0% 0.6% 0.5% 0.8% Spain 2.4% 2.0% 1.6% 15.3% 14.2% 14.1% 1.0% 1.1% 1.3% Euro Zone 1.9% 1.2% * Source: OECD Economic Outlook n°106 – November 2019. 1.1% 8.2% 7.6% 7.5% 1.0% 1.0% 1.1% 3 Forecasts for GDP growth in 2020 in the Euro Zone are weak (+1.1%) Private consumption will be indirectly sustained by the robustness as a result of global trade tensions (international trade agreements of the labour market. The unemployment rate is expected to decline between the USA and China, uncertainty surrounding the content of in the Euro Zone by 10 bps in 2020, in particular in France (-30 bps) Brexit trade agreements), resulting in a decline in external demand and Spain (-10 bps), while it should remain stable in Italy. and exports. The consequence of the resilience of the overall European labour Public investment will be stable for countries such as France, Spain market is that nominal salaries are increasing, which contributes to and Italy, sustained by ECB efforts to keep its key rates low (it growth owing to the rise in real purchasing power for employees, lowered its deposit facility rate by 10 bps in September 2019, and given the anticipated weak inflation in the Euro zone, which was resumed its asset purchase programme in November 2019). stable and low in 2019 (+1.0%) and slightly up in 2020 (+1.1%). The projected GDP growth rates in 2020 in France (+1.2%) and Spain Inflation growth in 2020 is fairly even in the three countries: in Italy (+1.6%) are higher than in Italy (+0.4%), the French and Spanish (+30 bps in 2020), France and Spain (+20 bps in both countries). economies being less dependent on exports than Italy, that relies to a greater extent on the manufacturing industry and external demand. 3.3.2 Retailer activity Change in retail National benchmark Country tenants' revenues in FY 2019 index performance France 2.1% +0,8%(1) Spain 2.0% +3,1%(2) Italy 1.7% -0,4%(3) TOTAL 2.0% N/A (1) CNCC performance index November 2019 YTD. (2) Instituto nacional de estadística performance index November 2019 YTD. (3) Consiglio Nazionale dei Centri Commerciali performance index September 2019 YTD. The change in retail tenants' revenues was calculated over the The trend towards changes in Ready-to-Wear revenues is positive period from 1 January to 31 December 2019, compared with the same overall (+1.0% in France, +3.2% in Spain and +0.8% in Italy). period in 2018 and on a like-for-like basis. Performances of retail brands varied, with some retail brands outperforming (including H&M, Zara, Kiabi and Mango) and others Retailer sales revenue experienced overall growth in 2019 (+2.0% under-performing (such as children's fashion). cumulative for all three countries, with France at +2.1%, Spain at +2.0%, and Italy at +1.7%). In France, the Thionville Géric (+3.9%) and Calais Coquelles (+3.0%) sites saw particularly strong out-performance, as did Sartrouville This overall growth is explained by the strong increase in revenue in (+2.3%) and Toulouse Purpan (+4.0%) thanks to restructuring three different sectors: Food and Restaurants grew significantly carried out by Carmila. In Spain the large centres of Talavera (France +3.3% in YTD, Spain +2.7%, Italy +0.9% thanks to the good (+6.3%), Fan Mallorca (+4.7%) and El Paseo (+4.0%) also progress of fast food retail brands such as McDonald’s, Burger King, experienced a significant increase in their retailers' revenues, as did Colombus), followed by Services (France +5.1%, Spain +1.8%, Italy Nichelino (+2.9%), Paderno (+2.4%) and Massa (+2.3%) in Italy. +6.9% sustained by good performances in telephony with Orange and Movistar) and Health and Beauty (France +3.1%, Spain +5.6%). Opticians and hairdressers-barbers were the most dynamic in 2019, driven by the strong performances of Krys and Alain Afflelou, and the retail brand Barbe de Papa (+10.2% for this brand co-developed with Carmila) in France. CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 65 ACTIVITY DURING THE YEAR 3. Analysis of the activity 3.3.3 Letting activity 3.3.3.1 Summary During 2019, Carmila renewed 390 commercial leases for a minimum guaranteed rent of €17.5 million, thus generating a reversion of In 2019, Carmila signed 874 leases for a total minimum guaranteed 6.9%, with the following breakdown: rent of €38.3 million. • 162 leases were renewed in France, for a minimum guaranteed Carmila let 436 vacant premises for a minimum guaranteed rent of rent of €10.1 million and with a reversion of 9.0%; €16.9 million, broken down as follows: • 254 units for €10.1 million in France; • 212 leases were renewed in Spain, for a minimum guaranteed rent of €6.5 million and with a reversion of 4.2%; • 160 units for €5.3 million in Spain; • 16 leases were renewed in Italy, for a minimum guaranteed rent of • 22 units for €1.5 million in Italy. €0.8 million and with a reversion of 1.5%. The company also signed leases for 48 premises on its extension projects for a minimum guaranteed rent of €3.8 million, all of which in France. Letting of vacant premises Letting of extensions Renewals Number Annual minimum Number Annual minimum Number Annual minimum (in thousands of euros) of leases guaranteed rent of leases guaranteed rent of leases guaranteed rent Reversion France 254 10,098 48 3,805 162 10,146 9.0% Spain 160 5,340 212 6,540 4.2% Italy 22 1,481 16 845 1.5% TOTAL 436 16,919 48 3,805 390 17,531 6.9% France Beauty treatment centres continue to open at Carmila, similarly to Body Minute – Nail Minute in Evreux Guichainville and Stains, or Carmila diversified its rental base by letting its vacant premises to beauty salons and bars in Evreux, Hérouville Saint Clair, Port-deretail brands representative of a variety of activity sectors: Bouc and Puget-sur-Argens. • The Culture-Gifts-Leisure sector accounts for 29% of the leases Perfume shops are also represented with premises let to Sephora signed in 2019 (by rent), primarily with national players in mobile in Thionville and Villejuif, and Nocibé in Liévin. telephony. It should be noted, amongst others, that Orange is Lastly, Carmila and its partner, the barber Barbe de Papa, planning to open units in Aix-en-Provence, Toulouse Labège and continue to expand the retail brand in 12 centres spread over the Montesson, Bouygues Telecom in Chambourcy, and Free in five whole of France: in the Ile de France: Chambourcy, Montesson, centres: Antibes, Bourges, Montesson, Nice Lingostière and Ormesson and Torcy Collégien; in the North: Hérouville Saint Clair Venette. and Reims Tinqueux; in the West: Châteauroux, Condé-sur-Sarthe Players in the sports sector are also represented with letting of and Toulouse Purpan; in the South-East: Beaucaire, Saint-Egrève medium-sized surfaces to Intersport in Epinal and Roanne Mably, and Uzès. Fitness Park in Gennevilliers and Basic Fit in Gruchet le Valasse. Lastly, the retail brand Courir is broadening its presence with • The Food and Restaurants sectors accounts for 15% of leases Carmila, with new stores in Angoulins and Charleville Mézières. signed in 2019, with major players in catering such as Hippopotamus in Torcy Bay 1, Burger King in Laval, and • 25% of the letting activities during the year are related to the Columbus Café in Calais Coquelles and Thionville Géric. Clothing and Accessories sector. Carmila is introducing Bel Chous International and theme restaurants are expanding, such as Asian shoes to Ormesson and Chambourcy, and Tamaris in Torcy cooking, including Pitaya and Côté Sushi in Toulouse Labège, and Collégien. This will be the first Tamaris store in a Carmila Thaï Break in Orléans Cap Saran while American catering has shopping centre. In the south of France, the company is also come to Calais Coquelles with Old Wild West, and Italian cooking developing the presence of its partner Indémodable, which plans at Port-de-Bouc with La Cantina. to open points of sale in Aix-en-Provence, Anglet, Orange, Pau Regional brasseries and food stalls are setting up at Carmila Lescar, Toulouse Labège and Toulouse Purpan. with Capodimonte and the Brasserie du XV in Toulouse Labège, Lettings to major ready-to-wear players include Cache-Cache in or the Délices de Bretagne in Evreux Guichainville and the Orléans Place d’Arc and Torcy Collégien, Tally Weijl in Orléans Ambassade Bretonne in Brest. Cap Saran, Levis in Orléans Place d’Arc, Darjeeling in Calais Lastly, new chocolate shops are setting up in Carmila shopping Coquelles, as well as Eden Park in Thionville. centres, such as Jeff de Bruges in Anglet BAB2, the Comptoir de Mathilde in Cholet, Pau Lescar and Perpignan Claira, and Leonidas • 24% of the leases signed are related to Health and Beauty. in L’Haÿ-les-Roses, Orange, Quimper le Kerdrezec and Carmila is endeavouring to expand this strategic development Sartrouville. focus to strengthen the leading position of its centres and to diversify its merchandising mix. • The remaining letting activities are related to Household Pharmacies have already opened or are planning to open in furnishings as well as Services with the opening of retail brands 10 shopping centres: Annecy Brogny, Brest Iroise, Dinan Quevert, specialised in decoration, with Maison du Monde in Lorient, and in Draguignan, Goussainville, Marseille Vitrolles, Montluçon, Rennes furnishing, with Poltronesofa in Orléans Cap Saran and Nouvelle Cesson, Roanne Mably and Saint-Brieuc. Carmila continues to Literie in Torcy Collégien. expand the presence of opticians with leases signed with Optique Carmila is welcoming new retail brands and activities with the Minute in Orange and Alain Afflelou on four sites: Denain, Laon, arrivals of Normal in Calais Coquelles, Action in Draguignan or the Le Mans and Salaise-sur-Sanne. real estate agencies Stéphane Plaza in Brest and Champs-surMarne. 66 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 ACTIVITY DURING THE YEAR Analysis of the activity Spain Italy The diversification of the merchandising mix is progressing in In Italy letting activities mainly involved medium-sized clothing Carmila's Spanish centres: retailers and ready-to-wear retail brands, such as Terranova in • The Health and Beauty sector accounts for 26% of the leases Massa, or Sem Denim in Nichelino. Culture-Gifts-Leisure accounts for 15% of the leases, with the electronic retail brand Unieuro in Vercelli signed in 2019, for instance with the hairdresser Carlos Conde in and the bookshop Giunti Al Punto in Nichelino. 13% of leases signed Parquesol. In particular, Carmila is increasing the number of are in Health and Beauty, with, for example, the Little Italy Barber beauty clinics in its Spanish centres, by signing up, with its Shop in Massa. Lastly, the remaining leases were signed with partner Centros Ideal, an eleventh medical centre in Fan Mallorca, Services, Household furnishings, and Food and Restaurants brands, as well as with the opening of Lassersion in Paterna, Torrevieja with La Piadineria in Thiene and Massa. and Orense, and 360° Clinics in Cartagena and La Veronica. • 20% of the letting activities in the year concern the Clothing and 3.3.3.2 Temporary retail activity Accessories sector, such as the international shoe brand Crocs in Fan Mallorca, and Mango in Atalayas. Retail sports fashion brands The temporary store activity focuses on providing space in Carmila also found their place at Carmila, such as Oteros in Gran Via de centres for short to medium periods (maximum one year). As part of a complementary approach to traditional stores, it provides visitors 3 Hortaleza and Peñacastillo. with the opportunity to discover a more innovative offer. It focuses • 17% of the leases signed concern Household furnishings, such as upon two areas: the mattress distributor Max Colchon in El Mirador and Granada. • Specialty Leasing; • Culture-Gifts-Leisure accounts for 14% of the leases signed in • Pop-up Stores. 2019, with, for example, the toy specialist Toy Planet in La Veronica, and the pet shops Crazypet in Sestao, Móstoles and As a result of a renegotiation with Carrefour Property Spain, Carmila Lugo, Kiwoko in Atalayas, and Madagascar in San Juan de is entitled to 100% of the Specialty Leasing income in Spain Alicante. since December 2018. • 14% of letting activities in 2019 concern Food and Restaurants, Revenues arising from Specialty Leasing and Pop-up Stores in the including the opening of the sixth KFC restaurant at Carmila in three countries have grown strongly by 33.9% compared with 2018. As Cancelas and two new Burger King restaurants in San Juan de Aznalfarache and Badajoz La Granadilla. • The remaining letting activities involve Services, with, for example, Fotoprix, a strong brand with 1,000 stores in Spain, which is opening its first store at Carmila in Alcobendas. GROSS RENTAL INCOME 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Change Specialty Pop-up Total Specialty Pop-up Total (in thousands of euros) Leasing Stores SL+TS Leasing Stores SL+TS % France 5,555 1,604 7,159 5,588 1,340 6,928 3.3% Spain 5,689 260 5,949 2,437 142 2,579 130.7% Italy 1,213 1,213 1,191 1,191 1.8% TOTAL 12,457 1,864 14,321 9,216 1,482 10,698 33.9% Specialty Leasing 2019 was marked by an increase in the number and diversity of Specialty Leasing is dedicated to the development of event themes for exhibitions (e.g. home, cars, camping-cars) and organisation as well as new and innovative services and products roadshows (Yamaha in La Sierra in Spain; in France, Nocibé in intended for customers in shopping centres. Constantly mirroring 5 centres, Prince in 11 centres). Specialty Leasing has made it trends in consumption, the various players in Specialty Leasing make possible to attract national and international brands (L’Oréal in Bay it possible to diversify the shopping offer and enrich the customer 2, Tassimo in 4 French centres), with theme weeks (vegan butter experience. This diversification thus enables value to be added to with Fruit d’Or in 2 centres, the rediscovery of olfactory senses for the public areas of the centres. It is divided into two sub-activities: Ducros and its 4 days to discover spices at Montesson), and new signings with qualitative concepts, for example, engraving jewellery • the letting of floor areas in the malls and in the car parks; on the spot or the sale of e-cigarettes. At the end of the year, the Christmas markets were very successful once again, with chalets • a partnership, on an exclusive basis with the advertiser being set up in 24 shopping centres in France. ClearChannel, for communication via a digital medium in the malls. The launch of the Carmila Event entity during the last quarter within the Specialty Leasing department will enable the event organisation The success of Specialty Leasing at Carmila stems from the intention activity to expand in 2020. to renew the concepts presented in the malls, with particular attention paid to the quality and relevance of the concepts with the centre's offer with regard to duration, type and theme. CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 67 ACTIVITY DURING THE YEAR 3. Analysis of the activity Pop-up stores Carmila is also attracting national retail brands (e.g. Volkswagen in Carmila also leverages the attractiveness of its shopping centres to Perpignan Claira, Lego in Rennes Cesson and Swarovski in Pugetopen pop-up stores in premises of between 50 and 3,000 sq.m., for sur-Argens) as well as e-retailers and promising young retail brands leases ranging from 4 and 34 months. Carmila provides tenants with (e.g. CashKorner, which is having considerable success with turnkey solutions, by dealing with the administrative tasks related to customers in the Bay 2 centre and which will soon open in Toulouse store openings and enabling them to focus entirely on their sales Purpan), enabling them to test their concept before committing activities. Lessees are satisfied with the high service standards themselves to signing a commercial lease. Carmila has thereby provided by Carmila for openings, particularly in Spain as evidenced confirmed its leadership in pop-up stores in shopping centres by by the numerous lease renewals following the Christmas period, offering dedicated premises with a high level of services to thereby demonstrating these retailers' desire to move in for a innovative and differentiating brands. Some stores even attract the longer-term after a successful initial experience. This specific form of interest of the regional press. For example, the opening of Repaire letting, which complements traditional letting, enables Carmila to des Sorciers (Harry Potter branded goods) in Toulouse Labège had renew its merchandising mix and pursue opportunistic marketing of a knock-on effect for the entire shopping centre and resulted in a vacant spaces by taking advantage of seasonality with limited tenor significant increase in footfall. leases. 3.3.4 Structure of leases With 6,348 leases under management at 31 December 2019, Carmila has a solid and diversified base of tenants, with rents from the Carrefour group representing less than 1% of net rental income in 2019. Annualised rents totalled €361.7 million at 31 December 2019. BREAKDOWN OF NUMBER OF LEASES AND CONTRACTUAL RENTS ON AN ANNUALISED BASIS BY COUNTRY At 31/12/2019 At 31/12/2018 Annualised Annualised Number of contractual rent Number of contractual rent Country leases (in millions of euros) %/Total leases (in millions of euros) %/Total France 3,537 238.9 66.1% 3,542 236.5 66.0% Spain 2,446 99.4 27.5% 2,381 99.1 27.6% Italy 365 23.4 6.5% 356 22.8 6.4% TOTAL 6,348 361.7 100% 6,279 358.4 100% Principal tenant retailers At 31 December 2019, the 15 leading tenants accounted for 18.8% of annualised rents, with one retailer alone accounting for 2.0% of gross rental income. The table below shows the annualised rents and business sector of the 15 largest tenants at 31 December 2019. At 31/12/2019 Annualised contractual rent Tenant (in millions of euros) %/Total Inditex Clothing and Accessories 7.1 2.0% Alain Afflelou Health and Beauty 6.2 1.7% H&M Clothing and Accessories 6.0 1.6% Feu Vert Services 5.5 1.5% Camaïeu Clothing and Accessories 5.4 1.5% Orange Culture, Gifts & Leisure 5.3 1.5% Mc Donald's Food & Restaurants 4.8 1.3% Flunch Food & Restaurants 4.2 1.1% Micromania Culture, Gifts & Leisure 3.8 1.1% Celio Clothing and Accessories 3.8 1.1% Nocibé Health and Beauty 3.7 1.0% Yves Rocher Health and Beauty 3.4 0.9% C&A Clothing and Accessories 3.0 0.8% Histoire d'Or Culture, Gifts & Leisure 3.0 0.8% Kiabi Clothing and Accessories 2.9 0.8% 68.0 18.8% 68 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 ACTIVITY DURING THE YEAR Analysis of the activity Distribution of contractual rent by business sector on an annualised basis The table below shows Carmila’s annualised rents by business sector at 31 December 2019: At 31/12/2019 At 31/12/2018 Annualised Annualised Number of contractual rent Number of contractual rent Business sector leases (in millions of euros) %/Total leases (in millions of euros) %/Total Clothing and accessories 1,484 124.3 34.4% 1,519 125.8 35.1% Culture, gifts and leisure 1,023 66.7 18.4% 965 63.0 17.6% Health and Beauty 1,195 64.7 17.9% 1,178 64.1 17.9% Food and Restaurants 866 46.3 12.8% 855 46.0 12.8% Household equipment 289 29.6 8.2% 282 29.1 8.1% Services Other 1,386 105 29.5 0.7 8.1% 0.2% 1,402 78 29.8 0.5 8.3% 0.2% 3 TOTAL 6,348 361.7 100% 6,279 358.4 100% The reduced influence of Clothing and accessories in total rents Furthermore, four of the main activity sectors saw their respective (-70 bps) was mainly to the benefit of the Culture, Gifts and Leisure rents increase compared with 2018: in particular, the Culture, Gifts sector (+80 bps), while the proportions of the rental base of the and Leisure sector generated an additional +5.8% of rent, followed other sectors remained stable by rent. by Household furnishings with an increase of +1.5%, Health and Beauty with +1.0% and Food and Restaurants with +0.5%. Distribution of contractual rent by business sector on an annualised basis Carmila rents space to large, well-known national and international brands in order to promote the visibility of its shopping centres, as well as to local brands to reinforce its local roots. The table below shows the breakdown of annualised rents between international, national, and local brands in 2018 and 2019: At 31/12/2019 At 31/12/2018 Number of Annualised rent Number of Annualised rent Categories leases (in millions of euros) %/Total leases (in millions of euros) %/Total International brands 2,558 194.6 53.8% 2,671 197.5 55.1% National brands 2,279 114.6 31.7% 2,144 110.0 30.7% Local brands 1,511 52.5 14.5% 1,464 50.9 14.2% TOTAL 6,348 361.7 100% 6,279 358.4 100% At 31/12/2019 Categories France Spain Italy International brands 54.5% 55.6% 39.4% National brands 32.3% 26.6% 46.8% Local brands 13.2% 17.8% 13.9% Carmila is continuing its aim of community-based targeting, with the In Spain, the tenor of the leases may be freely agreed on by the proportion of total rents from local brands increasing by +30 bps in parties, as may methods of terminating, extending, or cancelling the one year. The share of national brands also increased (+100 bps). lease. Leases have an average term of between five and eight years. The increasing share of local brands by country (+40 bps in Spain They provide for a minimum term of three to five years and and Italy, +20 bps in France) reflects Carmila's desire to strengthen additional terms of varying lengths, with the lessee having the right regional proximity with its customers. to give notice prior to the end of the same period subject to providing notice of between two and six months. The lessor is Structure of leases generally bound until the end of the term agreed upon by the parties. In France, commercial leases are entered into for terms that may not In Italy, leases that are subject to the real estate lease regime are be shorter than nine years. The lessee has the right to terminate the entered into for a term of six years, renewable automatically for six lease at the close of each three-year period, subject to providing a years (with a maximum duration of twenty-four years), and their six month notice prior to the end of the said period. However, leases termination by the lessee may give rise to payment of allowances. with terms longer than nine years, such as those entered into by Leases subject to the rules of management leases or business leases Carmila, which generally have terms of 10 or 12 years, may provide have terms of various tenors (generally between five and seven otherwise. The lessor’s right to terminate at the end of each threeyears). Neither termination by the lessee nor termination by the year period is primarily limited to such purposes as construction, lessor results in the payment of allowance to the lessor. reconstruction, or raising the height of the existing building. In addition, the lessor only has the right to judicially terminate the lease if the tenant has breached its obligations. CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 69 ACTIVITY DURING THE YEAR 3. Analysis of the activity Right to renegotiate At 31 December 2019, the average lease term was 4.4 years, with average lease terms by country of 4.7 years in France, 4.2 years in Spain and 3.1 years in Italy. The table below shows the maturity dates of the commercial leases for the property portfolio for the 2019-2029 period (data at 31 December 2019): At 31/12/2019 Annualised contractual rent Expiration of leases Number of leases Maturity* (in millions of euros) Expired on 31/12/2019 694 0.0 34.7 2020 747 0.5 27.5 2021 633 1.6 32.8 2022 631 2.7 30.3 2023 538 3.7 26.9 2024 598 4.6 35.0 2025 405 5.6 22.1 2026 538 6.7 32.3 2027 507 7.6 40.6 2028 485 8.6 32.7 2029 304 9.5 20.8 Beyond 2029 268 12.4 26.0 TOTAL 6,348 4.4 361.7 * Average lease maturity remaining in years. In France, in addition to rent indexation in line with changes in In Spain, the methods for renegotiating rent may be freely various indices, the rent fixed when the lease is concluded can be determined by the parties to the lease. Rent under certain leases is revised at the request of one of the parties, subject to certain revised automatically at the beginning of each tacit renewal of the restrictive conditions. If the lease in question has a rentindexation lease, resulting in a minimum guaranteed rent increase. clause, which is the case for the majority of leases entered into in In Italy, the terms of commercial leases can be renegotiated each France, revision may be requested whenever, due to application of time the lease is renewed, in order to substitute real estate lease that clause, rent is increased or decreased by over 25% as compared contracts with lease management contracts. with the rent agreed on at the inception of the lease. The resulting change in rent may not lead to increases that are greater, for a given year, than 10% of the rent paid in the previous year. Method of setting rents Leases in France comprise either a fixed rent or a dual component In compliance with the rules governing commercial leases, Carmila rent, which is called a “variable rent”. Variable rents are composed of re-evaluates rents when leases are renewed. In France, there is a cap a fixed portion, the minimum guaranteed rent (or annual base rent), removal provision for lease terms exceeding nine years. The change and an additional, variable rent, calculated as a percentage of the in rent resulting from the removal of the cap may not, since tenant’s annual revenue, excluding taxes. In Spain, Carmila’s leases enforcement of the Pinel Law, lead to increases greater than 10% per include either fixed rent or dual component rent, similar to those year. However, as this cap removal provision is not a public under French leases. In Italy, the majority of the leases include prerequisite, it is not compulsory for leases. double-component rents similar to those under the French and Rent renegotiation may also occur when the tenant is contemplating Spanish leases, with certain leases including only fixed rent. selling its leasehold right to an acquirer of its business. Although the At 31 December 2019, for the three countries, Carmila had rules governing commercial leases prohibit the lessor from 4,891 leases with double-component rents and 1,457 leases with opposing the lessee’s sale of the leasehold right to the acquirer of its fixed rent only, representing, respectively, 84.4% and 15.6% of business, Carmila benefits from pre-emption clauses in its annualised rents. commercial leases. Therefore, Carmila may exercise its pre-emptive right to acquire the business in the event that the premises could be re-let on better financial terms. 70 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 ACTIVITY DURING THE YEAR Analysis of the activity The table below shows the structure of Carmila’s rents at 31 December 2019 and 2018: At 31/12/2019 At 31/12/2018 Number Annualised rent Number Annualised rent of leases (in millions of euros) %/Total of leases (in millions of euros) %/Total Leases with variable rent clauses 4,891 305.3 84.4% 4,898 305.8 85.3% Of which leases with minimum guaranteed rent and additional 4,862 299.9 82.9% 4,871 301.2 84.0% variable rent Of which leases with variable 29 5.5 1.5% 27 4.6 1.3% rent only Leases without variable clauses, 1,457 56.4 15.6% 1,381 52.6 14.7% with only fixed rent TOTAL 6,348 With respect to double-component leases, the minimum guaranteed 361.7 100.0% 6,279 358.4 shopping centres, (ii) the average rental for the shopping centre 100.0% 3 rent is set by contract. The additional variable rent is the positive concerned (overall as well as per business sector), (iii) the quality of difference between a percentage of the tenant’s annual sales, the site or (iv) the assessment of revenue, performance and the excluding taxes, and the minimum guaranteed rent. Different financial position of the potential tenant. parameters are used to determine rents: (i) the rents of competing 3.3.5 Financial occupancy rate Financial occupancy rate (excluding strategic vacancies) Country 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 France 95.9% 96.0% Spain 96.4% 96.0% Italy 98.8% 99.7% TOTAL 96.3% 96.2% At 31 December 2019, the consolidated financial occupancy rate of The impact of strategic vacancies is 1.6% in France, 2.5% in Spain Carmila’s assets was 96.3%, of which 95.9% in France, 96.4% in Spain and 0.5% in Italy, which represents a consolidated impact for and 98.8% in Italy. Carmila of 1.8% at 31 December 2019, slightly lower than at 31 December 2018, where the consolidated impact was 1.9%. This The financial occupancy rate is defined as the ratio between the decrease is primarily due to the delivery of restructuring projects amount of rent invoiced and the amount of rent that Carmila would completed by Carmila. collect if its entire portfolio was leased, with the estimated rent for vacant lots being determined on the basis of rental values used by the appraisers. The financial occupancy rate is stated excluding strategic vacancies, which are the vacancies made necessary in order to implement renovation, expansion, or restructuring projects within the shopping centres. 3.3.6 Occupancy cost ratio of retailers The occupancy cost ratio of Carmila's tenants broken down by The tenants included in the calculation are (i) the tenants present country at 31 December 2019 is as follows: France 10.6%, Spain 10.4% over the last 12 months with certified sales, and (ii) tenants present and Italy 12.3%. over the last 12 months and having reported their sales over 12 months on a rolling basis. If the tenant reports its certified sales Carmila takes tenants’ occupancy cost ratios into account in and its sales over a rolling 12 month period, only the certified sales determining rent levels. Occupancy cost ratio is an important are used. indicator for Carmila in determining the proper level of rent for each tenant as a function of its business and in evaluating the financial The rental charges used to calculate occupancy cost ratios are health of a tenant over the term of its lease. made-up of fixed rent, variable rent and rental charges that are passed on to tenants. Rental charges do not include (i) incentives The occupancy cost ratio is defined as the ratio between (i) the total (rent-free periods, step rents or relief), (ii) property taxes charged to amount charged to tenants and (ii) the tenants’ sales. tenants, or (iii) marketing fund costs passed on to tenants. CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 71 ACTIVITY DURING THE YEAR 3. Corporate Social Responsibility 3.4 Corporate Social Responsibility 2019 marked a turning point for Carmila, which increased and accelerated its CSR commitments This ambition is expressed in a programme of responsible initiatives entitled Here we act. This programme, which addresses the expectations of company stakeholders, combines all positive actions, with the aim of stimulating the local economy, protecting the environment and getting employees on board. 3.4.1 Pillar 1: Here we act 3.4.2 Pillar 2: Here we act for the local regions for the planet This pillar marks Carmila's commitment towards stimulating and By establishing its centres in the towns and cities of the future, developing the attractiveness of the local infrastructure alongside Carmila is committed to continually improving its environmental retail brands and retailers. This year’s major achievements are: performance. This commitment starts at every new project’s design step, where Carmila obtained BREEAM new construction certificates • a satisfaction survey with a panel of retailers: 85% of respondents for the Orléans – Cap Saran and Evreux retail parks in 2019, and said they had complete confidence in Carmila as a shopping Very Good for the design phase of the Rennes Cesson extension. centre manager and that they appreciate the digital tools made With regard to its operating facilities, Carmila launched a project of available to them, particularly the “Kiosque” and their centres’ unprecedented scale, with 43 sites having been certified BREEAM in Facebook and Instagram pages; Use in 2019 (5 in Italy, 7 in Spain and 31 in France) with at least the • Carmila is the first retail real estate company to provide a digital Good level, thereby achieving a 61% certification rate for its portfolio platform for lease management: the tenants' extranet . With just by value, i.e. an increase of 25 points compared to 2018. Among the a few clicks, this platform enables retailers to obtain information certified sites, 74% obtained a Very Good or Excellent score. In order such as the welcome guide or documentary proof of expenses. to ensure optimum effectiveness for the management of this largeThe platform can also be used for administrative tasks, such as scale project, Carmila, in partnership with AD environnement, rolled downloading invoices, printing account statements or changing out a digital platform dedicated to the management of data payment methods; generated by BREEAM audits, which enables a detailed analysis of the results with the aim of establishing targeted action plans. This • a number of partnerships were set up to support start-ups platform obtained the Digital Transformation Prize awarded by the coming from the social and solidarity economy, such as Bilum, periodical Business Immo. which gives a second life to covers used on construction sites, Consistent with its commitment started in 2017, Carmila planted Too Good To Go with 130 retailers and 87 shopping centre 7,000 trees in partnership with Reforest’action when the extension partners and the ability to book a short date basket of goods to the Rennes Cesson shopping centre was built. directly on the shopping centre's website, and Miimosa, the crowd-funding platform dedicated to agriculture and the food of tomorrow. Ten projects were supported with an effective communication campaign within Carmila’s shopping centres. 3.4.3 Pillar 3: Here we act Lastly, the Hucklink job terminals in 7 centres enabled our retailers to advertise 72 job vacancies in their stores, and to for employees receive 1,000 CVs, thus facilitating recruitment. Acting daily for the employees means being the driver of fulfilment, This pillar also marks Carmila's commitment to making its centres satisfaction, exceeding one's limits and team spirit. This pillar is local focal points and an expression of local life. Centre directors divided into various actions intended for employees, such as setting committed to the Here we act strategy organised more than up a programme of well-being in the workplace, A tu Salud , for the 1,600 CSR actions in partnership with local associations, an increase Spanish teams. of 17% compared with 2018. Twenty-eight events, most of which in partnership with Carrefour Hypermarkets, were organised on With the aim of bolstering diversity, inclusion and equality within the the theme of dietary transition. Emphasis was also set on new teams, in accordance with our commitment when signing the ways of consuming responsibly: recycling, recovery and re-using. diversity charter, Carmila set up a joint working group to issue Eight clothing donation initiatives were organised in partnership proposals on the theme of Gender Equality in the company. The first with local associations (Emmaüs, Le Relais); in certain centres, local meeting will be held in February 2020. influencers also took part in the operation. Lastly, Carmila hopes its employees can share life moments aimed at Carmila's national partnership with the French Secours populaire increasing solidarity and flourishing as part of a team. As part of this was boosted at three key events: the charity Easter egg hunt , the initiative, two teams took part in the Oxfam charity walk in May, a Holiday-less campaign in the summer and Father Christmas goes walk of 100 km with €1,500 donated by each team to the green at Christmas. This partnership results in actual and digital association. events in the shopping centres: each time a customer participates in As a result of these actions, in the annual survey 87% of employees the events a donation is made to the French Secours populaire for said that they were satisfied with their jobs. the campaigns conducted. 72 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 ACTIVITY DURING THE YEAR Business Development 3.5 Digital marketing Since its creation in 2014, Carmila has implemented a distributed • informative and up-to-date My business Google pages, that marketing strategy by giving each shopping centre management the have been searched for more than 101 million times by customers best marketing and digital tools on the market. Carmila rolled out (+188% compared to 2018); this strategy to all its lessees in 2019, with the aim of improving communication of their offers and news in the centres' catchment • a differentiating content to bring out the centres' voices on the areas, in order to increase retailers' revenues. social networks with non-promotional content: on-line competitions, gallery interviews, web series, portraits of retailers. Distributed marketing, which makes it possible to make each centre This content contributes to developing local community a targeted local advertising medium, is possible thanks to close commitment. In 2019, 58,000 Facebook publications were collaboration: displayed more than 238 million times, and 25 local • of marketing and digital experts who build the tools and define ambassadresses (x5 compared with December 2018) shared the best practices; latest news about the centres and their retailers with their 3 communities; • of experts in their catchment area, daily users of these tools for their centre. • Carmila's drive-to-store digital marketing expertise is acknowledged by Google and Facebook. Both companies All Carmila's retailers benefit from this expertise through the offered Carmila the opportunity to beta-test their new features. “Kiosque”: supporting an operation, communicating a commercial Since early 2019, Carmila has thus been first in France to be able offer, highlighting an important moment, etc. These actions are to beta-test the latest Google Automated Bidding Artificial performed by the Carmila teams on a daily basis for tenant-retailers. Intelligence innovations that make it possible to optimise In 2019 Carmila conducted more than 760 “Kiosque” operations per marketing campaigns to generate in-person visits to sales outlets. month in France, Spain and Italy. As proof of the effectiveness of Furthermore, Google has written a case study reporting on this strategy, the stores regularly supported in 2019, with a Carmila’s use of the device. “Kiosque” budget ranging from €2.000 to €2.500 out-performed their network at Carmila by 8.4 points. Constantly in search of new innovations to help its retailers or to offer new services to their customers, Carmila carried out a large Carmila also entered into a large number of partnerships with number of tests with start-ups, in a variety of fields such as national brands (Adopt, Histoire d’Or, De Neuville, la Barbe de Papa, employment, management of lost property, emotion recognition, etc.) by developing a set of multi-local marketing operations etc. Aware of the importance of supporting innovation at local level, together, such as the egg or the chicken at Easter and the digital the company is also the partner of several regional incubators, such advent calendar at Christmas. as IoT Valley in Toulouse, a community of firms specialised in the The performances reflect the use of agile digital drivers, which Internet of Things, and the French Tech Rennes-Saint Malo, an centre directors can activate locally to ensure optimum visibility for ecosystem of innovative young start-ups in the technology sector. our retailers: To share this dynamism with its retailers, at the beginning of 2018, • a geo-located customer database of 2.8 million “optin” contact Carmila set up Smart Shopping Meetings : opportunities to share points (+25% compared to 2018) within the centres' catchment best practices and innovations in digital drive-to-store marketing areas. This database is powered by a game terminal facility in between retailers and digital experts. In 2019, the company met France and Italy, allowing for more than 1.1 million players’ visits in almost 400 retailers during 22 Meetings organised in France, Spain 2019; and Italy. • a mobile-first website that is locally managed. Created as an additional showcase for retailers, it provides an accurate picture of what is going on at the centre for customers in the catchment area; 3.6 Business Development 3.6.1 Carmila Retail Development 3.6.2 Health Hub Innovation is at the heart of Carmila's projects. It is also reflected in Carmila also intends to implement an ambitious Health offer in its the promotion of employee initiatives and Business Development. shopping centres to strengthen its convenient and practical Accordingly, Carmila launched Carmila Retail Development offer and meet a substantial need for the population with regard to dedicated to supporting the development of promising new large pharmacies, dental and ophthalmology practices, primary care, concepts. In this way, Camila gives financial support to talented, etc. The Carmila sites, accessible, at the heart of urban areas and dynamic entrepreneurs who wish to set up stores into its centres. with free parking facilities, are particularly appropriate to this offer. These include the barber La Barbe de Papa, the shoemaker The company is thus partnering with experienced and well-known Indémodable, the Cigusto e-cigarette retailer, and the aesthetic professionals to develop health activities in its shopping centres. In clinics Centros Ideal in Spain. 2019, a partnership was formed as a joint venture called Pharmalley. At the end of 2019, these four retail brands represent 56 stores To date, the joint venture has partnered with pharmacists to transfer opened in Carmila shopping centres in France and in Spain, for an or expand four pharmacies in its shopping malls, with the goal to annual rental income of €2.1 million. These retail brands also opened acquire five to ten pharmacies per year (investment of €0.5 million 15 stores with third-party lessors. Hence, partnerships represent a to €1.5 million each and a similar expected capital gain in four years). total of 71 stores in France and in Spain. At the end of 2019, a new joint venture was being created: Dentalley, Following its initial successes, Carmila Retail Development's which is set to launch its dental practice offering with the first ambition is to sign new partnerships in 2020, for example with openings in 2020. The objective is to develop 50 dental centres in premium second-hand retail brands or local catering brands, to five years for an EBITDA after six years of €15 million per year and a increase the offering in its centres and to meet customers' desire for maximum commitment of €7 million. Carmila partners with the best something new. The challenge is also to be a partner working references in the business to develop their activity. closely with these talented entrepreneurs to enable them to expand. CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 73 ACTIVITY DURING THE YEAR 3. Business Development 3.6.3 LouWifi 3.6.4 Lou 5G Carmila also increases the appeal of its centres through the roll out Finally, through its Lou 5G subsidiary, Carmila provides land for of fibre optics, via its subsidiary LouWifi. As an expert in network antenna. Lou 5G owns land on which telecom companies can install integration, LouWifi installs and maintains low-voltage networks antennas under a lease agreement. (including Wifi) in Carmila's centres for the benefit of retail tenants, The activity, created in 2019, was formalised and structured with the thus providing them with high-quality connectivity, and offering signature of a framework agreement with each of the four national visitors and retailers ultra-fast broadband. telecommunications operators. Almost 130 antenna have been LouWifi performed well in 2019, thanks to the excellent performance leased (subject to conditions precedent), generating annual rental of its Wifi service, widely used by customers in Carmila shopping income of €1.5 million. centres, with more than 8,000 connections per day. 2020 should see the activity roll out at a faster pace. This service contributed to the growth in the opt-in database with Therefore, Carmila is contributing to the nationwide ambition of 800,000 contacts in France and 40,000 contacts in Spain, where reducing the digital fracture by pairing up with the governmental the service was launched in October. objectives of Blackspot coverage, 4G improvement, and preparation The activity has also gone international, with Wifi installed in for the arrival of 5G. 24 Spanish shopping centres in October 2019. This installation contributed 40,000 contact points to the customer database. LouWifi brought its new expertise in video surveillance in-house, deployed in Nice Lingostière and Rennes Cesson. 74 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 ACTIVITY DURING THE YEAR Comments on the year’s activity 3.7 Comments on the year’s activity 3.7.1 Gross rental income (GRI) and Net Rental Income (NRI) Gross Rental income 31/12/2019 Variation vs. 31/12/2018 31/12/2018 (in thousands of euros) Gross Rental income Current scope Gross Rental income France Spain 242,408 93,259 3.5% 13.7% 234,177 82,018 3 Italy 23,790 -1.1% 24,055 TOTAL 359,457 5.6% 340,250 Growth in Gross rental income stands at 5.6% during financial year 2019. Net Rental Income 31/12/2019 Variation vs. 31/12/2018 31/12/2018 (in thousands of euros) Net Rental Income Constant scope Current scope Net Rental Income France 224,131 2.2% 3.2% 217,268 Spain 87,216 5.5% 16.5% 74,891 Italy 21,837 3.3% 1.6% 21,499 TOTAL 333,184 3.1% 6.2% 313,658 Growth in Net rental income totalled €19.5 million, i.e. +6.2% during • the contribution of other effects is €-1,7 million, i.e. -0,6%. These financial year 2019. Growth in Net rental income was higher than other effects notably include the impact of strategic vacancies, that of Gross rental income due to the dynamic management of that allow for restructuring and extension operations. unrecoverable expenses. This increase splits as follows: Like-for-like growth by country • like-for-like growth represents €9.7 million or +3.1% during the In France, growth in Net rental income on a like-for-like basis stands year. It is calculated on Net rental income over 2019(1). Growth at +2.2%. It includes the effect of rent indexation of 1.8%. Reversion generated by the extensions delivered in 2018 and 2019, by on renewals and income growth from Pop-up Stores and Specialty acquisitions of new shopping centres in 2018 (no shopping Leasing offset the slight decrease in financial occupancy rate for the centres were acquired in 2019), and by other effects (effect of period. strategic vacancies in particular) is excluded from like-for-like In Spain, growth in Net rental income on a like-for-like basis is +5.5%. growth. The share of indexation in like-for-like growth is +1.6% It includes the effect of rent indexation of 1.1%. The financial and the impact of the first application of IFRS 16 in 2019 is +0.5% occupancy rate in Spain continued to improve in 2019 and is a (also included in like-for-like growth). The scope of calculation for significant growth driver on a like-for-like basis. The reversion on the like-for-like growth represents 89% of the overall scope in renewals, the increase in revenue from Pop up Stores and Specialty financial year 2019. Leasing also contributed to this growth. • growth generated by the extensions amounts to €4.6 million, or In Italy, growth in Net rental income on a like-for-like basis is +3.3%; +1.5%. The extensions delivered in 2018 that generated this it includes a rent indexation impact of 0.6%. The performance of growth are: Athis-Mons, Besançon Chalezeule, Evreux Phase 2 trade receivables turned out to be the main growth driver on a likeand Saran. The Rennes Cesson extension was delivered in the for-like basis during this financial year, the financial occupancy rate second half of 2019 and is taken into account in this line. in Italy being near 100%. • growth generated by acquisitions amounts to €6.9 million, or +2.2%. Acquisitions completed in 2018 are Marseille Vitrolles, Gran Via de Hortaleza, Antequera and the Pradera portfolio. The disposal of Grugliasco was also taken into account under this item. (1) In accordance with EPRA Best Practices. CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 75 ACTIVITY DURING THE YEAR 3. Comments on the year’s activity 3.7.2 Operating expenses Operating expenses (in thousands of euros) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Income from management, administration and other activities 10,477 4,595 Other income 1,407 6,631 Payroll expenses -25,145 -24,839 Operating expenses -39,579 -36,961 PAYROLL EXPENSES -52,840 -50,574 Operating expenses were up 4.5% at 31 December 2019 compared Payroll expenses to the previous financial year. This €2.3 million increase is partially Payroll expenses amounted to -€25.1 million at 31 December 2019; due to non-linear expenses recognised during the first half year and the increase of +1.2% takes into account the growth in the average the increase in costs associated with scope and indexation effects. number of employees compared to last year. Carmila has established bonus share-based payment plans for executives and Income from management, administration, some employees. Related benefits are recognised as payroll other activities and other services expenses. This income includes new lease commission, marketing fund services dedicated to the development and attractiveness of the centres Operating expenses (retailers' associations), the re-billing to the Carrefour group of the The main components of Operating expenses are marketing share of payroll expenses for shopping centre management and expenses, chiefly relating to the build-up of digital applications, and LouWifi fees. fees, including those paid to Carrefour for the provision of services The total amount of this revenue was €11.9 million in 2019, an (accounting, human resources, general services, etc.), as well as increase of €0.7 million, i.e. + 5.9% compared to 2018. The increase is appraisal fees for the asset portfolio, legal and tax fees, including primarily due to the LouWifi fees in 2019. auditors’ fees, financial communication and advertising fees, travel expenses and directors’ fees. The amount of the other external expenses was -€39.6 million in 2019, up 7.1%. This increase is explained by the higher variable expenses rising from the increased rental income (similarly to lease management) and by the expenses generated by the ramp-up of business development activities. 3.7.3 EBITDA (in thousands of euros) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Operating income 191,788 274,971 Elimination of change in fair value 90,172 -13,589 Elimination of change in fair value in the Group share of companies consolidated -1,813 -1,225 under the equity method Elimination of capital (gains)/losses 610 1,796 Depreciation of tangible and intangible assets 1,812 2,394 EBITDA 282,569 264,347 EBITDA stood at €282.6 million at 31 December 2019 up by 6.9% compared to the previous financial year. EBITDA growth is higher than gross rental income growth, bearing witness to the sound management of operating expenses and unrecoverable expenses by the Carmila teams. 3.7.4 Net financial income (expense) FINANCIAL EXPENSES (in thousands of euros) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Financial income 559 384 Financial expenses and allowances -57,277 -54,011 Cost of net indebtness -56,718 -53,627 Other financial income and expenses -1,389 -4,931 NET FINANCIAL INCOME/(EXPENSE) -58,107 -58,558 76 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 ACTIVITY DURING THE YEAR EPRA performance indicators Net financial income (expense) amounted to -€58.1 million at short-term investments which resulted in a provision of €2.1 million 31 December 2019. in 2018 and a net reversal for €2.0 million in 2019. This amount also includes the non-cash effect in connection with the application of The cost of net debt stands at €56.7 million at 31 December 2019, up IFRS 9; the proceeds from the 1-year extension of the maturity of the €3.1 million year-on-year; the bulk of the increase stemmed from bank debt and the expense related to the adjustment of the interest paid on the bond issued in March 2018. effective rate of the debt to its original rate, resulting in a net effect Other financial income and expenses show a strong favourable of -€0.2 million for the financial year. variation. This is due to the adjustment in the market value of the 3.8 EPRA performance indicators 3.8.1 EPRA earnings and recurring earnings EPRA EARNINGS 3 (in thousands of euros) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Consolidated net income (Group share) 108,213 163,557 Adjustments to EPRA earnings 110,329 38,890 (i) Changes in value of investment properties, development properties held for investment 90,172 -13,589 and other interests (ii) Profits or losses on disposals of investment properties 610 1,796 (iii) Profits or losses on disposals of properties held for sale (iv) Tax on profits or losses on disposals 647 (v) Negative goodwill/goodwill impairment (vi) Changes in fair value of financial instruments and associated close-out costs 596 1,851 (vii) Acquisition costs for share deal acquisitions (viii) Deferred tax in respect of EPRA adjustments 20,764 49,410 (ix) Adjustments (i) to (viii) above in respect of joint ventures (unless already included under -1,813 -1,225 proportional consolidation) (x) Non-controlling interests in respect of the above (xi) Other adjustments EPRA EARNINGS 218,543 202,447 Change vs N-1 8.0% Average number of shares 136,408,412 135,653,512 EPRA EARNINGS PER SHARE 1.60 1.49 Change vs N-1 7.4% Average number of shares (diluted) 136,705,504 135,860,096 EPRA EARNINGS PER SHARE (DILUTED) 1.60 1.49 Other adjustments 1,989 5,074 IFRS 9 adjustments(1) 167 -446 Debt issuance costs paid offset by the reversal of amortised debt issuance costs(2) 3,835 3,126 Other non-recurring expenses or (income)(3) 2,394 Recurring Earnings 222,545 207,521 Change vs N-1 7.2% RECURRING EARNINGS PER SHARE 1.63 1.53 Évolution vs N-1 6,6% RÉSULTAT NET EPRA PAR ACTION (DILUÉ) 1,63 1,53 Recurring earnings stand at €225.5 million for financial year 2019, up 7.2% over the financial year. Earnings per share are €1,63 up 6.6% compared to the previous financial year. Comments on the other adjustments (1) As part of the application of IFRS 9, an expense is recognised to adjust the effective interest rate of the debt to the original interest rate at inception, conversely income is recognised over the residual duration of this debt to reflect the renegotiation of the debt maturity. The net impact of these two effects is an expense of €0.2 million for financial year 2019. (2) Debt issuance costs amortised on a straight-line basis over the duration of the loan are restated; debt issuance costs paid during the year are reintegrated in recurring income. (3) Recurring earnings include reversal for valuation provisions from 2018 (income of €2 million) regarding cash positions. The provision impact was accounted for in recurring earnings in 2018. CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 77 ACTIVITY DURING THE YEAR 3. EPRA performance indicators 3.8.2 EPRA Cost Ratio EPRA COST RATIO (in millions of euros) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 (i) Administrative/operating expense line per IFRS income statement 77.7 73.7 Payroll expenses 68.0 62.1 Property expenses 9.7 11.7 (ii) Net service charge costs/fees 10.2 11.1 (iii) Management fees less actual/estimated profit element -10.5 -4.6 (iv) Other operating income/recharges intended to cover overhead expenses less any related profits -1.4 -6.6 (v) Share of costs of equity-accounted companies 1.0 1.1 (vi) Impairment of investment properties and provisions included in property expenses 0.0 -1.5 (vii) Service charge costs recovered through rents but not separately invoiced -1.8 -2.1 EPRA Costs (including direct vacancy costs) 75.3 71.0 (viii) Direct vacancy costs 7.8 7.4 EPRA Costs (excluding direct vacancy costs) 67.4 63.6 (ix) Gross Rental Income less ground rents – per IFRS 359.5 336.4 (x) Less: service fee and service charge costs components of Gross Rental Income -1.8 -2.1 (xi) Add: share of Joint Ventures (Gross Rental Income less ground rents) 4.9 4.6 Gross rental income 362.6 338.9 EPRA COST RATIO (INCLUDING DIRECT VACANCY COSTS) 20.8% 21.0% EPRA COST RATIO (EXCLUDING DIRECT VACANCY COSTS) 18.6% 18.8% The EPRA Cost Ratio improved by -20 bps during financial year Charges on real estate inconcern NAV, EPRA NAV and EPRA 2019 in comparison to 2018 (both excluding and including the cost NNNAV. of vacancies). Structure expenses include Operating expenses, Payroll expenses, Other operating income and expenses as well as the non-billable land administration expenses. 3.8.3 Going concern NAV, EPRA NAV and EPRA NNNAV Going concern NAV GOING CONCERN NAV (INCLUDING TRANSFER TAXES) (in thousands of euros) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Consolidated shareholders’ equity – Group share 3,540,434 3,646,899 Elimination of the fair value adjustments of hedging instruments 25,556 18,746 Reversal of the deferred income tax on potential capital gains 175,685 154,419 Transfer taxes 317,358 320,994 Going concern NAV (including transfer taxes) 4,059,034 4,141,058 Change vs N-1 -2.0% Diluted number of shares comprising the share capital at period end 136,705,504 136,538,931 GOING CONCERN NAV PER DILUTED SHARE AT END OF PERIOD (in euros) 29.69 30.33 Change vs N-1 -2.1% The net asset value (NAV) includes property transfer taxes to At 31 December 2019, the going concern NAV per share was €29.69, provide a NAV in light of the going concern. down by -2.1% compared to 31 December 2018. It accounts for the dividend of €1.50 per share that was paid in May 2019. 78 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 ACTIVITY DURING THE YEAR EPRA performance indicators EPRA NAV EPRA NAV (in thousands of euros) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Consolidated shareholders’ equity – Group share 3,540,434 3,646,899 Elimination of the fair value of hedging instruments 25,556 18,746 Reversal of the deferred income tax on potential capital gains 175,685 154,419 Optimisation of transfer taxes 57,723 56,065 EPRA NAV (excluding transfer taxes) 3,799,399 3,876,129 Change vs N-1 -2.0% Diluted number of shares comprising the share capital at period end 136,705,504 136,538,931 3 EPRA NAV (EXCL. TRANSFER TAXES) PER DILUTED OUTSTANDING SHARE (IN EUROS) 27.79 28.39 Change vs N-1 -2.1% The EPRA NAV (Net Asset Value) is an indicator of the fair value of The transfer tax is optimised because the duty is calculated as if it a property company’s assets. EPRA NAV is calculated by taking involved sales of assets. However, certain assets are owned by consolidated shareholders’ equity Group share, which, stated at fair individual companies and would be sold in a share deal in the event value, includes unrealised capital gains or losses on the assets. With of a disposal. The duty would then be calculated and paid on a a view to continuing operations, this indicator does not deduce the reduced basis. deferred tax on unrealised capital gains as well as the adjustment of At 31 December 2019, the EPRA NAV per share was €27.79, down fair value of financial instruments. by -2.1% compared to 31 December 2018. Restated to take into account the €1.50 per share dividend paid in May 2019, the NAV per share increased by €0.90, i.e. 3.2%. NNNAV EPRA TRIPLE NET ASSET VALUE (NNNAV EPRA) (in thousands of euros) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 EPRA NAV 3,799,399 3,876,129 Fair value adjustments of hedging instruments -25,556 -18,746 Fair value adjustments of fixed rate debt -66,320 -38,473 Actual taxes on unrealised capital gains/losses -91,323 -113,771 Triple net asset value (NNNAV EPRA) 3,616,200 3,705,139 Change vs N-1 -2.4% Diluted number of shares comprising the share capital at period end 136,705,504 136,538,931 TRIPLE NET NAV (NNNAV EPRA) PER DILUTED OUTSTANDING SHARE AT END OF PERIOD 26.45 27.14 (IN EUROS) Change vs N-1 -2.5% Triple net asset value (NNNAV EPRA) is calculated by deducting At 31 December 2019, EPRA NNNAV per share was €26.45, down by from EPRA NAV the fair value adjustments of fixed-rate debt and -2.5% compared to 31 December 2018. A dividend of €1.50 per share the tax that would be owed on disposals in the event of liquidation was paid in May 2019. (deferred taxes in Italy, and deferred taxes for single asset companies in Spain are restated, a share deal being more likely in the event of disposal). Financial instruments are also recognised at market value. 3.8.4 EPRA vacancy rate France Spain Italy Total Rental value of vacant premises (in millions of euros) 15.1 6.5 0.4 22.0 Total property portfolio rental value (in millions of euros) 264.5 107.8 24.3 396.6 EPRA VACANCY RATE 5.7% 6.1% 1.6% 5.6% Impact of strategic vacancy 1.6% 2.5% 0.5% 1.8% FINANCIAL VACANCY RATE 4.1% 3.6% 1.1% 3.8% The EPRA vacancy rate at 31 December 2019 was 5.6%, slightly Strategic vacancies correspond to the vacant premises required to down compared to 2018 (-10 bps). implement renovation, extension, or restructuring projects in shopping centres. The EPRA vacancy rate is the ratio between the market rent of vacant areas and the total market rent (of vacant and rented areas). The rental value used to calculate the EPRA vacancy rate is the gross rental value defined by expert appraisal. CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 79 ACTIVITY DURING THE YEAR 3. EPRA performance indicators 3.8.5 EPRA yield: EPRA NIY and EPRA Topped-Up NIY EPRA NIY AND EPRA TOPPED-UP NIY (in millions of euros) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Total property portfolio value (excluding transfer taxes) 6,104.1 6,085.4 (-) Assets under development and other 68.8 62.6 Value of operating portfolio (excluding transfer taxes) 6,035.3 6,022.8 Transfer taxes 317.4 321.0 Value of operating portfolio (including transfer taxes) (A) 6,352.7 6,343.8 Net annualised rental income (B) 353.0 349.6 Impact of rent adjustments 5.0 6.3 Net rental income excluding rent adjustments (C) 358.0 355.9 EPRA NET INITIAL YIELD (B)/(A) 5.6% 5.5% EPRA NET INITIAL YIELD EXCLUDING RENT ADJUSTMENTS (C)/(A) 5.6% 5.6% The weighted average residual duration of these rental arrangements is 1.5 year. 3.8.6 EPRA investments Capital expenditures in investment properties by country are disclosed separately for acquisitions, developments and extensions, or capital expenditures in the portfolio on a like-for-like basis. France Spain Italy Total (in thousands of euros) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Acquisitions 5,390 172,205 2,969 285,013 0 4 8,359 457,222 Developments 0 11,600 0 0 0 11,600 Like-for-like investments 106,934 101,949 4,206 9,908 1,179 3,069 112,319 114,926 Extensions 68,296 75,847 0 0 442 2,277 68,738 78,124 Restructurings 19,552 3,529 0 0 0 0 19,552 3,529 Step-rents 9,899 8,417 1,914 1,566 45 0 11,858 9,983 Renovations 3,926 2,096 2,223 8,298 30 468 6,179 10,862 Maintenance capex 5,261 12,060 69 44 662 324 5,992 12,428 TOTAL INVESTMENTS 112,324 285,754 7,175 294,921 1,179 3,073 120,678 583,748 Acquisitions include a retail space in Barentin (Normandie), Restructuring works and tenant incentives include this year’s two exploitation rights regarding Specialty Leasing in 8 galleries owned major restructuring works in Bourg-en-Bresse (€2.6 million) and Cité by the group in Spain and around 20 lands in France to set up relay Europe in Coquelles (€ 17.9 million); antennas. Refurbishments are mainly related to assets that are being extended The development investments amounts to € 0 in 2019, because the or renovated in France, mainly Bourg-en-Bresse, Rennes Cesson group has not led any greenfield project. In 2018, Orléans Cap and Thionville. Furthermore, refurbishment works regarding the sites Saran’s retail park was accounted for in this item line. bought in 2018 in Spain have been initiated; Lastly, investments on a like-for-like basis include extensions, Maintenance CAPEX: these investments amount to 5% of total restructuring works, tenant incentives, refurbishments, as well as investments, and are mainly focused on assets being redeveloped maintenance CAPEX. In 2019 most investments were related to where renovation and modernisation works have been carried out operations in France. on existing parts in order to optimise value creation. Extensions are mainly focused on the projects in Nice Lingosière (€41.6 million) and Rennes Cesson (€23.9 million); 80 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 ACTIVITY DURING THE YEAR Financial policy 3.9 Financial policy 3.9.1 Financial resources Compliance with the prudential ratios at 31 December 2019 Bonds The loan agreement, along with the revolving credit facilities are subject to compliance with financial covenants measured at the On 17 July 2019, Carmila has obtained an AMF (“Autorité des closing date of each half-year and financial year. At Marchés Financiers”) Visa for the EMTN (Euro Medium Term Note 31 December 2019, Carmila complied with the financial covenants. Program) program, giving the Company easier access to the bond market. As part of its EMTN programme, Carmila issued a new bond (private Interest Cover Ratio 3 placement) on 6 November 2019 with a maturity of 12 years and a The ratio of EBITDA to the net cost of debt must be greater than 2.0 coupon of 1.89%. Carmila’s outstanding bond debt of €1,550 million at the test dates. at end-2018 rose to €1,600 million at end-2019. Loan-to-value Loans from banks – non-current The ratio of consolidated net financial debt to the fair value of the Carmila entered into a loan agreement with a banking pool in 2017. investment assets (including transfer taxes) must not exceed 0.55 This agreement was renegotiated several times since then. During on the same dates with the possibility of exceeding this ratio for one 2019, its expected maturity of June 2023 was extended to June half-year period. 2024. On 16 December 2019, Carmila repaid €100 million of this loan agreement, bringing the outstanding down from €770 million at 31 December 2018 to €670 million at 31 December 2019. Debt Maturity Debt maturity stands at 5.0 years at 31 December 2019. INTEREST COVER RATIO (in thousands of euros) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 EBITDA (A) 282,569 264,347 Cost of net indebtness (B) 56,718 53,627 INTEREST COVER RATIO (A)/(B) 5.0 4.9 LOAN-TO-VALUE RATIO (in thousands of euros) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Net financial debt (A) 2,241,766 2,177,233 Current and non-current financial liabilities 2,416,000 2,389,928 Net cash -174,088 -70,518 Short term investment -146 -142,177 Property portfolio including transfer taxes (B) 6,421,482 6,404,613 LOAN-TO-VALUE RATIO INCLUDING TRANSFER TAXES (A)/(B) 34.9% 34.0% Property portfolio excluding transfer taxes (C) 6,104,124 6,083,619 LOAN-TO-VALUE RATIO EXCLUDING TRANSFER TAXES (A)/(C) 36.7% 35.8% NET DEBT/EBITDA (in thousands of euros) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Net debt (A) 2,241,766 2,177,233 EBITDA (B) 282,569 264,347 NET DEBT/EBITDA (A)/(B) 7.9 8.2 Gross financial liabilities do not include issuance fees for borrowings As part of its refinancing in 2017, Carmila negotiated new credit lines and bonds, derivative hedging instrument liabilities (current and with leading banks, including: non-current), bank facilities and IFRS 16 financial liabilities. • a revolving credit facility of €759 million, currently undrawn and for which the maturity has been extended to 16 June 2024; Other loans • a revolving credit facility of €250 million under a club deal Carmila strives to diversify its sources of financing and their agreement with a limited number of leading banking partners maturities, and has set up a short term commercial paper close to Carmila maturing on 16 June 2020. programme (NEU CP) for a maximum amount of €600 million, registered with the Banque de France on 29 June 2017 and updated every year. The outstanding balance of this programme at 31 December 2019 was €146 million with maturities mainly ranging from one to three months. CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 81 ACTIVITY DURING THE YEAR 3. Financial policy Breakdown of financial debt by maturity date and average rate (in thousands of euros) Gross amount Starting date Lease maturity Bond issue INotional amount €600 million, coupon 2.375% 600,000 18/09/2015 18/09/2023 Bond issue IINotional amount €600 million, coupon 2.375% 600,000 24/03/2016 16/09/2024 Bond issue IIINotional amount €350 million, coupon 2.125% 350,000 07/03/2018 07/03/2028 Private Placement – Notional €50 million, coupon 1.89% 50,000 06/11/2019 06/11/2031 Credit agreement 670,000 16/06/2017 16/06/2023 Commercial papers 146,000 31/12/2016 16/06/2023 TOTAL 2,416,000 At 31 December 2019, the maturity of the debt was 5.0 years at an average interest rate of 2.1% including hedging instruments (excluding amortisation of issuance premiums, cancellation expenses for capitalised financial instruments and the non-utilisation fee for undrawn credit lines). The average rate excluding hedging instruments was 1.8%. In December 2019, two caps with a total nominal amount of 3.9.2 Hedging instruments €100 million matured. At 31 December 2019, the Carmila portfolio of derivative instruments As the parent company, Carmila provides for almost all of the set up with leading banking partners comprised: group’s financing and manages interest-rate risk centrally. Carmila has implemented a policy of hedging its variable rate debt in • five fixed-rate payer swaps at 3-month Euribor for a notional amount of €385 million covering a period up to December 2027, order to secure future cash flows by fixing or capping the interest for the longest of them; rate paid. This policy involves setting up derivatives instruments such as interest rate swaps and options that are eligible for hedge • one cap for a nominal amount of €100 million maturing in 2023. accounting. These hedging instruments, still effective, were recognised as cash To optimise its hedging, on 16 and 17 December 2019, Carmila flow hedges. The consequence of this cash flow hedge accounting is cancelled five fixed-rate payer swaps with maturities between 2020 that derivative instruments are recognised on the closing balance and 2022 by paying a balance of €6.1 million. The notional amount of sheet at their market value, with the change in fair value on the the five swaps cancelled was €275 million. To maintain optimal effective part of the hedge recorded in shareholders’ equity (OCI) hedging, on 17 December 2019, Carmila set up a cap for a nominal and the ineffective part in the income statement. amount of €100 million maturing in 2024, with a 0% strike by paying a premium of €0.2 million. The fixed rate position represents 82% of the gross debt at 31 December 2019 (with Swap and swaption collar) and 86% including the Caps. 3.9.3 Cash (in thousands of euros) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Cash 178,172 70,518 Cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents 178,172 70,518 Bank facilities -4,141 -5,617 NET CASH 174,031 64,901 Marketable securities 146 142,177 NET CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS INVESTMENTS 174,177 207,078 3.9.4 Rating At 16 July 2019, S&P confirmed Carmila's BBB rating with a positive outlook. On 24 September 2019, as part of a sectoral review, S&P revised Carmila’s outlook from positive to stable . On March 27, 2020, S&P confirmed the BBB rating of Carmila and revised the outlook to negative due to uncertainties as to the impact of covid-19 health crisis and the shutdown of all non-essential stores, on the performance and ratios of retail REITs. 3.9.5 Dividend distribution Policy In addition to legal constraints, Carmila’s dividend policy takes into Carmila’s objective is to distribute to its shareholders an annual account various factors, notably the net income, the financial amount representing approximately 90% of recurring earnings per position and implementation of objectives. share. Where relevant, Carmila's payments will be based on distributable income, and premiums will be paid in addition to this distributable income. 82 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 ACTIVITY DURING THE YEAR Additional information It is reminded that, in order to benefit from the SIIC regime in Confident in the strength and effectiveness of Carmila's business France, Carmila is required to distribute a significant portion of its model, the Company's management will ask the General Meeting profits to its shareholders (within the limit of the SIIC income and scheduled for 14 May 2020 to approve the payment of a 2019 distributable income): dividend matching that of 2018, i.e. €1.50 per share. • 95% of profits from gross rental income at Carmila level; This dividend amount represents a payout ratio (dividend/recurring earnings) of 92.5% for 2019, versus 98.0% for 2018. • 70% of capital gains; and • 100% of dividends from subsidiaries subject to the SIIC regime. In the context of the spread of the current health crisis, the Company published a press release on 2 April 2020 regarding its 2020 objectives, its outlook, the postponement of its annual general meeting to 29 June 2020 and its 2019 dividend to be paid in 2020. This information is not part of the management report adopted by the Board of Directors on 13 February 2020. This press release, 3 effectively and fully distributed in accordance with current regulations, is available on the Company's website (www.carmila.com) and is reproduced in ull after part 3.12 Outlook of the present document. In addition, the Company draws attention to section 5.2 Risk factors of this document containing information on exposure to the risk of a Covid-19 type health crisis in the description of risk 10. Health, safety, security including the risk of health crisis (Covid-19 type). 3.10 Equity and shareholding (in €) Number of shares Share capital Issuance premium Merger premium On 1 January 2019 136,561,695 819,370,170 519,655,151 1,748,548,849 Cash payment dividend GM 16/05/2019 -138,314,000 New shares issued 120,148 720,888 -720,888 Adjustment on 2017 IPO-Capital increase costs 1,677,000 -1,677,000 ON 31 DECEMBER 2019 136,681,843 820,091,058 520,611,263 1,608,557,849 At 31 December 2019, the share capital was made up of Carmila’s share capital is divided among long-term associates. 136,561,695 Class A shares, each with a nominal value of At 31 December 2019, the largest shareholder is the Carrefour group, six euros (€6) fully subscribed and paid up. The share capital also which has an equity investment of 35.4% in Carmila’s share capital, includes 120,148 Class B shares, each with a nominal value of which it consolidates in its financial statements using the equity six euros (€6). method. Carrefour is developing a strategic partnership with Carmila, aimed at revitalising and transforming shopping centres At 16 May 2019 the General Meeting confirmed, upon proposal from adjoining its hypermarkets in France, Spain and Italy. The other the board of directors, the payment of a 2018 dividend of €1.50 per 64.6% of the share capital is mainly owned by long-term investors share. Shares were traded ex-dividend on 21 May and paid in one from major insurance companies or leading financial players. The instalment on 23 May. It has been offset against distributable income second-largest shareholder is the Colony Group, which holds 9.3% of for €66,5 million, and the remaining amount against share premium Carmila’s share capital. for €138.2 million. The shares of Carmila S.A. are admitted to trading in Segment A of Furthermore, the company has issued 112,611 Class B shares, as part of the preferred share allocation plan for key employees and Euronext Paris since 1st January 2018. corporate officers of Carmila, approved by the General Assembly at 16 May 2018. The capital increase has been offset against share premium. 3.11 Additional information 3.11.1 Changes in governance Following an initial experience in commercial real estate with the Casino Group, Alexandre de Palmas, 45, exercised management functions at Clear Channel, Elior (commercial catering) and Carrefour Proximité. These experiences enabled Mr De Palmas to Resignation of the Chairman and develop and leverage strong expertise in retail and marketing issues, Chief Executive Officer and appointment of valuable knowledge for the development of Carmila, a key player in shopping centres in France, Spain and Italy. a new Chairman and Chief Executive Officer During the meeting of the Board of Directors of 15 May 2019, Appointment of Mr Jérôme Nanty as Director Mr Jacques Ehrmann resigned his functions as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Carmila. This resignation became effective on Mr Jérôme Nanty was co-opted as Director during the Board of 30 June 2019. Directors meeting of 3 April 2019, as replacement for Mr Francis Mauger. Following the recommendation of the Compensation and Nominating Committee, the Board of Directors selected Mr Alexandre de Palmas to succeed Mr Jacques Ehrmann as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Carmila effective 1 July 2019. CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 83 ACTIVITY DURING THE YEAR 3. Outlook 3.12 Outlook Carmila's long-term growth prospects are sustainable. Carmila has 2020 will be a year of large project launches to develop the excellent visibility for its income (long leases, indexation, highly company's growth with the following objectives: stable occupancy rate), productivity gains that enable it to reduce • three deliveries of development projects, in particular the its cost ratio, and a solid financial structure with stable and extension of Nice Lingostière and the restructuring of Calais predictable cost of debt (S&P's BBB rating, long maturity debt, 82% Coquelles with the establishment of Primark on 6,000 sqm; of which is fixed rate, good financial liquidity). Furthermore, Carmila has powerful growth drivers at its disposal, including sustained • significant advances on flagship projects after the municipal organic growth, a carefully managed pipeline comprising large-scale elections; structural and value-creating projects, and a local digital marketing • continued selectivity on acquisitions to concentrate on financially strategy intended to help retailers develop their revenues. very favourable opportunities; In addition, Carmila's teams are agile, dynamic experts in the leading • acceleration of growth from Business Development. shopping centres in their local regions and focused on innovation. They are researching and developing promising growth drivers, such In this context, Carmila's objective for recurring earnings per share as land development in partnership with Carrefour Property, and growth is between +2% and +4% based on recurring earnings per continuing development of joint venture activities with double-digit share in 2019 of €1.61 per share, adjusted for the €2.0 million of 5-year IRR objectives. financial income from securities recorded in the 2019 financial Consequently, Carmila's management is confident in the statements. sustainability and strength of the company's business model. In the context of the spread of the current health crisis, the Company published a press release on 2 April 2020 regarding its 2020 objectives, its outlook and its 2019 dividend to be paid in 2020. This information is not part of the management report adopted by the Board of Directors on 13 February 2020. This press release, effectively and fully distributed in accordance with current regulations, is available on the Company's website (www.carmila.com) and is reproduced in full below: The strict containment measures and temporary closure of shops imposed by the governments of the three countries in which Carmila operates, affect all of Carmila's shopping centres in which most of the shops are closed. However, they all remain open to provide free access to both the essential shops still in operation and the Carrefour hypermarkets that remain open to the public. Measures to support activities and businesses have been announced in the three countries, but have not yet been specified. In this context, and while awaiting i) the clarification and/or implementation of these measures, and ii) further information on the means of ending the confinement, Carmila's Board of Directors has decided to postpone the General Shareholders' Meeting, initially planned on May 14, 2020, until June 29, 2020, in order to gain more visibility before making a final decision on the amount and terms of the 2019 dividend to be paid in 2020. In addition, on February 13, Carmila announced that it had set a growth objective in recurring earnings per share for 2020 between +2% and +4%. To date, the uncertainties as to the duration of this health crisis and the extent of the measures that will be taken by the various governments make it difficult to forecast and estimate the 2020 results which will necessarily be impacted by the current crisis. Measures have been taken to postpone non-essential investments and further strengthen the company's cash position. Carmila, while cautious in managing its available cash, reaffirms that it benefits from a strong financial profile, undrawn credit lines and a surplus cash position of more than 350 million euros, which will enable it to face this health crisis with confidence. In addition, the Company draws attention to section 5.2 Risk factors of this document containing information on exposure to the risk of a Covid-19 type health crisis in the description of risk 10. Health, safety, security including the risk of health crisis (Covid-19 type). 3.13 Financial information as at 31 March 2020 The Company published a press release on 23 April 2020 regarding Rents of the 1st quarter of 2020 were invoiced and prepaid at the its activity over the first quarter of 2020 and Financial information start of the quarter before the implementation of strict containment as at March 31st, 2019. and temporary shutdown measures of non-essential retail activities, imposed by the governments of the three countries in which Carmila Main information included in this press release is presented below. operates. Carmila Net Rental Income for the first three months of 2020 stood While awaiting i) the clarification and/or theimplementation of the at €82.7 million compared with €81.3 million over the same period in plan to support activities and businesses in the three countries, and 2019, resulting in an increase of +1.7%. ii) further information on the means set forth to end the March 31st, March 31st, containment, the accounting rules on recoverable charges and % change In thousands of euros 2020 2019 2020/2019 depreciation of trade receivables were applied according to the same methodology as those applied in 2019 by the Company. Gross Rental Income 90,735 89,206 +1.7% Net Rental Income 82,651 81,282 +1.7% Carmila will launch discussions with all the retailers in its shopping centres, as soon as the store’s reopening date is known, to speedily France 55,687 54,953 +1.3% implement the necessary safety procedures for shop employees and Spain 21,465 20,672 +3.8% their customers in order to allow the resumption of business activity Italy 5,499 5,657 -2.8% as soon as possible. These discussions will also lead, on a case-bycase basis, to an analysis of the financial situation of each lessee and The growth in cumulative Net Rental Income at the end of March the adjustment of the conditions of the lease and the 2020 rent 2020, as compared to the first quarter of 2019, breaks down as where necessary to support and perpetuate the activity of the follows: retailers in the shopping centre. Presently, Carmila is committed to • growth of Net Rental Income at constant scope: +2.2 points, applying the recommendations of the landlord’s representative including 1.4 point of indexation ; bodies as set forth in their press release of April 17, 2020 and to cancel three months rent for its very small tenants whose shops are • impact of extensions delivered in 2019 (Rennes Cesson): closed, in order give them additional liquidity. It is only at the end of +0.9 points or €0.7 million of additional net rental income for the the discussions, which will be conducted on a case-by-case basis 1st quarter of 2020; with brands and retailers when the dates and conditions of the • other variations: -1.4 points which include strategic vacancy and reopening of shops are known, that Carmila will be able to make the restatement accounted for in Italy during the first quarter of public new earning targets for the year 2020. 2019 of the staggering benefits granted to tenants (rent-free period and step rents, according to IFRS standard IAS 17). 84 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 4. 4.1 Non-financial performance 86 statement 4.1.1 Here we act, Carmila's programme 86 of responsible initiatives 4.1.2 Here we act for the local regions 91 4.1.3 Here we act for the planet 94 4.1.4 Here we act for employees 102 4.2 Other non-financial 105 information 4.2.1 Relations with partners 105 4.2.2 Water 106 4.2.3 Protecting biodiversity 107 4.3 Cross-reference table, 108 methodological notes and report by the Statutory Auditor Corporate Social 4.3.1 Cross-reference table 4.3.2 Methodological notes 4.3.3 Statutory Auditor report 108 111 115 Responsibility CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 85 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 4. Non-financial performance statement 4.1 Non-financial performance statement 4.1.1 Here we act, Carmila's 4.1.1.1 A voluntary verification process programme of responsible Given changes to the scope of Articles L.225-102-1 and R. 225-104 of initiatives the French Commercial Code, Carmila is not legally required to publish its reports. Carmila commissioned an independent third party to verify the accuracy and compliance of this report in 2019 marked a turning point for Carmila, which increased and accordance with the provisions of Article R.225-105 of the French accelerated its CSR commitments. Carmila signed up to the United Commercial Code. For Carmila, this verification process is a mean of Nations Global Compact and has committed to upholding it and improving the structure of its non-financial data process and promoting its 10 principles. Its ambition is expressed in a programme reporting as well as its non-financial performance. The methodology of responsible initiatives entitled Here we act. This programme, used for this reporting is detailled in 4.2.5 Methodological notes. which meets the requirements of stakeholders, brings together all initiatives which improve the impact of the company and is based on 3 pillars: giving fresh impetus to local regions, protecting the 4.1.1.2 Reference documents environment and employee engagement. The issues and risks analysed were pre-selected in light of Articles L. 225-102 and R. 225-105 of the French Commercial Code, the In response to the requirements of the French transposition of relevant major international standards (ISO 26000, Global European Directive 2014/95/EU on Non-Financial Reporting (in Compact), sector studies (benchmark of CSR risks, collective CSR French Déclaration de Performance Extra Financière or DPEF), risk analysis with the real estate companies that are members of the integrated under Ordinance n°2017-1180 dated 19 July 2017, and in national council of shopping centres), the GRI, EPRA, and GRESB addition to Chapter 5, which provides details of all the risks facing frameworks and Carmila’s in-house expertise. the business, Carmila has produced an in-depth review of CSR risks associated with its business activity, connections, assets and the The DPEF is also based on the CSR guidelines on sectoral reporting services it delivers. The Here we act programme is a response to the drafted and updated in by the CNCC (Conseil National des Centres main risks identified and is described in part in the DPEF (4.I). We Commerciaux) in 2018 and on the 17 United Nations Sustainable have not included the programme initiatives that do not fall within Development Goals, some of which were identified as a priority in the scope of the DPEF and have instead included these in section terms of Carmila's activity. 4.II. Other non-financial information. CARMILA STRATEGY WITH REGARD TO SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES Carmila's CSR strategy and objectives Carmila’s objectives Sustainable Development Goals Decent work and economic growth Acting to support local employment (see Section 4.1.2.1.b) Support retail brands and retailers through the digital transition (see Section 4.1.2.1.a) HERE WE ACT FOR Invest in new dynamic retailers (see Section 4.1.2.1.c) THE LOCAL REGIONS Make shopping centres accessible to all (4.1.2.2.b) Sustainable cities and communities Incubate CSR initiatives in partnership with associations (4.1.2.2.a) Responsible consumption and production Eco-designing our buildings and making them more resilient (see 4.1.3.1.a) HERE WE ACT Operating our assets in a reasoned manner (see 4.1.3.1.b) FOR THE PLANET Deploy a circular economy approach for our centres Life on land (see 4.1.3.1.c) Participate in the fight against climate change (see 4.1.3.2) Gender equality HERE WE ACT Being an inclusive and ethical business (see Section 4.1.4.2) FOR EMPLOYEES 86 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Non-financial performance statement Structure of the CSR strategy Formed of the CSR director and CSR manager, the CSR The CSR Committee steers the overall strategy and approves the management sets the strategy and objectives whilst overseeing the objectives proposed by the CSR Management. It meets quarterly progress of action plans. This method ensures Carmila’s CSR and is comprised of seven members: objectives are met. • Deputy CEO; Within the business lines, the network of CSR officers promotes and coordinates CSR actions. It is made up of employees of Carmila but • Chief Customer Officer, Digital & Innovation; also of its partner Carrefour Property. The CSR Department provides training in sustainable development either directly or through • General Secretary; accredited partners. • CSR Director; • Director Carmila Spain; • Director Carmila Italy; • CSR Manager. COLLEGIATE AND OPERATIONAL MANAGEMENT OF THE CSR STRATEGY Disseminates the CSR strategy Approves the strategy and objectives and objectives Supports the rollout of action plans CSR MANAGEMENT 4 • NETWORK OF CSR COMMITTEE Draws up the CSR strategy CSR OFFICERS • and objectives • Approves the CSR strategy • Promotes and and objectives Monitors the progress of the coordinates CSR actions action plans and ensures in the business lines objectives are achieved Puts forward suggestions for Reports on the progress the strategy and objectives of action plans Moreover, the CSR themes are also owned by employees and shopping centre managers, the latter of which benefit from a great deal of autonomy in the choice and implementation of CSR initiatives in their centres. This autonomy is a means of establishing a strong local presence and helps develop a closer relationship with local stakeholders. CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 87 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 4. Non-financial performance statement 4.1.1.3 Dialogue with stakeholders In order to develop an appropriate CSR strategy, incorporate new commitments and collaboratively develop action plans, Carmila has established its arrangements for dialogue with stakeholders. ARRANGEMENTS FOR DIALOGUE WITH STAKEHOLDERS Stakeholder Interlocutors Dialogue arrangements CSR issues • Marketing campaigns called the Kiosk • Quality of relationship • Trade events and gatherings: trade fairs (SIEC, Shopping Centre with retailers MAPIC), meeting of chairs of charities and Retail brands and retailers Department • Contribution to local charitable associations Retailers’ association economic development • Carmiday • Energy management policy • Negotiating commercial leases • Registered document and press releases Investor Relations • Road show and conferences • Investor relations Investors including Carrefour Department • Shopping centre visits • Social and environmental initiatives • Quality of relationship Shopping centre customers • Omni-channel and digital communication, Shopping Centre with clients People living and working events in partnership with retail brands Department • Links with the local in the area • Media (press releases and packs, organised voluntary sector visits) Local authorities around • Contribution to local shopping centres economic development Shopping Centre • Proactive, ongoing relations with involvement State-run and public services • Transport Department in projects within the catchment area (prefectures, fire services, local • Security of people and national polices) and property • Employee surveys • Well-being at work • Breakfast meetings with management • Health and safety Human Resources • Internal communication of employees Employees • Diversity policy Department • Schools and universities • Integration of new recruits • Social dialogue • Relations with employee representative bodies • Talent management Charitable associations • Regular and proactive relations • Links with the local Charity campaigns voluntary sector and NGOs • Local and national partnerships • Membership of and participation in the CNCC (Conseil National des Centres Commerciaux), Perifem, EPRA (European Public Real Estate), • Discussions on all the issues Trade bodies CSR Department FSIF (Fédération des Sociétés Immobilières identified et Foncières), C3D (Collège des Directeurs du Développement Durable) and OID (Observatoire de l'Immobilier Durable) • Property management mandate with Carrefour Property and other service agreements. • Environmental policy on-site: All Carmila • Bi-monthly joint Carmila/Carrefour Property energy, waste, water, green Carrefour group management committee meetings spaces, environmental employees • Weekly meeting with Carrefour group CSR certification department MOD (delegated project • Supplier social and ethical charter Service providers and suppliers • Responsible purchasing management) • Calls to tender Department 4.1.1.4 Business model methodology • the General Secretary; In accordance with Decree n°2017-1265 of 9 August 2017, Carmila has designed its business model for inclusion in the integrated • the CSR Department. report in 2018. In 2018 the working group came together in three workshops to In order to design its business model, in 2018 the CSR Committee collaboratively develop Carmila's business plan to be presented to held a scoping meeting to agree its main strands. Following this and signed off by Carmila's CSR Committee and Executive meeting a working group was set up comprising: Management. It is updated each year by the same working group and signed off by Carmila's Executive Management. In 2019 the • the Risk Department; working group also met to update the business model. The business • the Communication Department; model covers the full scope of the Company’s operations in all three countries (France, Spain and Italy). • the Finance Department; 88 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Non-financial performance statement 4.1.1.5 Risk identification and mapping • the importance of water as an issue is highlighted by the materiality analysis. It became even more important to preserve In order to map its gross risks, Carmila adopted a collaborative this resource during the Spanish materiality survey when the approach in three stages: country was experiencing a drought. Whilst Carmila continues to 1. Carmila analysed material CSR risks according to their pursue its water consumption management policy (details in significance for internal and external stakeholders, resulting in a Section 4.2.2), the theme has not been included as a main risk in materiality matrix of 21 issues produced in 2017 and 2018. its non-financial risk analysis since none of the sites are located in a water stress area. 2. In 2018 Carmila took part in the working group of the Conseil National des Centres Commerciaux (CNCC), in order to work However, although this information is not included in the DPEF, collaboratively to identify the main risks facing the sector. information on these subjects is reported in Section 4.2 Other non12 CSR risk themes were rated by the five real estate companies financial information. according to five criteria of seriousness (impact on reputation, financial impact, impact on operations and legal impact) and Finally, in 2019, the CSR Department updated its risk mapping: one frequency criterion (likelihood of risk occurrence). Based on • The risk of artificialisation has been removed from the main risks this rating, nine risk themes were identified as significant. This list is provided for information purposes to share the latest because it is limited on Carmila's sites since the real estate rational within the industry. company does not conduct ex-nihilo projects, solely extensions on existing assets. As such, in most cases the land is already 3. Using as a basis the materiality matrix and the risks identified by impervious. Moreover, artificialisation no longer emerged from the CNCC which helped to put together a risk universe, Carmila the materiality matrix as a material issue. As such, the indicator set up a working group made up of the General Secretariat and the CSR Department to produce an analysis of CSR risks based on artificialisation is no longer a key performance indicator. on their significance for the business model and the likelihood of occurrence. A map of 12 risks was produced in 2018 and • The Greenhouse Gas Effect (GHG) risk has also been renamed a Contribution to the fight against climate change and has updated in 2019 in collaboration with the business lines. This mapping is signed off by the CSR committee each year. absorbed the transport and access risk . Indeed, the main issue addressed in this risk was allowing visitors access to the shopping Certain risks highlighted by Article L. 225-102 of the French centre by sustainable means of transport in order to limit the Commercial Code were not included in the list of main risks since GHG impact. This new risk boosts Carmila's strategy for Carmila's activity has no impact on these themes: combating climate change. 4 • combating food waste, food insecurity, respecting animal welfare, • The risk of Resilience of assets and managing the costs of promoting a responsible, fair and sustainable diet, and fighting operation combines all issues associated with eco-design, tax evasion(1); certification, energy consumption and waste. • Carrefour was given responsibility for managing two risks: • Establishing a local presence and customer satisfaction have responsible purchasing and corruption, health and safety; been clustered regrouped under Customer and visitor relations risk. CSR RISK MAPPING 5.0 Tenant relations 4.5 Resilience of assets and resource management 4.0 Contribution to the fight 3.5 against climate change Relations Human with customers 3.0 Resources and visitors Frequency 2.5 2.0 Human Rights 1.5 Business ethics 1.0 0.5 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 4.5 5.0 Importance (1) Carmila has not identified fiscal evasion as a major risk, as its activity and its subsidiaries are located exclusively in France, Spain and Italy. Besides, the company operates its activity in respect of legal provisions and regulations applicable (cf. Chapter 7 note 9), has never been subject to tax adjustment and its accounts are verified annually by auditors. CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 89 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 4. Non-financial performance statement 4.1.1.6 Summary of our CSR strategy As a response to these risks, Carmila's Here we act, strategy is based on 3 strands: • HERE WE ACT FOR THE LOCAL REGIONS; • HERE WE ACT FOR THE PLANET; • HERE WE ACT FOR EMPLOYEES. SUMMARY OF OUR CSR STRATEGY Materiality matrix Risk based on Actions Indicator Commitment 2019 results issue risk mapping HERE WE ACT FOR THE LOCAL REGIONS • Work with retail brands Number 10% increase in the number of kiosk and retailers to develop of kiosk campaigns by 2020 compared 11,305 local attractiveness campaigns with 2018 Contribution • Support retail brands and to local TENANT retailers through the digital development RELATIONS transition Retailer Produce a tenant satisfaction • Take action to support satisfaction survey in 2019 in France and 69% Tenant services local employment rate in 2020 in Spain and Italy • Support new dynamic retailers financially Increase CSR events by 10% 1,616 Associations by 2020 compared with 2018 Sponsorship Conduct an employment event with and philanthropy • Make the shopping centre centre managers in 50% of centres 38 sites a local focal point and site in 2019 compared with 2018 of community expression Number of RELATIONS • Incubate CSR initiatives CSR events 40 centres with WITH in partnership with Conduct events related to health a health and CUSTOMERS associations and nutrition in all centres with nutrition event AND VISITORS • Make shopping centres managers in 2019 compared with accessible to all 2018 40 events on Customers food transition • Continuously improve the standard of service Customersvisitors Roll out its customer satisfaction 87% satisfaction survey in Spain and Italy by 2020 rate HERE WE ACT FOR THE PLANET 100% of new projects to be • Ensure the optimised BREEAM Construction certified 100% Environmental (ongoing) Eco construction management of our sites certification and certification through environmental 75% of our assets (by gross asset rate RESILIENCE certifications value) to have environmental 61% OF ASSETS certification by 2021 AND • Optimise centre Energy RESOURCE management through the intensity of Reduce energy consumption per Energy MANAGEMENT 13% at current installation of equipment common areas sqm by 15% compared with 2017 consumption scope that is energy-efficient or (KWh) by 2025 compared with 2017 runs on renewable energy per sqm Rate of waste Recover 50% of waste by 2020 60% at current Waste • Limit our waste recovery compared with 2017 scope CONTRIBUTION • Evaluate our carbon Carbon Produce carbon reporting by 2020 Achieved TO THE FIGHT footprint (Scope 1, 2 and 3) intensity of New objective to Emissions and GHG AGAINST • Reduce our GHG emissions common areas Reduce our carbon intensity be set according CLIMATE • Make our sites accessible (kgCO2e) per sq.m. by 15% by 2025 to the CHANGE to low impact transport per sqm compared with 2017 methodology HERE WE ACT FOR EMPLOYEES Well-being at work Satisfaction Annual satisfaction survey Achieved rate Talent management HUMAN • Uncover everyone's CAPITAL potential Grant 100% of employees access Health and safety Training rate 84% to training by 2020 of employees Average annual Get 90 to professional 80 for UES managers gender equality index by 2022 in France HUMAN RIGHTS • Be an inclusive business remuneration Diversity Diversity Establish a diversity working group Quality of social Achieved charter in 2019 dialogue Risk ethics Conduct ethics risk awarenesstrained ETHICS • Be an ethical business raising for 100% of employees 94% employees (ongoing) rate 90 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Non-financial performance statement 4.1.2 Here we act for the local regions Background Indeed, as a real estate company, what sets Carmila apart is its local Societal impact is a key strand of the Carmila's Here we act presence. The shopping centre is designed as a living space that programme. Changes in consumer patterns and demand for greater promotes the local economy, social ties and interaction. As such, transparency, traceability and collaboration requires retail brands Carmila is prioritising relations with its tenants and consumers as a and businesses to lead by example. means of establishing a lasting local presence. These were both identified as main risks in the Group's non-financial risk mapping. Moreover, consumer expectations in terms of shopping have largely evolved in recent years. In addition to traditional retail, customers Moreover, the quality of Carmila's relations with its tenants had are looking for living spaces with a range of services such as food already emerged as a material CSR issue for stakeholders. outlets, sporting and leisure activities, useful time-saving services. Carmila is keen to respond to these new requirements by listening to its customers and offering them a range of services and activities. 4.1.2.1 Work with retail brands and retailers to develop local attractiveness Ambition and performance Support for retailers Carmila offers its retailers free support to help them develop their commercial appeal through the kiosk. NUMBER OF KIOSK CAMPAIGNS 4 2017 2018 2019 Spain 194 1,364 5,776 France 1,964 4,015 4,940 Italy 93 366 589 TOTAL 2,251 5,745 11,305 Change 155% 97% Thanks to the collaboration of Centre Managers, in 2019 Carmila met Carmila had their full confidence as a manager of shopping centres its 2020 objective to increase “Kiosk” campaigns by 10% compared and welcomed the digital tools made available to them, particularly with 2018, at Group level. Carmila wants to refine its objectives in the “Kiosk”, Facebook and Instagram pages for their shopping 2020 to highlight the performance and quality of its actions. centre. In 2019 a panel of retailers took a satisfaction survey, the results of In Spain, shopkeepers are satisfied with their location in the gallery which were very positive. In France, 85% of respondents stated that and with the services provided by the centre to more than 70%. RETAILER SATISFACTION RATE Overall, as a retailer, from 1 to 10 what score would you give to express your satisfaction with your location in this Carmila shopping centre? Spain France Total Score of 7 to 10 46 539 585 Satisfaction rate 77% 69% 69% Our actions Long-term support is offered to willing retailers. This policy is made possible on a daily basis by the provision of dedicated tools and the a) Support retail brands and retailers through the digital organisation of training; for example, for retail brands and retailers transition for their lease, or indeed for digital transformation at the Smart For 5 years Carmila's Data and Innovation department has been Shopping Shows. devising a strategy for supporting retail brands and retailers in their Carmila is the first real estate company to offer the services of a development which is rolling out with the help of shopping centre digital platform for lease management enabling our retailers to get management in each country. This strategy supports retail brands information and perform certain administrative tasks with just a few throughout their collaboration and addresses their issues. clicks. 663 tenants have used the platform in 2019. Carmila offers a package of omni-channel and local marketing In order to support its retailers, Carmila is also establishing solutions for its tenants on a site called The Kiosk : a unique range partnerships with innovative start-ups whose ethos reflects the of local and digital marketing solutions tailored to the sales values of sustainable development. objectives of retail brands: visibility, traffic, customer loyalty. The Group shares its expertise for boosting the performance of retail brands through: • media support to improve the visibility of the point of sale with a huge range of communication tools; • support for store openings or product launches; • web-to-store support through its expertise in terms of creating engaging content and qualified databases. CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 91 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 4. Non-financial performance statement In Spain, the Alcobendas centre is trialling new marketing tools to b) Acting to support local employment increase the range of services offered by the Kiosk. As such, a Carmila is aware that employment is a vector for local dynamism sticker was stuck on mirrors to publicise the offers of Club Carrefour and as such wants to support any retail brands opening stores in for hairdressers and opticians. The Los Alfares centre, Talavera their shopping centres to find employees. For this, in its centres supported the release of a film by ArteSiete: over the course of a Carmila is implementing a number of actions in partnership with weekend customers were offered a full event with mascots and local job agencies: sharing the job vacancies of each store on the face-painting for children in the centre. In July, the cinema's centres' digital resources (website, Facebook), organising ad-hoc revenues were up 58% compared with July 2018. events (job forums, job dating). Participating tenants benefit from the high footfall attracted by the mall and thus improve their In Giussano, Italy, for the opening of Cotton & Silk, the centre put up chances of finding the right candidate. 38 centres organised jobs decorations, launched Instore Radio and an operational launch kit. In initiatives in 2019. terms of digital communication, teasers and a sponsored post were released on social media. The operation brought in more than c) Invest in new dynamic retailers €25,000 in turnover, more than 70% compared to the previous year, and 1,119 customers. As an additional strand of its strategy, Carmila is funding dynamic, innovative retailers that require specific assistance to pursue their In 2019, Carmila joined forces with Pharmalley to open a pharmacy growth. Through its Business Development department, the in Laon and transfer a dispensing pharmacy to Annecy. business offers funding and donates its skills: phygital marketing, fitting out retail space, administrative relations with public stakeholders etc. 4.1.2.2 Make the shopping centre a local focal point and site of community expression Through this scheme the retail brand Barbe de Papa has opened 40 barbershops in France and Centros Ideal has opened 10 beauty salons in Spain. Ambition and performance Carmila also connects with shopping centre customers through social and environmental initiatives. In 2019, the company met its News objective of a 10% increase in the number of CSR events at its In France, retailers who benefited from a long-term boost shopping centres. In all three countries, in France, Spain and Italy, (more than 6 actions) and a budget between 2000 and over 1,600 events on the themes of culture and sport, employment 2500 outperformed on average 8.4 points of turnover compared to and sustainable development have been held. Since 2018, the other stores of the brand present at Carmila. number of events held in centres increased by 21%. The enthusiasm Our drive-to-store digital marketing is recognised by Google which of customers and their interest in these events resulted in very is offering Carmila the opportunity to trial their new products. Since positive comments on the social media of shopping centres and has early 2019, Carmila has thus been the first in France to beta-test the prompted Carmila to maintain this commitment. latest Google Automated Bidding Artificial Intelligence innovations Health was a predominant theme in the total number of CSR events. that make it possible to optimise marketing campaigns to generate Indeed 50% of Carmila sites with centre managers offer an event on in-person visits to sales outlets. health. These range from fundraising for charitable associations to Many partnerships have been rolled out with the objective of prevention of all types (diabetes, AIDS, blood donation etc.) But supporting start-ups particularly from social economy organisations: Carmila also works with the Carrefour group on raising awareness of the food transition. In 2019, there were around forty actions in • Bilum, a company which gives used tarps on our building sites a shopping centres aimed at educating customers on these new new life; issues. • Too Good To Go with 130 retailers and 87 partner shopping Events on the theme of economic and social impact also featured centres and the option of reserving a short date basket directly prominently. Indeed, one of the pillars of Carmila's strategy is to take via the shopping centre's website; action in the heart of all regions. As a consequence, the Group is taking action and in 2019 over 200 actions were implemented on • Miimosa, a dedicated crowdfunding platform for the agriculture this theme. In France, some 100 actions focussed on the theme of and the food of tomorrow: these are 8 projects which were employment enabled 1720 CVs to be collected. supported through effective communication at our shopping centres; • the Huclink job terminals in 7 centres: 72 job vacancies in our shopping centres advertised and 1,000 CVs received thus facilitating local recruitment for retailers in our centres. NUMBER OF CSR ACTIONS 2017 2018 2019 France 157 554 642 Spain 102 537 678 Italy 82 249 296 TOTAL 341 1,340 1,616 TOTAL CHANGE 204% 21% 92 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Non-financial performance statement NUMBER OF CSR ACTIVITIES PER THEME NUMBER OF CSR ACTIVITIES 216 Economic and Social 1800 + 21 % Impact 1600 58 1400 Sustainable development 1200 1,096 1000 Charity and 148 Solidarity 800 Public health 600 400 200 98 Culture and Sport 0 2017 2018 2019 Having met its target one year in advance, Carmila now wishes to For the first time, Carmila is publishing its customer satisfaction rate accelerate its commitment to employment and responsible for the three countries. 87% of customers are satisfied with their visit consumption. By 2021, on its sites with shopping centre which is evidence of the company's performance and its ability to management, Carmila is committed to: listen to its customers. 4 • promoting employment at 100% of its centres; • conducting 100 actions on the food transition; • holding 30 events on ethical and/or second-hand fashion by centre by 2021. CUSTOMER SATISFACTION RATE France Spain Italy Total Number of respondant 34,320 16,292 3,320 53,932 Score from 7 to 10 30,545 13,197 3,191 46,932 Satisfaction rate 89 % 81 % 96 % 87 % In France and Italy, Carmila measures the net promoter score too. NET PROMOTER SCORE France Spain Italy Total Number of respondant 34,320 NA 3,320 37,649 Score from 7 to 10 29,172 NA 3,192 32,364 Satisfaction rate 85 % NA 96 % 86 % Carmila wants to roll out the net promoter score in Spain in 2021. Our actions These partnerships enable the centres to engage with local stakeholders over the long-term and to address the concerns of a) Incubate CSR initiatives in partnership with associations residents in the centre's expansion. For Carmila, relations with For Carmila, the shopping centre is a place for living, interaction and customers of the shopping centres are established on the back of expression of local life. Each centre management establishes social and environmental initiatives, particularly measures promoting partnerships with local charitable associations to enable them to employment, ethical consumption and the food transition. raise customer awareness of their issues. They are free events which are held at the shopping centre. These events are divided into five b) Make shopping centres accessible to all themes: Moreover, Carmila is striving to make its shopping centres accessible • access to culture and sport; to all. In total, 9,196 adapted spaces have been made available for customers in France, Spain and Italy. These improve access to and • charity and solidarity actions; the accessibility of our centres. • regional, economic and social impact; During renovations, Carmila pays particular attention to signage, both for customer comfort and safety. Finally, the scheme includes • public health; bicycle shelters and pedestrian walkways to the closest public transport. • sustainable development. CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 93 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 4. Non-financial performance statement CENTRES ACCESSIBILITY France Spain Italy Total Car-sharing 564 0 0 564 Family 921 792 220 1,933 Two-wheelers 1,145 1,011 294 2,450 Electric 200 78 6 284 Disabled 2,553 1,045 367 3,965 TOTAL 5,383 2,926 887 9,196 Our national partnership with French charity, Secours Populaire c) Continuously improve the standard of service français has been bolstered with three highlights: a charity egg-hunt In order to improve the standard of service offered to customers, at Easter, a day for those who do not have the opportunity to go on annual surveys are coordinated by the Data Insight department in holiday, Les oubliés des vacances in summer and Green Santas at France, Spain and Italy, covering the whole customer experience: the end of the year. This partnership has resulted in physical and centre cleanliness, the range of products and services on offer, digital events in our shopping centres. Attendance of our customers travel times, means of transport used, awareness of CSR actions etc. at events results in a donation being made to Secours Populaire More specific surveys are also carried out to respond to ad-hoc français for the aforementioned campaigns. Donations totalled requirements. €20,000. In France, Carmila also uses mystery shoppers to audit the quality of 7 centres in Spain took part in World Clean Up Day, a global service received. The mystery shopper evaluates the various stages environmental event that is growing in size year-on-year. The of the visitor experience. The findings of these surveys are shared obvious primary aim of this action for the protection of the planet is each month with centre managers and action plans are implemented to clean our regions but also raise awareness of and campaign on with fast, practical corrective measures implemented. In 2018, in the dangers of litter thrown in nature. During this day, local France, Carmila set up a panel of volunteer customers: The charitable associations were also able to promote themselves by Shopping Lab. Over 2,500 customers regularly take surveys, post on providing volunteers with materials for cleaning beaches and towns. forums, use suggestions boxes, share articles and react to the content posted in a digital space. This discussion forum is a means In addition Carmila Spain, in partnership with Carrefour Property, is of connecting with the core customer base of Carmila shopping participating in the financing of new technologies to help children centres and, as such, enables customers to play a leading role in the with cerebral palsy. This approach is made possible thanks to the evolution of their centres. Carrefour foundation, which raises funds and donates them to associations. €2.3 million have been raised since 2001 thanks to the partnership between the Carrefour foundation and the Spanish News Confederation of People with Cerebral Palsy. This state-of-the-art The most engaging actions include around forty events mostly in equipment provides children with access to new and more partnership with Hypermarkets on the food transition and advanced therapies to improve their social skills and their level of supporting our customers to adopt a more balanced, seasonal diet, personal autonomy. particularly through cookery workshops. In Italy, the Gran Guissano centre held the Diversity Day to promote An emphasis is also placed on raising awareness of our purchasing integration of disabled people through work. habits and upcycling with eight clothing donation events held in partnership with local charitable associations (Emmaüs, Le Relais) and, in some centres, with local influencers, to raise awareness of our consumption patterns. 4.1.3 Here we act for the planet Background Climate change and the scarcity of natural resources are Effective energy management of assets and their certification is a phenomena to which the real estate sector must adapt in response means of ensuring reasonable use of resources, limiting the Group's to natural, societal and regulatory necessities. Indeed, greenhouse partipace in the fight against global warming and limiting increases gas emissions from its activity contribute significantly to climate in operating costs. Similarly, there are operational levers for limiting change with buildings accounting for some 20% of global greenhouse gas emissions from operating shopping centres. greenhouse gas emissions. The political will expressed in the European Union's 2020 Climate Plan, the so-called “Energy and Climate Package” and, in particular, the Paris Agreement on Climate 4.1.3.1 Incorporating our assets Change in 2015 through its target of limiting global warming to 2°C, in the city of the future make it all the more necessary for the sector to tackle these issues and take them seriously. Moreover, the growing frequency of Ambition and performance extreme climate events raises the problem of the resilience of assets in an increasingly restrictive physical environment. Environmental certification rate These increased climate restrictions and the resulting regulatory In 2018, Carmila committed to certifying 75% of its assets in value by measures raise important issues of obsolescence for shopping 2021 to substantiate the effective design and management of sites. centres which must, from the design phase, incorporate respect for This objective can be achieved through: the environment and resilience in addition to the standards of • Breeam New Construction certification with a minimum rating of comfort and use that give them appeal. In operational terms, Very Good for any extension projects of over 1,000 sq.m.; shopping centres must also take into account these restrictions and identify all of the necessary levers for reducing greenhouse gas • Breeam In-Use certification with a minimum rating of Good for emissions. operational sites. This context has led Carmila to identify the risk of resilience of As of 31 December 2019, 61% of assets in value had an environmental assets and resource management and its contribution to the fight certification compared with 35% in 2018. against the climate change as a main risk in its non-financial risk mapping. 94 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Non-financial performance statement ENVIRONMENTAL CERTIFICATION RATE 80% 75% 70% 61% 60% 50% 40% 30% 35% 20% 10% 0% 2018 2019 2020 2021 Energy intensity of common areas In order to reduce its environmental impact, Carmila has committed to a 15% reduction in its energy intensity by 2025. 4 ENERGY INTENSITY OF COMMON AREAS AT CURRENT PERIMETER Headquarter France Spain Italy Total Unit 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 Fossil energy kWhEF NA(1) 0 18,929,369 14,873,163 4,636,358 4,045,431 459,755 497,477 24,025,482 19,416,071 Natural gas kWhEF PCS NA 0 18,929,369 14,839,594 4,636,358 4,013,083 459,755 484,615 24,025,482 19,337,292 Fuel kWhEF PCS NA 0 NA 33,569 NA 32,348 NA 12,862 NA 78,779 Electricity kWhEF NA 331,759 49,034,137 47,838,441 25,848,811 25,220,459 8,385,910 8,140,136 83,268,858 8,1530,795 Municipal network kWhEF NA 0 NA 2 090 000 0 0 0 0 NA 2,090,000 Heating kWhEF NA 0 NA 2 090 000 0 0 0 0 NA 2,090,000 Cooling kWhEF NA 0 NA 0 0 0 0 0 NA 0 Other energies kWhEF NA 0 NA 0 NA 61,700 0 0 NA 61,700 TOTAL FINAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION kWhEF NA 331,759 67,963,506 64,801,604 30,485,169 29,327,590 8,845,665 8,637,613 107,294,340 103,098,566 PER SQM kWhEF/sqm 363 314 294 335 249 441 430 327 287 (1) For the entire chapter, NA: Not available as the data has not been collected CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 95 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 4. Non-financial performance statement ENERGY INTENSITY OF COMMON AREAS AT CONSTANT PERIMETER France Spain Italy Total Unit 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 Fossil energy kWhEF 14,221,726 12,618,218 2,318,180 189,236 0 0 16,539,907 14,607,453 Natural Gas kWhEF PCS 14,153,085 12,587,386 2,318,180 1,976,599 0 0 16,471,265 14,563,985 Fuel kWhEF PCS 68,641 30,832 0 12,636 0 0 68,641 43,468 Electricity kWhEF 41,833,893 39,591,356 18,686,584 18,005,629 1,213,591 1,702,271 61,734,068 59,299,256 Municipal network kWhEF NA 0 0 0 0 0 NA 0 Heating kWhEF NA 0 0 0 0 0 NA 0 Cooling kWhEF NA 0 0 0 0 0 NA 0 Other energies kWhEF NA 0 0 0 0 0 NA 0 TOTAL FINAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION kWhEF 56,055,619 52,209,574 21,004,764 19,994,865 1,213,591 1,702,271 78,273,974 73,906,709 PER SQM kWhEF/sqm 308 287 279 266 406 569 301 284 Significant changes in the scope of consolidation between 2017 and 2018 (addition of Spain and Italy) require Carmila to use 2018 as the reference year on a like-for-like basis. ENERGY INTENSITY OF THE COMMON AREAS VARIATION 2017 2018 2019 Variation Energy intensity at current perimeter kwhEF/sqm 327 327 287 12 % Energy intensity at constant perimeter kwhEF/sqm NA 301 284 -6% Waste recovery rate Carmila implemented an efficient waste management and accounting system in 2019, which has enabled it to accurately calculate its recovery rate. Thanks to this methodology, the target of 50% of waste recovered has been achieved. New targets will be announced in 2020. WASTE RECOVERY RATE AT CURRENT PERIMETER 2017(1) 2018(2) 2019(3) Variation 2018-2019 Total 6,646 14,268 13,617 +6% RECOVERED 965 2,918 8,132 +179% % RECOVERED 15% 20% 60% +24% (1) In 2017, the reporting includes only 44 sites in France. (2) In 2018, reporting includes 58 sites in France and 14 in Spain. (3) Including headquarter consumptions. WASTE RECOVERY RATE VARIATION PER COUNTRY PER YEAR AT CURRENT PERIMETER Headquarter France Spain Italy Unit 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 TOTAL T NA NA 11 6,546 10,381 9,057 NA 3,887 4,416 NA NA 132 Recovered t NA NA 11 965 1,735 6,476 NA 1,183 1,512 NA NA 132 % RECOVERED % NA NA 100% 15% 17 % 72% NA 30% 34% NA NA 100% WASTE RECOVERY RATE AT CONSTANT PERIMETER 2018(1) 2019(2) Variation 2018-2019 Total 13,700 12,778 -7% RECOVERED 1,738 7,168 312% % RECOVERED 13% 56% +43 (1) In 2018, reporting includes 58 sites in France and 14 in Spain. (2) Including headquarter consumptions. 96 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Non-financial performance statement WASTE RECOVERY RATE VARIATION PER COUNTRY PER YEAR AT CONSTANT PERIMETER France Spain Italy Unit 2018 2019 2017 2019 2017 2018 TOTAL T 10,330 9,057 3,370 3,721 NA NA Recovered t 1,738 5,869 1,299 NA NA % RECOVERED % 17% 65% 0% 35% NA NA Our actions • POLLUTION: NOx emissions from heating systems, reduction of Carmila is seeking to incorporate the concept of resilience and night time light pollution, reduction of noise pollution, minimising reasonable use of resources at each stage of the life of its buildings watercourse pollution, flood risk management, etc. in the design phase and in-use. • INNOVATION: provides opportunities for exemplary performance a) Eco-design our buildings and increase their resilience and innovation to be recognised that are not included within In order to guarantee the resilience of its assets in the face of other categories. climate change and ensure their lasting performance, Carmila has These issues are incorporated in the design of shopping centres at adopted a sustainable construction policy and, since 2017, has been the operational level: awarded the internationally recognised Breeam New Construction certification with a rating of at least Very Good at the design stage • The architecture of shopping centres is geared toward the and the realisation stage for its developments of over 1,000 sq.m. minimisation of energy consumption, including access to natural light, selection of materials with high thermal inertia, optimised Developed by the Building Research Establishment in 1990, façade orientation and green roofs or high solar reflectivity to BREEAM New Construction (Building Research Establishment limit the need for heating and air conditioning; Environmental Assessment Method) is a voluntary third-party certification of the environmental performance of buildings. It is one • Natural materials that are more environmentally-friendly and have of the most internationally recognised. Two types of Breeam New a lower carbon impact are preferred, such as wood from Construction certificates are issued: the design stage before the project and the final stage once the project is done. Buildings’ environmental impact are assessed and rated according to ten sustainably managed forests, glues, paints, varnishes and glazes bearing the “NF Environment” and “Ecolabel” labels in Europe or equivalent environmental labels, and materials requiring little 4 issues and the final score leads to the award of one of six energy consumption for production or that are made from certification ratings: Acceptable, Pass, Good, Very Good, Excellent natural and abundant materials; or Outstanding. The assessment is based on nearly 70 criteria under ten categories: • Renewable energy sources (such as solar water heaters, heat pumps and geothermal energy) are incorporated whenever • MANAGEMENT: the adoption of sustainable management possible; practices and implementation of sustainability actions through the key stages of design, tender, construction, initial delivery, • Each project is designed to integrate harmoniously into the project management, etc.; natural or urban environment and to minimise its impact on the environment. • HEALTH & WELL-BEING: daylight, internal and external lighting, natural ventilation, indoor air quality, volatile organic All projects applications made for building permits in the form of components, thermal comfort, acoustic performance, secure authorisations to operate retail facilities (AEC) include life-cycle pedestrian access, etc.; analysis. Environmental and Health Declaration Forms (Les Fiches de Déclaration Environnementale et Sanitaire – FDES) are produced for • ENERGY: energy efficiency, reduced CO2 emissions (natural light, materials so as to assess the impact on the environment and health low-energy equipment, etc.), calculating the energy used, of construction materials and equipment and decoration. renewable energy, etc.; Moreover, where Carmila is working towards the “life-cycle analysis” • TRANSPORT: access to public transport, alternative modes of criterion of the BREEAM New Construction certification process, lifetransport, safety of pedestrians and cyclists, access to local cycle analysis (LCA) considers two scenarios for materials so as to services (chemists, post offices, schools...), etc.; choose the one with the lesser impact on the environment. Carmila studies opportunities for mixed use and the potential reversibility of • WATER: water consumption, detection of major leaks, irrigation its sites. Carmila identified a number of opportunities for mixed use systems, etc.; in the area of health, in particular in Île-de-France. As such, dentist surgeries were planned at Villejuif and Reims Cernay, and health • MATERIALS: Life-cycle analysis of materials, sustainability of facilities opened in Gennevilliers, Montluçon and La Roche-sur-Yon. materials, responsible sourcing, sustainable and resilient design, etc.; Carmila is keen to reduce nuisance at the construction stage for the benefit of residents, workers and the environment. A Green • WASTE: construction waste management plan, recycling Construction Site Charter was developed in France in collaboration aggregates, local operational waste, etc.; with Carrefour Property setting out the commitments to be met and covering 100% of Carmila’s construction sites. This charter is signed • ENVIRONMENT & ECOLOGY: ecological value of the site, by all contractors. It is the framework for practices on the protection and creation of ecological habitats, long-term construction site regarding any soil and air pollution, any special improvement of biodiversity, implementation of ecologist’s protection areas designated by the ecologist, minimum impact of recommendations, etc.; noise and vibrations on the local community, limiting water and energy consumption on-site. CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 97 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 4. Non-financial performance statement b) Taking a smart approach to operating our assets c) Adopting a circular economy approach for our centres These choices allow assets to be managed more effectively, limiting Finally, the treatment of waste has a direct impact on rental charges. operating costs and anticipating the resilience of its property Carmila is taking a circular economy approach to reduce this portfolio. Carmila follows the Breeam In-Use framework to improve impact. During the operation of shopping centres, the main the management of its operational centres with the objective of producers of waste are the retailers. This waste is mainly due to achieving at least a good rating. product packaging and logistical arrangements. The main types of waste are boxes, plastic and wet food waste. Depending on the size Through asset management: and type of the shopping centres, waste collection is managed In 2019, Carmila began a campaign to certify 75% of its assets in directly by our asset manager Carrefour Property Gestion, handled value by 2021 and is going to apply for the Breeam In-Use by the Hypermarket or managed by the local authority. In France, certification for many of its operational assets. In addition to this Carrefour Property Gestion renewed its waste collection contract certification, through its new environmental policy, Carmila has set and put out a national call to tender in order to set up secure master itself the target of a 15% reduction in its energy intensity and water agreements that meet the Company’s requirements in terms of intensity by 2025 compared with 2017 so as to limit the impact of optimising collection and reporting. These new master agreements increasing costs and scarcity respectively. include: BREEAM In-Use certification includes 3 parts: part 1 on Asset • environmental reporting on tonnage collected; Performance, part 2 on Building Management and part 3 on Occupier Management. Only parts 1 and 2 are evaluated at Carmila • a poster campaign, communication and, as needed, training centres. BREEAM In-Use evaluation includes nine categories: aimed at retailers; • MANAGEMENT: Environmental management system, purchasing • a three-year waste characterisation in order to optimise policy, etc.; reduction, sorting and recycling. • HEALTH & WELL-BEING: air quality, comfort, etc.: Best practice is included in the appendices to commercial leases to raise awareness of this practice among tenants. The topic is also • ENERGY: heating systems and performance, airconditioning, included in the welcome guide given to retail brands. Carmila has ventilation, hot water, lighting, maintenance, etc.; rolled out targeted initiatives in its shopping centres to improve the sorting system, improve communication on best practice and, where • TRANSPORT: infrastructure for cyclists, proximity to public necessary, improve the monitoring of services. Specifications were transport, etc.; reviewed and, as of 2019, the waste collection management • WATER: efficiency of facilities and water-saving systems, etc.; contracts include remote readings from the waste compactor, the carbon impact of transport, the introduction of a collection circuit • MATERIALS: fire safety, regular checks, etc.; and the recovery of biowaste. The green space management contract provides a framework for green waste and the cleaning • WASTE: storage areas, etc.; contract refers to the sorting of waste and the systematic use of two separate bags. • ECOLOGY: specific surveys for biodiversity, etc.; • POLLUTION: specific pollution, high-risk equipment, etc. To meet its in-use certification objectives, Carmila is implementing various actions: • technical improvements: Gradual introduction of high energy efficiency BMS (building management systems), consultation on building improvements focusing on ventilation and natural light and efficient lighting such as LED has gradually been installed at the vast majority of our sites; • optimised monitoring: Gradual roll-out of remote readings of the main electricity meter in kw and of sub-meters in order to provide a detailed analysis of consumption associated with different uses (lighting, heating, air-conditioning), a report on monitoring is available on a dedicated web portal. This monitoring enables head office and local staff to be responsive to consumption, taking corrective measures on any overconsumption recorded; • alert mechanism: Automatic alerts of any overconsumption have been introduced; • improving practices: In 2018, all managers of operational real estate sites in France were familiarised with policies, instructions and best practice in terms of managing consumption, such as regulating temperatures. Operational teams on the ground are also raising awareness among partner retailers by offering advice and sharing best practice to complement the environmental appendix attached to the commercial lease. 98 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Non-financial performance statement News In order to respond to these risks, Carmila adopted its first environmental policy in 2019, incorporating objectives for 2025. EXAMPLES OF ENVIRONMENTAL PRACTICES ON THE SITES DELIVERED IN 2019 Sites delivered in 2019 Transport Water Waste Energy • Cycling and pedestrian paths • Water-saving toilet • Collection points for • RT 2012 -15% at the centre facilities voluntary sorting and • Sub-metering by energy • Bus stop 50 metres from • Retention basins recycling in the centre type (HVAC, lighting, DHW the site entrance discharging into • Sorting and recycling area heating etc.) • 12 parking spaces for electric the existing for tenants and • Dusk sensor lighting Rennes Cesson network (1,028 sqm) customers vehicles • Rooftop type air heat pump • 27 parking spaces for families • The Green Construction for the mall • 5 car-sharing spaces Site Charter, a framework • Water source heat pump for managing for units construction waste • 19 spaces for car-sharing • 5 sq.m. thermal • Recycling space in the car • LED lighting • 30 bicycle spaces divided solar panels for park and two in the mall • Natural light in the mall from between 2 bicycle shelters DHW, on the roof • The Green Construction multiple skylights and light • 6 parking spaces for electric (supply the existing Site Charter, a framework shafts vehicles toilet facilities at for managing • Rooftop type reversible the shopping construction waste heat pumps • 3 parking spaces for families centre) Bourg-en-Bresse • Cycling and pedestrian paths • Green roof of 12 cm, over • A drainage basin 300 sq.m. (increased on the site connecting to existing sustainable insulation) 4 transport links • 5 sq.m. thermal solar panels • Access to the site by bus for DHW, on the roof (supply (bus stop 400 metres from the existing toilet facilities at the centre) the shopping centre) • 6 parking spaces for electric • Increase in the • The Green Construction • LED lighting of the centre vehicles permeable area Site Charter, a framework • External lighting for the site • 7 car-sharing spaces of the site for managing powered by a twilight switch • 24 permeable spaces (permeable spaces construction waste programmed to be turned of & green roof) • Waste collection terminals at 10 PM • Bicycle park for 8 bicycles made available for • Natural light with numerous • 8 parking spaces for families customers in the mall skylights and light shafts Orange • Cycling and pedestrian paths in the shopping mall on the site connecting to existing sustainable • Reversible rooftop transport links • Increased insulation from • Access to the site with the green roof measuring a bus stop 50 metres 101 sq.m. from the centre By establishing its centres in the towns and cities of the future, In order to ensure optimum effectiveness for the management of Carmila is committed to continually improving its environmental this large-scale project, a digital platform dedicated to the performance. In practical terms, in 2019 this policy resulted in management of data generated by Breeam audits and enabling a Breeam New Construction certification being awarded with a Very detailed analysis of the data with the aim of producing targeted Good rating for its Cap Saran retail park, (design and final stage) action plans has been rolled out in France. This software was and for the extension of Rennes Cesson and Nice Lingostière awarded a digital transformation prize by Business Immo. (design stage). For its sites in operation, Carmila has launched a major new project with Breeam in Use certification awarded for 43 sites in 2019 (5 in Italy, 7 in Spain and 31 in France) with a minimum rating of Good. 74% of the sites certified in 2019 achieved a Very Good or Excellent rating. CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 99 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 4. Non-financial performance statement 4.1.3.2 Contribution to fight against climate change Ambition and performance The perimeter is the same as the energy perimeter of the common areas (see methodological notes). For the first year, Carmila is carrying out a global carbon assessment. CARBON INTENSITY OF COMMON AREAS AT CURRENT PERIMETER Greenhouse Gas emissions Headquarter France Spain Italy Total (calculated with factors 2018) Unit 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 Total emissions tCO2e NA 26 NA 7,328 NA 14,181 NA 4,960 NA 26,495 Market based Including direct ones (Scope 1) tCO2e NA 0 NA 2,516 NA 750 NA 93 NA 3,360 Including indirect ones – tCO2e NA 18 NA 3,032 NA 11,372 NA 3,966 NA 18,387 Market based (Scope 2) Including upstream – tCO2e NA 9 NA 1,780 NA 2,058 NA 901 NA 4,748 Market based (Scope 3) PER SQM – MARKET BASED kgCO2e/sqm NA 29 NA 33 NA 120 NA 247 NA 74 Total emissions tCO2e NA 19 6,680 6,271 7,144 6,872 3,503 3,413 17,328 16,574 Location based Including direct ones (Scope 1) tCO2e NA 0 NA 2,516 NA 750 NA 93 NA 3,360 Including indirect ones – tCO2e NA 13 NA 2,377 NA 6,002 NA 3,305 NA 11,697 Location based (Scope 2) Including upstream – tCO2e NA 6 NA 1,378 NA 119 NA 15 NA 1,517 Location based (Scope 3) PER SQM – LOCATION BASED kgCO2e/sqm NA 21 31 28 78 58 174 170 53 46 CARBON INTENSITY OF COMMON AREAS AT CONSTANT PERIMETER Greenhouse Gas emissions France Spain Italy Total (calculated with factors 2018) Unit 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 Total emissions – Market based tCO2e 6,235 5,725 10,336 9,910 723 1,015 17,294 16,650 Including direct ones (Scope 1) tCO2e 2,409 2,135 429 369 0 0 2,838 2,504 Including indirect ones – tCO2e 2,226 2,106 8,426 8,119 591 829 11,243 11,054 Market based (Scope 2) Including upstream – tCO2e 1,601 1,484 1,481 1,423 132 185 3,214 3,092 Market based (Scope 3) PAR SQM – MARKET BASED kgCO2e/sqm 34 32 57 55 4 6 67 64 Total emissions – Location based tCO2e 5,311 4,850 4,920 4,692 493 691 10,724 10,234 Including direct ones (Scope 1) tCO2e 2,409 2,135 429 369 0 0 2,838 2,504 Including indirect ones – tCO2e 1,652 1,564 4,447 4,285 493 691 6,593 6,540 Location based (Scope 2) Including upstream – tCO2e 1,249 1,151 44 38 0 0 1,293 1,190 Location based (Scope 3) PER SQM – LOCATION BASED kgCO2e/sqm 29 27 27 26 3 4 41 39 CARBON INTENSITY VARIATION OF COMMON AREAS 2018 2019 Variation Greenhous Gas emissions per sqm – Market based – current NA 74 NA Greenhous Gas emissions per sqm – Location based – current 53 46 -13% Greenhous Gas emissions per sqm – Market based – constant 67 64 -1% Greenhous Gas emissions per sqm – Location based – constant 41 39 -2% GHG EMISSIONS FROM REFRIGERANT LEAKS Unit 2019 GHG Emissions from Refrigerant Leaks ktCO2e <1 In 2019, Carmila is assessing emissions from its activities on the most significant items in its Scope 3. 100 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Non-financial performance statement BREAKDOWN OF SCOPE 3 OF GHG EMISSIONS BY ITEM FOR FRANCE* Unit 2019 Scope 3 % TOTAL GHG EMISSIONS WITH SIGNIFICANT CONTROL KTCO2E 48 7 GHG emissions from waste ktCO2e 2 0,3 Purchasing-related GHG emissions ktCO2e 7 1,1 GHG emissions related to employee transportation ktCO2e <1 0,2 Construction-related GHG emissions ktCO2e 37 6 TOTAL GHG EMISSIONS WITH LOW CONTROL KTCO2E 602 93 GHG emissions related to consumption by private parties ktCO2e 28 4 GHG emissions related to visitor transportation ktCO2e 574 88 GHG emissions per visitor kgCO2e <3 TOTAL GHG EMISSIONS FROM SCOPE 3 KTCO2E 650 *Except upstream of the common areas. Actions News Combating climate change is a challenge for us all. In collaboration In 2018 in France, Carmila entered into partnership with Klaxit, a carwith stakeholders, Carmila is launching a carbon strategy as an sharing app aimed at retailers and Carmila employees. Figures for effective response to climate challenges. 2019 are very good with over 10,000 journeys made using the app and a total of around 300,000 kilometres travelled avoiding over In order to limit climate change, Carmila wishes to limit its 32,000 kg of CO2. contribution to climate change by reducing its carbon footprint. Carmila is refining and gradually implementing a carbon strategy. In For the first time in 2019, Carmila documented the number of 4 2020, for the first time the company is calculating its carbon alternative spaces available in Spain and Italy in order to measure footprint (scope 1, 2 and 3) and can thus implement actions to the accessibility of these centres in the three countries. This showed reduce its GHG emissions. The biggest categories are visitor that there are now 9,196 adapted parking spaces across the Carmila transport and construction. Reductions in scope 1 and 2 emissions Group, 5,231 reserved for sustainable transport and 3,965 for access are achieved through actions described in the asset resilience and to centres for people with reduced mobility. resource management risk. In order to reduce its scope 3 emissions which are essentially related to visitor travel, Carmila is making its centres accessible to sustainable transport (bicycles, electric cars and public transport) with the aim of increasing the space devoted to these forms of transport. To support this action, Carmila is committed to raising awareness of sustainable transport among visitors. Shopping mall construction plans include measures to encourage customers and employees to use sustainable modes of transport by putting in place: • effective communication about getting to our shopping centres; • where possible, additional stops agreed with bus companies; • car-sharing areas; • charging stations for electric vehicles; • charging stations for electric bikes; • cycle paths and cycle shelters connected to nearby public roads and pavements. BREAKDOWN OF VISITS BY MODE OF TRANSPORTS 8% 84% 2% 5% 1% CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 101 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 4. Non-financial performance statement 4.1.4 Here we act for employees Background Directly linked to these aspects, human capital, human rights and ethics have been considered as main risks in Carmila's non-financial Employee engagement is a key factor in the successful growth of risk mapping. Carmila. This collective engagement has been developed and consolidated through various initiatives aimed at all employees, from their integration into the company and throughout their career. The 4.1.4.1 Revealing everyone's potential HR Department, Management and team are mobilised daily to take action to foster an inclusive corporate culture based on the values of respect and non-discrimination. As a response to the many Ambition and performance challenges and requirements of its employees, particularly young The employee satisfaction rate as recorded in the annual survey talent, Carmila is making its Human Resources policy a major asset remains very high with 87% of employees satisfied with their job. based on listening to and the well-being of all. Carmila is implementing the necessary actions to maintain this satisfaction rate. In practical terms for Carmila, taking action every day for employees means promoting fulfilment, satisfaction, the pushing of boundaries Carmila is innovating in its training provision, offering its employees and team spirit to develop and grow together. new ways of learning and knowledge. In 2020 the aim is to catalogue and showcase all aspects of provision. In 2019, the percentage of trained employees increased. HOURS OF TRAINING AND TRAINED EMPLOYEES RATE France Spain Italy Total Average number of training hours 12 31 28 19 per employee 2019 Total training hours 1,192 1,376 392 2,960 Trained employees rate 78% 98% 100% 84% Average number of training hours 15.6 42 10.24 21.4% per employee 2018 Total training hours 2,293 1,890 297 4,480 Trained employees rate 50% 97% 100% 65% Average number of training hours 7.9 39.1 4.1 14.10% 2017 per employee Total training hours 1,100 1,604 62 2,766 Our actions Training for employees in the trends in our sector and issues that Carmila is putting in place measures to retain talent from different have a real impact on our activity was rolled out in 2019. This took sectors and with a range of expertise such as real estate, retail, the form of an invitation to employees at the Headquarter to four innovation and data. These diverse skills have helped to instil a events in the year called the keys to current affairs and trends unique corporate culture, one which is inclusive, collaborative and investigation . Topics are determined by the Data Insight responsible. Department with the support of a reputed external expert such as Obsoco or Credoc. All employees are invited to take part in an induction programme to enable them to learn the culture, values and organisational structure A sustainable development course has been specially created by of the company: Carmila with the support of a reputed external firm. The aim of this course is to raise awareness among employees of global • an immersive and participatory induction day; environmental issues and how they might affect our scope of activity. This course was complemented by a sustainable • a personalised, job-specific programme is organised including, in development week the aim of which was to train employees and particular, meetings with members of the Management raise awareness of this topic. An ecologist and specialist in sorting Committee and immersion in our shopping centres; waste chaired conferences to which all head office employees were • a one-to-one meeting with the Human Resources Department. invited. The company supports employees throughout their career in • The appraisal is an opportunity to take stock of objectives as well developing and acquiring new skills and expertise, preparing them as expectations in terms of career development, to adapt the for the jobs of the future. training plan and to assess the workload and work-life balance. Careers committees meet following annual appraisals to promote Carmila is implementing a major scheme to meet the needs of all, the sharing of information between departments and facilitate whatever their job or grade. This investment, which is seen both as a internal mobility. core responsibility of the company and a lever for competitiveness and sustainability, is accelerating the transformation of our culture. • The envie de bouger (desire to move) platform lists all vacancies within the company and more generally the Carrefour group thus • An à la carte training plan that is tailored to various profiles and promoting internal mobility. different paces of learning. For this, employees have access to a traditional training plan offering job-related courses as well as In order to attract the best talent on the market, Carmila has personal development courses. This plan also includes personal adopted an attractive and competitive compensation policy in the coaching for those with strong potential. commercial real estate market and encourages the best performances through variable pay. • Employees have access to an e-learning platform “cap formation” developed and managed by the Carrefour group. Through this In all three countries, the compensation package comprises a fixed site, which can also be accessed through a smartphone app, salary, annual variable compensation for managers and directors employees can take e-courses with very short modules which are and, in the case of France, profit-sharing agreements and incentive perfectly in tune with modern requirements. plans. In 2019, a CSR criterion was included in the objectives on which the variable compensation of all employees is based. 102 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Non-financial performance statement News 4.1.4.2 Being an inclusive and ethical business Four conferences organised by the Data Insight Department on the following topics: medical surgeries, the seniors market, the paradoxical consumer and the future of shopping centres, as well as Ambition and performance two conferences organised by the CSR Department on the topics of Professional equality between women and men biodiversity and sorting waste. Carmila's workforce is equally divided (78 men and 91 women), and 2,960 training hours delivered as part of the training plan. the issues of professional equality at all levels of the company will be a challenge for the years to come. This indicator is integrated into As part of our partnership with IOT Valley in Labège, a selection of the CSR indicators that are included in the company's collective employees was invited to take part in innovation sessions based on objectives. a methodology specific to start-ups to teach them to roll out projects using agile methods. Six employees took part in the IOT In 2018, Carmila has set an objective to reduce the wage gap Valley programme. between women and men and has set up a working group in France. There has been a positive trend in all the Group's countries since 100% of shopping centre managers in France took part in the “Retail 2017. In order to go further in its ambitions, Carmila is refining its coaching” programme. – Shopping centre managers benefited from objective and is committed to achieving 90 on the professional a specific skills development programme, tailored to their role. This equality index (according to French decree no. 2019-15 of included training in press relations, training in public speaking as well January 8, 2019) by 2022 which will improve various issues related as a retail coaching programme delivered by specialist external to professional equality. In accordance with the law n°2018-771 of trainers in these areas. 05/09/2018, in France, Carmila, as a member of the UES Carrefour Property Almia Management Cargo Property, publishes its professional equality index as of 01/03/2020: it stands at 80/100. AVERAGE ANNUAL MANAGERS COMPENSATION (in euros) Gender 2017 2018 2019 Women 50,595 51,746 52,275 4 France Men 59,185 60,908 61,105 Women 34,916 33,700 40,026 Spain Men 45,963 45,900 46,715 Women 36,259 46,390 45,153 Italy Men 48,125 47,120 51,997 Women NA NA 49,737 Group Men NA NA 56,531 PAY GAP VARIATION 2017 2018 2019 Change 2017-2019 France -15% -15% -14% +1 pts Spain -24% -27% -14% +10 pts Italy -25% -2% -13% +12 pts Group NA NA -12% NA Business ethics Carmila raises awareness and trains its employees in the fight against corruption and in business ethics. RATE OF EMPLOYEES TRAINED IN ETHICAL RISKS France Spain Italy Total Number of employees exposed to risks 74 18 9 101 Number of employees trained 69 18 8 95 Percentage of employees trained in ethics 93% 100% 56% 94% Our actions the conviction that the Company must reflect society, Carmila is committed to incorporating diversity in all its forms, particularly in Respecting diversity and rejecting all harassment and all terms of age, gender, state of health, disability, sexual orientation, discrimination are two of the principles in Carmila’s Code of Ethics social and geographical background, religious beliefs, political sent to all employees. These commitments are inspired by opinions, trade union activities, etc. This diversity and noncompliance with the conventions of the ILO on equal compensation discrimination policy applies to all human resources procedures and (no. 100) and discrimination (no. 111). decisions related to working conditions, in particular: recruitment, Since 2018 Carmila has been a signatory to the Diversity Charter, annual performance appraisals, calculating variable pay, training and which expresses a moral commitment to combat all forms of progression. discrimination and implement diversity policies. Indeed, based on CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 103 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 4. Non-financial performance statement Carmila is attentive to maintaining a gender balance and diversity in • Membership of the Carrefour group savings plan and the PERCO its workforce and has launched an action plan to achieve the best (group pension plan); standards in this area. In 2018, a review by an independent consultancy identified areas for improvement. A number of • Carmila Group Collective Incentive Plan dated 28 April 2017 and measures were implemented: its additional clauses dated 26 June 2018 and 26 June 2019; • training offered to anyone returning from maternity leave; • Collective agreement on the introduction of remote working • funding for special Cesu vouchers for child-minding; dated 20 December 2019; • creation of a workplace gender equality committee; • Group agreement on preparing for and supporting the social transformation (GPEC) dated 12 March 2019; • renewal of the remote working agreement. • Group collective agreement on the implementation of the right to In 2020, measures to improve gender balance on Executive bodies disconnect from digital tools dated 7 July 2017; will be included in the policy. • Group collective agreement on remote working dated Carmila is a business that promotes dialogue and collaboration and 27 September 2019. recognises the fundamental importance of work-life balance for employees and the right to disconnect from devices. The following Carmila attaches a great deal of importance to the quality of life at collective agreements apply to Carmila France employees, as work which has a direct impact on staff productivity. A number of members of the economic and social unit (ESU) of Carrefour actions on health and well-being have been implemented. Property, Almia Management and Cargo Property: Workshops on psychosocial risks were offered to employees as well • Collective agreement of Carrefour Property/ Almia Management as full health checks with the CIEM medical centre. The cap formation platform also offers numerous modules on the theme of ESU dated 16 December 2014; quality of life at work and stress management. • ESU collective agreement dated 15 June 2009 and its additional The company encourages employees to get involved in clauses dated 26 March 2014, 27 May 2016 and humanitarian and social causes and supports employees wishing to 27 September 2018; do volunteer work. • Minutes of the annual mandatory negotiations from 2015 to 2019; Provisions on the dissemination of and respect for Carmila's ethical values are described in Chapter 5.2.3 et 5.4.2.5/6. • Collective agreement on the organisation of working time at the Carrefour Property ESU dated 23 June 2015; News • Collective agreement on working time accounts at the Spanish employees can take a course on well-being at work called Carrefour Property ESU dated 19 June 2009; A tu Salud . An access to health event is held every Friday with the • Group collective agreement establishing an additional guarantee aim of improving work-life balance and increasing workforce for refunding health expenses for all staff dated 30 June 2014, productivity. 80% of employees are taking this course. following the signing of membership agreements by Almia Various corporate concierge services are offered to head office Management, Carrefour Property Gestion and CPF Asset employees to make their daily life easier as well as events to Management dated 30 June 2014 and the membership promote good workplace relations. Yoga classes have also been agreement of Cargo Property Management dated organised all year in France. 27 September 2018; With the aim of promoting diversity, inclusion and a gender balance • Group collective agreement establishing an additional guarantee in the workforce, in accordance with the commitment we made in for pensions for Managers and Supervisors dated 30 June 2014, signing the diversity charter, a working group has been set up to following the signing of membership agreements by Almia make proposals on the topic of gender equality in the workplace. Management, Carrefour Property Gestion and CPF Asset Carmila has renewed its company agreement on remote working Management dated 30 June 2014 and by Cardety dated and launched a communication campaign aimed at employees and 1 June 2016, and the membership agreement of Cargo Property managers. 10 employees are benefiting from the scheme. Management dated 27 September 2018; A training course on ethics and the Loi Sapin 2 (law) is available • Group collective agreement establishing an additional guarantee online on the cap formation platform. All new employees are for pensions for Employees dated 30 June 2014, following the invited to take this module. signing of membership agreements by Almia Management, Carrefour Property Gestion and CPF Asset Management dated 100% of employees in France have received the brochure “Our Code 30 June 2014 and the membership agreement of Cargo Property of Ethics” as well as the brochure “Policy for fighting against Management dated 27 September 2018; corruption and influence-peddling”. 93% have signed the statement of independence in France. • Agreement on social dialogue and the implementation of a Finally, Carmila wants its employees to participate in experiences Social and Economic Committee within the ESU dated that reinforce solidarity and push individual boundaries within teams. 27 September 2019; With this in mind, two teams were set up for a 100 km charity walk • Agreement on the implementation of the reform of workplace organised by Oxfam last May with a donation to the charity of training, personal training accounts and interviews dated €1,500 per team. 20 December 2019; In Spain, once a year, employees hold a “charity paddle tournament” the proceeds of which are donated to charity. • Carmila Group profit-sharing agreement and its additional clauses dated 16 June 2014, 23 June 2015, 28 January 2016, 20 June 2016, 28 April 2017, 26 June 2018 and 27 June 2019; 104 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Other non-financial information 4.2 Other non-financial information 4.2.1 Relations with partners Purchasing Charter of the Conseil National des Centres Commerciaux (CNCC) Carmila appends the CNCC Purchasing Charter to all service Our actions agreements: cleaning, caretaking, maintenance, waste management, etc. The Charter includes ethical and social practices. In particular it Working with local authorities establishes the principle of fair selection of partners based on With its 215 shopping centres, Carmila is actively contributing to the objective criteria for comparison. It stipulates that the partners are economic activity of the catchment areas in which it is established. opposed to and committed against any form of active or passive In this respect, Carmila is striving to establish proactive, long-lasting, corruption, and have committed to observing the Conventions of sustainable relations with all administrations around its shopping the International Labour Organisation (ILO), social regulations and centres so as to strengthen its local presence and contribute to any regulations specific to its business, particularly: building the regions of tomorrow. Throughout the year, Carmila • not to discriminate in the hiring and management of staff and to ensures that it transparently maintains its contacts with elected promote equal treatment; officials, making sure they are the first to know about any Company developments, and that it is a partner in regional planning. • not to use undeclared work; As a real estate company, Carmila is particularly keen on supporting • to comply with legislation on managing working hours, pay, local regions and places a focus on the outskirts as well as the town training, trade union rights, health and safety; centre. Almost one in four shopping centres are in the centre or on the edges of a town. Carmila’s relations with local authorities are • to comply with local legislation on employing people with first and foremost in the form of regular discussions with local disabilities. elected officials and, where possible, actions that benefit a large number of people. 4 Safety and legal compliance Collaborating with our suppliers of construction sites Carmila’s purchases have a strong societal and regional impact, Safety and legal compliance of construction sites is covered by a owing to their volume and the fact that the shopping centres are prevention and control system. spread across three countries. Carmila uses a large number of Across all sites, a health and safety officer (coordonnateur sécurité suppliers and contractors, either directly or indirectly, most of which et protection de la santé – CSPS) oversees the safety of the various are regional players or the regional subsidiaries of major groups. contractors. In order to ensure better customer safety, the contract These partnerships support a buoyant local economy in our drafted by Carmila expands the CSPS’s remit beyond the site itself. catchment areas. In accordance with the French duty of vigilance law, Carmila asks all Carmila essentially purchases services and regularly hires social contractors working on its sites for a set of documents as evidence enterprise start-ups for catering at its events. Purchases in of the legality of its activities, that employees are covered by connection with development or renovation projects at its sites are employment law and the validity of insurance. In order to facilitate made by Carrefour Property and operational management the gathering of these documents and ensure that they are purchases by Carrefour Property Gestion and Carrefour. authentic and compliant, Carmila calls on a specialist contractor to Insofar as possible, in carrying out its extension, renovation and collect and check these documents. construction work, Carmila and its partner Carrefour Property are For its extensions, Carmila has also opted for additional services to keen to promote local businesses. Departmental construction monitor staff working in the zone and check their identity. The aim federations are systematically contacted in order to obtain a list of of these regular, unannounced checks is to prevent undeclared subcompanies in the department or the surrounding area liable to contracting and prevent the use of staff that cannot be checked respond to calls to tender. through the building industry ID card. Moreover, Carmila includes a specific administrative clause in its tenders relating to social integration through employment. As such, News contractors for the main lots (in value and number of hours worked) In 2019, 73% of the cost of works at Carmila construction sites in must allocate 5% of the total number of hours worked on the project France went to local businesses. to target groups to support their professional integration. As part of the Evreux project, Carmila was awarded the Trophée de la clause sociale for its commitment to social inclusion. Over Supplier ethics and social charter 25,000 hours of work have been carried out with people re-entering Carmila’s project contractors are required to adhere to Carrefour’ the workplace. Ethics and Social Charter. Requirements include adherence to the eight main conventions of the International Labour Organisation (ILO) and the principles of the UN Global Compact. The Charter is sent to all suppliers involved in calls to tender for extension or renovation projects. In signing they are bound to adhere to the following five principles throughout all stages of the commercial relationship: • strict legal compliance; • no infringement of competition law; • avoid conflicts of interest; • reject any corruption; • guarantee confidentiality. CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 105 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 4. Other non-financial information 4.2.2 Water Ambition and performance The Group's results illustrate the control of consumption for the intensity by 15%, it was achieved in 2019 with a 21% decrease. entire scope of consolidation. Water consumption decreased by 10% Comparison with 2017 is difficult because the scope was reduced. compared to last year. As for our objective of reducing our water WATER CONSUMPTION (MUNICIPAL SOURCE ONLY) AT CURRENT PERIMETER 2017 2018 2019 Variation 2018-2019 TOTAL WATER CONSUMPTION 153,823 490,981 442,929 -10% Total water intensity 0.77 1.44 1.15 -21% 2017 2018 2019 Spain 154,770 198,142 France 153,823 201,046 118,841 Italy 135,165 125,946 Our actions Carmila’s property assets are not located in water stress areas and continues right up until the operational phase. Carmila as an objectif do not have high water consumption rates. Nonetheless, a process to reduce by 15% its water intensity by 2025. It has already reached to manage consumption on the sites starts at the design phase and its goal. WATER CONSUMPTION (MUNICIPAL SOURCE ONLY) AT CONSTANT PERIMETER Group 2018 2019 Variation 2018-2019 TOTAL WATER CONSUMPTION 258,417 237,994 -8% Total water intensity 1.17 1.08 -8% Water management planned from the centre By way of an example, in France: design phase • Water consumption is monitored in real time on a dedicated web portal. Real-time remote metering enables head office and local During the design phase, several rainwater management schemes staff to be responsive to consumption, taking corrective are implemented depending on the project and its characteristics measures and carrying out repairs as needed. (region, soil type, water level, etc.): • water retention structures restricting the flow of run-off on site; • Comparative consumption analysis for the same types of store draws the attention of retail brands to the need to manage their • in car-parks, landscaped swales promote the absorption of water water consumption. to limit its speed and pre-filter pollutants; • An external contractor is responsible for quickly identifying and • Specific treatment facilities are installed (oil separators, oil reporting water leaks. removers, etc.). • As renovations are carried out, mall toilet facilities are fitted with Additionally, from the design phase, measures are put in place to water-saving equipment: flow limiters, dual flushes, etc. limit future water consumption: • Finally, cleaning contractors have been chosen by our portfolio • installation of rainwater recovery tanks, to clean public areas of manager, Carrefour Property Gestion, on the basis of their the mall, supply public toilet facilities and water green spaces; environmental and social commitment. • installation of water-saving equipment in toilets, such as flow The green spaces adjoining the shopping centres are all owned by limiters, dual flush mechanisms, etc. third parties and managed by Carrefour Property Gestion. However, Carmila strongly encourages the owners and manager to ban automatic watering and select plant species that are suited to the Managing water consumption during region and do not consume a lot of water. shopping centre operation In 2018, all managers of French sites were trained in monitoring and The main demands on water consumption are the shopping centres' managing water consumption, in particular in using the web portal, toilets and cleaning. Although water consumption is not a major knowledge of policies, instructions and best practices. issue for the Company, with the help of Carrefour Property Gestion, Carmila is striving to monitor and limit its consumption through a range of initiatives. 106 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Other non-financial information 4.2.3 Protecting biodiversity • ecological management of green spaces, with the following aims: the absence of phytosanitary products, monitoring the emergence of invasive species and limiting water consumption requirements; Ambition and performance Carmila planted 7,000 trees in partnership with Reforest’action • a preference for indigenous plants, which require less care, less when the extension to the Rennes Cesson shopping centre was built. water and attract local wildlife. In total, more than 38,000 trees have been planted since 2017. Thus, from the site design stage, ecologists, landscapers and In 2019 Carmila launched an initiative to protect biodiversity and architects work together to create landscaping that takes into wants to draw up a charter applicable to all its sites. account the specific nature of the local fauna and flora. A biodiversity working group which includes the MOD, technical and Our actions CSR departments was launched in 2019. In order to protect biodiversity, the company is implementing Carmila wants to roll out the BiodiverCity label to certain sites such actions such as planting a tree for every square metre sold during as Evreu. BiodiverCity is the leading international label for taking extension projects. Certifications have been put in place to promote into account biodiversity in real estate, construction and renovation biodiversity such as BiodiverCity in Evreux. This certification will be projects. It assesses and displays the ecological performance of rolled out to other sites. buildings based on four major axes: Biodiversity is one of the issues taken into account when the • axes 1 and 2 focus on commitment and resources, respectively; shopping centres are designed. Carmila does not choose sites in designated biodiversity protection zones. For each shopping mall • axes 3 and 4 focus on assessing the ecological benefits and construction or extension project, an ecologist conducts a fauna and benefits for users. flora survey. The environmental survey and associated The Évreux shopping centre, a leading example of biodiversity recommendations help the site to be more effectively integrated protection, was the first of Carmila’s shopping centres, and the first into the ecosystem with, in particular: retail park in France to be awarded the BiodiverCity label. • adaptations made for local fauna: insect hotels, nesting boxes and beehives; • extensive management of green spaces, which re-establishes an ecological balance, brings together or combines different species and favours maintenance equipment that is the least disruptive 4 for the plants and wildlife sheltered there; News Sites delivered in 2019 Biodiversity • Construction on land that was already waterproof (car parks) • Creation of an under-ground car park (no additional artificial surfaces) Rennes Cesson • Creation of 751 sqm of green spaces (total of over 37,500 sqm after the project) • 50 trees planted • 5 nesting boxes • Construction on land that was already waterproof (car parks) • Creation of 1,241 sqm of additional green spaces on the forecourt (4,250 sqm after the project) • 67 new trees Bourg-en-Bresse • 3 nesting boxes • 2 insect hotels • Green roof takes up 60% of the area of new roofing (300 sqm), with a 12 cm substrate • A drainage basin • Around 5 beehives on shopping centre roofs • 3 nesting boxes • 1 insect hotel Orange • 5,098 sqm of green spaces • 101 sqm of extensive green roofs • 10 additional trees planted (128 in total) In Spain, a partnership agreement has been signed with the Forest Stewardship Council to plant trees every time a contract is signed with operators in the shopping centre network. CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 107 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 4. Cross-reference table, methodological notes and report by the Statutory Auditor 4.3 Cross-reference table, methodological notes and report by the Statutory Auditor 4.3.1 Cross-reference table 4.3.1.1 Societal indicators: Here we act for the local regions DPEF Unit of EPRA code Indicator indicator measurement 2017 2018 2019 Percentage of shopping centres having implemented Comty-Eng % NA NA 31 job initiatives Comty-Eng Number of CSR events ✔ Number 341 1,340 1,616 Number of Kiosk events ✔ Number 2,251 5,745 11,305 Percentage of shopping centres having undergone H&S-Asset % NA NA 39 a safety audit Percentage of shopping centres (in value) having % 46 46 94 distributed a clients-visitors satisfaction survey Clients-visitors satisfaction rate ✔ % 86 87 87 Percentage of shopping centres (in value) having % NA NA 28 distributed a retailer satisfaction survey Satisfaction rate based on retailer satisfaction survey ✔ % NA NA 69 Percentage of shopping centres located less than % NA NA 58 500 m from a public transport stop Percentage of customers travelling to shopping % 86 86 85 centres in car and by motorcycle Percentage of customers coming on foot % 8 8 8 Percentage of customers travelling to the shopping % 1 1 1 centres by bicycle Percentage of customers travelling to the shopping % 5 5 6 centres by public transport Number of charging stations for electric vehicles Nb NA NA 280 Percentage of shopping centres equipped with % NA NA 17 charging stations for electric vehicles 4.3.1.2 Environmental indicators: Here we act for the planet DPEF EPRA Code Indicator Indicator Unit 2017 2018 2019 Total final energy consumption of common areas at current perimeter ✔ kWh 60,284,142 107,294,340 103,098,566 Fossil fuels ✔ kWh 14,049,245 24,025,482 19,416,071 • Natural gas ✔ kWh 14,049,245 24,025,482 19,337,292 Fuels Abs • Heating oil ✔ kWh NA NA 78,779 Elec Abs Electricity ✔ kWh 46,234,897 83,268,858 81,530,795 DH&C – Abs District network ✔ kWh NA NA 2,090,000 DH&C – Abs • District heating ✔ kWh NA NA 2,090,000 DH&C – Abs • District cooling ✔ kWh NA NA 0 Other energies ✔ kWh NA NA 61,700 EnergyInt Energy intensity of common areas ✔ kWh/sqm 327 327 287 Total final energy consumption of common areas at constant perimeter ✔ kWh 30,726,248 28,262,477 73,906,709 Fossil fuels ✔ kWh NA NA 14,607,453 • Natural gas ✔ kWh NA NA 14,563,985 Fuels Lfl • Heating oil ✔ kWh NA NA 43,468 Elec Lfl Electricity ✔ kWh NA NA 59,299,256 DH&C – Lfl District network ✔ kWh NA NA 0 DH&C – Lfl • District heating ✔ kWh NA NA 0 DH&C – Lfl • District cooling ✔ kWh NA NA 0 Other energies ✔ kWh NA NA 0 108 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Cross-reference table, methodological notes and report by the Statutory Auditor DPEF EPRA Code Indicator Indicator Unit 2017 2018 2019 Energy-Int Energy intensity of common areas ✔ kWh/sqm 317 327 284 Renewable energy consumption kWh NA NA 61,700 Percentage of centres powered by renewable energy % NA NA 1 Total GHG emissions Market based, of common GHG Dir Abs areas at current perimeter ✔ ktCO2e NA NA 26,495 GHG Dir Abs Including direct ones (Scope 1) ✔ ktCO2e NA NA 3,360 GHG Dir Abs Including indirect ones Market based (Scope 2) ✔ ktCO2e NA NA 18,387 GHG Dir Abs Including upstream ones Market based (Scope 3) ✔ ktCO2e NA NA 4,748 GHG-Int Carbon intensity of common areas Market based ✔ kgCO2e/sqm NA NA 74 Total GHG emissions Location based, of common GHG Dir Abs areas at current perimeter ✔ ktCO2e NA 17,328 16,574 GHG Dir Abs Including direct ones (Scope 1) ✔ ktCO2e NA NA 3,360 GHG Dir Abs Including indirect ones– Location based (Scope 2) ✔ ktCO2e NA NA 11,697 GHG Dir Abs Including upstream ones– Location based (Scope 3) ✔ ktCO2e NA NA 1,517 GHG-Int Carbon intensity of common areas – Location based ✔ kgCO2e/sqm NA 53 46 Total GHG emissions Market based, of common GHG Dir Lfl areas at constant perimeter ✔ ktCO2e NA 17,294 16,650 GHG Dir Lfl Including direct ones (Scope 1) ✔ ktCO2e NA 2,838 2,504 GHG Dir Lfl Including indirect ones – Market based (Scope 2) ✔ ktCO2e NA 11,243 11,054 GHG Dir Lfl GHG Int Including upstream ones– Market based (Scope 3) Carbon intensity of common areas – Market based ✔ ktCO2e ✔ kgCO2e/sqm NA NA 3,214 67 3,092 64 4 Total GHG emissions Location based, of common GHG Dir Lfl areas at constant perimeter ✔ ktCO2e NA 10,724 10,234 GHG Dir Lfl Including direct ones (Scope 1) ✔ ktCO2e NA 2,838 2,504 GHG Dir Lfl Including indirect onesLocations based (Scope 2) ✔ ktCO2e NA 6,593 6,540 GHG Dir Lfl Including upstream ones Location based (Scope 3) ✔ ktCO2e NA 1,293 11,190 GHG Int Carbon intensity of common areas Location based ✔ kgCO2e/sqm NA 41 39 GHG Dir Abs GHG Emissions from refrigerant leaks ✔ ktCO2e NA NA <1 GHG Ind Abs Scope 3 emissions ✔ ktCO2e NA NA 650 GHG emissions related to consumption GHG Ind Abs ✔ ktCO2e NA NA 28 by private parties GHG Ind Abs GHG emissions related to visitor transportation ✔ ktCO2e NA NA 574 GHG Ind Abs GHG emissions from waste ✔ ktCO2e NA NA 2 GHG Ind Abs Purchasing-related GHG emissions ✔ ktCO2e NA NA 7 GHG Ind Abs GHG emissions related to employee transportation ✔ ktCO2e NA NA <1 GHG Ind Abs Construction-related GHG emissions ✔ ktCO2e NA NA 37 Water Abs Total water consumption at current scope m 3 153,823 490,981 442,929 Water Lfl Total water consumption at constant scope m3 120,664 112,184 237,994 Water Int Water intensity at current perimeter m3/sqm 0.77 1.44 1.15 Water Int Water intensity at constant perimeter m3/sqm NA 1.17 1.08 Cert Tot Environmental certification rate (by value) ✔ % 27.7 35 61 Percentage of certified centres BREEAM-In-Use Cert Tot % NA NA 59 by value Percentage of certified centres BREEAM New Cert Tot % NA NA 24 Construction by value Cert Tot Number of BREEAM In-Use certified centres Nb NA 7 48 Number of BREEAM New Construction certified Cert Tot Nb NA NA 18 centres Waste Abs Total quantity of waste at current perimeter ✔ tonnes 6,546 14,268 13,617 Quantity of non-hazardous industrial waste Waste Abs at current perimeter ✔ tonnes 5,581 11,350 5,485 Waste Abs Quantity of waste recovered at current perimeter ✔ tonnes 965 2,918 8,132 Waste Abs Recovery waste rate at current perimeter ✔ % 15 20 60 Waste LfL Total quantity of waste at constant perimeter ✔ tonnes NA 13,700 12,778 Quantity of non-hazardous industrial waste Waste LfL at constant perimeter ✔ tonnes NA 11,962 5,610 Waste LfL Quantity of waste recovered at constant perimeter ✔ tonnes NA 1,738 7,168 Waste LfL Recovery waste rate at constant perimeter ✔ % NA 13 56 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 109 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 4. Cross-reference table, methodological notes and report by the Statutory Auditor 4.3.1.3 Social Indicators: Here we act for employees DPEF EPRA Code Indicator Indicators Unit 2017 2018 2019 See See See chapter Gov-Board Composition of the highest governance body Nb et ID chapter 6 chapter 6 6 Procedure for nomination and/or selection Narrative See See See chapter Gov-Selec to the highest governance body explication chapter 6 chapter 6 6 Narrative See See See chapter Gov-Col Procedure in place to deal with conflicts of interest explication chapter 6 chapter 6 6 Total staff Nb 196 209 231 Staff on permanent contracts Nb 171 180 190 Staff on non permanent contracts CDD Nb 4 3 5 Number of apprentices Nb 21 26 36 Number of interns Nb 1 5 3 Interim staff Nb NA NA 3 Full-time staff Nb NA NA 229 Part-time staff Nb NA NA 2 Diversity-Emp Total number of women Nb 98 108 119 Diversity-Emp Total number of men Nb 98 101 112 Diversity-Emp Percentage of women % 50 52 52 Diversity-Emp Percentage of men % 50 48 48 Total number of women in the non-executive Diversty-Emp Nb 19 27 31 category Diversty-Emp Total number of women in the executive category Nb 72 75 88 Diversty-Emp Total number of women in the Director category Nb 8 6 6 Diversty-Emp Total number of men in the non-executive category Nb 15 11 14 Diversty-Emp Total number of men in the executive category Nb 68 75 98 Diversty-Emp Total number of men in the Director category Nb 13 15 16 Diversty-Emp Number of women on the Executive Committee Nb 3 2 2 Diversty-Emp Number of men on the Executive Committee Nb 8 9 8 Diversty-Emp Number of women on the Direction Committee Nb 5 4 6 Diversty-Emp Number of men on the Direction Committee Nb 10 13 15 Diversty-Emp Number of women on the Board of Directors Nb 6 6 6 Diversty-Emp Number of men on the Board of Directors Nb 11 11 10 Number of women on permanent contracts Diversty-Emp Nb NA NA 8 promoted during the year Number of men on permanent contracts promoted Diversty-Emp Nb NA NA 12 during the year Diversty-Emp Number of women hired during the year Nb NA NA 42 Diversty-Emp Number of men hired during the year Nb NA NA 27 Diversty-Emp Number of women trained during the year Nb NA NA 74 Diversty-Emp Number of men trained during the year Nb NA NA 88 Number of employees with disabilities Nb 3 2 1 Mean age NA 38,3 Number of employees under 30 years old 54 65 Number of employees between 30 and 50 years old Nb 129 135 140 Number of employees over 50 years of age Nb 19 20 26 110 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Cross-reference table, methodological notes and report by the Statutory Auditor DPEF EPRA Code Indicator Indicators Unit 2017 2018 2019 Diversity-Pay Gender pay gap ✔ % 20,6 14 12 Diversity-Pay Average annual remuneration for women managers ✔ € 40,590 43,981 49,737 Diversity-Pay Average annual remuneration for men managers ✔ € 51,091 51,412 56,531 Number of people hired on fixed-term contracts Emp-turn Nb 6 2 7 (excluding apprentice contracts) Emp-turn Number of permanent hires Nb 47 27 35 Emp-turn Number of departures of permanent contract 18 16 27 Emp-turn Turnover (permanent contract) ✔ Nb 22 13 17 Emp-training Total hours of training ✔ Nb 2,766 4,480 2,960 Average number of training hours per employee Emp-training trained ✔ Nb 14.1 21.4 19 Proportion of trained employees Emp-training ✔ % NA 65 84 Emp-training Training budget € 435,022 531,390 211,708 Training contribution rate (training budget / Emp-training % NA NA 1.8 payroll) Nb of accidents H&S-Comp Building Health and Safety Compliance 0 0 0 on-site 4 H&S-Emp Number of occupational diseases Nb 0 0 0 H&S-Emp Number of accidents at work Nb 0 1 1 H&S-Emp Workplace accident severity rate 0 0 2,6 H&S-Emp Workplace accident frequency rate 0 0,2 0,2 H&S-Emp Absenteeism rate % 3.55 6.35 5.4 Participation rate in the commitment survey % NA 66 73 Number of employees benefiting from teleworking Nb NA 6 10 Part of employees covered by a collective % NA NA 100 agreement Number of meetings held with staff representatives Nb NA N/A 19 Percentage of employees having had an annual Emp-Dev % NA NA 62 interview during the year (on permanent contracts) 4.3.2 Methodological notes Energy intensity of common areas The indicator is used to calculate energy savings and costs CSR reporting is based on the financial scope. As of 31/12/2019, attributable to the energy management policy of shopping centres. 215 sites belonged to Carmila. Scope restrictions are given according to the CSR indicator. For all of its reporting, Carmila includes within Scope its scope the three countries: France, Spain and Italy, unless The CSR scope excludes: otherwise stated. • sites under construction between 01/10/N-1 and 30/09/N; 4.3.2.1 Notes on methodology • sites not managed by Carrefour Property; for environmental data • sites without standalone meters; The reporting period for environmental information is 1/10/N-1 to 30/09/N, unless otherwise stated. • sites with a fixed annual estimate (BUD); • sites rebilled by the hypermarket on the basis of area ratios and Environmental certifications not actual consumption; The indicator makes it possible to attest to the environmental • tarif bleu rate consumption (for France only). quality of the patrimony which guarantees sustainable and environmentally friendly design and management, as well as The energy scope excludes the consumption of sites not included in attractiveness to visitors, retailers and investors. For the purposes of the CSR scope. Moreover, the consumption of sites with missing this document, any environmental action relating to an asset and and/or inconsistent consumption (electricity and/or gas) that certified by a third party is recognised as certification. The indicator remains unexplained following a request for additional information is relates to all assets in development and operating Carmila portfolio not recorded in the energy intensity totals. Their removal has a in the three countries where the company is present at 31/12/N. negative impact on coverage rates. That is, 215 sites as of 31/12/2019. CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 111 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 4. Cross-reference table, methodological notes and report by the Statutory Auditor Constant perimeter includes all sites of CSR perimeter and sites of the indicator concerned (energy, waste) in both 2018 and 2019 and excludes sites under renovations in 2018 and/or 2019. Current perimeter includes all sites consumptions of the CSR perimeter. CURRENT ENERGY PERIMETER IN 2019 Unit Headquarter France Spain Italy Total Surface mail CSR perimeter sqm 914 255,147 203,269 22,852 482,182 Asset value CSR perimeter M€ 0 4,311 1,449 340 6,101 Surface perimeter energy sqm 914 220,446 117,886 20,075 359,321 Asset value energy perimeter M€ 0 3,807 917 318 5,042 ENERGY PERIMETER COVERAGE (VALUE) % 100 88 63 94 83 France Spain Italy Total Unit 2018/2019 2018/2019 2018/2019 2018/2019 Surface mail CSR perimeter sqm 255,147 120,438 22,852 398,437 Asset value CSR perimeter M€ 4,311 874 340 5,526 Surface perimeter energy sqm 181,715 75,209 2,992 259,916 Asset value energy perimeter M€ 3,182 671 74 3,928 ENERGY PERIMETER COVERAGE (VALUE) % 74 77 22 71 Common areas The calculation scope applies to common areas and private areas Greenhouse gas emissions Scope 3 connected to the common areas of all sites owned by Carmila and ► Greenhouse gas emissions from business travel of employees managed by Carrefour Property, as well as to the energy (tCO2) – Scope 3 consumption of the Carmila registered office. The indicator is used to consolidate all greenhouse gas emissions Common areas include the malls and any areas that are heated, from the business travel of employees in France (73% of ventilated, air-conditioned (excluding car parks) with shared employees). The reporting period is the same as that for other heating, air conditioning and hot water systems provided by the environmental indicators: it ranges from 01/10/N-1 to 30/09/N, with property complex manager. Energy includes the consumption of the date of departure the reference date. In this first reporting year, gas, electricity, oil, district heating and cooling networks and only France employees are included. The scope includes travel by renewable energy from 01/10/N-1 to 30/09/N. As such, the energy group employees by train, plane and car (excluding commutes). consumption of private areas (occupied by tenants) that are not ► Greenhouse gas emissions from visitor travel (tCO2) – Scope 3 connected to common areas) are excluded from the scope of consumption. The gas scope excludes sites without gas The indicator is used to consolidate all greenhouse gas emissions consumption. from visitors travelling to Carmila's shopping centres. For this first reporting year, the indicator only includes the France scope (69% of Tenants operate directly out of the common areas (stands) and any sites by value). The indicator is calculated annually on the basis of pop-up stores (leases under 3 years) without their own meter may visitor surveys carried out by each shopping centre be included in the consumption for the common areas insofar as (37,275 respondents in 2019). An average is taken from responses Carmila remains the purchaser of energy consumption. for all shopping centres, extrapolated from the total number of visitors having visited the centres. The total number of visitors Calculation methods having visited the shopping centres using a counting system. For Energy intensity is expressed as final energy. Final energy is the final this first reporting year, only France is included in the scope. energy delivered to the consumer for their end consumption. The means of transport taken into account are cars, motorised 2It corresponds to the remote reading, bill or, failing that, an estimate wheel vehicles and public transport (considered to be travel by bus of consumption based on total energy spending. Where data is given the location of shopping centres). missing, an estimate is made based on other data in the reporting period. Common areas include the mall area of sites as well as the ► Emissions from construction or the restructuring of assets (tCO2e) area of toilet facilities and offices. Car parks are not included in the –Scope 3 area (but their consumption is included in the consumption of The indicator is used to consolidate all greenhouse gas emissions common areas). from the construction and renovation of assets. This indicator relates to areas built or restructured during the year (the construction or restructuring of which was completed during the environmental reporting period, from 01/10/N-1 to 30/09/N). Only assets covering an area of over 1,000 sqm are taken into account (99% of sqm constructed in 2019). There was no restructuring or construction in Spain or Italy in 2020. The emission factor used is that which corresponds to the construction of commercial buildings – concrete structures (ADEME): 550 kgCO2/sqm. Calculations are based on data for any areas constructed/ restructured sent to the CSR Department by project management departments. 112 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Cross-reference table, methodological notes and report by the Statutory Auditor ► Greenhouse gas emissions associated with Carmila's purchases Waste produced and proportion recovered (tCO2e) –Scope 3 The indicator is used to consolidate the percentage of waste The indicator is used to consolidate all greenhouse gas emissions generated that is recovered at assets in operation. The reporting associated with purchases. The reporting period is the same as for scope includes sites owned by Carmila whose waste collection other environmental indicators: it ranges from 01/10/N-1 to 30/09/N. contract is managed by Carrefour Property as well as the Carmila As such, greenhouse gas emissions are calculated for the purchases registered office. that have taken place in this period. The scope includes France The tonnage of waste managed by the adjoining Carrefour purchases only for this first year (71%). Emission factors are taken hypermarket or by the local authority is not included in the scope. from ADEME's online carbon database, Scope 3 Indirect emissions: At sites where waste is managed by the hypermarket, it is not other emissions, monetary ratios. possible to distinguish between waste generated by the ► Greenhouse gas from assets, private areas (tCO2e, upstream hypermarket and that generated by the Carmila mall. Data are included) –Scope 3 incorporated in the CSR report of the Carrefour group and, as such, are not included in Carmila's CSR report. For sites where waste is The calculation scope applies to the energy consumption of any managed by the local authority, the authority does not share retail brands having submitted their actual consumption to Carmila. reporting on the quantity and type of waste collected. Only the Total data are then extrapolated for total private areas. following processing methods are recognised as recycling: reuse, recycling, composting, recovery, incineration with energy recovery. Portfolio carbon footprint Where the type of processing is not known, waste is considered not to have been recycled. This indicator is used to consolidate all greenhouse gas emissions from the shopping centre portfolio in CSR-energy reporting, The reporting scope includes the sites owned by Carmila in France, calculated based on the energy consumption of common and Spain and Italy and for which the waste management contract is private areas within the energy scope. The carbon intensity of the managed by Carrefour Property Gestion with a master agreement. portfolio (kgCO2e/sqm) incorporates a number of sub-indicators: In France 64 sites have a master agreement. Some data are estimated based on a contractual weighting. When waste bins • GHG emissions from assets, common areas (tCO2e, excluding cannot be weighed at collection, the weight is estimated. upstream) > Scope 1 and 2; The coverage rate is the same as that of energy consumption; • 4 GHG emissions from assets, upstream of common areas > Scope 3; The coverage rate is the same as that of energy consumption. WASTE PERIMETER 2019 Headquarter France Spain Italy Total Value current € 914 3,717 714 216 4,647 PERIMETER CURRENT % 100 86 49 63 76 Value constant € NA 2,992 539 0 3,531 PERIMETER CONSTANT % NA 69 62 0 64 Water consumption and water intensity and Italy, the reporting period is from 1/10/2018 to 30/09/2019 for the current perimeter. These are the drinking water consumptions of Inconsistent and unexplained consumption due to reporting anomalies is excluded from reporting. The reporting period for water the common areas only, expressed in m3. For the constant consumption is from 1/01/2019 to 31/12/2019 for France. For Spain perimeter, sites in France and Italy with reliable water consumption from 1/01/2019 to 31/01/2019 are taken into account. 2019 Number of sites Centers by value % Current 132 80% Constant 120 64% CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 113 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 4. Cross-reference table, methodological notes and report by the Statutory Auditor 4.3.2.2 Notes on methodology Tenant satisfaction rate for societal data In France, at some 19 centres a survey was conducted by a service provider in 2019. Over 1,000 stores were asked to complete the survey and some 807 responded either online, by filling in a hard Number of CSR events copy or responding to questions face-to-face. The indicator is used to calculate the ability to establish the activities of the shopping centre in its region and to promote relations with In Spain, an online survey was conducted at two centres: local residents and stakeholders (charitable associations etc.). This Los Angeles (32 respondents out of 34) and Gran Via de Hortaleza indicator is used to observe the progression in the number of events (28/70 respondents). held on sites each year. 5 themes are included: Italy: scheduled for 2020. • access to culture and sport; Number of assets By value % • charity and solidarity actions; Tenant satisfaction rate 21 69% • regional, economic and social impact; • public health; 4.3.2.3 Notes on methodology for social data • sustainable development. The indicator relates to assets with a centre manager in France and Permanent staff turnover all sites in Spain and Italy. This indicator assesses the ability to retain key skills and maintain employee engagement. Poor working conditions can lead to Number of free Kiosk campaigns excessive turnover and a lack of employer brand image. Temporary The indicator offers an overview of the regional presence of the secondments of employees to another company within the Group shopping centre and makes it possible to promote the commercial are not included in the number of departures. development of retail brands and retailers present in our centres. The indicator is used to monitor the progression in the number of Employee satisfaction rate support campaigns provided each year. The indicator is used to measure quality of life at work. The scope A Kiosk action refers to any marketing action (digital, media, POS covers the three countries. This data is from the annual satisfaction –advertising on a point of sale-, events, etc.) implemented by surveys conducted and responses to the question: are you satisfied Carmila on behalf of a retailer. with your job? Scores of over 7/10 are taken into account when calculating the satisfaction rate. The indicator relates to assets with a centre manager in France and all sites in Spain and Italy. 3 countries: Surveys are conducted by the Data Insight Department. An email is sent to all employees (except the management committee) within the group at the time of the survey. Number of center Centers by value % 210 employees were contacted in 2019 and 163 respondents, i.e. a participation rate of 73%. CSR events 169 97% and Kiosks Diversity Charter As a signatory to the Diversity Charter, Carmila incorporates it in the Customer and visitor satisfaction rate company's overall policy. The Charter, produced by les Entreprises The indicator makes it possible to measure the degree of pour la Cité, promotes equal opportunities and diversity in all its satisfaction of the visitors, in particular related to the comfort of the aspects. It contributes to the respectful management of differences various visit courses. This indicator is used to check the evolution of and improves cohesion and good working relations. This qualitative customer satisfaction. indicator illustrates Carmila's commitment to combating all forms of discrimination and is used to monitor progress. The scope covers The scope of the indicator includes 98 sites owned and managed by the Group as a whole. Carmila in France, 76 in Spain and 8 in Italy. In France, satisfaction surveys are conducted by a service provider Average annual remuneration of managers in 98 centres. Between 200 and 600 clients per center are interviewed. In 2019, some 34,320 customers responded to the by gender survey. This indicator makes it possible to assess the equity of gender pay in the managerial/managerial category, which is the most In Italy surveys are conducted by a service provider in 8 Italian representative within the company. The scope includes employees centres. 3,220 responses on-site and online. present at 31/12/N with a full-time permanent contract in execution. In the case of France and Italy, only scores of over 7/10 are taken Senior managers, directors, employees, supervisors and executives into account in calculating the customer satisfaction rate. without bonuses are excluded. In Spain, an online survey is conducted three times a year The remuneration of part-time employees is excluded from the (in February, June and October) among a panel of Carrefour calculation. customers (customers having purchased a Carrefour loyalty card) with a sample of 150 questionnaires per centre. Overall satisfaction is The remuneration used is the average annual gross remuneration as measured with responses to the question: Overall, how satisfied are from the remuneration for the month of December. Bonuses are not you with the centre? The responses satisfied and very satisfied taken into account. have been taken into account. Results for October have been taken Pay gap is: (average remuneration of female executives average into account. In Spain, some 16,292 customers responded to the remuneration of male executives) / average remuneration of male survey. All sites are included in the perimeter except Alcala de executives. Henares and Cartagena. Percentage of employees exposed to risks Number of assets By value % of corruption or influence-peddling having Customer and visitor received specific training during the year 182 97% satisfaction rate Each year, the Audit Committee designates jobs that are exposed to risks of corruption based on the Carrefour group's risk mapping. The indicator assesses the company’s ability to provide an ethical environment. The indicator takes into account exposed employees who have been trained in risks as of 31/12/N. It includes the headcount from 1/1/N to 31/12/N. 114 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Cross-reference table, methodological notes and report by the Statutory Auditor 4.3.3 Statutory Auditor report Report by the Statutory Auditor, appointed as independent third party, on the consolidated non-financial statement This is a free English translation of the Statutory Auditor's report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English-speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional standards applicable in France. For the year ended 31 December 2019 To the Annual General Meeting, In our capacity as Statutory Auditor of your company (hereinafter the “entity”) appointed as independent third party, and accredited by the French Accreditation Committee (Comité Français d'Accréditation or COFRAC) under number 3-1049(1), we hereby report to you on the consolidated non-financial statement for the year ended 31 December 2019 (hereinafter the “Statement”), included voluntarily in the Group Management Report pursuant to the requirements of articles L.225-102-1, R. 225-105 and R. 225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce). Responsibility of the entity The Management Board's is responsible for preparing the Statement, including a presentation of the business model, a description of the principal non-financial risks, a presentation of the policies implemented considering those risks and the outcomes of said policies, including key performance indicators. The Statement has been prepared in accordance with the entity’s procedures (hereinafter the “Guidelines”), the main elements of which are 4 presented in the Statement and available upon request at the entity’s head office. Independence and quality control Our independence is defined by the requirements of article L.822-11-3 of the French Commercial Code and the French Code of Ethics (Code de déontologie) of our profession. In addition, we have implemented a system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements, the ethical requirements and French professional guidance. Responsibility of the Statutory Auditor appointed as independent third party On the basis of our work, our responsibility is to provide a report expressing a limited assurance conclusion on: • the compliance of the Statement with the requirements of article R. 225-105 of the French Commercial Code; • the fairness of the information provided in accordance with article R.225-105 I, 3° and II of the French Commercial Code, i.e., the outcomes, including key performance indicators, and the measures implemented considering the principal risks (hereinafter the “Information”). However, it is not our responsibility to comment on the entity’s compliance with other applicable legal and regulatory requirements, in particular the French duty of care law and anti-corruption and tax avoidance legislation nor on the compliance of products and services with the applicable regulations. Nature and scope of our work The work described below was performed in accordance with the provisions of Article A.225-1 et seq. of the French Commercial Code, as well as with the professional guidance of the French Institute of Statutory Auditors (Compagnie nationale des commissaires aux comptes or CNCC) applicable to such engagements and with ISAE 3000(2): • We obtained an understanding of all the consolidated entities’ activities, and the description of the principal risks associated; • We assessed the suitability of the criteria of the Guidelines with respect to their relevance, completeness, reliability, neutrality and understandability, with due consideration of industry best practices, where appropriate; • We verified that the Statement includes each category of social and environmental information set out in article L.225-102-1 III as well as information regarding compliance with human rights and anti-corruption and tax avoidance legislation; • We verified that the Statement provides the information required under article R. 225-105 II of the French Commercial Code, where relevant with respect to the principal risks, and includes, where applicable, an explanation for the absence of the information required under article L.225-102-1 III, paragraph 2 of the French Commercial Code; • We verified that the Statement presents the business model and a description of principal risks associated with all the consolidated entities’ activities, including where relevant and proportionate, the risks associated with their business relationships, their products or services, as well as their policies, measures and the outcomes thereof, including key performance indicators associated to the principal risks; • We referred to documentary sources and conducted interviews to: • assess the process used to identify and confirm the principal risks as well as the consistency of the outcomes, including the key performance indicators used, with respect to the principal risks and the policies presented; • corroborate the qualitative information (measures and outcomes) that we considered to be the most important presented in Appendix. Our work was carried out on the consolidating entity and on a selection of entities(3). • We verified that the Statement covers the scope of consolidation, i.e. all the consolidated entities in accordance with article L. 233-16 of the French Commercial Code within the limitations set out in the Statement; • We obtained an understanding of internal control and risk management procedures the entity has put in place and assessed the data collection process to ensure the completeness and fairness of the Information; (1) Accreditation scope available at www.cofrac.fr (2) ISAE 3000: international standard on assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical financial information. (3) Carmila S.A : headquarters France ; Carmila Spain. CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 115 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 4. Cross-reference table, methodological notes and report by the Statutory Auditor • For the key performance indicators and other quantitative outcomes that we considered to be the most important presented in Appendix, we implemented: • analytical procedures to verify the proper consolidation of the data collected and the consistency of any changes in those data; • tests of details, using sampling techniques, in order to verify the proper application of the definitions and procedures and reconcile the data with the supporting documents. This work was carried out on a selection of contributing entities(1) and covers between 22% and 100% of the consolidated data selected for these tests; • We assessed the overall consistency of the Statement based on our knowledge of all the consolidated entities. We believe that the work carried out, based on our professional judgment, is sufficient to provide a basis for our limited assurance conclusion; a higher level of assurance would have required us to carry out more extensive procedures. Means and resources Our work was carried out by a team of five people between November 2019 and March 2020 and took a total of five weeks. We were assisted in our work by our specialists in sustainable development and corporate social responsibility. We conducted some fifteen interviews with the people responsible for preparing the Statement.. Conclusion Based on the procedures performed, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the non-financial statement is not presented in accordance with the applicable regulatory requirements and that the Information, taken as a whole, is not presented fairly in accordance with the Guidelines, in all material respects. Paris-La Défense, on 25 March 2020 KPMG S.A. Fanny Houlliot Adrien Johner Partner Partner Sustainability Services (1) Carmila S.A (Headquarters) ; Carmila SpaiCarmila S.A (Headquarters) ; Carmila Spain. 116 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Cross-reference table, methodological notes and report by the Statutory Auditor APPENDIX Qualitative information (actions and results) considered most important Social Information Actions in favour of employment and local dynamism The Retail coaching skills development program The agreement on the implementation of telecommuting The 2019 training plan and associated training hours delivered The Group's commitment to social integration Results of the annual employee satisfaction survey Environmental Information Practices to reduce the environmental impact of activities Scores obtained by BREEAM-certified sites Scope 3 emissions assessment approach and results presented Societal Information Measures aimed at developing the attractiveness of Carmila brands Initiatives in partnership with associations Carmila's membership to the United Nations Global Compact 4 Key performance indicators and other quantitative results considered most important Social key performance indicators and outcomes Staff on permanent contracts Turnover (permanent contract) Number of permanent hires Number of departures of permanent contract Average annual managers compensation Rate of employees trained in ethical risks Environmental key performance indicators and outcomes Environmental certification rate Waste recovery rate Energy intensity of common areas Carbon intensity of common areas GHG emissions of common areas – Scope 1 GHG emissions of common areas – Scope 2 Societal key performance indicators and outcomes Number of CSR events Number of “Kiosk” campaigns Customer satisfaction rate CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 117 118 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 5. 5.1 The organisation 120 of the Group and relationship with the Carrefour group 5.1.1 The organisation 120 5.1.2 Organisation chart of the Carmila 121 Group 5.1.3 Subsidiaries and related holdings 122 5.1.4 Operational organisation 122 5.1.5 A strategic partnership 123 with the Carrefour group 5.1.6 Information systems 126 5.2 Risk factors 127 5.2.1 Risks relating to Carmila’s business 129 sector 5.2.2 Risks relating to Carmila's business 131 5.2.3 Regulatory, legal and tax risks 135 5.2.4 Financial risks 137 Organisation and 5.3 Insurance 5.4 Risk management 138 139 risk management and internal control 5.4.1 The risk management system 5.4.2 Internal control system 139 139 5.4.3 Critical activities for operational 142 internal control 5.4.4 The preparation and processing 142 of accounting and financial informations 5.4.5 Monitoring financial risks connected 143 with the effects of climate change 5.5 Arbitration and judicial 144 proceedings 5.6 Significant agreements 144 5.7 Research and development, 144 patents and licenses 5.7.1 Research and development 144 5.7.2 Intellectual property 144 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 119 ORGANISATION AND RISK MANAGEMENT 5. The organisation of the Group and relationship with the Carrefour group 5.1 The organisation of the Group and relationship with the Carrefour group Carmila also draws on its strategic partnership with the Carrefour 5.1.1 The organisation group and the synergies this generates, in order to implement its strategy to enhance value and develop its property portfolio (see Carmila is a real estate company which benefits from the SIIC tax Section 5.1.5.2 of this document). Since inception, the Carmila Group regime and which is dedicated to managing and enhancing the has carried out a significant shopping centre renovation and shopping centres and retail parks adjoining Carrefour group stores. expansion program in coordination with Carrefour Property entities, Its portfolio comprises 215 shopping centres and retail parks in the subsidiaries of the Carrefour group that own the hypermarket France, Spain and Italy valued at more than €6.4 billion, including and supermarket walls in France, Spain and Italy, as well as, in most 157 leader or co-leader shopping centres, in their catchment areas, cases, their parking lots. In April 2014, Carmila S.A.S. entered into a accounting for 73% of Carmila’s total shopping centres and 88% of Renovation and Development Agreement with the Carrefour group its portfolio in terms of appraised value (transfer taxes included) on for an initial term of 10 years (the “Renovation and Development 31 December 2019. The Group is the leader in continental Europe in Agreement”) which was extended for three years in June 2017, terms of the number of shopping centres anchored by prolonging its residual term until 31 December 2027. The purpose of Hypermarkets and the third largest listed commercial real estate this agreement is to create a partnership between the two groups company by gross asset value (calculated as of 31 December 2019(1)). with a strategy to strengthen the attractiveness and to optimise the value of retail sites which are co-owned by the Carrefour group Carmila gathers key areas of expertise needed to develop and (hypermarkets and car parks) and the Carmila Group (shopping enhance the value of its portfolio and future activities: asset centres) in France, Spain and Italy. The Carmila Group and Carrefour management, leasing and specialty leasing, omni-channel marketing group are partners under the Renovation and Development and communications, shopping centre management, Business Agreement on all developments on land lots owned together (see Development and investment (renovation, restructuring, expansion Section 5.1.5.3 of this document for more details on the Renovation and acquisition). The Group’s operational organisation is designed to and Development Agreement). be simple and efficient, and it therefore uses the services of Carrefour group entities under several agreements (see Section 5.1.4 “Operational organisation” of this document). (1) Source: the Carmila group’s analysis of data published by other market players. 120 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 ORGANISATION AND RISK MANAGEMENT The organisation of the Group and relationship with the Carrefour group 5.1.2 Organisation chart of the Carmila Group The organisation chart below shows the legal organisation of the consolidated entities of the Carmila Group at the date of this document(1). CARMILA SA Almia 100% Management SAS 100% 100% Carmila 100% Carmila Carmila Holding France SAS España SL Italia SRL 100% 100% 100% 100% Hyparmo Carmila Carmila Bay1Bay2 SAS SARL Italia SRL Santiago SLU 100% 50% 100% Carmila 100% SCI Carmila Carmila SCI de l'Arche Milano Coquelles Taravela SL Nord SRL 100% 100% SCI centre 50% 100% SCI Carmila Carmila Carmila commercial Orléans Thiene SRL Huelva SL de Lescar 100% 100% 100% SCI Carmila Carmila Carmila 5 Labège Nice SAS Mallorca SL 100% 100% 100% Carmila SCI Carmila Financière Bourges Géric SAS Cordoba SL 100% 100% 100% Carmila SCI Sothima Louwifi SAS Puerto SL 100% 100% SAS Carmila 50% Carmila Crêches-surAs Cancelas Évreux SAS Saône 100% 100% Carmila Retail SCI Carmila SCI Pontots Development Anglet SAS 100% 100% 100% Carmila SNC KC11 Saran SAS Real estate company Holding Mixed Best of 100% 100% Services company LOU5G SAS Shell company the web SAS (1) The percentages held shown in chart correspond to percentage of voting rights and ownership. CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 121 ORGANISATION AND RISK MANAGEMENT 5. The organisation of the Group and relationship with the Carrefour group 5.1.3 Subsidiaries • a 30% interest in Loicar; and related holdings • a 24% interest in Team Beauty together with Centros Ideal; • a 49% interest in Pharmalley. Principal subsidiaries Invested amount in equity and shareholder loans as of The Company’s principal direct or indirect subsidiaries are described 31 December 2019, amounted to €4.7 million. below: • Carmila France SAS is a simplified joint-stock company with a Information on equity interests single shareholder, (société par actions simplifiée à associé Information on the companies in which Carmila holds an interest unique) incorporated under French law with total registered which is likely to have a significant impact on the assessment of its share capital of €707,907,052, with its head offices at 58, avenue portfolio, its financial position or its results is provided in Section 7.1, Émile-Zola in Boulogne-Billancourt (92100), France and “Consolidated Financial Statements for 2019” of this document. registered with the Nanterre Trade & Companies Register under number 799 828 173. • Carmila España SLU is a company incorporated under the laws of 5.1.4 Operational organisation Spain, with total registered share capital of €186,315,000, with its head offices at Avenida Matapiñonera s/n, 4ª planta, Edificio Carmila gathers key areas of expertise needed to develop and Ábside, San Sebastián de los Reyes, Madrid, Spain and registered enhance the value of its portfolio: asset management, leasing and with the Registro Mercantil de Madrid, page M-563.021, book specialty leasing, cross-channel marketing and communications, 31279, page 11, under number B-86.772.837. shopping centres management and investment (renovation, restructuring, expansion and acquisition). Besides the Renovations • Carmila Italia S.r.l is a private limited company incorporated and Development Agreement, the Group’s operational organisation under the laws of Italy with total registered share capital of is designed to be simple and efficient, and it therefore uses the €11,200,000, with its head offices at Via Caldera, 21, 20153, Milan, services of Carrefour group entities under several agreements (see Italy and registered with the Registro delle Imprese di Milano Section 5.1.5. of this document). The Group works with Carrefour Monza Brianza Lodi under number 08603710966 and with the Property entities, the subsidiaries of the Carrefour group that own R.E.A. under number MI-2036489. the hypermarket and supermarket walls in France, Spain and Italy. These entities will be co-developers and will perform project management and property management roles. Several Carrefour Equity interests group entities will also perform certain administrative and financial As of the date of this document, the Group holds directly or services for the Group. indirectly the following Interests: The chart below summarises the Carmila Group’s operational • a 20% interest in Squaremaker France; organisation and the principal existing relationships with Carrefour • a 15% interest in Aug’Car; group entities: • a 30% interest in La Barbe de Papa Holding; • a 20% interest in Cigusto Holding; SHOPPING CENTERS HYPERMARKETS Business development Finance Asset management letting & specialty leasing Marketing & communication Shopping centres management investments and capital expenditures • Owner of hypermarkets, supermarkets and Letting Geo-marketing Site shopping centers studies adjacent to Carrefour Renewals attractiveness Valuation Concept Renovations group supermarkets Specialty Relations of a regional and customer Extensions portfolio Leasing journey with tenants Acquisitions • France, Spain and Temporary Implementation ltaly of shopping Local/ and sites centres stores multi-channel of differenciating marketing replacing • 900 sites Business Development marketing strategy • 4.1 million sqm of retail strategy surface area lnternalised strategic functions SHARED SERVICES (Carrefour Property & c.arrefour teams) Property Management Property development Construction Real estate Lagal, IT, • Building management • Project analysis Management Corporate legal HR, • Lease management • Project management Accounting 122 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 ORGANISATION AND RISK MANAGEMENT The organisation of the Group and relationship with the Carrefour group 5.1.5 A strategic partnership • increasing productivity and competitiveness. In order to invest in growth and improve its price competitiveness, Carrefour is with the Carrefour group becoming more selective in allocating its resources and tightening its financial discipline; The strategic partnership with the Carrefour group is a major • creating a benchmark omni-channel universe. The Group competitive advantage for Carmila. It enables Carmila to develop its is determined to become a benchmark omni-channel universe strategy based on a privileged relationship with the Carrefour group, by investing in its successful channels, becoming a leader in food one of the world’s leading retailers, with local historical roots as well e-commerce and leveraging the power of its brand; as unique knowledge and tools for targeting customers at the local level. • revamping its offering with an emphasis on food quality. Carrefour aims to offer all consumers high quality, reliable food every day, accessible everywhere and at a reasonable price. 5.1.5.1 The Carrefour group The Carmila Group owns shopping centres adjacent to Carrefour In 2019, Carrefour pursued its transformation, pushing further the group hypermarkets in France, Spain and Italy. The Carrefour group, initiatives taken in 2018. a renowned food retail group, is present in more than 30 countries, with more than 12,300 stores in addition to its e-commerce sites. 5.1.5.2 A partnership generating valuable The Carrefour group has more than 320,000 employees worldwide and had revenues including VAT of €80,7 billion in 2019. Carrefour synergies for Carmila has 77 million customers worldwide and is committed to quality and The Carmila Group was created in April 2014 to revitalise the retail corporate responsibility. ecosystem formed by the hypermarkets and their adjoining shopping centres. Its goal was to promote the revitalisation of the The Carrefour group has a large range of stores from hypermarkets sites through the coordinated renovation, optimisation and (1,207 stores at the end of 2019) to local grocery stores and expansion of the hypermarket and the shopping centre, as an e-commerce solutions, to meet a vast range of needs. It combines extension of the hypermarket renovation program launched by the the advantages of a multi-format physical network with the agility of Carrefour group in 2012. The merger between Cardety and Carmila digital technology, while promoting the development of efficient S.A.S., effective 12 June 2017, is a further stage in the strategy in logistics and real estate systems, helping to create attractive spaces place since 2014, to create a single player dedicated to enhancing for shopping and living. the value of the real estate assets adjoining Carrefour hypermarkets Carrefour hypermarkets are designed for the large shopping in France, Spain and Italy. Following the Merger, the merged entity expeditions of all types of customers. Customers can find a selection was renamed Carmila and listed on compartiment A of Euronext of food product references (fresh produce, mass consumption Paris. products, local products, etc.) and non-food references (clothing, In implementing its strategy, the Group benefits from its strategic electronics, house furnishing, culture, etc.) in its hypermarkets. partnership with the Carrefour group. The shared vision of the two Carrefour’s hypermarkets offer quality products worldwide at low groups embodied by their partnership is a major competitive prices throughout the year. Carrefour also boosts customer advantage for Carmila, which enables it to benefit from significant satisfaction through promotional sales and events that introduce synergies that will also benefit its tenant retailers and end new products, price reductions and the various services the stores customers: offer. Carrefour continues to work to provide its customers with quality products, leveraging its unique know-how in fresh products, • the aim of both groups to form a consistent commercial the development of different production channels, organic foods ecosystem at each site makes it possible to accelerate the revitalisation and expansion of the shopping centres to cement 5 and strong exclusive brands. their local leadership; Innovation has been an integral part of the Carrefour group’s strategy for over 50 years. It opened the first hypermarket in France • thanks to a joint “opt in” between the Carrefour group’s in 1963; introduced the first loyalty program by a large food retailer hypermarkets and the Group’s shopping centres (where a in 1981 and launched the Carrefour house brand in 1988. To enable customer agrees to let both Groups use his or her data) Carmila customers to choose where, when and how to do their shopping, is building and developing a high-quality and continually updated Carrefour offers them a range of solutions to enhance customer customer database, offering its retailer tenants a refined convenience by, on the one hand, adopting a local strategy that targeting tool to attract customers and create customer loyalty; varies by country and, on the other hand, adopting a multi-channel approach in which stores and online solutions interact in a • the implementation of coordinated marketing activities between complementary way, increasing the opportunities for customer the Carrefour group and the Carmila Group will promote the contact. In particular, the Carrefour group is deploying its Drive development of cross-channel marketing solutions at optimised service (click & collect service for consumers to order products cost to increase footfall at the Group’s shopping centres; online and collect them quickly from the stores), rolling out in-store mobile applications and digital services and growing its food and • coordinated shopping centre renovation and hypermarket non-food e-commerce offer. modernisation optimises the site’s increased attractiveness while limiting temporary impacts of construction; As of 31 December 2019, the Carrefour group had 504 hypermarkets under its brand in the three countries where the Carmila Group • the Group will be able to implement expansion projects relatively operates, including 248 hypermarkets in France, 205 in Spain and quickly by coordinating its actions with the Carrefour group and 51 in Italy. Carmila owns around 45% of the shopping centres having control over land reserves, since the Carrefour group adjoining Carrefour Hypermarkets across the three territories generally owns parking lots or land adjoining the Carmila Group’s (France, Spain and Italy). shopping centres; On 23 January 2018, the Carrefour group unveiled its transformation • the Carmila Group will benefit from the Carrefour group’s plan, “Carrefour 2022”. Carrefour has set itself one ambition: to network and knowledge of its catchment areas in identifying offenable its customers to consume better by becoming the world market acquisition opportunities that will create value. leader in the food transition for everyone. To boost its growth, the Group is undertaking a profound transformation with the launch of The Group benefits from an efficient operational organisation relying the “Carrefour 2022” plan, which is based on four pillars: on services provided by the Carrefour group under several agreements. This operational model promotes cost optimisation and • rolling out a simplified and open organisation. To benefit from its the sharing of skills required to manage and enhance the value of strengths – multi-country, multi-format and multi-channel – the the Carmila Group’s shopping centres. It aims at aligning interests of Group is simplifying its organisation and encouraging more both Groups in project commonly developed on their sites. partnerships, drivers of growth and innovation; CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 123 ORGANISATION AND RISK MANAGEMENT 5. The organisation of the Group and relationship with the Carrefour group 5.1.5.3 Principal agreements with Carrefour The Renovation and Development Agreement provides that the first renovations of the shopping centres adjoining Carrefour group entities hypermarkets (i.e. the 167 centres and any other shopping centres The Carmila Group has entered into several agreements with the adjoining a Carrefour hypermarket acquired by the Carmila Group Carrefour group which mainly concern (i) the renovation and exceeding this provisional overall amount) will be financed by the development of shopping centres; (ii) property management and; Carmila Group and the Carrefour group pro rata based on their (iii) administrative and financial services. respective shares of expense obligations (for sites divided into In addition, the Carmila Group entities provide letting services to volumes) or based on their ownership percentages (for sites held Carrefour group companies in France, Spain and Italy for shopping through co-ownership). centres that are still held by the Carrefour group in those three This renovation programme of 167 shopping centres has now been countries. completed (the renovation of six sites having been deferred to be At 12 June 2017 Merger, the parties maintained all of the existing completed with the associated extension development. contractual relationships between the Carmila Group and the Subsequent renovations of the Carmila Group’s shopping centres Carrefour group. will be paid for equally (50% each) by the Carmila Group and the The appropriate procedures with respect to regulated agreements Carrefour group. However, where the share (excluding taxes) to be have been followed to the extent applicable. It was therefore applied borne by the Carmila Group is greater than 5% of the appraised for the following agreements: value of the asset to be renovated, Carmila and Carrefour have undertaken to negotiate in good faith to modify the equal split of • the Renovation and Development Agreement (see Section 1, costs accordingly. “Renovation and Development Agreement” of this paragraph); and (b) Development projects • the services support agreement covering support functions (see Pursuant to the Renovation and Development Agreement, and in Section 3, “Service Agreements” of this paragraph). addition to an initial list of 37 shopping centre development projects in France, Carmila and Carrefour may propose shopping centre The Renovation and Development Agreement (as defined below), expansion plans that they wish to undertake. entered into on 16 April 2014 for a term of ten years, was extended The proposed project is reviewed and established jointly and then for a period of three years, prolonging its residual post merger term presented separately to the decision-making bodies of Carmila until 31 December 2027. (Board of Directors on recommendation of the Strategic and The other agreements described below, which were entered into on Investments Committee) and Carrefour. Financing costs and the 16 April 2014 for a term of five years, were extended by one year, margin realised on each development project are split equally (50% until 31 December 2020. each) between the Carmila Group and the Carrefour group. The conclusion and modification of these agreements are subject to For purposes of completing a development project, Carmila and specific rules in the internal regulations of the Company’s Board of Carrefour may form a special purpose company held as a 50/50 Directors. joint-venture. Carmila has the right to acquire, upon completion of the development project, the 50% share held by Carrefour, and In connection with the Merger, the contracts between the Company Carrefour also has an option to sell its stake to the Company. The and the Carrefour group were reviewed and redrafted on a case-bytwo partners can also use other alternative methods, such as a sale case basis; in particular the rental management agreements between by Carrefour to the Company of the land parcels held by the the Company and the Carrefour group were terminated, with the Carrefour group with an additional price corresponding to 50% of Company joining the lease management agreement between Carrefour’s development margin for that development project, Carrefour Property Gestion and Carmila France and its subsidiaries. forward sale or other ways. The financial terms of these agreements were not intended to be modified by the Merger, apart from service agreements which had In addition, CPF Asset Management, a subsidiary of Carrefour to cover a larger scope because of the merger between the Property France, acts as project manager under project Company and Carmila S.A.S. management delegation agreements. For a summary of the flows under these agreements see Note 11 to (c) Other provisions the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements for 2019 in Section 7.1 of this document. Reciprocal rights of first refusal In the event that the Carrefour group intends to sell to a third party (1) Renovation and Development Agreement not affiliated with the Carrefour group: (i) one or more shopping On 16 April 2014, Carmila and Carrefour entered into the Renovation centres anchored by a hypermarket; (ii) the land where a and Development Agreement, a partnership agreement with the hypermarket is located adjoining a shopping centre covered by the objective of implementing a joint strategy in France, Spain and Italy Renovation and Development Agreement; (iii) one or more to strengthen the attractiveness and optimise the value of the sites properties for use as retail parks; and/or (iv) a real estate complex that are co-owned by the Carmila Group (shopping centres) and the including a shopping centre and the land for a hypermarket, located Carrefour group (hypermarkets and car parks) (and, where in France, Spain or Italy, the Company has a right of first refusal to applicable, with third parties). acquire the asset or assets in question pursuant to the terms of the Renovation and Development Agreement. This right of first refusal Initially concluded for a term of 10 years, it was prolonged for does not apply in the event of a sale in connection with the sale of a three years, and its residual post-Merger term expires on hypermarket’s business. 31 December 2027. In accordance with this right of first refusal, Carrefour is required to The purpose of the Renovation and Development Agreement is to send the Company an offer to sell the assets to Carmila before establish the implementation and financing terms for renovation and seeking a third-party acquirer. If the Company refuses the offer, expansion projects at the identified sites. The scope of the Carrefour may sell the assets in question to a third-party acquirer on Renovation and Development Agreement covers an initial list of the terms at least equal to those of the offer initially made to the Carmila Group’s shopping centres in France, Spain and Italy at the Company. date of this agreement and, unless the parties agree otherwise, covers any site newly owned or developed jointly with the Carrefour Carrefour also holds a right of first refusal if the Company wishes to group. sell any subsidiary or one or more properties located in a shopping centre covered by the Renovation and Development Agreement, (a) Renovation projects pursuant to terms that are identical to those applicable to the In connection with the Renovation and Development Agreement, Company’s right of first refusal. the Company and Carrefour undertook to complete, within five years, an initial renovation program covering 167 shopping centres, for a provisional overall amount of €238.5 million (excluding transfer taxes), of which €74.5 million would be borne by the Company, around 30% of the provisional overall amount. 124 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 ORGANISATION AND RISK MANAGEMENT The organisation of the Group and relationship with the Carrefour group Reciprocal priority right With respect to property management, each of the agreements Each of the parties to the Renovation and Development Agreement provides for the performance of the following principal services: has undertaken to present to the other party any development • assistance with commercial optimisation of real estate assets; project for a new site or any development project for one or more existing sites located in France, Spain or Italy held by it or by one of • assistance with managing service provider and partner its affiliates but outside the scope of the agreement, to the extent relationships and with preparing, negotiating, and carrying out that: disposals of all or part of the real estate assets; (i) the development project includes the development of a retail • inspections of premises and approvals for sales of businesses, park; sales of leasehold rights, and subleases; and (ii) with respect to the priority right granted by Carrefour to the Company, the development project includes the development • assistance with development projects (in accordance with the or expansion of a shopping centre anchored by a hypermarket; terms of the Renovation and Development Agreement). and As consideration for these services, Carmila France and each of its (iii) with respect to the priority right granted by the Company to relevant subsidiaries pays Carrefour Property Gestion an annual Carrefour, the development project provides for the fixed payment equal to 3.5% of the annual net rents collected. Net development or expansion of a shopping centre anchored by a rents are defined as rents excluding taxes, charges and insurance, store that primarily sells food. but excluding revenues relating to specialty leasing. For indicative In the case of a joint development project, the project is reviewed purposes this amounted to €7,845 thousand in 2018 and and implemented pursuant to operational, legal and financial terms €8,189 thousand in 2019. to be agreed between the Company and Carrefour. The Renovation In addition, Carrefour Property Gestion has granted the suband Development Agreement provides in that regard that (i) the management to Almia Management, a Carmila Group affiliate, of its ownership of volumes or co-ownership lots for use as hypermarkets, shopping centres in France for which Carrefour Property Gestion is supermarkets and/or medium-sized food stores and as service the designated property management entity or chairman of the stations is reserved to Carrefour; (ii) the ownership of parking lots is relevant urban property association, and shopping centre director. reserved to Carrefour (in the case of volume division) or to the In this context, Almia Management manages the shopping centre’s property manager (in the case of a co-ownership); and relations with the shop retailers as well as, in particular, the (iii) ownership of volumes or co-ownership lots for use as shopping management of regulatory compliance, leases and internal centres and/or retail parks and/or medium-sized stores other than regulations, representation of landlords, marketing for the shopping those predominantly selling food is reserved to Carmila. centres and temporary exhibitions in the shopping malls. Almia In addition, with respect to projects to develop new sites, (i) the Management was paid €4,624 thousand in 2018 and in 2019. development margin on shopping centres, retail parks and mediumsized stores (other than those that predominantly sell food) is (b) Management of leasing activities in Spain shared equally between Carmila and Carrefour, with the financing Carmila España has entered into an exclusive lease management borne equally between the two companies; and (ii) the development and property management agreement with Carrefour Property margins on hypermarkets, supermarkets and medium-sized stores España with a term of five years beginning in April 2014, covering predominantly selling food are attributed to Carrefour, with the the same services as those provided under the agreements in financing borne by Carrefour. France, except for certain specific services (such as, in particular, the commercial optimisation of the properties). Simultaneously with the Other commitments Merger, it was extended until 31 December 2020. The Renovation and Development Agreement also includes several 5 rights and obligations binding on Carrefour and Carmila, such as As consideration for the performance of these services, Carmila rights of submission to Carrefour in the case of leases for certain real España pays Carrefour Property España annual compensation equal estate properties or in connection with Carmila’s letting or re-letting to 3.6% of annual net rents collected, with net rents defined in the of premises to be used for a hypermarket, supermarket, hard same manner as for the agreements in France. Carrefour Property discount grocery store, click and drive grocery store or any other España was paid fees of €2,363 thousand in 2018 and predominantly food business on the sites where Carrefour is not €2,663 thousand In 2019, as consideration for these services. present. The Company is also prohibited from leasing certain Certain services, in particular the commercial optimisation of premises inside shopping centres governed by the Renovation and properties, that are not covered by the agreement, are performed Development Agreement (i.e., any premises with gross leasable area by Carmila España on its own behalf, as well as for the benefit of of greater than 300 sq.m.) for use as a hypermarket, supermarket, Carrefour Property España and other Carrefour group entities in hard discount grocery store or click-and-drive grocery store (nonSpain pursuant to exclusive agreements with Carmila España. compete clause). Carmila España SL was paid €168 thousand in 2018 and €172 thousand in 2019 for this service. (2) Lease Management and Property Management Agreements (c) Management of leasing activities in Italy Carmila Italia has entered into an exclusive lease management (a) Management of leasing activities in France agreement with Carrefour Property Italia covering the same services Pursuant to exclusive agreements with Carmila France and certain as those provided for in connection with real estate management of its subsidiaries, Carrefour Property Gestion performs lease activities in France, as described above, in addition to lease management and property management services for all of the real management and business lease management. estate assets that Carmila France and its subsidiaries own or that they occupy under construction leases, long-term leases or financial This management agreement, for an initial term of five years, was leases with third parties. These exclusive agreements were entered extended until 31 December 2020 simultaneously with the Merger in into for a term of five years beginning on 16 April 2014. They were order to incorporate a design and town planning assignment in 2017. extended by a year, prolonging their residual post Merger term until Since 1 January 2017, asset management and letting services initially 31 December 2020. provided by Carrefour Property Italia pursuant to this agreement are now performed by Carmila Italia, including (i) optimisation of the In connection with each agreement, Carmila France or one of its properties’ merchandising mix and (ii) renewal of leases and letting subsidiaries has retained Carrefour Property Gestion to perform the of vacant premises or premises that become vacant. following lease management services: • maintenance of the list of tenants and their rental status; • monitoring of insurance policies that tenants are required to maintain; • invoicing and collection of rents and related charges; and • collection and reporting of tenants’ revenues. CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 125 ORGANISATION AND RISK MANAGEMENT 5. The organisation of the Group and relationship with the Carrefour group From 1 January 2017, Carmila Italia pays Carrefour Property Italia, as consideration for all these services, a fixed annual compensation 5.1.6 Information systems equal to 1.3% of annual net rents collected, with net rents defined in the same manner as for the agreements in France, and The Carrefour group provides information system services to the €79 thousand for design and urban planning services (only in 2017). Carmila Group. Carrefour Property’s Information Services Carmila Italia paid Carrefour Property Italia €664 thousand in 2018 Department assists the Carmila Group in planning its information and €566 thousand in 2019 for all the services. system strategy, supervises the implementation of its IT projects and manages the resources and budget dedicated to information Carrefour Property Italia has also entered into the following systems. The Information Services Department participates in the agreements with Carmila Italia: (i) an exclusive delegation design and articulation of the Carmila Group’s projects and is agreement pursuant to which Carmila Italia markets its assets, and involved in the preparatory phases, in order to (i) identity a project’s (ii) a sub-delegation agreement for the management of the Carmila inherent risks, in particular with respect to the protection of Group’s shopping centres located in Italy. information and (ii) define the security needs and actions to be integrated into the project. (3) Service Agreements The Carmila Group has entered into several service agreements with 5.1.6.1 Operational Systems the Carrefour group pursuant to which Carrefour or its affiliates The Carrefour group’s Real Estate Department has developed undertake to provide assistance, advice, and services to Carmila and specific information systems to respond to analysis and reporting its subsidiaries relating to accounting, tax, legal, administrative, and needs, in particular using the leasing and real estate management insurance matters. As consideration for these services, the Carmila application “Altaïx” and the data visualisation application “Qlikview”. Group paid the Carrefour group fees totalling €3,274 thousand in 2018 and €3,378 thousand in 2019. These reporting tools assist with steering activities concerning: • Lease Management (tenant relations), using various business (4) Letting and specialty leasing agreements metrics (vacancies, unpaid rent, lease status, tracking of in Spain movements, lease expiration, mapping of certain indicators with targeted step plans); Carmila España provides letting services to Carrefour Property España and other Carrefour group entities in Spain under exclusive • Property Management (management of common charges) agreements with terms of five-years, as consideration for which through indicators such as budgetary monitoring, benchmarking Carmila España receives compensation equal to 10% of the rent of expenses and monitoring of supplier invoices. agreed with tenants, in the case of letting or re-letting, or 5% of the rent agreed with tenants, in the case of renewals of leases. 5.1.6.2 Other Applications Carmila España also provides specialty leasing services to Carrefour Property España and other Carrefour group entities in Spain under and Information Systems separate agreements entered into with each of the Carrefour group The Carmila Group uses applications and operational systems for entities. Carmila España’s payment under these agreements is set by financial and accounting management. These systems are based on reference to a two-tranche sliding scale corresponding to revenues a reporting and consolidation tool that aids in preparing received from tenants, where the thresholds vary from one shopping consolidated financial statements and measuring the Carmila centre to the next, pursuant to which Carmila España receives 15% Group’s performance. To that end, the Carmila Group uses of revenues corresponding to the first tranche and, where applications such as “PeopleSoft”, “GED Factures” and “Exabanque”. applicable, 40% of revenues corresponding to the second tranche. The other main applications and systems used by the Carmila Group Carmila España SL received €789 thousand in 2018 and are “Eurecia” and “Hypervision” for human resources management, €238 thousand in 2019 for these letting services. “Altaïx” and “Global AG” for assistance with various property management tasks, and “My J’Aide” and “AD Environnement” for archiving and communications. 5.1.6.3 Continuity of Information System Service Significant security measures are in place to protect the security of the systems, applications and data of the Carmila Group and its clients. Utmost attention is paid to the security of systems and the protection of personal data against risks of destruction, theft and fraudulent or malicious use. 126 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 ORGANISATION AND RISK MANAGEMENT Risk factors 5.2 Risk factors Investors should consider all of the information set forth in this In accordance with Prospectus Regulation 3 (1) that was adopted in document, including the following risk factors. These risks are, as of June 2017 by the Parliament of the EU and entered into force on the date of this document, those which the Group considers would 21 July 2019, in 2019 Carmila updated the Group risk matrix, which be likely to have a material adverse effect on the Group, its business, incorporates the specific major risks to which it is exposed. Chosen financial position, result of operations or outlook, should they occur. on the basis of so-called gross risk measured by their impact and their probability of occurrence – before taking into account risk The Group is exposed to different risks that may have a material management controls and policies – these risks are nevertheless effect on its business, financial position result of operations. The risk presented in the matrix below based on their estimated net mapping is presented and approved every year by the Audit impact, both in terms of impact and occurrence, after taking into Committee in order to verify the completeness of risk-monitoring account all the measures taken by the Group to reduce them and and ensure the follow-up of risk management. It may be amended the endogenous and exogenous mitigation factors of these risks. based on action plans that are implemented or the identification of new risks. Carmila has identified 19 specific and major risks grouped into 4 categories, ranked, and presented in decreasing level of magnitude within each category based on their probability of occurrence and their potential impact. Probability Net of occurrence impact CATEGORY 1: RISKS RELATING TO CARMILA'S BUSINESS SECTOR 1. Changes in the commercial real estate market 2. Changes in consumer trends 3. Competitive environment 4. Geographic exposure of the portfolio 5. Changes in the socio-economic environment CATEGORY 2: RISKS RELATING TO CARMILA'S BUSINESS 6. Relationship with and exposure to retail brands 7. Counterparty risk 8. Strategic partnership with the Carrefour group 9. Property development 10. Health, safety and security including the risk of health crisis (Covid-19 type) 11. Information system security CATEGORY 3: 5 REGULATORY, LEGAL AND TAX RISKS 12. Town planning and environmental regulations 13. Regulations applicable to SIICs 14. Regulations on commercial leases 15. Applicable regulations on the security and use of personal data 16. Ethical risks CATEGORY 4: FINANCIAL RISKS 17. Access to financing 18. Rise in financing cost 19. Access to equity market (1) Regulation (EU) no. 2017/1129 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 June 2017. CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 127 ORGANISATION AND RISK MANAGEMENT 5. Risk factors Risk matrix MAPPING OF RISKS BASED ON THEIR PROBABILITY OF OCCURRENCE AND THEIR NET IMPACT 6 1 Probability of occurrence 10 2 7 12 8 17 18 9 14 13 5 4 3 19 11 16 15 Net impact CATEGORY 1: CATEGORY 3: RISKS RELATING TO CARMILA'S BUSINESS SECTOR REGULATORY, LEGAL AND TAX RISKS 1. Changes in the commercial real estate market 12. Town planning and environmental regulations 2. Changes in consumer trends 13. Regulations applicable to SIICs 3. Competitive environment 14. Regulations on commercial leases 4. Geographic exposure of the portfolio 15. Applicable regulations on the security and use 5. Changes in the socio-economic environment of personal data 16. Ethical risks CATEGORY 2: RISKS RELATING TO CARMILA'S BUSINESS CATEGORY 4: FINANCIAL RISKS 6. Relationship with and exposure to retail brands 17. Access to financing 7. Counterparty risk 18. Rise in financing cost 8. Strategic partnership with the Carrefour group 19. Access to equity market 9. Property development 10. Health, safety, security including the risk of health crisis (Covid-19 type) 11. Information system security 128 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 ORGANISATION AND RISK MANAGEMENT Risk factors 5.2.1 Risks relating to Carmila’s business sector 1. Changes in the commercial real estate market ●●● ●● Identification and description of the risk Control and reduction of risk Market conditions impacted over the long term by negative The Group has put together multi-disciplinary teams specialised in anticipations about the future of the shopping centre business could managing shopping centres adjoining hypermarkets and located in lead to a decline in the appraisal value of the Group's assets, and operational centres throughout France, Spain and Italy. particularly in the appraisal values once increases in capitalisation These teams work on bolstering the attractiveness and value of rates and/or discount rates on projected future cash-flows are taken Carmila's shopping centres by actively managing the retail offering, into account or future cash-flows are revised downward. As at engaging in marketing, and implementing targeted Asset 31 December 2019, Gross Asset Value including transfer taxes of the Management initiatives. Group portfolio was €6.4 billion. Appraisal values are reassessed by independant appraisors every six months. These actions aim to increase the attractiveness of Carmila's shopping centres, draw more visitors and boost retailers' sales. A drop in liquidity on the real estate transaction market resulting from lower investor interest in the shopping centre asset class could They help to: also affect the value of the assets. • safeguard the assets' revenues by sustaining occupancy rates and As a result, the Company could see a decline in its ability to finance the market level of rent; its growth through the disposal of assets, use of new financing or • be selective in terms of which assets the Group purchases and placement of new shares on the market. keeps in order to maintain a high-quality, attractive portfolio; • implement Asset Management actions (renovations, restructuring, extensions) on the assets that help raise their value. The Group also benefits from a resilience of its rental values due to the terms of the commercial leases signed in the three countries (between 5 and 12 years), which guarantee rental income and provide reliable forecasts of future cash-flows; this is further backed by laws that protect the lessor in the event of unpaid rents, particularly in France. The geographic distribution of Carmila's portfolio exposes it to different investment markets that may behave differently. 2. Changes in societal consumption trends ●● ● Identification and description of the risk Control and reduction of risk Consumption in general and retail activities as a whole are facing • Carmila's assets have historically been rooted in their region and 5 new societal trends such as: local economic network, in areas that are now embedded in cities. • the growth of e-commerce; These are local assets, both in the geographic sense and in terms of use. Because they are adjacent to a food-related catalyst • changes in consumer habits (drive, convenience, shifting use of (hypermarkets), they are guaranteed to have regular footfall, and transport, etc.) and their purchasing habits (second-hand market, the local anchoring of the site and the teams in place make them a recycling, etc.); daily actor and partner for customers as well as local authorities • new emerging consumer trends (de-consumption, decline in mass and organisations. market, role of CSR in choice of brands and uses, etc.). • The retail and service offering of Carmila's shopping centres is Carmila must face these new trends and adapt its shopping centres continually being adapted to meet the needs expressed or and offerings. An inappropriate adaptation could lead to: perceived by the customers and the catchment area. The shopping centres offer a convenient, practical solution that satisfies daily • a loss of attractiveness of Carmila's shopping centres and a needs (food, supplies, services). decline in footfall and retailers' revenues; • Studies are conducted several times a year among the customers • decline in occupancy rates; and residents in the catchment area to understand their needs and • a decline in brand awareness; perceptions and to adapt the offering of each centre to these needs; • a decrease in rental values and rent, and in the value of the Group's assets. • The Letting and Asset Management teams adapt the merchandising mix of each shopping centre to changing national and local consumer trends, such as seeking new retail brands and new purchasing habits. • The expansion of specialty leasing and pop-up stores helps to adapt more quickly to new trends and customer demands. • Digital marketing with a web-to-store approach was developed from the outset by Carmila's teams, which have built up a wellregarded expertise in this area along with effective tools. In addition to attracting customers to the shopping centres, this approach aims to penetrate the markets overlooked by the internet: instantaneous purchasing, grouping of several types of purchases into click & collect, ability to cross-functionally develop additional sales, familiarity of the location, and easy access and free parking. CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 129 ORGANISATION AND RISK MANAGEMENT 5. Risk factors 3. Competitive environment ●● Identification and description of the risk Control and reduction of risk Carmila is facing competition that needs to be analysed at local level • Thanks to the history of the Carrefour group, Carmila's sites have and varies from one catchment area to another. historically occupied the position of leader or co-leader in their In every city where a Carmila shopping centres is located, it needs to catchment area in the vast majority of cases. increase its attractiveness, draw new customers and retain existing • Carmila regularly tracks the satisfaction of its shopping centres' ones, and monitor and anticipate its competitors' initiatives. customers and retailers, through customer surveys and mystery In addition, some towns may sport an excess of commercial space. shoppers, and questions the non-customers of the catchment area and develops digital marketing tools to reach out to them and Under these circumstances, Carmila could potentially: encourage them to visit the shopping centres. • Fail to adequately anticipate competitors' initiatives; • Carmila is diligent about maintaining the architectural (through • enact unsuccessful marketing and letting strategies; renovations), technical and sanitary quality of its shopping centres and strengthening their competitive position through extensions • see the local leadership of some of its assets deteriorate. and renovations, and by adapting the retail offering to the Potential consequences could be: individual needs of each catchment area. For this purpose, the Letting teams are based within the regions to be able to develop • a decline in retailers' sales; local retail solutions that are adapted to each shopping centre. • a decline in rent and occupancy rates; • Carmila's Letting and Asset Management teams anticipate local • a decrease in the values of assets whose retail attractiveness is competitive developments and adapt the retail offering and trade damaged. channels accordingly, along with the digital and physical advertising plans of each shopping centre. They are continually seeking the retail brands and the activities that are best suited to the needs of each area, the size of the shopping centre and the competitive environment. • Carmila invests €4-5 million per year in local digital marketing actions targeting retailers (B2B) and customers (B2C). Such actions aim to boost the attractiveness of each shopping centre and increase the retailers' sales. 4. Geographic exposure of the portfolio ●● Identification and description of the risk Control and reduction of risk Carmila conducts its business and has shopping centres in Europe, • Carmila's portfolio is made up of diverse types of shopping centres and consequently could be exposed to risk relating to: that vary based on the size of the catchment areas. • loss of value or revenue due to concentration in a given country • The portfolio consists of 215 shopping centres distributed uniformly or region; across France, Spain and Northern Italy (one of the country's most • country-specific socio-economic risks. prosperous areas). • These are shopping centres of all types: regional shopping centres (80 to 150 stores), large shopping centres (40 to 79 stores) and local shopping centres, without high unit exposure to supraregional assets (more than 150 stores). • Carmila's unit exposure is not very concentrated: Group-wide, the geographic distribution of the portfolio greatly reduces this risk. At 31 December 2019, Carmila's largest asset represented 4.4% of the portfolio's value including transfer taxes and 4.2% of annualised net rental income from leases. 5. Changes in the socio-economic environment ●● Identification and description of the risk Control and reduction of risk Retailers in shopping centres, and the Carmila Group indirectly, have Against this backdrop, Carmila's positioning is of a protective nature: a business related to consumption and consequently may • the anchoring to a food-related powerhouse ensures a regular experience a reduction in the retail activity of the shopping centres footfall and a familiarity with the shopping centre; should this business experience a long-term downturn due to: • the portfolio's diversity in terms of geography and type of • potential demographic impact (decline in birth rate); shopping centres mitigates the risk; • a drop in the economy's growth rate; • operating in Euro Zone countries ensures greater economic • greater unemployment; stability; • an actual or perceived reduction in households' purchasing • the diversity of the product mix in terms of pricing and usage power; focuses on daily needs and many essential services. • a decline in household consumption for any other reason. Carmila's shopping centres are everyday shopping centres where customers go several times a month, develop habits, and find the In addition, the shopping centres' business could be disrupted by services and products they need on a recurring, familiar basis. major local or national socio-political events that would affect visitor traffic and consumption, as was seen with the recent Yellow Vest In addition, as the lessor, Carmila is not directly affected by a drop in demonstrations and strikes in France in late 2019. consumption and footfall. If such a situation were to continue for an extended period, it could The structure and term of the commercial lease offer Carmila stability have the following effects for Carmila: and reliable forecasts on the collection of its rent. • an increase in the number of retailers who may encounter Leases of the portfolio include in their vast majority a minimum guaranteed rent. As at 31 December 2019, leases based on variable problems and an increase in cases of receivership or liquidation; rent alone, with no minimum guaranteed rent component, only • a decline in the occupancy rates of its shopping centres (as at represent 1.5% of the total Group rents. 31 December 2019, the consolidated financial occupancy ratio of the Group, excluding strategic vacancy, was 96.3%); • a decrease in gross rent collected and in market rents. 130 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 ORGANISATION AND RISK MANAGEMENT Risk factors 5.2.2 Risks relating to Carmila's business 6. Relationship with and exposure to retail brands ●●● ●● Identification and description of the risk Control and reduction of risk The business and success of Carmila's shopping centres Since its inception, Carmila has been implementing a policy of diversification of reside largely in the teams' ability to choose the best retail activities and retail brands while adapting the merchandising mix to the size of brands and activities for the catchment area and the each shopping centre, to local needs and to the competitive environment. To competitive environment, and the most effective retailers do this, the Group relies on the regional teams, who tailor the letting activities to enhance and preserve the attractiveness of each to each site and locally select retailers and master franchisees established in the shopping centre. region and add them to the portfolio of national and international brands. Conversely, Carmila must confront and anticipate a This approach is backed up by a B2B and B2C local digital marketing strategy potential slackening of the commercial appeal of the retail that is implemented across the shopping centres and aims to help local retailers brands. At a time when customers are increasingly seeking grow their business thanks to tools that provide local information about the variety, change and innovation, some retail brands might catchment area (local databases, local surveys of customers and prospects). not be able to adapt their concept quickly enough and Finally, Carmila's Survey Department conducts detailed local analyses that would therefore lose attractiveness and sales. bolster the attractiveness development mechanisms of the retail brands and A best choice of brands and retailers, and their local the shopping centre, and provide in-depth information about the customers adaptation, are key to helping Carmila's business thrive and residents of the catchment area by profile category. because they impact: Within Carmila's lease portfolio (more than 6,300 leases), the diversity of the • the default rate of the retail brands and the rate of retail brands is broad and thus reduces the risk of dependancy on a given retail overdue debt; brand. • footfall, attractiveness and the revenues of the retailers No retail brand represents more than 2% of the annual rent of Carmila's lease in the shopping centres; portfolio, and the 15 main retail brands in the portfolio represented only 18.8% of the annualised rents at 31 December 2019. • the leadership of the shopping centre; • the value of Carmila's assets over time. 7. Counterparty risk ●● ●● Identification and description of the risk Control and reduction of risk Carmila manages a portfolio of more than 6,300 leases Carmila has established a set of controls aiming to reduce counterparty risk: with more than 4,500 retail brands and retailers. The Group • group decision-making process for signing new leases; faces a risk of deterioration of the financial health of some of these retail brands, the consequences of which could be: • analysis of the solvency of new tenants; • an increase in the rate of bad debt; • regular, active monitoring procedure for unpaid rents and at-risk lessees (monthly review of business, payments and key indicators), leading to credit 5 • a risk of insolvency of some tenants, receiverships or collection procedures; liquidations; • diversification of the portfolio of retail brands (the top 15 lessees represent • a decline in the occupancy rate (96.3% as at less than 19% of annual rent); 31 December 2019). • ongoing monitoring of the credit-worthiness of lessees' businesses by the local letting, asset management and local management teams; • proactive support for tenants experiencing difficulties to help them assign their lease to a new retailer before any discontinuation of operations. The relevant indicators on the health of the retail brands are tracked on a monthly basis by the Management Committee and corrective or support measures are consequently devised and deployed. Information on trade receivables and their bad debt allowance is provided in Note 7.5 Trade receivables in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements presented in section 7.1 Annual consolidated financial statements at 31 december 2019 of this document. CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 131 ORGANISATION AND RISK MANAGEMENT 5. Risk factors 8. Strategic partnership with the Carrefour group ●● ●● Identification and description of the risk Control and reduction of risk The Carrefour group is a key partner for Carmila: The following primary procedures were implemented in 2014: • it is the co-owner and co-operator on all of Carmila's • regular formalisation of contractual relationships with Carrefour (Renovation sites (hypermarkets); and Development Agreement, service agreements, management mandate). • it is a partner and co-investor for all the extension and The contractual relationships with Carrefour are subject to an annual mixed-use projects developed on the shared sites; detailed disclosure by Carmila and are overseen by the Board of Directors; • it is a Reference Shareholder in Carmila with 35% of the • Carrefour's and Carmila's interests (sharing of margin on development share capital; projects, co-investment) are aligned; • it operates as a service provider for Carmila for some • the majority of the members of Carmila's Board of Directors are support functions and for development projects (Project independent; Management – see Risk 9 – Property development). • decision-making for investments (Strategic and Investment Committee) is This proximity is strategic and key for Carmila's business independent and the directors representing Carrefour do not vote on model. Nonetheless, it exposes Carmila to certain business decisions that involve Carrefour (co-investments, contract renewals, etc.); risks: • the share of Carrefour rents in Carmila's portfolio is low: less than 1% of • the dependancy on Carrefour hypermarkets regarding Carmila's total rent; visitor traffic in Carmila's shopping centres, particularly • regular benchmarking is done on the support functions in order to ensure certain small assets; that the cost of the services provided is competitive. • Carmila's investment and development strategies that In addition, by installing, where possible, in its shopping centres alternative and are tied to those of the Carrefour group; additional powerful and attractive banners other than the hypermarket, Carmila • the effectiveness and adaptability of Carrefour's support reduces its exposure to the hypermarket and increases the retail attractiveness functions to Carmila's priorities; of the sites. • investment decisions requiring suitable governance. 9. Property development ●● ●● Identification and description of the risk Control and reduction of risk In partnership with Carrefour, Carmila is developing a The main systems and procedures to mitigate these risks are implemented sizeable extension portfolio of its shopping centres. Since throughout the development of the project: 2016, 20 extension and restructuring projects have been 1/ Upstream: delivered for an investment of €509 million for Carmila. • feasibility studies and analyses completed upstream by Carmila and This development activity exposes Carmila to the typical Carrefour teams. Common decisions involving all three Carmila, Carrefour risks associated with property development: and Carrefour Property teams; • operational risks related to the management of • independent decision-making of each developer: Carmila's Strategic and construction, renovation, restructuring and extension Investment Committee and the Carrefour group's Investment Committee. projects on shopping centres, to the procurement of Every step (analysis, permit application, start of work) entails a decision by permits (CDAC, CNAC, building permits, fire each of these committees; department) and to project management liability (see Relationship with Carrefour); • inclusion of the different stakeholders of both groups upstream. • financial risks related to the financial profitability of the 2/ During the successive phases of design, procurement of permits, pre-letting projects, and to acquisitions and investments; and construction: • legal and social risk of development projects. • tracking of investments by the Strategic and Investment Committee and regular financial control (systematic due diligence); • joint operational control of the projects with Carrefour; • alignment of interests with Carrefour; • standardised procedures, systematic construction and service provider calls to tender, selection of reputed, first-rate subcontractors, use of outside consultants; • a pre-letting rate before construction work begins of at least 60%; • verification of the compliance of development projects with Carmila's CSR policy; • coverage with specific insurance. The teams' experience, long-standing relationships with local communities, and internal controls procedures increase the efficiency in meeting the objectives. 132 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 ORGANISATION AND RISK MANAGEMENT Risk factors 10. Health, safety, security including the risk of health crisis (Covid-19 type) ●● ●● Identification and description of the risk Control and reduction of risk The Group is subject to numerous obligations connected to In order to mitigate these risks and their consequences, a compliance and the operation of its shopping centres, particularly those internal control manager reporting to the General Secretariat is responsible for related to buildings open to the public. coordinating the actions of the different departments in implementing In addition, the proliferation of terrorist acts in Europe preventive measures (outlining of operating and emergency procedures, raises the risks in all places that are open to the public and trainings, etc.) and protection systems. requires the implementation of procedures that adjust to • Regular audit, ad-hoc site inspections and preventive systems. these changing circumstances. • Initial and on-going training of all the stakeholders, especially the staff in Moreover, Carmila is exposed to natural disaster risks in its charge of implementing and monitoring the safety and security procedures. shopping malls that could cause damages to its customers, • Formalised emergency procedures for the main security, safety and health its retailers and its employees. risks. • Permanent reviewing and improving procedures process. In addition, since Buildings open to the public are subject to specific regulations regarding safety, accessibility and fire procedures, the following measures have been implemented: • Permanent updating of regulatory requirements by the Legal and Real Estate Operations teams with the relevant administrative authorities (Prefectures, SDIS, etc.) and professional bodies (CNCC, etc.). • Participation of the Legal and Real Estate Operations teams in the administrative working parties in charge of drafting or updating regulatory requirements and standards. • Implementation, from the inception with the design of the buildings, of the latest updated regulatory requirements (Construction and Housing Code, accessibility, etc.). • Drawing-up pluri-annual capital expenditure budgets anticipating regulatory inspections by administrative bodies or regular maintenance of buildings and equipment. • Exclusive use of authorised Buildings open to the public service providers. • Upstream preparation of the security commissions with all parties involved. These procedures are implemented locally by specialised teams with on-site assistance (real estate operation, shopping centre managers, safety and security staff, asset managers). The geographic diversity of Carmila's portfolio (215 sites, three countries) makes it possible to mitigate these risks on the Group as a whole. No single site represents a material exposure for the Group within the portfolio. 5 Risk of a Covid-19 type health crisis A major health crisis, such as the Covid-19 crisis, is likely to In order to respond to an exceptional risk of a health crisis, such as the Covid-19 have a lasting and profound impact on the business of one crisis, a Business Continuity Plan (BCP) has been designed, comprising: or more geographical areas, to an extent which is difficult • a reminder of the role and challenges of the Business Continuity Plan; to predict. It could disrupt the operation of shopping centres owned by the Group. • a list and analysis of the activities and functions that are vital for the Company to continue its operations in the event of a crisis; Regulatory or legislative obligations designed during the crisis could modify the usual access of customers, • the identification and list of the measures implemented to ensure the employees, service providers and deliveries to shopping continuity of these vital functions, including: centers. • the real-time census of the persons responsible for implementing and These same obligations are likely to modify management managing these measures, specifying their contact details, functions and and support functions located at the Group's headquarters, roles, as well as the persons capable of replacing them if necessary, operate. • alternative modes of operation enabling the pursuit of activities: the pluriSuch a situation would have the following effects: disciplinarity of the teams able to remain on site (Centre and Property • modifying, restricting or temporarily interrupting Operations Departments) and teleworking, with almost all employees shopping center operations; being equipped with a computer, a mobile phone and a remote access to servers and business software, • modifying, restricting or temporarily interrupting the activity of support services and essential services that • all of which is coordinated on a daily basis by a Crisis management group; allow shopping centres to be operational; • the conditions and procedures for the return to normal activity after the • modifying, restricting or temporarily interrupting the crisis. activity of retail operators in the centres and potentially In parallel with this plan, measures have been put in place to offset the endangering their survival; economic impact of the reduction or interruption of activity for the Group and • consequently to defer, restrict or interrupt the collection its tenants: of rents and charges by the lessor. • support measures for tenants (temporary deferral of the payment of rents and charges in particular) in order to allow business continuity, whether or not their operations continue during the crisis period; • implementation of measures allowing shops that remain open to continue their activity and greet customers properly (cleanliness, security, etc.); • optimisation of operating costs (interruption of non-essential services during periods of reduced activity, interruption of heating and lighting in nonoperational areas of the shopping centres, etc.); • deferral of non-essential investments (except regulatory and security). CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 133 ORGANISATION AND RISK MANAGEMENT 5. Risk factors As of the filing date of the universal registration document, The health crisis of 2020 will make it possible to adapt and perfect the system the strict containment measures imposed by governments provided for in the current Business Continuity Plan. have led to the temporary shutdown of retail shops in the Carmila has a strong financial profile with significant undrawn credit facilities three countries in which Carmila operates. These measures and access to the banking, bond and commercial paper markets enabling it to affect all of Carmila's shopping centres, in which most of benefit from to the required liquidity during the health crisis. the shops are now closed. However, they remain open to provide free access, both to essential businesses still in operation, and to Carrefour hypermarkets which remain open to the public. Measures to support activities and businesses have been announced in all three countries but have not yet been specified. 11. Information system security ●● Identification and description of the risk Control and reduction of risk The information and telecommunications systems are Carmila has opted to rely on Carrefour's information systems organisation pivotal to the Group's daily business, performance of model so as to benefit from its effectiveness, structure and know-how in this transactions, data storage, and communication between field. This choice allows Carmila benefit from the quality of the computer the teams and stakeholders. Carmila is thus exposed to: security of a large conglomerate and to pool resources and expertise. • a risk of information system failure; Carmila thus benefits from the expertise of: • a risk of attack on the systems that could impact • the IT System Department responsible for the systems' security; Carmila's business continuity or image; • a dedicated information system security contact person. • a risk of fraud related to the information systems. It implements the Carrefour group's procedures regarding: The tightening of regulations on personal data protection • data security, applications, systems and hardware that are regularly updated increases the risks (risk of non-compliance, risk of data and keep up with a rapidly changing landscape; hacking) and requires the implementation of best-in-class • audits and regular system updates; protection procedures and systems in order to protect the • awareness-raising and training of users; customer, provider and employee databases developed by Carmila. • annual system testing; • subjecting suppliers to contractual obligations. It adapts and develops across Carmila: • formalised business continuity plans that are tested annually; • obligations with regard to reporting, the implementation procedures and monitoring in relation to the regulations on personal data; • initial and continuing training sessions for teams in information system, provided in person and online. • Upon hiring, all employees receive an IT charter, and once a year all employees receive a reminder of the best practices of information system security. 134 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 ORGANISATION AND RISK MANAGEMENT Risk factors 5.2.3 Regulatory, legal and tax risks 12. Town planning and environmental regulation ●● ●●● Identification and description of the risk Control and reduction of risk Carmila's management activities (buildings open to the public, Carmila takes certain measures which enable it to mitigate the property sector) and development activities (construction, occurrence of this risk: commercial authorisations) are very exposed to town planning and • Thanks to the local presence of its teams, in all three countries environmental regulation. A significant change in legislation in this where Carmila operates and above all in the heart of regions and area could have an unfavourable impact on the company's capacity towns, and the contacts built up with local stakeholders, it can to manage or develop an asset, or a financial impact which could anticipate changes to local and regional regulations. alter the Group's performance. • Legal specialists in Carmila, Carrefour Property and Carrefour along Various changes to legislation and regulations as well as erroneous with third party experts and consultants constantly monitor application of the latter could have significant consequences for changes in regulations. Carmila, both in financial terms and in terms of its capacity to develop projects. • The existence of a Strategy and Territorial Development unit, which aims in particular to identify and anticipate legislative, regulatory and fiscal changes in terms of town planning and the environment. • Anticipation and participation in the evolution of urban planning documents (PLU...) in collaboration with the competent authorities. • Detailed analysis of urban planning documents and regulations prior to the launch of any project by experts within the Construction and Real Estate teams, helped by external experts and consultants. • Carmila's proactive CSR policy, which aims to certify over 75% of its portfolio by the end of 2021, allowing to anticipate legislative changes relating to the environment, ethic, health, working conditions, safety, and climate. • The teams are subject to continuous training to be aware of the environment and changes in legislation and regulations of their businesses, its developments and the consequences specific to the development of commercial assets open to the public. • Carmila is also a member of dynamic benchmark bodies in its sector of activity (CNCC, FSIF) whose role notably consists of being involved with administrative bodies or Parliament in preparing legislation. 13. Regulation applicable to SIICs (SIIC in French) ● ●●● Identification and description of the risk As a listed property company benefiting from the tax regime of Real Control and reduction of risk • Carmila is a member of dynamic benchmark bodies in the SIIC 5 Estate Investment Trusts (SIIC), Carmila is very sensitive to changes sector (FSIF, EPRA) whose objectives are notably being a party to in regulations covering this specific tax regime. the discussions in anticipation of changes in legislation. These bodies coordinate clear and straightforward statements on the contribution of SIICs to the economy, both in France and Europe (direct and indirect job creation, creation of value, contribution to stock market). • EPRA, the European Public Real Estate Association, aims to develop the SIIC regime in all European countries in order to create a dynamic sector on the stock market on a European scale. • Carmila also regularly monitors fiscal regulations, and checks that the Group complies with its SIIC obligations. 14. Regulation of commercial leases ● ●● Identification and description of the risk Control and reduction of risk The lessor/lessee relationship is largely built on current legislation Carmila actively participates in one-to-one talks and in market related covering commercial leases. A change to this legislation could bodies (CNCC, FSIF, Spanish and Italian bodies) with retailers on impact commercial relationships with retailers, and have implications the legal framework of their collaboration. Maintaining trust in for the Group's activity and Carmila's performance, in both the relationship with retailers will help to gradually adapt the operational and financial terms. legal framework to new commercial realities, particularly in including e-commerce in retailers' activity and necessary changes linked to the environmental and societal issues faced by the retail sector. In addition, a dedicated legal team is in charge of monitoring and implementing potential legislative or regulatory changes in lease contracts. In addtion, initial and ongoing training is provided to the teams concerned, in order to keep them aware of any regulatory or legislative changes specific to leases. CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 135 ORGANISATION AND RISK MANAGEMENT 5. Risk factors 15. Applicable regulations on the security and use of personal data ●● Identification and description of the risk Control and reduction of risk Carmila maintains databases necessary to its activity: Carmila has put in place appropriate governance which complies with • Customer information within the framework of its Digital legislation: Marketing activity; • Carmila has appointed a person responsible for the implementation • Employee information for the management of its staff; and monitoring of obligations linked to personal data legislation. They work in conjunction with the monitoring group set up at the • Information on other stakeholders enabling it to communicate Carrefour group level; with them and carry out day-to-day management operations • an inventory of sensitive data is also carried out periodically and a (suppliers, investors etc.). register is kept up-to-date; Improper application of the regulation in force could have • the data collection procedure has been made Data Protection operational and financial consequences for the Group as well as an compliant; impact on its reputation. • awareness-raising and training are periodically provided to data users; • external service providers are subject to Data Protection obligations through amendments to their service contracts. 16. Ethical risks ●● Identification and description of the risk Control and reduction of risk Failings in the organisation of its control mechanisms would expose Carmila's controls are based on the proper application of the Carmila in relation to: procedures implemented, including: • its capacity to meet its legal obligations with regards to fighting • a collective strategic decision-making process (France financial corruption and money laundering; committees, Group financial committees, etc.); • risk of fraud. • the delegation of responsibilities through relays, who are responsible for the consistent implementation of Group policies (each manager, at his level, controls the activities over which he has responsibility); • the segregation of functions, with a clear distinction between operational and decision approval functions; • the existence of three levels of control: level 1 Assessment by employees and their managers, level 2 Assessment performed by permanent control functions that are independent of the operational teams and processes, level 3 Internal or external audits. Furthermore, in order to improve the monitoring of these risks, Carmila has appointed a head of internal control and compliance himself exercising under the control of the Group's Secretary Generalwhose role is to: • introduce procedures and check they are being applied correctly; • train and raise awareness amongst employees and stakeholders on these issues. All business line procedures and associated rules in the area of corruption, fraud and money laundering are in the Business Line Books which documents the different operational functions, as well as the rules of conduct and main procedures of each business line. All of Carmila's employees sign a declaration of independence every year. Training on best practices aimed at fighting fraud, corruption and influence peddling is provided to the Management Comittee, all employees and new arrivals every year. A digital version is permanently available online for all employees. 136 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 ORGANISATION AND RISK MANAGEMENT Risk factors 5.2.4 Financial risks 17. Access to financing ●● ●● Identification and description of the risk Control and reduction of risk In certain cases Carmila might have difficulty re-financing its debt or Since its inception, Carmila diversifies its sources of finance in order to may face an increase in the price of existing debt: protect itself from any temporary shutdown of various markets. The • shutdown of markets for bank debt, bond or private debt and Group is in regular contact with the large banks and financial markets commercial paper; where it operates. In addition, Carmila carries out regular and permanent monitoring of liquidity. • Carmila's debt level (LTV) may be considered to be too high; It ensures that it maintains a high level of transparency and quality in • meet the threshhold of covenants agreed in financing contracts; its communication with financial markets and rating agencies. • restriction of the capacity to access financial and derivatives It constantly monitors financing markets, source of funding, in order to markets; seize financing opportunities if the markets were to falter. Agreeing to • risk on hedges and on counterparts of financial instruments. a €1,500 million EMTN programme in 2019 enables rapid access to the bond market. The Group financial policy, the various ratios relating to the Group's Carmila also has the capacity to call on alternative sources of funding debt and its covenants are presented in section 3.9 Financial policy (shares, asset disposals, free cash-flow). The Group structures part of of this document. its development on a pipeline of extension and restructuring projects it controls jointly with the Carrefour group. If necessary it can postpone the development of these projects in order to ease their funding without altering cash-flows and the growth of its existing portfolio. Carmila has undrawn credit lines capable of financing capex for the next 4 years if funding became more difficult. Finally Carmila performs strict management of its liquidity, enabling fine-tuned anticipation of its medium-term requirements. 18. Rise in financing cost ●● ● Identification and description of the risk Control and reduction of risk Carmila could face an increase in its financing cost as a result of: Carmila's assets produce revenues which are linked to an index of • a rise in bond and bank interest rates, or in the cost of hedging; which inflation is a component, thereby giving a natural hedge against a strong rise in interest rates which may accompany higher inflation. • a deterioration in its debt rating (refer to section 3.9.4 Rating of In addition, Carmila has long-term debt funding, bearing fixed or this document). swapped into fixed interest rates (82% of debt) which protect against Carmila could also face a deterioration of the derivatives market a strong and/or rapid rise in rates. 5 and an increase in the counterparty risk on derivative instruments. The Group constantly monitors funding opportunities in markets where interest rates may rise. Setting up a €1,500 million EMTN programme in 2019 enables rapid access to the bond market. This access is facilitated by the high level of transparency and the quality of the financial communication with rating agencies and financial markets, hallmarks of Carmila since its inception. Finally Carmila can make use of alternative sources of funding to finance its growth if these are less costly (capital increase, disposal of assets, free cash-flow). CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 137 ORGANISATION AND RISK MANAGEMENT 5. Insurance 19. Access to equity market ●● Identification and description of the risk Control and reduction of risk Carmila could have difficulty issuing new shares in the equity Carmila mitigates this risk by: market: • diversifying its sources of funding and developing its relationship • if investors lose their appetite for the retail property sector; with leading banks; • if there is a crisis in equity markets; • maintaining regular contact with the equity markets, with • if there is a large discrepancy between the Company's NAV transparent and high quality communication; (EPRA NAV equal to €27.79 per share as at 31 December 2019) • constant monitoring of equity markets in order to anticipate and its share price. opportunities. These difficulties could reduce the Company's capacity to finance In addition, Carmila has access to alternative sources of funding; its growth. • the bond market, to which Carmila has access from the outset; • an investment grade rating (BBB); • a €600 million commercial paper programme; • through bank debt with top-tier banks; • disposal of mature assets, one-off or in a portfolio. Carmila could also pay part of its dividend in shares in order to increase its available cash. Finally, Carmila can postpone its investments without altering its cashflows and growth of its existing portfolio, notably thanks to a development pipeline secured as part of its partnership with the Carrefour group. 5.3 Insurance The Group’s insurance policy is implemented via services provided • “Construction”, such as “Construction All Risks” and/or “Building by the Carrefour group; it involves identifying insurable risks through Defects”, in order to cover its construction, extension and/or a regular review of existing and emerging risks. The Carmila Group’s renovation sites, both during work and after delivery. entities are covered by insurance policies put in place by the Carrefour group, with the customary levels of coverage for this type Other policies cover the Carmila Group’s other insurable risks in as of business. The Group benefits from these insurance policies as appropriate to the nature of the activities, the risks and the size of entities that are specifically covered by these policies. the Carmila Group. These insurance programs are negotiated centrally, with a renewal As soon as it completes an acquisition, the Carmila Group requests on 1 January of each year. coverage for the acquisition under these insurance policies and benefits from equivalent protection or, if applicable, in addition to The insurance policies are as follows: the guarantees provided by the insurance policy in question (DIC/ • “Property Damage and Operating Losses” for the purpose of DIL: Difference in Conditions/Difference in Limits), ensuring good protecting the assets, in particular against fire, explosion, control of existing coverage and guarantees. lightning, natural events, theft, and resulting operating losses; • Third Party Liability” covering the financial consequences on physical, property and/or financial damage, caused to third parties, in the event that the Carmila Group is held liable; 138 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 ORGANISATION AND RISK MANAGEMENT Risk management and internal control 5.4 Risk management and internal control Carmila applies the general principles of internal control and risk The safety of people and property is one of the essential objectives management defined in the AMF’s reference framework which was of the risk management system in order to: published in 20 January 2007 and updated on 22 July 2010. • ensure suitable protection for customers, employees, service It should be reminded that Carmila has concluded several service providers and the Group’s sites; agreements with the Carrefour group for support functions required for running its business. These services mainly concern accounting, • guarantee the compliance with reguatory requirement for each tax, legal, real estate, administrative and insurance processes. The shopping centre; and Carrefour group’s internal control and risk management systems • protect and improve the brand image and the business have also been developed to comply with the AMF’s framework of reputation. reference. The risk management and internal control systems have been Carmila relies on Carrefour’s Insurance Department to take out and designed to monitor risks, contribute to achieving the Company’s manage centrally the insurance policies as well as the claims. goals and make operations more efficient. Like any system of control, the internal controls provide a reasonable assurance but not an absolute guarantee that the entity’s 5.4.2 Internal control system objectives will be achieved. The limits inherent in internal controls mean that they cannot prevent mistaken judgements, bad decisions The Carmila Group’s internal control system brings together the or external events which result in technical or human failure or which most suitable means, behaviour, procedures and actions adapted to may prevent the achievement of operational objectives. the Carmila Group’s characteristics and risk management (see Section 5.2 Risk factors). The purpose of this system is to: • contribute to the internal control of its business, the effectiveness 5.4.1 The risk management system of its operations and the efficient use of its resources; • take appropriate action against the major risks facing the Carmila Group of a financial, operational or compliance nature which 5.4.1.1 The purpose and organisation could prevent the Group from achieving its objectives. of Risk Management The risk management system is intended to cover the financial risks, In particular, the internal control system aims to ensure(1): operational risks, liquidity risks and environmental risks described in Section 5.2 “Risk Factors”and in Section 4 “.Corporate Social • reaching the Group’s economic and financial objectives in compliance with the laws and regulations; Responsibility” of this document. The risk management within the Carmila Group aims to identify, • the implementation of instructions and guidance as set out by the analyse and monitor the major risks liable to damage people, the Group’s Executive Management with respect to internal controls; environment, assets, Company objectives or its reputation. The system is, in particular, aimed at: • the efficient operating of internal processes, in particular, those relating to the safeguard of assets, people and Group ressources; • the creation and preservation of Carmila’s value, assets and and • reputation; safeguarding Carmila’s decisions and processes aiming to achieve • the reliability of financial information. 5 its objectives; 5.4.2.1 Organisation and scope of intervention • encouraging actions which are consistent with Carmila’s values; Carmila has implemented an internal control system which has been and documented in different written procedures, a code of professional • engaging employees around a common vision of the main risks. conduct, and a power delegation organisation, responsibilities and objectives at each level of the organisation, in order to maintain an Carmila’s approach is to integrate risk management into daily effective segregation of tasks between execution and control. The business management. Risk management is therefore a common implementation of the internal control system is based on an task for all employees. The processing and implementation of the appropriate organisation with a clear definition of responsibilities, risk management principles are the direct responsibility of the having adequate resources and competencies and using information General Secretary who is a member of the Executive Committee and systems, tools and appropriate practices. who is responsible for steering and supervising risk management. The continuous supervision of internal control procedures is organised at the Carmila Group level so as to prevent or detect 5.4.1.2 The identification problems in a timely manner. The reference used for internal control procedures is the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the and monitoring of risks Treadway Commission or “COSO”. The Audit Committee monitors risk management on a regular basis and examines risk mapping in particular and the associated action The internal control function is supervised by the General Secretary plans. and relies on the internal controls of a Carrefour subsidiary, Carrefour Property for the services rendered. In addition, within the scope of the service agreements with the Carrefour group, all the services rendered by Carrefour are subject Carmila’s internal control systems, as described in this document are to the internal control and risk management system set up within applied, without exception, to all of the Group’s businesses and the Carrefour group, notably through its Ethics, Compliance, DPO companies. Department. Carmila also performs a quality control of the services rendered and regularly updates its analysis of the risks inherent to these services. (1) Purpose specified in the reference framework for the AMF’s internal control risk mechanisms (Section II-3 A). CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 139 ORGANISATION AND RISK MANAGEMENT 5. Risk management and internal control 5.4.2.2 The Internal Control actors: definitions 5.4.2.3 Functions subcontracted of responsibilities and powers to the Carrefour group Carmila Group has entered into a services agreement with the Management Bodies Carrefour group covering accounting, administrative, IT, legal and The Executive Management is responsible for the internal control tax services. and risk management systems. It is therefore responsible for designing, and implementing internal control and risk management Information system systems which are adapted to the Group, its business and The Carmila Group’s information systems aim to answer its needs organisation. and satisfy its requirements with respect to: The Executive Management continuously monitors the internal • security and confidentiality; control and risk management systems in order to preserve their integrity and improve them by adapting to changes in the • reliability and integrity; organisation and environment(1). • availability; and It initiates any actions which are required to correct identified malfunctions and to remain at an acceptable level of risk. It ensures • traceability of information, in order to preserve the ability to that these actions are properly implemented within the agreed time perform and systematic audit of access or actions. frames. The Carrefour group provides information system services to the The Board of Directors examines the essential characteristics of the Carmila Group. Carrefour Property’s Information Services internal control and risk management systems and thereby acquires Department, assists the Carmila Group in planning its information an overall understanding of the procedures used to prepare and system strategy, supervises the implementation of its IT projects and process financial and accounting information, as described by the manages the resources and budget dedicated to information Audit Committee. The Board of Directors ensures that the major systems. The IT Department is involved in the conceptual design and identified risks for the Group are dealt with in its strategies and IT architecture of the Carmila Group’s projects and is involved in the objectives, and are taken into account when managing the preparatory phase so it can: Company(2). • identify the risks inherent to the project and in particular relating to data protection; and Audit Committee The Carmila Group’s Board of Directors has set up an Audit • define the security requirements and the security actions to be included in the project. Committee of four members as described in Section 6.1 on Corporate governance. It is also responsible for the security of information systems and As part of its mission to monitor the effectiveness of the internal their maintenance. control and risk management system, the Audit Committee is Carrefour Property France has appointed a Data Security Contact responsible for: whose main task is to adapt and deploy the security policy defined • ensuring that the internal control and risk management systems by the Carrefour group and make the teams aware of best practices. are effectively monitored; The implementation review and adjustments involving action plans are performed at the Data Security Committee's quartely meetings. • conducting regular supervision and making any recommendations to improve these systems; • examining the risks, their level of impact, the procedures set up Legal Within the framework of the Service Agreement, Carrefour Property to counter them and the off balance sheet commitments; monitors the regulatory constraints which apply to the Carmila • assessing the irregularities or weaknesses brought to its Group’s portfolio, especially administrative authorisations, real estate attention, and rights and lease rights. Carrefour Property's legal department is also responsible for monitoring disputes and litigations with the help of • presenting a summary of its works on internal control to the third party experts when necessary. Board of Directors. Carrefour’s teams also ensure the application of, and compliance with, the laws in force for all of the Carmila Group’s activities and Operational monitoring and surveillance companies. They assist all the operational teams to draft specific contracts and produce all commercial leases signed with retail committees brands along with the necessary legal documentation. The Group’s General Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Carmila’s internal control system is operating effectively, including Finally, it manages the legal compliance of the Carmila Group’s the services rendered by Carrefour. He, in particular, relies on the contracts, companies and corporate bodies as well as their related reports from the following operational committees to do this: legal obligations. • Real Estate Investment Committee; Human resources • Acquisitions Committee; Carmila’s human resources management also draws on the services • Monthly Activities review; which are shared with Carrefour for the day-to-day management of human capital to ensure compliance with Carmila’s objectives and • Monthly Credit collection Committee and Litigation Committee; policies. • Ethics Committee; Carmila’s human resource policy promotes the development of its employees through training and individual career management. • Data Security Committee (France). Carmila also encourages an integrated work environment with ethnic diversity and gender equality criterion as detailed in the Carrefour Property’s Organisation and Internal Control Department section 4.1.4 Here we act for employees). is also responsible for steering internal controls and implementing the action plans for the services rendered in each country. Compliance with the Group’s policy by all the personnel is assessed annually, to ensure compliance with managerial and ethical On a day-to-day basis, managers ensure the continuous supervision standards. In part, this assessment which measures performance is a of the effective implementation of the internal control procedures. component of variable compensation. (1) Reference framework for the AMF’s internal control and risk management mechanisms (Section II-5 a). (2) Reference framework for the AMF’s internal control and risk management mechanisms (Section II-5 b). 140 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 ORGANISATION AND RISK MANAGEMENT Risk management and internal control 5.4.2.4 Documentation and dissemination circumstances. This guide is also disseminated to all the employees of the Carrefour group including the teams who work for Carmila in of the internal control system the context of the service agreements between the two companies. Carmila’s own internal control system and procedures are set down The practical guide to ethical principles is given to each new in “profession books” which include all the job descriptions, and employee on arrival. procedures, and are available as collaborative tools (Internet, email, etc.) to ensure that the information can be accessed and shared rapidly. These “profession books” play a crucial role in the internal 5.4.2.6 The fight against corruption control process. They aim to streamline and standardise the and money-laundering information disseminated so procedures are secure and durable Carmila is integrated into the whistle-blowing system implemented across all of the Carmila Group’s business lines and teams. by the Carrefour group to flag breaches of ethical principles, In addition new employees receive the ethical principles and are particularly concerning corruption and conflicts of interest. The given a booklet on information security and a booklet on anticonfidentiality of the information is guaranteed at all stages of the corruption and conflict of interest policy during an induction day whistleblowing process. which goal is to make new arrivals aware of the Group’s internal Carmila’s anti-corruption and money laundering system is based procedures. on the Carrefour group’s charter incorporating the law of This information is also disseminated to the Carrefour group’s 9 December 2016 on transparency, the fight against corruption and employees in the functions subcontracted under the Service the modernisation of the economy (the Sapin II law) and the Order Agreement. of 1 December 2016 which toughens French anti-money laundering and terrorist financing legislation. 5.4.2.5 Publication of and compliance An anti-corruption and influence-peddling policy has been defined and presented to the human resources representative bodies in with Carmila’s ethical values France. This document was incorporated into the internal rules of Carmila has established a code of professional conduct consistent Carmila and Carrefour Property economic and social union. with the values and directives of the Carrefour group. An Ethics Committee has been established to guarantee the fundamental The risks of influence-peddling and corruption have been mapped. principles defined in the Carrefour group’s Professional Code of On this basis, a training programme has been developed for the Conduct which are articulated around: French employees most exposed to these risks. This training programme uses illustrated communication tools with targeted • individual and collective integrity; examples for the populations concerned. • the confidentiality of information; Each employee of the Group must also annually sign a certificate of independence aimed at limiting and managing conflicts of interest. • whistleblowing; • the respect for diversity; 5.4.2.7 Protection of personal data • the Group’s social and environmental responsibility; Carmila has acted in anticipation of the General Regulation on Data Protection (2016/679/EU) (GRPD) which is applicable since 25 May • behaviour at work; 2018. The Bensoussan law firm performed a diagnosis during 2017 to measure the level of compliance with the GRDP, to recommend a • transparency in business relationships. data protection and freedom of information organisation, identify corrective measures and establish a compliance plan. The plan was 5 This Ethics committee is a joint committee between Carrefour established in collaboration with Carrefour group. A Data Protection Property and Carmila. It is composed of six members taken equally and Freedom of Information Officer was designated and a steering from the Executive Committees of both companies. It meets at least committees established. twice a year in order to: The Carmila officer reports functionally to the Data Protection • ensure the ethical principles are published and that the conditions Officer appointed at Carrefour Group level, whose duties are 1) to are in place to ensure employees are familiar with them, inform and advise the Group on RGPD 2) to monitor compliance 3) understand them, share them and comply with them; to act as an interface with the Government Body in charge. • discuss and implement an action plan on the main ethical issues affecting each country or business with foresight and broad view 5.4.2.8 Stock Market Ethics of the issues; and Insider Trading • organise a whistle-blowing procedure and ensuring that it A Stock Market Code of Ethics has been adopted by the Carmila operates effectively; Group and disseminated to all holders of sensitive and/or privileged information (Board of Directors, Executive Management, and key • advise directors on any issue relating to the application of or employees) in order to fight and prevent the risk of insider trading. compliance with the Group’s ethical principles; This Code of Ethics sets out the restrictive periods preceding the • ensure that whistle-blowing is treated independently in full publication of quarterly and annual revenues and half yearly and annual results during which the Carmila Group generally refrains compliance with the law; from any contact with the financial community. A black-out period • monitor and regularly assess the effectiveness of the system on calendar is fix by the Board of Carmila every year. the basis of indicators and regular reporting in particular. The purpose of the Group’s financial communication policy is to A practical guide to the ethical principles is also handed to all the ensure that relevant, exact and genuine information is published Group’s employees. Each employee is expected to be familiar with appropriately so that the same information is available to everyone this guide, comply with it and make sure it is complied with in all at the same time. CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 141 ORGANISATION AND RISK MANAGEMENT 5. Risk management and internal control accordance with changes on the site. This action plan enables the 5.4.3 Critical activities rental grid to be reviewed to identify priority shopping units, with, in for operational internal order of priority, vacant lots, renewals and terminations. It is incorporated into the annual budget approved by the Company’s control Board of Directors which then uses it to monitor the Company’s business during the year. The control activities are aimed at ensuring the proper implementation of internal control procedures so that the risks 5.4.3.5 Maintenance and safety of assets associated with the Group’s important operations are managed. Carrefour Property’s teams regularly monitor the upkeep, maintenance and safety of assets under the lease management and property management contracts. This monitoring is reflected in 5.4.3.1 Capital expenditure authorisations particular by the implementation of a system which describes the for investment properties safety compliance procedures on each of the Group’s sites. The purpose of the Renovation and Development Agreement When acquisitions are made, Carmila’s and Carrefour Property’s between the Carmila Group and the Carrefour group is to create a teams will include the new assets in Carrefour group’s insurance partnership between the two groups to implement a strategy in policy. France, Spain and Italy to strengthen the appeal and optimise the value of the assets. For a description of the Renovation and Development Agreement see Section 5.1.5.3 “Principal agreement 5.4.3.6 Crisis management with Carrefour group entities of this document”. Carmila and Carrefour group have set up a joint crisis management Within this framework, capital expenditure projects are subject to an procedure to ensure that the actions and communications in approval procedure which firstly aims to ensure that they conform response to a major crisis affecting one of their shopping centres are to the Group’s strategic priorities and profitability criteria, and consistent. A hotline which is common to both groups is available secondly to coordinate the development processes between the to all their employees which enables coordinated action and the two groups and align both partners’ interests. This approval consistent dissemination of information to all the players concerned. procedure is based on technical, tax, legal, financial and environmental studies. As set forth in Carmila's governance, the Executive Management's 5.4.4 The preparation and investment proposals must receive a favorable recommendation from the Strategic and Investment Committee and then an approval processing of accounting from the Board of Directors for projects exceeding capital and financial informations expenditure of €15 million. In addition, the Carrefour group’s Investment Committee validates any real estate capital expenditures in which Carrefour’s bears more 5.4.4.1 Organisation of the financial function than €3 million. Internal accounting and financial control is mainly aimed to ensure: • that the accounting information published complies with 5.4.3.2 Management of renovation accounting policies; and development projects • that the instructions and guidelines set by the Executive Under the terms of the Renovation and Development Agreement Management are applied; agreed with the Carrefour group, both parties undertake to pay equally (50/50) for renovation and development works. • that fraud and accounting and financing regularities are prevented and detected; In addition, CPF Asset Management, a subsidiary of Carrefour Property France, acts as project manager under project • the presentation and reliability of the financial information management delegation agreements signed for each project. published. The approval procedure for these projects is described above (see The risks involved with producing accounting and financial Section 5.4.3.1 “Capital expenditure authorisations for investment information can result from the accounting treatment of two properties”). categories of transactions: • current transactions, for which the control systems must be 5.4.3.3 Lease management positioned as close as possible to the effective transactions; Carmila has contracted with Carrefour group subsidiaries to perform lease management and property management for all its countries, • sensitive transactions which may have a significant impact on the France, Spain and Italy. Daily management is thus delegated to a financial statements. team complying with the management procedures and rules set by Carmila’s Financial Department is responsible for identifying the the Carrefour group, in particular those for invoicing and for tenant risks which affect the preparation of financial and accounting rent collection. This process is also based on the dedicated lease information and for taking the necessary measures to adapt the and property management IT tools and applications developed for internal control system. or by the Carrefour group. Carmila relies on the Carrefour group under the Service Agreements which include accounting, tax and legal. The Company therefore 5.4.3.4 Letting activities relies on the centralised teams with an organisational model of Letting is performed by a dedicated in-house teams. A compliance shared service centres (CSP) using standardised documents and guide detailing the procedures to be followed is available for new procedures allowing proper segragation of duties between and existing employees. execution and control. Regular monitoring of the sales and marketing initiatives undertaken The consolidation of Carmila Group accounts is performed internally is led between the sales and operational departments which also by a specialised team. enables the Group’s performance to be measured in terms of The property portfolio is valued when preparing the accounting and indicators based on revenues, footfall and vacancy rates. An annual financial information using real estate appraisals performed by sales and letting plan is drawn up for each site, with the approval of independent appraisors using recognised methods. the Asset Management Director and is regularly updated in 142 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 ORGANISATION AND RISK MANAGEMENT Risk management and internal control 5.4.4.2 Operating process 5.4.4.3 Financial communication The Financial Department is responsible for gathering operational, The information collected and then published follows a process financial and accounting information in order to prepare the activity which guarantees the reliability and authenticity of the data. reports and the annual, half yearly, quarterly and monthly regulatory The purpose of financial communication is to inform continuously. information reports, where appropriate. It therefore coordinates and Its purpose is to convey a clear, coherent message to enable supervises the actions of service providers in order to prepare these investors to acquire an exact and precise understanding of the reports. Company’s value and its strategy. Therefore, the information is reviewed for consistency and cross-checked jointly with the The financial statements are prepared within the stipulated Statutory Auditors before it is published. deadlines, in accordance with the applicable legislation and accounting standards. Different channels are used to publish the financial information to the public: The Group’s accounting policies are defined in a document which is regularly updated and disseminated to all those involved in the • Universal Registration Document; process(1). • half yearly press releases; Consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with a detailed schedule and instructions to comply with the accounting • half-yearly financial reports; deadlines and standards. • shareholders’ meeting; The Group’s Financial Department performs the following main controls when consolidating the accounts: • quarterly press releases on the Group’s business and revenues; and • the analysis and justification of the changes in consolidation scope in order to verify the correct accounting method; • regulated information. • the analysis and justification of consolidation adjustments. The annual financial statements are audited by the Statutory Auditors. However, the half yearly IFRS financial information is 5.4.5 Monitoring financial risks subject to a limited examination. The Financial Department connected with the effects coordinates the work with the Statutory Auditors. The Financial and accounting information is reviewed and tested by the Statutory of climate change Auditors and presented to the Group’s Audit Committee and then to the Board of Directors. Article L. 225-100-1 I 4° of the French Commercial Code as amended by the Order no. 2017-1162 of 12 July 2017, covering measures to The Financial Department verifies the completeness and the simplify and clarify corporate information obligations, stipulates that consistency of the Company’s financial and accounting information, the Group must report “on the financial risks connected to the in particular by: effects of climate change and the measures which the Company is • controlling each stage of its production; taking to reduce them by implementing a low carbon strategy in all the parts of its business”. • monitoring internal reporting and analysing the differences with the budget approved by the Board of Directors. Sections 5.2 and 4 of this document on the risk factors and the societal, social and environmental information include all information Furthermore, regarding internal control, the General Secretary is in required by law and can be summarised as follows: 5 particular responsible for: • climate change may financially impact the Carmila Group’s • participating in communication activities vis-a-vis investors and business for example: though increased insurance premiums, the financial markets (press releases, website management etc.); changes in construction methods or even the age of the sites; • supervising delegated functions; • the Carmila Group is implementing initiatives to reduce energy consumption and thus minimise the carbon footprint of its sites, • selecting internal audits assignments within the Company; through the use of energy-efficient equipment, optimised • ensuring that the Company complies with its regulatory insulation and the construction of bio-climatic buildings; obligations particularly concerning tax and equity market • the Group ensures compliance with construction and renovation regulations; standards during its development projects, in particular via the • informing the Audit Committee of the result of its internal audit analysis of its flood risks prevention plan before any construction assignments. project; • a computer database, implemented by an external service provider, enables diagnostics and monitoring of classified installations across all sites. (1) Reference framework for the AMF’s internal control and risk management mechanisms (Section IV 3.1.3 and 3.1.4). CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 143 ORGANISATION AND RISK MANAGEMENT 5. Arbitration and judicial proceedings 5.5 Arbitration and judicial proceedings In the ordinary course of its business, the Carmila Group is involved At the date of this document, to the Company’s knowledge, there in administrative and judicial proceedings and is subject to are no governmental, judicial or arbitral disputes or proceedings administrative audits from time to time. The Carmila Group (including any proceedings, to Carmila’s knowledge, that are recognises provisions in its financial statements when, on the closing pending or threatened) that could have or recently have had a date, it has is subject to a current, legal or implied obligation as a material impact on the results or financial condition of Carmila and/ result of a past event for which it is probable that an outflow will be or the Carmila Group. necessary to settle the obligation, the amount of which can be reliably estimated. A description of the provisions for litigations at 31 December 2019 is included in Note 7.9 of Section 7.1 “Consolidated Financial Statements” of this document. 5.6 Significant agreements As of the date of this document, no agreement (other than entity of the Carmila Group, with the exception of the agreements agreements entered into in the ordinary course of business) described in Section 5.1.5.3 “Principal Agreements with Carrefour containing provisions entailing an obligation or significant group Entities”, in Section 3.9 “Financial policy” and under the commitment on the part of any of the entities of the Carmila Group paragraph “Transactions with related parties” included in Section 7.1 for the Group as a whole has been entered into by Carmila or any “Consolidated Financial Statements 2018” of this document. 5.7 Research and development, patents and licenses 5.7.1 Research and development 5.7.2 Intellectual property The Carmila Group does not conduct research and development The Group’s intellectual property rights consist mainly of rights to activities. However, it is constantly seeking innovative solutions as distinctive signs such as trademarks or domain names, in particular part of its digitalisation strategy. The Carmila Group has created an the semi-figurative brand of the European Union “Carmila”, the internal incubator programme dedicated to innovation and digital figurative “M logo” brand and the semi-figurative “Cité Europe” technology. Using digital tools (such as social networks, the digital brands, and domain names including, for example, the name customer experience and databases) developed in collaboration “Carmila”. These intellectual property rights are registered or are with the Carrefour group’s teams, Carmilab has facilitated trials for being registered in the countries where they are used by the Group, multi-channel projects in numerous areas: CRM and data, relational, in order to protect them in a manner appropriate to the activities local and cross-channel marketing, new concepts and new concerned. businesses. These rights are mainly held by Carmila and, for certain distinctive The Group does not hold any patents and therefore considers that it brands, used only in connection with the activity of a shopping has no significant dependence on any trademarks, patents or centre, by the entity of the Group managing that shopping centre. licenses for the conduct of its business or its profitability. 144 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 6. 6.1 Corporate governance 146 6.1.1 Compliance with the Corporate 146 Governance Code 6.1.2 The composition of the Board 146 of Directors and conditions for preparing and organising its work 6.1.3 Executive Management 168 6.2 Compensation granted 170 to executive corporate officers 6.2.1 Components of compensation and 170 benefits in kind paid in or awarded in respect of 2019 to corporate officers (Article L. 225-37-3 I and L. 225-100 II of the French Commercial Code) 6.2.2 Compensation policies 180 applicable to corporate officers for the 2020 financial year subject to the approval Gouvernance of shareholders (L. 225-37-2 of the French Commercial Code) 6.2.3 Presentation of bonus 184 and capital performance and preference share allocation plan 6.3 Share capital and 186 shareholder structure 6.3.1 Share capital 186 6.3.2 Shareholding structure 191 6.3.3 Stock option plan and performance 193 share plans 6.3.4 Agreements which may lead 194 to a change of control 6.3.5 Effects of a tender offer or public 194 exchange offer (Article L. 225-37-5 of the French Commercial Code) 6.4 The AFEP-MEDEF Code's 195 apply or explain rule 6.5 Regulated agreements 195 and commitments under Articles L. 225-38 et seq. and L. 225-42-1 of the French Commercial Code 6.6 Statutory Auditor’s report 195 on the Corporate Governance Report CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 145 GOUVERNANCE AND CAPITAL 6. Corporate governance 6.1 Corporate governance 6.1.1 Compliance with the 6.1.2 The composition of the Board Corporate Governance Code of Directors and conditions The operating rules of the corporate governance bodies are for preparing and organising governed by the relevant legal provisions, the Company’s By-laws its work and the Internal Regulations established by the Board of Directors. In particular, the Internal Regulations specify the procedures for meetings of the Board of Directors, the powers of the Board of 6.1.2.1 Composition of the Board of Directors Directors supplemental to the legal and statutory provisions and its Committees and changes in applicable to the Company and, additionally, they cover the creation the course of the financial year ending of the roles and assignments of the various Committees of the Board of Directors. 31 December 2019 The Company refers to the AFEP-MEDEF Code of Corporate Governance (AFEP-MEDEF Code), revised in January 2020. This Composition of the Board of Directors and its AFEP-MEDEF Code may be consulted at the Company’s registered Committees at 31 December 2019 office and on the MEDEF and AFEP websites at www.medef.com The Board of Directors must have at least three and at most and www.afep.com, respectively. eighteen members, in accordance with the Bylaws in force. At 31 December 2019, the Board of Directors was made up of The Board of Directors ensures that the Internal Regulations are fourteen (14) Directors including one (1) Lead Independent Director submitted for regular review so that they may be adapted to and two (2) Non-Voting Directors. incorporate changes in corporate governance rules and best practice. The duration of a Director’s term of office is four years, however, it should be noted that in order that the Board of Directors may be renewed each year by rotation, in accordance with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code, the Shareholders’ Meeting may designate one or several Directors for a different duration not exceeding four years. 146 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 GOUVERNANCE AND CAPITAL Corporate governance The table below shows the composition of the Company’s Board of Directors as of 31 December 2019: Start date Member of current Length of of the Board indepenDate of first term of End of service on Number of Presence in of Directors Gender Nationality Age dence appointment office term(1) the Board shares held committees Alexandre M France 45 years No 26/06/2019 01/07/2019 31/12/2020 6 months CSR(3) de Palmas 9,032(2) SIC CEO Sogecap (rep. by Yann M France 45 years Yes 12/06/2017 12/06/2017 31/12/2020 30 months 7,759,603 AC Briand) Director Predica (rep. by Emmanuel M France 43 years Yes 12/06/2017 12/06/2017 31/12/2020 30 months 12,564,212 SIC Chabas) Director Marie Cheval F France 45 years No 03/10/2017 03/10/2017 31/12/2019 27 months 1,000 SIC Director SIC AXA REIM France (rep. by Amal F Spain 46 years Yes 12/06/2017 12/06/2017 31/12/2020 30 months 5,835,926 CNC Del Monaco) Director CNC Séverine Farjon (Chairwoman) F France 45 years Yes 20/05/2015 16/05/2019 31/12/2022 55 months 1,001 Director CSR(3) (Chairwoman) Maria Garrido AC F Spain 46 years Yes 16/05/2018 16/05/2018 31/12/2021 19 months 1,000 Director CSR(3) Olivier Lecomte Lead AC M France 54 years Yes 12/06/2017 12/06/2017 31/12/2019 30 months 1,000 (Chairman) Independent CNC Director Laurent Luccioni M France 48 years Yes 12/06/2017 12/06/2017 31/12/2019 30 months 1,020 _ Director Jérôme Nanty M France 58 years No 03/04/2019 16/05/2019 31/12/2022 12 months 1 000 CNC Director Claire Noël du Payrat F France 51 years No 24/10/2018 16/05/2019 31/12/2022 14 months 1 000 AC Director Nadra Moussalem M France 43 years Yes 12/06/2017 12/06/2017 31/12/2019 30 months 1,000 SIC Director Cardif Assurance Vie SIC (rep. by F France 57 years Yes 12/06/2017 12/06/2017 31/12/2020 30 months 12,060,973 (Chairman) Nathalie Robin) CSR(3) Director 6 SIC Laurent Vallée CNC M France 49 years No 04/09/2017 04/09/2017 31/12/2019 28 months 1,000 Director CSR(3) Pedro Antonio Arias Non-voting M France 49 years 12/06/2017 12/06/2017 31/12/2020 30 months director Laurent Fléchet Non-voting M France 54 years 12/06/2017 12/06/2017 31/12/2020 30 months director AC: Audit Committee. CNC: Compensation and Nominating Committee. SIC = Strategic and Investment Committee. CSR: CSR Commitee (1) Annual Shareholders’ Meeting called to approve the financial statements for the financial year ended. (2) Mr. Alexandre de Palmas holds 10,132 shares of the Company, on the date of this Universal Registration Document. (3): Member as from the Board of Directors meeting of April 2, 2020, which decided to create the CSR Committee. CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 147 GOUVERNANCE AND CAPITAL 6. Corporate governance Changes to the composition of the Board of Directors and its Committees in the course of the 2019 financial year Changes to the composition of the Board of Directors and its Committees during the financial year are set out below. Departures Appointments/co-optations Renewals Francis Mauger (Director)(1) Jérôme Nanty Jérôme Nanty Board of Directors Mr. Jacques Ehrmann Alexandre de Palmas Séverine Farjon* Francis Mauger (Non-voting director) Francis Mauger (Non-voting director) Claire Noël Du Payrat Audit Committee Mr. Jacques Ehrmann Alexandre de Palmas Strategic and Investment Committee Francis Mauger Marie Cheval Compensation and Nominating Marie Cheval Jérôme Nanty Committee (1) Mr Francis Mauger had been a Director of the Company since 18 June 2012 and was co-opted as a non-voting director at the Board of Directors meeting on 3 April 2019, replacing Mr Frédéric Bôl who had resigned. * Independent Director. Change in composition of the Board of Directors Balance of the Board of Directors At its meeting on 26 June 2019, on the recommendation of the On the recommendations of the Compensation and Nominating Compensation and Nominating Committee, the Board of Directors Committee, at its meeting of 2 April 2020, the Board of Directors appointed Mr Alexandre de Palmas as CEO of the Company analysed its composition and procedures so as to ensure a balance following his co-optation as Director to replace Mr Jacques in terms of the diversity of skills, professional experience, Ehrmann. The term of office of Mr Alexandre de Palmas began on representation of each sex and age of Directors in the propositions 1 July 2019, to cover the outstanding term of Mr Jacques Ehrmann, required by law. Indeed, in accordance with the AFEP-MEDEF code, i.e. until the Ordinary Shareholders Meeting called to approve the the Board expressed its position on the diversity policy applied to financial statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2020. the members of the Board. The Shareholder's Meeting called to approve the financial statements for the financial year ended on December 31, 2019 will be asked to vote that co-optation. Diversity Policy as applied to the Board of Directors The diversity policy applied by the Board of Directors for the 2019 The General Shareholders' Meeting of 16 May 2019 also ratified the financial year aims to ensure a composition that reflects the co-optation of Ms Claire Noël du Payrat as Director to replace Company's stakeholders (partner networks, shareholders) but also Ms Raphaëlle Pezant, and Mr Jérôme Nanty as Director to replace to ensure a good balance and fair distribution of experiences, Mr Francis Mauger, for the remainder of their terms, i.e. until the qualifications, cultures, ages, nationalities and seniority, in line with Ordinary Shareholders' Meeting called to approve the financial the Company’s needs. statements for the financial year ending 31 December 2018. At the same General Shareholders' Meeting a decision was taken to renew This policy also promotes an inclusive working environment that the terms of office of Ms Claire Noël du Payrat and Mr Jérôme respects ethnic diversity and gender equality, as detailed in the Nanty, for a period of four (4) years, i.e. until the Ordinary Company’s professional code of conduct. It also includes a Shareholders’ Meeting called to approve the financial statements for requirement for gender balance on the Board and its Committees. the financial year ending 31 December 2022. With a rate above the legal requirements, of the Board’s fourteen (14) Directors, six (6) are women, that is 43%. As on The General Shareholders' Meeting of 16 May 2019 also ratified the 31 December 2019, each Committee has two women among its co-optation of Mr Francis Mauger as a Non-Voting Director to members and two of the three Committees are chaired by women. replace Mr Frédéric Bôl for the remainder of his term of office, i.e. During its meeting of 2 April 2020, the Board of Directors, on the Until the Ordinary Shareholders' Meeting called to approve the recommendation of the compensation and nominating Committee, financial accounts for the financial year ending 31 December 2020. decided to create a CSR Committee, composed of five members, At its meeting on 23 October 2019, the Board of Directors noted the three of whom are women. This Committee will be chaired by a departure of Mr Francis Mauger, who had been co-opted as a nonwoman. voting director since the Board meeting on 3 April 2019, and who had since reached the upper age limit stipulated in the Company's The diversity policy also takes into account the varied and Bylaws. He was not replaced. complementary skills of Directors. Some have strategic skills and others financial skills or more specific skills (expertise in the real estate sector, digital marketing, asset management, legal, Change in the composition of the Board management experience). The range and complementary nature of of Directors' Specialist Committees experiences and expertise of members of the Board allows a fast Following the change in the composition of the Board of Directors, and in-depth understanding of the issues around the Company’s at its meeting on 3 April 2019, and upon the recommendations of development as well as high-quality decision making. the Compensation and Nominating Committee, the Board reviewed the composition of the Specialist Committees of the Board of Directors. Biographies of Directors Under the Company’s Internal Regulations, acceptance of a position Ms Marie Cheval resigned her position on the Compensation and as director involves an undertaking to comply with the ethics rules Nominating Committee to join the Strategic and Investment set out in the AFEP-MEDEF Code and, in particular, not to take on Committee. Mr Jérôme Nanty joined the Compensation and more than four (4) other positions as director in listed companies, Nominating Committee. including foreign ones, outside the Group. Mr Francis Mauger resigned his position on the Strategic and Each director must (i) prior to his appointment, provide the Investment Committee at the same time as his directorship. Chairman of the Board with a complete and detailed list of Director Finally, upon his appointment, Mr Alexandre de Palmas joined the positions as director and executive or other posts held with any Strategic and Investment Committee to replace Mr Jacques business entity, (ii) immediately inform the Chairman of the Board of Ehrmann. any modification to the aforesaid list that may take place during his term of office. During its meeting of April 2, 2020, the Board of Directors decided to create a CSR Committee composed of five members: Séverine The Board of Directors has not been asked by an executive Farjon (Committee Chairwoman), Maria Garrido, Nathalie Robin, corporate officer to approve a new corporate office in a listed Laurent Vallée and Alexandre de Palmas. The CSR Committee’s company in the course of the financial year. duties are described in section 6.1.2.4 of the present Universal Registration Document. 148 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 GOUVERNANCE AND CAPITAL Corporate governance The main terms of office and positions held by the aforesaid Directors of Carmila, during the last five years, are as follows: Alexandre de Palmas MAIN POSITION IN THE COMPANY Chairman and CEO and member of the strategic and investment Committee of Carmila Member of the CSR Committee since April 2, 2020 MAIN POSITION OUTSIDE THE COMPANY Executive Director for Convenience and Cash & Carry, Carrefour France MAIN AREAS OF EXPERTISE AND EXPERIENCE Alexandre de Palmas is 45 years old and a graduate of Science Po and ENA. He began his career as a statutory auditor in 2001 before becoming an advisor to the Minister for Youth and Sport. In 2006 he became CEO of Casino Développement, a structure within the Casino Group responsible for research and expansion in France. He went on to become CEO of Clear Channel until 2013, restructuring it and making it the French leader in digital displays. In 2013, he became the CEO of Madrigall, the parent company of the Gallimard-Flammarion group to take on the challenge of digital books. In 2015, he became Chief Executive Officer of Concession Catering in France and Northern Europe at Elior. His remit includes developing the profitable growth of this business by conquering new markets, in existing countries and new regions in Northern Europe. Appointed in August 2018 as Carrefour's Executive Director for Convenience and Cash & Carry, since July 2019 he has also been Chairman and CEO of Carmila. MAIN TERMS OF OFFICE AND POSITIONS HELD OUTSIDE THE COMPANY IN THE LAST FIVE YEARS Offices and positions held at 31 December 2019: Listed companies • Executive Director for Convenience and Cash & Carry, Carrefour (France) Unlisted companies • Director of France Télévisions (France) • Manager of SOVAL (France) • Chairman of Convenience and Cash & Carry, Carrefour (France) • Representative of Carrefour France on the Strategic Committee of Lulu dans ma rue (France) Offices and positions held and expired over the past five years: • Director, Chairman and CEO of SOFIDIM (France) • Chairman of GENEDIS (France) 6 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 149 GOUVERNANCE AND CAPITAL 6. Corporate governance Yann BRIAND, representative of SOGECAP MAIN POSITION IN THE COMPANY Director and member of the audit Committee MAIN POSITION OUTSIDE THE COMPANY Real Estate Director of Sogecap MAIN AREAS OF EXPERTISE AND EXPERIENCE Yann Briand holds a Master’s degree in Urban Planning and Management (Paris IV) and a degree in Corporate Real Estate (Paris I). Since 1999, he has worked at Arthur Andersen, General Electric, Catella and Société Générale in investments, expert advice and consulting. Since 2014, he has been Real Estate Director of Sogecap in charge of investment activities and asset management. MAIN TERMS OF OFFICE AND POSITIONS HELD OUTSIDE THE COMPANY IN THE LAST FIVE YEARS Offices and positions held at 31 December 2019: Listed companies • Director of Covivio Hôtels (France) • Director, Chairman of the Nominations and Remuneration Committee and member of the Investment Committee of Frey (France) Unlisted companies • Real Estate Director of Sogecap • Director of Oradea Vie (France) • Director of Sogelife (Luxembourg) • Director of Marocaine Vie (Morocco) • Director of BG 1 SA (Luxembourg) • Director of SPPICAV Oteli (France) • Director of the Strategic Investment Fund (France) • Director of SAS Orientex Holdings (France) • Chairman of SGI Holdings SIS (France) • Manager of real estate investment companies Sogevimmo, Pierre Patrimoine, Sogepierre, Château Mazeyres Pomerol, SGI Immo 1, SGI Healthcare, SGI Immo 3, SGA Immo 5, SGA 48-56 Desmoulins, SGI 1-5 Astorg, SGI 10-16 Ville l’Evèque, SGI Caen, SGI Villette, SGI Visitation, SGI Kosmo, 89 Grande Armée, Massy 30 avenue Carnot et 83-85 Grande Armée Offices and positions held and expired over the past five years: • Director of Sogecap Liban • Director of Carmila S.A.S 150 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 GOUVERNANCE AND CAPITAL Corporate governance Emmanuel CHABAS, representative of PREDICA MAIN POSITION IN THE COMPANY Director, member of the strategic and investment Committee MAIN POSITION OUTSIDE THE COMPANY Head of Real Estate Investment at Crédit Agricole Assurances MAIN AREAS OF EXPERTISE AND EXPERIENCE Emmanuel Chabas holds a degree from the ESSEC. He began his career in internal controls management and internal audit at BNP Paribas in 2001. He then joined BNP Paribas Cardif in 2006 as manager of real estate acquisitions. Since September 2015, he has been Manager of Real Estate Investments at Crédit Agricole Assurances. MAIN TERMS OF OFFICE AND POSITIONS HELD OUTSIDE THE COMPANY IN THE LAST FIVE YEARS Offices and positions held at 31 December 2019: SCI IMEFA 204, SCI IMEFA 205, SCI IMEFA 206, SCI IMEFA 207, SCI IMEFA 208, SCI IMEFA 209, SCI IMEFA 210, SCI IMEFA 211, Listed companies SCI IMEFA 212, SCI Dahlia, SCI Fédérale Pereire Victoire, SCI Federlog, SCI Feder Londres, SCI Fédérale Villiers, SCI Grenier • Member of the Supervisory Board of Covivio Hôtels (France) Vellefaux, SCI Medibureaux, SCI Medic Habitation, SCI Vicq d’Azir • Non-voting director on the Supervisory Board of Argan (France) Vellefaux, SCI Vicq Neuilly, SCI Federpierre, SCI Longchamp • Member of the Board of Directors and the Compensation and Montevideo, SCI Federpierre Michal, SCI Ferderpierre Nominating Committee of ICADE (France) Caulaincourt, SCI Ferderpierre Université, SCI Ferderpierre Capucines, SCI 1-3 Place Valhubert, SCI Village Victor Hugo Unlisted companies • Chairman of Resico • Head of Real Estate Investment at Crédit Agricole Assurances • Chairman of CA Residence Seniors • Member of the Supervisory Board and Shareholders’ Meeting of • Chairman of the Partnership Committee of Iris Holding France Covivio Immobilien • Chairman of the Partnership Committee and Member of the • Member of the Board of Directors of Central Board of Directors of SCI Holding Dahlia • Member of the Board of Directors and of the Audit Committee of • Chairman of SAS Holding Euromarseille AccordInvest Group • Manager of SCI DS Campus • Member of the Board of Directors of Camp Invest OPPCI • Manager of SCI New Vélizy • Member of the Board of Directors of Iris Invest OPPCI • Member of the Board of Directors of Alta Blue • Chairman & CEO, director and representative of Predica on the Board of Directors of Foncière Hypersud • Permanent representative of Predica of OPCI CAA Commerces 2 • Director of OPPCI B2 Hotel Invest • Permanent representative of Predica on the Board of Directors of OPCI Predica Bureaux • Member of the Supervisory Board and permanent representative of Predica on the Board of SCPI Unipierre Assurance • Chairman of SAS 59-61 Rue Lafayette • Director of Météore Italy SRL • Director and Chairman of the Board of Directors of OPCI Predica Commerces • Director of Météore Alcala • Director and Chairman of the Board of Directors of OPCI ECO • Manager of SCI IMEFA 1, SCI IMEFA 2, SCI IMEFA 3, SCI IMEFA 4, CAMPUS SCI IMEFA 5, SCI IMEFA 6, SCI IMEFA 8, SCI IMEFA 9, SCI IMEFA 10, SCI IMEFA 11, SCI IMEFA 12, SCI IMEFA 13, • Chairman of SAS 81-91 Rue Falguière SCI IMEFA 16, SCI IMEFA 17, SCI IMEFA 18, SCI IMEFA 20, • Director and Chairman of the Board of Directors of OPCI SCI IMEFA 22, SCI IMEFA 25, SCI IMEFA 32, SCI IMEFA 33, Messidor SCI IMEFA 34, SCI IMEFA 35, SCI IMEFA 36, SCI IMEFA 37, • Member of the Strategic Committee of Heart of La Défense SCI IMEFA 38, SCI IMEFA 39, SCI IMEFA 42, SCI IMEFA 43, • Representative of Predica on the Advisory Committee of the SCI IMEFA 44, SCI IMEFA 45, SCI IMEFA 47, SCI IMEFA 48, Ardian Fund 6 SCI IMEFA 49, SCI IMEFA 50, SCI IMEFA 51, SCI IMEFA 52, • Permanent representative on the Supervisory Board of SAS Preim SCI IMEFA 53, SCI IMEFA 54, SCI IMEFA 57, SCI IMEFA 58, Healthcare SCI IMEFA 60, SCI IMEFA 61, SCI IMEFA 62, SCI IMEFA 63, SCI IMEFA 64, SCI IMEFA 66, SCI IMEFA 67, SCI IMEFA 68, • Representative of Predica de SCI Frey Retail Villebon SCI IMEFA 69, SCI IMEFA 72, SCI IMEFA 73, SCI IMEFA 74, • Member of the Icade Santé Oversight Committee SCI IMEFA 76, SCI IMEFA 77, SCI IMEFA 78, SCI IMEFA 79, • Director of OPCI Lapillus 1 SCI IMEFA 80, SCI IMEFA 81, SCI IMEFA 82, SCI IMEFA 83, • Member of the Real Estate Committee of FFA SCI IMEFA 84, SCI IMEFA 85, SCI IMEFA 89, SCI IMEFA 91, SCI IMEFA 92, SCI MEFA 96, SCI IMEFA 100, SCI IMEFA 101, • Member of the Supervisory Board and of the Audit Committee of SCI IMEFA 102, SCI IMEFA 103, SCI IMEFA 104, SCI IMEFA 105, Patrimoine et Commerce SCI IMEFA 107, SCI IMEFA 108, SCI IMEFA 109, SCI IMEFA 110, • Director of OPCI ICADE HEALTHCARE EUROPE SCI IMEFA 112, SCI IMEFA 113, SCI IMEFA 115, SCI IMEFA 116, SCI IMEFA 117, SCI IMEFA 118, SCI IMEFA 120, SCI IMEFA 121, Offices and positions held and expired over the past five years: SCI IMEFA 122, SCI IMEFA 123, SCI IMEFA 126, SCI IMEFA 128, • Director of Foncière Développement Logements SCI IMEFA 129, SCI IMEFA 131, SCI IMEFA 132, SCI IMEFA 140, • Chairman of SAS Francimmo Hotel SCI IMEFA 148, SCI IMEFA 149, SCI IMEFA 150, SCI IMEFA 155, SCI Lyon Tony Garnier, SCI Villeurbanne La Soie Ilot H, • Manager of SCI Montparnasse Cotentin SCI IMEFA 158, SCI IMEFA 159, SCI IMEFA 161, SCI IMEFA 162, • Director of Météore Greece SA SCI IMEFA 163, SCI IMEFA 164, SCI IMEFA 165, SCI HDP Bureaux, • Director of Siltel SA SCI HDP Hotel, SCI HDP La Halle, SCI IMEFA 169, SCI IMEFA 170, • Member of the Strategic Committee of Foncière des Murs SCI IMEFA 171, SCI IMEFA 172, SCI IMEFA 173, SCI IMEFA 174, Management SCI IMEFA 175, SCI IMEFA 176, SCI IMEFA 177, SCI IMEFA 178, SCI IMEFA 179, SCI IMEFA 180, SCI IMEFA 181, SCI IMEFA 182, • Director of Carmila S.A.S SCI IMEFA 183, SCI IMEFA 184, SCI IMEFA 185, SCI IMEFA 186, SCI IMEFA 187, SCI IMEFA 188, SCI IMEFA 189, SCI IMEFA 190, SCI IMEFA 192, SCI IMEFA 193, SCI IMEFA 194, SCI IMEFA 195, SCI IMEFA 196, SCI SPIRICA BOISSEAU, SCI IMEFA 198, SCI IMEFA 199, SCI IMEFA 201, SCI IMEFA 202, SCI IMEFA 203, CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 151 GOUVERNANCE AND CAPITAL 6. Corporate governance Marie CHEVAL MAIN POSITION IN THE COMPANY Director and member of the strategic and investment Committee MAIN POSITION OUTSIDE THE COMPANY Executive Director of Hypermarchés Carrefour France MAIN AREAS OF EXPERTISE AND EXPERIENCE Marie Cheval is a graduate of the Paris Institute of Political Studies (Sciences Po) and a former student of the École nationale d’administration (National School of Business). Marie Cheval joined the French Inspectorate-General of Finance in 1999. Between 2002 and 2011 she held a number of positions within the La Poste Group: Director of Financial Services Strategy for La Poste and later for La Banque Postal; Marketing and Sales Director (2006-2009) then Director of Operations at La Banque Postale (2009-2011). In 2011, Marie Cheval joined the Société Générale Group as Director of Global Transactions and Payment Services. In 2013 she became Managing Director of Boursorama. Marie Cheval joined the Carrefour group on 2 October 2017 and was appointed Executive Director of Customers, Services and Digital Transformation. Since September 2018, she has been Executive Director of Hypermarchés France. MAIN TERMS OF OFFICE AND POSITIONS HELD OUTSIDE THE COMPANY IN THE LAST FIVE YEARS Offices and positions held at 31 December 2019: Listed companies • Director of Laurent Perrier (France) • Director of Groupe M6 (France) Unlisted companies • Executive Director of Hypermarchés Carrefour France • Director of Carrefour Banque • Director of Market Pay Offices and positions held and expired over the past five years: • Director of FNAC Darty (France) • Director of SRP Groupe (France) • Director of Boursorama • Director of Sogecap • Director of Visa Europe • Chairwoman of the Supervisory Board of OnVista Bank GmBH • Member of the Supervisory Board of OnVista (Holding) AG • Chairwoman of the Board of Directors of SelfBank • Chairwoman of the Board of Directors of Talos Holding • Chairwoman of Carrefour Omnical • Chairwoman of Digital Media Shopper 152 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 GOUVERNANCE AND CAPITAL Corporate governance Amal DEL MONACO, representative of AXA REIM FRANCE MAIN POSITION IN THE COMPANY Director and member of the Compensation and Nominating Committee MAIN POSITION OUTSIDE THE COMPANY Head of Sector Specialists at AXA IM – Real Assets MAIN AREAS OF EXPERTISE AND EXPERIENCE Amal Del Monaco is Head of Sector Specialists at AXA IM – Real Assets. She manages a centralised team of real estate specialists within the Asset Management & Development team. She is a member of AXA IM – Real Assets Global Leadership Group and Deputy CEO of AXA REIM France. Amal joined AXA IM – Real Assets in 1997 and has been a member of the fund management team since 2001. In 2007, she took charge of AXA France fund management before becoming Co-Head of AXA European Mandates, where she was responsible for managed mandates on behalf of the companies within the AXA Group until December 2017. Amal del Monaco hands-on over 20 years’ experience in the real estate sector. A graduate of the University of Granada in 1996, she earned an MBA from the Institut Supérieur de Gestion in 1998. She is also a member of the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors. MAIN TERMS OF OFFICE AND POSITIONS HELD OUTSIDE THE COMPANY IN THE LAST FIVE YEARS Offices and positions held at 31 December 2019: Listed companies None. Unlisted companies • Head of Sector Specialists at AXA IM – Real Assets • Deputy Chief Executive Officer of AXA REIM France (SA) • Permanent representative of Axa France Vie in 1001 Vies Habitat (formerly Logement Français) (SA with Supervisory and Management Boards) • Director of Harvitour Limited • Director of Pan European Value Added Venture General Partner II SA Offices and positions held and expired over the past five years: • Director of Carmila SAS • Director of Baylog Holding Limited (UK) • Director of Asgard Real Estate Private Equity Sarl (SARL Lux) • Director of Dagenham BV (Netherlands) Chairman of the Board of Directors of Vendôme Logistique • Director of Dagenham 2 BV (Netherlands) (SPPICAV – SA) • Director of Élysées Neuf BV (Netherlands) • Chairman of the Board of Directors of Vendôme Immobilier • Director of Paktkohlestahlden BV (Netherlands) Commercial (SPPICAV – SA) • Director of Hamba BV (Netherlands) • Chairman of the Board of Directors of Agipopci (SPPICAV – SA) • Director of Lama RE 1 BV (Netherlands) • Member of the Supervisory Board of Axa Selectiv’Immoservice (SPPICAV – SAS) • Director of Lama RE 2 BV (Netherlands) • Director of AXA Real Estate Investment Managers Belgium • Director of Lama RE 3 BV (Netherlands) • Director of Marsheg 1 BV (Netherlands) • Director of Lama RE 4 BV (Netherlands) • Director of Lama RE 5 BV (Netherlands) 6 • Director of Etten Leur Logistics Investments BV Sàrl (Netherlands) • Director of Frasia Property (GP) Limited (UK) • Director of Coindupres BV (Netherlands) • Director of Frasia Holdings SA (Luxembourg) • Director of Laflou BV (Netherlands) • Director of Onlyou SL (Spain) • Director of Battlebelotte BV (Netherlands) • Director of Lindisfarne SL (Spain) • Director of Cordelière 1 BV (Netherlands) • Director of Olaen SL (Spain) • Director of Cordelière 2 BV (Netherlands) • Director of Riglos SL (Spain) • Director of Cordelière 3 BV (Netherlands) • Director of Zumaran SL (Spain) • Director of Tour du Sommeil BV (Netherlands) • Director of Ouestia Holding SA (Luxembourg) • Director of SIR OP BV (Netherlands) • Director of Ouestia Property GP Limited (UK) • Director of Lao BV (Netherlands) • Chairman of the Board of Directors of Oteli France • Director of 22 Bishopsgate B.V. (Netherlands) (SPPICAV – SA) • Director of Top 22 Bishopsgate B.V. (Netherlands) • Director of Grace Hotel Investment Sàrl (Luxembourg) • Director of 22 Bishopsgate General Partner Limited (UK) CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 153 GOUVERNANCE AND CAPITAL 6. Corporate governance Séverine FARJON MAIN POSITION IN THE COMPANY Director and member of the compensation and nominating Committee Chairwoman of the CSR Committee since April 2, 2020 MAIN POSITION OUTSIDE THE COMPANY Chief Executive Officer of RAISE REIM MAIN AREAS OF EXPERTISE AND EXPERIENCE Séverine Farjon, a graduate of the Institut d’Études Politiques in Paris and SFAF (Société Française d’Analyse Financière), began her career in the financial analysis sector at Fortis Securities before joining the Natixis Group, where she participated in several capital transactions for listed property companies. From 2007 to 2009, she took on the responsibility of Orco’s Investor Relations. In 2011, she joined Cofitem-Cofimur, which became, in 2013, Foncière de Paris, where she handled financial transactions and shareholder relations. Since January 2017, she has been involved in the creation of RAISE REIM, a management company specialising in the management of OPCI. She has also served as Chairwoman of Carré d’As since 2016. MAIN TERMS OF OFFICE AND POSITIONS HELD OUTSIDE THE COMPANY IN THE LAST FIVE YEARS Offices and positions held at 31 December 2019: Listed companies None. Unlisted companies • Chief Executive Officer of RAISE REIM • Chairwoman of Carré d’AS Offices and positions held and expired over the past five years: None. Maria GARRIDO MAIN POSITION IN THE COMPANY Director and member of the audit Committee Member of the CSR Committee since April 2, 2020 MAIN POSITION OUTSIDE THE COMPANY Senior Vice President Vivendi Marketing at the Vivendi Group MAIN AREAS OF EXPERTISE AND EXPERIENCE Maria Garrido is the Chief lnsights Officer of the Havas Group leading a team of over 300 people in some forty countries across content and innovation. She manages consumer, brand and marketing studies, including Havas' proprietary Meaningful Brands® study. Maria was also recently appointed Senior Vice PresidentBrand Marketing for Vivendi, where she fosters synergies between the group's business units and is expanding the group’s presence in the content marketing industry. Until recently, she also led the Innovation practice across the Havas Group, focusing on the exploration of Data Science, Future ecosystems and start-up partnerships, allowing for a more effective use of innovation expertise internally as well as providing value-added services that drive more meaningful impact on clients’ businesses. Maria joined Havas in 2014 after 18 years of experience in North America, Latin America and Europe. She has held both operational and strategic marketing roles at various FMCG blue chips, such as Colgate Palmolive Co & Mondelez. Maria has spoken and many media and client events, most recently at Cartagena Inspira, Mumbrella Australia, Cannes Lions, South Summit, CubeX Mumbai and IBC 2018. She has also been a Media Jury member for Cristal Media Festival, Dubai Lynx, and Cannes Lions Festival. MAIN TERMS OF OFFICE AND POSITIONS HELD OUTSIDE THE COMPANY IN THE LAST FIVE YEARS Offices and positions held at 31 December 2019: Listed companies None. Unlisted companies • Senior Vice President Vivendi Marketing at the Vivendi Group • Chief Insight Officer at Havas Group Offices and positions held and expired over the past five years: • Director of International Players from 2012 to 2015 154 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 GOUVERNANCE AND CAPITAL Corporate governance Olivier LECOMTE MAIN POSITION IN THE COMPANY Lead Independent Director, Chairman of the audit Committee and member of the compensation and nominating Committee MAIN AREAS OF EXPERTISE AND EXPERIENCE Olivier Lecomte graduated from the École centrale Paris. He began his career as an investment banker in London and Paris, at Société Générale then Demachy, Worms & Cie. He went on to join the Unibail group where, from 1994 to 2002, he successively held the positions of Director of Development, Chair of Espace Expansion then Deputy CEO of the Group with responsibility for the Shopping Centres and Conventions and Exhibitions divisions. From 2010 to 2014, he presided over the Laboratoire Paris-Région Innovation (Paris Lab). He was also a director of the association Paris & Co. He is joint founder of a biotech start-up, Theravectys (a spin-off of the Pasteur Institute), Director of S.A. Ingénieurs de l’École Centrale des Arts et Manufactures, member of the Supervisory Committee and the Unit overseeing serious adverse reactions at the Robert-Debré Hospital, member of the Steering Committee of the integrated cancer research site (SIRIC) at the Institut Gustave Roussy, and a member of the Digital Council of the CEO for Assistance Publique – Hôpitaux de Paris, and, since 2003, a professor at l’École centrale Paris. MAIN TERMS OF OFFICE AND POSITIONS HELD OUTSIDE THE COMPANY IN THE LAST FIVE YEARS Offices and positions held at 31 December 2019: Listed companies None. Unlisted companies • Director of S.A. Ingénieurs de l’Ecole Centrale des Arts et Manufactures • Professor at l’École centrale de Paris • Member of the Supervisory Committee and of the Unit overseeing serious adverse reactions at the Robert-Debré Hospital • Member of the Steering Committee of SIRIC, SOCRATE/ Institut Gustave Roussy • Member of the AP-HP Digital Committee • Director of the association Au chœur de la ville, la clé des champs Offices and positions held and expired over the past five years: • Director of the Paris & Co association • Director of Carmila S.A.S • Chairman of Le Laboratoire Paris Region Innovation (Paris Lab) Laurent LUCCIONI MAIN POSITION IN THE COMPANY Director 6 MAIN POSITION OUTSIDE THE COMPANY Senior Consultant for Pimco Europe Ltd MAIN AREAS OF EXPERTISE AND EXPERIENCE Laurent Luccioni is a senior advisor and consultant for PIMCO Europe. Before 2020, he was managing director and portfolio manager at the PIMCO office in London where he led the European commercial real estate team. Before joining PIMCO in 2013, he was the European Chairman and CEO of MGPA, the real estate and private equity consulting arm of Macquarie. In addition, he has worked with Cherokee Investment Partners. He has 19 years of experience in the field of investing and financial services and holds an MBA from the Kellogg School of Management of Northwestern University and a PhD in civil and environmental engineering from the University of California Berkeley. MAIN TERMS OF OFFICE AND POSITIONS HELD OUTSIDE THE COMPANY IN THE LAST FIVE YEARS Offices and positions held at 31 December 2019: Listed companies • Director of Lar Espana Real Estate Socimi SA (listed company – Spain) Unlisted companies • Senior Consultant for PIMCO Europe Ltd Offices and positions held and expired over the past five years: • Member of the Supervisory Board of Echo Investment SA (Poland) • Director of Carmila S.A.S • Managing Director of PIMCO Europe Ltd CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 155 GOUVERNANCE AND CAPITAL 6. Corporate governance Jérôme NANTY MAIN POSITION IN THE COMPANY Director, member of the compensation and nominating Committee MAIN POSITION OUTSIDE THE COMPANY Executive Director of Carrefour Group and France Human Resources MAIN AREAS OF EXPERTISE AND EXPERIENCE Jérôme Nanty Is a graduate of the Institut d’études politiques de Paris and holds a master’s degree in public law. He began his career in 1986 at Société Générale, before joining the capital markets division at Crédit Lyonnais in 1989, first as a bond markets operator and subsequently as a manager of a portfolio of bond issuers. In 1998, he joined the bank’s Human Resources department as manager of employment policy and later labour relations. From 2001 to 2004, he served as Director of Labour and Social Relations for the Crédit Lyonnais group. From 2003 onwards, he held the same position at the Crédit Agricole group. As such, he was in charge of the labour aspect of the merger of Crédit Lyonnais with Crédit Agricole. He was appointed as Director of Human Resources at LCL in 2005 and at the Caisse des Dépôts group in 2008. From 2013 to 2016, he was General Secretary of the Transdev group. Since July 2016, he has served as General Secretary and Director of Human Resources of the Air France-KLM group. On 2 October 2017, Jérôme Nanty joined the Carrefour group as Executive Director for Human Resources for the Group and France. He will bring to Carmila’s Board of Directors his expertise in Human Resources, and his knowledge of the Carrefour Group’s social policy. MAIN TERMS OF OFFICE AND POSITIONS HELD OUTSIDE THE COMPANY IN THE LAST FIVE YEARS Offices and positions held at 31 December 2019: Listed companies • Director and member of the Human Resources Committee and Strategic Committee of Atacadão (Brazil) Unlisted companies • Member of the Supervisory Board of RATP DeV (France) • Chairman of the Board of Directors of APGIS (France) • Chairman of the Board of Directors of Carrefour Property Italia (Italy) • Director of Carrefour Property España (Spain) • Chairman of CRFP 8 (France) Offices and positions held and expired over the past five years: • Chairman of the Supervisory Board of SNCM (end of 2016) Claire NOËL DU PAYRAT MAIN POSITION IN THE COMPANY Director and member of the audit Committee MAIN POSITION OUTSIDE THE COMPANY Director of Financial Control, Carrefour Group MAIN AREAS OF EXPERTISE AND EXPERIENCE Claire Noël du Payrat is a graduate of HEC. She began her career in 1993 as an Internal Auditor for the Savencia Group, before joining the Nestlé group in 1996 as Product Management Controller then Administrative and Financial Manager. From 2006 to 2008, she served as Management and Financial Control Director at Sagem Mobiles. She went on to join Veolia Environmental Services then Veolia Environnement where she became Financial Director of Environmental Services then Director of Group Management Control. Her term as a Director of Veolia Australia ended in April 2018. Since 2018, she has headed Carrefour Group’s financial control division. MAIN TERMS OF OFFICE AND POSITIONS HELD OUTSIDE THE COMPANY IN THE LAST FIVE YEARS Offices and positions held at 31 December 2019: Listed companies • Director of Financial Control, Carrefour Group (France) • Director and member of the Audit Committee of Atacadão (Brazil) Unlisted companies None. Offices and positions held and expired over the past five years: • Director of Veolia Australia • Chairwoman of the association “Vivons solidaire” 156 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 GOUVERNANCE AND CAPITAL Corporate governance Nadra MOUSSALEM MAIN POSITION IN THE COMPANY Director, member of the strategic and investment Committee MAIN POSITION OUTSIDE THE COMPANY Chief Executive Officer Europe at Colony Capital MAIN AREAS OF EXPERTISE AND EXPERIENCE Nadra Moussalem is a graduate of the École Centrale de Lyon with a Master in Information and Information Technology. Nadra Moussalem, Europe CEO of Colony NorthStar, is responsible for the identification, valuation, execution and monitoring of the Fund’s European investments. Prior to joining Colony NorthStar in 2000, he worked in the Financial Engineering Department of AXA Conseil in Paris. MAIN TERMS OF OFFICE AND POSITIONS HELD OUTSIDE THE COMPANY IN THE LAST FIVE YEARS Offices and positions held at 31 December 2019: Listed companies None. Unlisted companies • Chairman of Colony Capital SAS • Manager of Villeneuve Sénart SNC • Chairman of the board of directors of AccorInvest Group SA • Manager of Marbeau CPI • Representative of Colony Capital SAS, itself Chairman of • Manager of Villa 5 CPI EarlyBirdSAS • Manager of Pythagore Invest • Chairman of Colfilm SAS • Manager of Colin SNC • Chief Executive Officer of ColSpa SAS and Representative of • Manager of Latoison Duval SNC Colony Capital SAS, itself chairman of ColSpa SAS • Manager of Hayet SNC • Manager at ColEvreux SCI • Manager of IDF Industries SNC • Manager at Colnîmes SARL • Manager of W9/Saint Quentin • Manager at ColNozay EURL • Manager of Sesame Investissements • Manager at Colnozay SCI • Manager of Binet SNC • Representative of Colony Capital on the Executive Management • Manager of Lint SNC Board of ColAubergenville SCI • Manager of Lafayette 06 • Representative of Colony Capital SAS, itself Chairman of CFI NNN France Portfolio SAS • Manager of Champs CPI • Permanent representative of Colony Capital SAS as Chairman of • Manager of IDF Industries Marne SNC Colquattro French Portfolio SAS • Manager of Herblay CPI • Representative of Colony Capital SAS on the Executive • Sole Director of Global Confector SLU (Spain) Management Board of ColEden SCI • Sole Director of Colprincesa Management SL (Spain) • Representative of Colony Capital SAS as Chairman of • Sole Director of CPI Developments Spain 2009 SLU (Spain) Colbravo SAS • Chairman of Continental Property Investments SAS, itself • Representative of Colony Capital SAS, itself Chairman of manager of: ColMdB SAS ▪ SCI 18 rue Marbeau • Representative of Colony Capital SAS, itself manager of ▪ AIX SPI ColPower SCI SOCIÉTÉ CIVILE IMMOBILIÈRE COLOMBUS CPI 6 ▪ • Representative of Colony Capital SAS, itself Chairman of ColPowerSister SAS ▪ Godard CPI • Representative of Colony Capital SAS, itself Chairman of ▪ ILLKIRCH CPI ColPowerSister Holding SAS ▪ Investimmo CPI • Representative of Colony Capital SAS, itself Chairman of ▪ Malakoff Investissements ColPColPowerMother SAS ▪ OSIRIS INVEST • Executive of Colyzeo Investment Management (UK) ▪ Pantin CPI • Executive of Colyzeo Investment Advisors Limited (UK) ▪ PLAINE TERSUD • Chairman of Continental Property Investments SAS ▪ Provence CPI • Manager of Financière et Foncière Alma Messine ▪ SPACE CPI • Manager of Reoc Issy ▪ SOCIÉTÉ CIVILE IMMOBILIÈRE SPOK CPI • Manager of Adductor France SARL ▪ TERRA VEDA CPI • Manager of Adductor International SARL ▪ VICTORIA CPI • Manager of Add Holding ▪ VICTORIA CPI 2 • Manager of Rivesaltes Roissy SNC ▪ VILLEPINTE CPI • Manager of IDF Industries SARL ▪ Chairman of Col Invest Italy (Italy) • Manager of Adductor CPI Arenas ▪ Permanent representative of Colony Capital SAS, Italian • Chairman of Property Holding subsidiary CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 157 GOUVERNANCE AND CAPITAL 6. Corporate governance Offices and positions held and expired over the past five years: • Chairman and CEO of Edenred (SA) (France) • Chairman of DC 115 SAS • Director of Distribuidora Internacional de Alimentacion (D.I.A.) • Chairman of Holding Sports & Évènements (Spain) • Chairman of ColIllkirch France • Director of ACCOR (SA) (France) • Representative of Colony Capital SAS, itself Chairman of • Director of Carrefour (SA) (France) ColFields SAS • Director of Edenred (France) • Representative of Colony Capital on the Executive Management • Manager of Data Genpar Sarl (Luxembourg) Board of CFI NNN PIAZZA SCI • Chairman of Colkart SAS • Sole Director of Global Graeca SLU • Permanent representative of Colony NorthStar SAS as Chairman • Manager of FONCIÈRE PHOENIX MAC DONALD of Colkart Investment Europe • Director of Carmila SAS • Chairman of Data IV Services – Held within Data 4 Group companies as corporate representative • Chairman of Data IV France – held within Data 4 Group companies as corporate representative Nathalie ROBIN, representative of CARDIF ASSURANCE VIE MAIN POSITION IN THE COMPANY Director and Chairwoman of the strategic and investment Committee Member of the CSR Committee since April 2, 2020 MAIN POSITION OUTSIDE THE COMPANY Real Estate Director of BNP Paribas Cardif MAIN AREAS OF EXPERTISE AND EXPERIENCE Nathalie Robin holds a DESS in real estate law (Paris II). From 1989 to 2001, she was the Real Estate Director at Natio Vie (Groupe BNP). Since 2001, she has been a Real Estate Director of BNP Paribas Cardif. MAIN TERMS OF OFFICE AND POSITIONS HELD OUTSIDE THE COMPANY IN THE LAST FIVE YEARS Offices and positions held at 31 December 2019: Listed companies • Member of the Supervisory Board and member of the Audit Committee of Covivio Hôtels (France) • Director, member of the Investment Board and of the Audit Committee of Frey (France) Unlisted companies • Real Estate Director of BNP Paribas Cardif • Member of the Supervisory Board of Covivio Immobilien • Member of the Supervisory Board of Primonial Capimmo • Member of the Supervisory Board of BNP Paribas REIM France • Member of the Supervisory Board of Opéra Rendement • Member of the Supervisory Board of France Investipierre • Member of the Supervisory Board of Dauchez • Director of AEW Immocommercial • Member of the Supervisory Board at CFH • Member of the Supervisory Board at Placement Ciloger 3 • Member of the Supervisory Board at FLI • Member of the Icade Santé Oversight Committee • Director of BNP Paribas Diversipierre • Member of the Supervisory Board at Preim Healthcare • Member of the Supervisory Board at Accès Valeur Pierre • Member of the Supervisory Board of Hémisphère • Member of the Supervisory Board of Plein Air Property Fund • Member of the Supervisory Board of PWH • Director of Powerhouse Habitat • Member of the Supervisory Board of Certivia 2 • On the Board of Directors of Icade Healthcare Europe Offices and positions held and expired over the past five years: • Member of the Investment Committee of Covivio Hotels (ex Foncière des Murs) (France) • Director of Carmila SAS • Director, member of the Investment Committee and of the Compensation Committee of Foncière Développement Logements (France) • Member of the Strategic Committee of Foncière des Murs Management • Non-voting director at BNP Paribas REPM France 158 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 GOUVERNANCE AND CAPITAL Corporate governance Laurent VALLÉE MAIN POSITION IN THE COMPANY Director, member of the strategic and investment Committee and of the compensation and nominating Committee Member of the CSR Committee since April 2, 2020 MAIN POSITION OUTSIDE THE COMPANY Secretary General of Carrefour MAIN AREAS OF EXPERTISE AND EXPERIENCE Laurent Vallée is a graduate of the ESSEC business school and of the Institute of Political Studies and was a former student at the École nationale d’administration (National School of Administration). He began his career in the French Council of State where he worked as Government Commissioner and was a Constitutional Adviser to the Secretary General of State. Between 2008 and 2010, he worked as a lawyer at Clifford Chance prior to his appointment, in April 2010, as Director of Civil Affairs for the French Ministry of Justice. Following a period working as Secretary General of the Canal+ Group between 2013 and 2015, from March 2015 he was Secretary General of the Constitutional Council. On 30 August 2017, he joined the Carrefour group as its Secretary General. He is in charge of the Legal Department, the Sustainable Development Department, the Public Affairs Department, the Audit Department and the Carrefour Foundation. MAIN TERMS OF OFFICE AND POSITIONS HELD OUTSIDE THE COMPANY IN THE LAST FIVE YEARS Offices and positions held at 31 December 2019: Listed companies • General Secretary of Carrefour (France) Unlisted companies • Permanent representative of Société d’Exploitation Amidis & Cie • Director of SA Mestdagh (Belgium) • Director of Carrefour SA Carrefour Sabanci ticaret merkezi a.ş (Turkey) • Delegate General of the Carrefour Foundation • Director of Carrefour China Fondation for food safety (HK) • Permanent representative of Carrefour on the Board of Directors of the Foundation Un Avenir Ensemble (France). Offices and positions held and expired over the past five years: None. 6 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 159 GOUVERNANCE AND CAPITAL 6. Corporate governance 6.1.2.2 Ethical rules applicable to Directors • not having been a Statutory Auditor of the company within the and Executive Management last five years; • not being a director of the Company for more than twelve years; Stock Market Ethics and Insider Trading At its meeting on 2 April 2020, the Board of Directors adopted a • not having received, as a non-executive corporate officer, Stock Market Ethics Code to ensure compliance with European variable compensation in cash or shares or any compensation Regulation n°596/2014 on market abuse which entered into force on related to the Company's performance; 3 July 2016 and introduces measures applicable to listed companies • not representing a significant shareholder in the Company or its and their executive corporate officers in respect of holding parent company. Directors representing significant shareholders privileged information. in the Company or its parent company may be considered to be As members of the Company's Board of Directors or any of its independent provided they do not have a controlling interest in Committees, or owing to their position within any of the Company's the Company. However, beyond a threshold of 10% of the share corporate shareholders, Directors must keep strictly confidential any capital or voting rights, based on a report by the Compensation sensitive and confidential information as well as any information and Nominating Committee, the Board systematically questions qualified as privileged under the Regulation. They are also required the independent status, taking into account the composition of to refrain from performing or attempting to perform any the Company's share capital and the existence of any potential transactions relating to Company shares during “closed periods”, conflicts of interest. particularly those defined each year in relation to the dates on which Analysis of the significance of the history of the contractual annual, half-yearly and quarterly financial reports are published. relationship between the Carmila Group and the Group in which a director of the Company has a position as director or executive role, Assessment of independence criteria for Directors the application of regular market conditions in the contractual Under the Internal Regulations of the Board of Directors, it is its relationship, the absence of economic dependency or exclusivity, responsibility to carry out an annual review of the circumstances of the proportion of revenues generated by the business relationship each of its Directors in terms of their independence, based on the between the Group concerned and the Carmila Group, which must recommendations of the Compensation and Nominating Committee. be insubstantial. According to the AFEP-MEDEF Code, a director is independent Under the Internal Regulations of the Board of Directors, each when he or she has no relationship of any kind whatsoever with the director expresses himself freely and undertakes, in all Company, its group or its management that could compromise his/ circumstances, to keep an independent stance in his analyses, her exercise of independent judgement. Thus, the term judgement, decision-making and actions and to reject any pressure, “Independent Director” is understood to mean not only someone direct or indirect, that may be brought to bear on him by others, who is a non-executive director, namely someone who does not specific shareholder groups, creditors, suppliers or, more generally, hold any management role in the Company or its group, but also by any third party. He undertakes not to seek out or accept from the someone who has no particular links of interest with the Company Company, or from companies associated with it, either directly or or its group (a significant shareholder, employee, etc.). indirectly, any benefits that may be construed as compromising his independence. To classify a director as independent, the Board of Directors referred to the criteria set out by the AFEP-MEDEF Code, On the recommendation of the Compensation and Nominating specifically: Committee, on 13 February 2020 the Board of Directors carried out an annual review of directors’ status as independent. • not being or having been, in the last five years: With respect to the criteria defined under the AFEP-MEDEF Code, it • an employee or executive corporate officer of the Company, considered that Nathalie Robin (permanent representative of Cardif • an employee, executive corporate officer or director of a Assurance Vie), Yann Briand (permanent representative of company that is consolidated by the Company, Sogecap), Emmanuel Chabas (permanent representative of Predica), Amal Del Monaco (permanent representative of AXA REIM France) • an employee, executive corporate officer or director of the any legal entities of which they are permanent representatives, as parent company of the Company or of a company well as Séverine Farjon, Maria Garrido, Olivier Lecomte, Nadra consolidated by the latter; Moussalem and Laurent Luccion, are independent members. • not being an executive corporate officer of a company in which Having heard the opinion of Carmila’s Compensation and the Company holds, directly or indirectly, a Directorship or in Nominating Committee, the Board of Directors considered that the which an employee, who is designated as a director or an fact that directors represent certain shareholders (i.e. AXA REIM executive corporate officer of the Company (either currently or in France, Cardif Assurance Vie, Predica and Sogecap, directly or the last five years), holds a Directorship; through other entities of their group) does not affect their independence. In particular, in this respect the Board noted the lack • not being a client, supplier, investment banker, corporate banker of control of the Company by them, the status of institutional or adviser: investor of these shareholders, the absence of a significant business • of material importance to the Company or its group, relationship and the absence of a potential conflict of interest. • or for which the Company or its group represents a material The Company's Board of Directors thus has nine (9) members out of portion of business; a total of fourteen (14) who qualify as independent under the • not having any close family connection with a corporate officer; criteria adopted by the Company, i.e. 64.28%, in line with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code. 160 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 GOUVERNANCE AND CAPITAL Corporate governance Details concerning the situation of each of the Company’s directors in terms of the independence criteria of the AFEP-MEDEF Code, are set forth below. AXA REIM France Cardif Assurance Vie Alexandre de Palmas Claire Noël Du Payrat Predica (rep. by Nadra Moussalem Sogecap (rep. by Marie Cheval (rep. by Amal Del Monaco) Séverine Farjon Maria Garrido Olivier Lecomte Laurent Luccioni Jérôme Nanty (rep. by Nathalie Robin) Laurent Vallée Yann Briand) Emmanuel Chabas) Criteria 1: A salaried employee and/ or corporate officer during the last five ✗ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ financial years Criteria 2: Cross-directorships √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ Criteria 3: Significant business √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ relationship Criteria 4: Family ties √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ Criteria 5: Statutory Auditors √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ Criteria 6: Duration of term of office √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ is greater than 12 years Criteria 7: Non-Executive √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ Corporate Officer status Criteria 8: Significant shareholder status ✗ √ √ ✗ √ √ √ √ √ ✗ ✗ √ √ ✗ Conflicts of interest at the level of the As of the date of this document, there are no restrictions accepted administrative and Executive Management bodies by the Company’s Board of Directors or by its Executive Management concerning the sale of their interest in the Company’s In accordance with the Company's internal regulations, a conflict of share capital, with the exception of the rules related to the interests exists where a Director or member of his or her family prevention of insider trading and the Company’s Internal could derive personal benefit from the Company's dealings, or could Regulations which impose an obligation on the executive corporate have a relationship or connection of any kind with the Company, its officer to hold shares until the end of their term of office. subsidiaries or its management which might compromise his or her ability to exercise their judgment freely as a Director. The assessment of whether or not a conflict of interest exists also takes Statement concerning the members of the Board into account the personal and financial interests of the permanent of Directors and of Executive Management representative of a legal entity that is a Director or a physical person To the Company’s knowledge, as of the date of this Universal who is a Director representing a legal entity in relation to those of Registration Document, there exist no family ties between members the Company. of the Board of Directors and the Company’s Executive To the Company’s knowledge, and except for those relationships Management. described in Section 5.1.5.3 “Principal agreements with Carrefour To the Company’s knowledge, during the last five years: (i) none of group entities” in this document, at the date of this Universal the aforementioned persons has been convicted of or been found Registration Document, there is no potential conflict of interest liable of fraud, (ii) none of the aforementioned persons has been between the duties of the Company, the members of the Board of associated with a bankruptcy, receivership or judicial liquidation, Directors, the Company’s Executive Management and their private 6 (iii) none of the aforementioned persons has been found guilty of a interests. Under the Internal Regulations, Directors are obliged to criminal offence or been subject to official public sanction by inform the Board of Directors, and in particular the Lead statutory or regulatory authorities or by a professional association Independent Director, of any conflict of interest situation with the and (iv) none of the aforementioned persons has been barred by a Company or its subsidiaries, and must abstain from voting on any court from acting as a member of an administrative, management or corresponding deliberations. supervisory body of a company issuing securities or from To the Company’s knowledge, there are no shareholders’ pact or participating in the management or conduct of the affairs of a agreement by which any member of the Board of Directors or of the company issuing securities. Company’s executive management has been appointed as a member of the Board of Directors or of executive management. CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 161 GOUVERNANCE AND CAPITAL 6. Corporate governance 6.1.2.3 Functioning of the Board of Directors (3) Prior authorisations by the Board of Directors Pursuant to the Board’s Internal Regulations and without prejudice to the applicable laws and regulations, none of the following Conditions for the preparation and organisation decisions (or the principal elements of such decisions) may be of the Board’s work validly taken without prior approval by the Board through a simple The operating rules of the corporate governance bodies are majority of the votes of the directors present or represented at the governed by the relevant legal provisions, the Company’s By-laws relevant meeting: and the Internal Regulations established by the Board of Directors. (i) any transaction or agreement likely to affect the business In particular, the Internal Regulations specify the procedures for strategy of the Company and its Subsidiaries, the scope of meetings of the Board of Directors, the powers of the Board of their activity or their tax treatment; Directors supplemental to the legal and statutory provisions (ii) (any transaction that affects the share capital of the Company applicable to the Company and, additionally, they cover the creation or of one of its Subsidiaries, immediately or in the future, (such of the roles and assignments of the various Committees of the as a merger, spin-off, partial contribution of assets, capital Board of Directors. increase, capital reduction, issue of securities giving access to the share capital of the Company or one of its Subsidiaries, The Internal Regulations of the Board of Directors etc.), unless it concerns an intra-Group transaction; The description below reflects the main provisions of the Internal (iii) the approval of the annual budget of the Company and its Regulations, as amended by the Board of Directors at its meeting of Subsidiaries (including the income statement, balance sheet, 2 April 2020. annual financing plan and annual investment plan (CAPEX); (iv) any transaction or commitment with a value greater than (1) Meetings of the Board of Directors by video-conference €15 million, in particular: or other means of telecommunication • any proposed transfer (in the form of a contribution, With the exception of meetings called to take certain decisions exchange, acquisition or sale) of real estate or tangible where such methods are prohibited under the French Commercial assets or rights, debt claims, leasehold rights or intangible Code, Board meetings may be held by video-conference and/or by assets by the Company or one of its Subsidiaries (the €15 million threshold calculated on the basis of asset value conference call. However, the selected method must enable the excluding transfer taxes and duties), identification of the participating directors and must ensure their effective participation in the meeting. In particular, the method • any proposed total or partial transfer (in the form of a selected must, at a minimum, permit the transmission of the voices subscription, contribution, exchange, acquisition or sale) of of the participants and satisfy technical standards allowing for the securities or intangible assets of any group or company, in law or in fact, by the Company or one of its Subsidiaries, continuous, real-time transmission of deliberations among participants. Each participant must be able to take part and hear • any proposed investment (CAPEX) on the part of the what is said. Company and/or the Subsidiaries relating to its or their real estate assets (including expansion and renovation plans), Directors participating in Board meetings by video-conference or by and conference call shall be deemed present for the purposes of • any proposed transaction and any settlement with respect calculating the quorum and any required majority. to the Company or one of its Subsidiaries in connection with In accordance with Law n° 2019-486 of 22 May 2019 on the growth litigation or other disputes. and transformation of businesses, the so-called “Pacte“ law, the The prior authorisation mentioned in this paragraph (iv) does not Board of Directors wishes to submit a motion to the Shareholders’ apply to intra-Group transactions; Meeting to amend the Company bylaws to enable the decisions referred to under article L. 225-37 of the French Commercial Code (i) any proposal involving the granting by the Company or one of its Subsidiaries of a loan, cash advance or advance on a to be the subject of a written consultation of Directors. The Internal current account to a person or entity that is not a Subsidiary Regulations of the Board of Directors will be amended to reflect this. exceeding a total combined annual threshold for the Company and its Subsidiaries of €5 million for all loans and advances (2) Board of Directors' Duties granted; The Board exercises the powers invested in it under law. The Board (ii) the incurrence of all financial debt by the Company and its approves the Company's operational strategic priorities and ensures Subsidiaries, including by issuing debt securities (except for they are implemented. It discusses and decide upon major intra-group advances granted by the Company to the transactions. Members of the Board of Directors are notified of Subsidiaries), any refinancing or any extension, renewal or market trends, the competitive environment and the Company's modification of existing financial indebtedness, in each case, main challenges including in the area of social and environmental for an amount greater than or equal to €200 million per responsibility. Subject to the powers expressly attributed to the transaction, with the Chief Executive Officer reporting Shareholders’ Meetings and within the scope of the Group’s transactions below this threshold to the Board; corporate purpose, it handles all matters relating to the proper (iii) the granting of guarantees, pledges, undertakings, security functioning of the Company and settles all matters concerning it interests or liens by the Company or its Subsidiaries (i) to third through its deliberations. The Board carries out the controls and parties for an annual amount greater than or equal to checks it deems appropriate. €500,000 per undertaking and in excess of a total combined annual amount of €5 million for the Company and its The Board sets any limitations on the powers of the Chairman and Subsidiaries, and (ii) to Subsidiaries for an annual amount Chief Executive Officer and those of the deputy CEOs. greater than or equal to €10 million per undertaking and in excess of a total combined annual amount of €100 million for the Company and its Subsidiaries; (iv) the creation or substantial modification of the general framework and financing conditions for services relating to lease management, asset management, shopping centre management, marketing or specialty leasing of real estate assets held by the Company and its Subsidiaries in cases where such activities are part of an agreement with a Reference Shareholder (defined as any entity having a significant direct or indirect influence on the Company) and/or any Affiliate of such Reference Shareholder and the early termination or the renewal of such agreements (the conclusion or amendment of these agreements need not be submitted to the Board, provided that they comply with the general framework and financial conditions approved by the Board, such that they constitute contracts entered into under the general framework previously approved by the Board). The directors of the Reference Shareholder (other than the Chairman) will not vote on these decisions; and 162 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 GOUVERNANCE AND CAPITAL Corporate governance (v) the conclusion, significant amendment, early termination or In the 2019 financial year, the Lead Independent Director: renewal of any agreement mentioned below between the Company and/or one of its Subsidiaries and a Reference • was the key interlocutor for independent Directors owing to his Shareholder and/or any Affiliate of such Reference attendance at meetings of the Board, Audit Committee and Shareholder: Compensation and Nominating Committee – particularly in relation to the succession of Mr Jacques Ehrmann, Chairman and a. the Renovation and Development Agreement, CEO; b. any agreement relating to the provision of administrative or accounting services for an amount, per contract, exceeding • implemented measures intended to identify and analyse possible the sum of €200,000, excluding tax, per year, conflicts of interest; c. any agreement relating to the grant of loans, advances, guarantees, pledges, undertakings, security interests or liens • also took steps to assist the Chairman in ensuring the proper in favour of a Reference Shareholder and/or any Affiliate of functioning of the Company’s supervisory bodies, particularly in such Reference Shareholder, setting the 2019 timetable for Board and Committee meetings, sharing in due time with Board and Committee members the d. any agreement relating to the transfer (in the form of a contribution, exchange, acquisition or sale) of real property information necessary for their discussions, and in digitalising or tangible assets, securities or transferable securities or Board and Committee documents. intangible assets in an amount individually exceeding €2 million (excluding taxes and duties), or (5) Evaluation of the Board of Directors e. any other agreement in respect of which the total amount to In accordance with the Internal Rules of the Board of Directors, the be paid exceeds €2 million, excluding tax, per year, other Board regularly reviews its composition, organisation and than (a) agreements concluded or transactions carried out functioning. In particular, it evaluates the balance of its composition pursuant to the Renovation and Development Agreement and that of the Committees, reflects on the diversity of these bodies, and/or the above-mentioned agreements and and periodically considers whether its structure and activities (b) agreements entered into in the normal course of adequately respond to the tasks for which it is responsible. business (the normal course of business being deemed to include maintenance, renovation and development work To that end, once a year, the Board of Directors devotes time on its related to real estate assets held by the Company and its agenda to a discussion of its functioning. Subsidiaries). For the 2019 financial year, the evaluation of the Board was The directors representing the Reference Shareholder (other than conducted by the Compensation and Nominating Committee, and the Chairman, except when the agreement in question relates to the subsequently by the Board of Directors at the meeting on exercise of his duties or his compensation) will not vote on these 2 April 2020. In general, the performance and functioning of the decisions. Board and the Committees is deemed very satisfactory by their members. Directors consider that the Board’s duties and For the purpose of the foregoing: responsibilities are perfectly understood, that the Board (i) “Affiliate” means, with regard to a person, any entity that accomplishes its duties with independence, guided by the social directly or indirectly, through one or several entities, controls interest of the Company. The follow up of the implementation and such person, is controlled by such person, or is under the same results of its strategic decisions is properly carried out. control as such person; The diversity of profiles, as well as the Board’s members’ (ii) “Control” means, with regard to a person, directly or indirectly competence is recognized, and allows meaningful debates with the holding at least fifty per cent (50%) of the capital and voting executive management, reinforced by the transparency and openrights of such person; and mindedness of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. (iii) “Subsidiary” means, at any time, any entity directly or indirectly controlled by the Company. Among the identified areas for improvement and to strengthen the knowledge of Board members on the activity of the Company, it (4) Lead Independent Director was noted the possibility of benchmarking more often and to be At its meeting on 12 June 2017, the Board of Directors decided to more precised on competing practices. In addition, the Board must appoint Olivier Lecomte as Lead Independent Director. In pay particular attention to risk management and internal control, accordance with the Internal Rules of the Board of Directors, his and meetings could be organized, outside of the Board’s meetings, remit is to assist the Chairman in his/ her duties regarding the with the executive management so as to facilitate the understanding proper functioning of the Company’s supervisory bodies. In this of the strategic stakes of the activity of shopping centers. respect, he/she will examine, in particular, conflicts or potential conflicts of interest that may be related to the directors or the Chairman of the Board and relevant to the Company’s interests. Communication with shareholders and the markets Managing shareholder relations with the Company’s Board of Directors, particularly with regard to corporate governance, is the task of the Chairman of the Board. 6 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 163 GOUVERNANCE AND CAPITAL 6. Corporate governance Board of Directors meetings frequency and attendance in 2019 The Board of Directors met eight (8) times during 2019. The attendance rate based on Directors present was 88.7%. 14 DIRECTORS 8 MEETINGS 88.7% ATTENDANCE RATE The main activities of the Board of Directors concerned: In the course of the 2019 financial year, the composition of the • financial management: Specialist Committees changed reflecting changes to the Company's governance. • approval of the individual and consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2018, At its meeting 2 April 2020, the Board of Directors decided to create a new CSR Committee and amended its Internal Regulations • approval of the Management Report to the Board of Directors to reflect this. on the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 and of the Corporate Governance report, Upon the recommendations of the compensation and nominating • implementation of a new bonus preference share allocation Committee, it defined in particular its composition, its rules of plan, procedure and majority requirements, and its duties. • renewal of annual authorisation for bond issues, • approval of the half-yearly financial statements at Audit Committee 30 June 2019 and of the corresponding Financial Report, Composition • implementation of a new EMTN programme; As of 31 December 2019, the Audit Committee is composed of • Shareholders’ Meeting: four (4) members chosen from among the Directors, at least three • authorisation of regulated agreements entered into or ongoing of whom are independent Directors, and appointed, on the proposal during the financial year ended 31 December 2018, of the Compensation and Nominating Committee, by the Board for the duration of their Directorship. The Audit Committee does not • convening of the Shareholders’ Meeting called to approve the include any senior executive corporate officers. financial statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2018; The Chairman of the Audit Committee is appointed by the Board, on the proposal of the Compensation and Nominating Committee • governance of the Company: taking his specific expertise into consideration. The Board must • setting directors’ fees to be distributed during the financial carry out a specific review of this appointment. year 2018, The Company’s Audit Committee is comprised of the following • annual review of directors’ independence, persons: • review of senior executives’ compensation and breakdown of directors’ fees, • Mr Olivier Lecomte, Lead Independent Director (Committee Chairman); • succession plan of Mr Jacques Ehrmann, • appointment of a new Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, • Mr Yann Briand, Independent Director, permanent representative • co-optation of one Director and one non-voting director, of Sogecap; • the desired balanced composition of the Board of Directors, • Mrs Maria Garrido, Independent Director; and and of the Committees reporting thereto, particularly in terms of diversity (representation of women and men, nationalities, • Mrs Claire Noël du Payrat, Director. age, qualifications and professional experience, etc.); • strategy and growth: Duties As part of its role in supervising matters relating to the preparation • reflections on the Company’s acquisition, expansion and and control of accounting and financial information and monitoring disposal projects, the effectiveness of risk monitoring and operational internal controls, • The implementation of a legal restructuring of the holding of the Audit Committee is in charge of: Spanish assets. • reviewing the accounting methods and the asset valuation procedures of the Company and its Subsidiaries, and monitoring 6.1.2.4 The specialist Committees the preparation of financial information by ensuring the relevance of the Board of Directors and consistency of the accounting methods; At its meeting on 12 June 2017, the Board of Directors decided to establish three (3) committees responsible for considering matters • reviewing the Company’s draft individual and draft consolidated financial statements before their presentation to the Board; referred to it by itself or by its Chairman. In order to take into account the nature and specific features of the • leading the selection process for the Company’s Statutory Company's activities, specialist Committees of the Board of Auditors in accordance with applicable legal and regulatory Directors were established: provisions, and submitting its proposal or opinion, as the case may be, to the Board; • the Audit Committee: • implementing a pre-approval and monitoring process for audit • the Compensation and Nominating Committee; assignments other than the financial statement audit carried out • the Strategic and Investment Committee. by the Statutory Auditors, as well as the rules with respect to the delegation of authority to the Company’s management, and These specialist Committees are exclusively comprised of directors ensuring that the provision of such services (other than the appointed by the Board of Directors for their whole term of office. financial statement audit), does not compromise their The Chairmanship of each Committee is carried out by one of its independence; independent members. • reviewing the regulated agreements mentioned in the provisions The Committees report regularly on their work to the Board of of Article L. 225-38 of the French Commercial Code, with the Directors, and submit their observations, opinions, proposals and exception of those previously reviewed by the Strategic and recommendations thereto. Investment Committee in accordance with the Board’s Internal Regulations; 164 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 GOUVERNANCE AND CAPITAL Corporate governance • issuing an opinion on: • monitoring the effectiveness of internal control systems, internal • the creation or substantial modification of the general audits and risk management with respect to the preparation and framework and financial conditions for activities relating to processing of financial and accounting information; lease management, asset management, shopping centre • examining risks, levels of risks, and procedures to prevent risks, as management, marketing or specialty leasing of real estate well as material off-balance sheet commitments and assessing assets held by the Company and its Subsidiaries in cases the significance of deficiencies or failings indicated to the where such activities are part of an agreement with a Committee, as the case may be, and informing the Board; and Reference Shareholder and/or any Affiliate of such Reference Shareholder and the early termination or the renewal of such • regularly reviewing the status of significant litigation. agreements. It should be noted that the conclusion or When reviewing the financial statements, the Audit Committee also amendment of these agreements need not be submitted to examines significant transactions which could present a potential the Board, provided that they comply with the general conflict of interest. The examination of the financial statements by framework and financial conditions approved by the Board. the Audit Committee takes place alongside the presentation by the The directors representing the Reference Shareholder will not Company’s Statutory Auditors of the main elements of audit findings vote on these decisions, and (in particular, audit adjustments and significant irregularities in the • the conclusion, significant amendment, early termination or internal control system identified during their review in connection renewal of agreements between (a) the Company and/or one with the preparation and processing of accounting and financial of its Subsidiaries and (b) a Reference Shareholder and/or any information) and on the accounting methods used. The examination Affiliate of such Reference Shareholder, specifically: (i) any of the financial statements is also accompanied by a presentation given by management describing the Company’s risk exposure, agreement relating to the provision of administrative or including social and environmental risks, and setting out the accounting services for an amount exceeding a given amount Company’s off-balance sheet commitments and accounting options specified in the Board’s Internal Regulations, (ii) any used. agreement relating to the grant of loans, advances, guarantees, pledges, undertakings, security interests or liens in The Statutory Auditors will bring to the attention of the Audit favour of a Reference Shareholder and/or any Affiliate of this Committee any information required by law, in particular that Reference Shareholder and (iii) any other agreement for a total required pursuant to Article L. 823-16 of the French Commercial amount exceeding a given amount specified in the Board’s Code. Internal Regulations, other than agreements concluded or The Chairman and CEO always abstained from joining meetings of transactions carried out pursuant to the Renovation and the Audit Committee but, when necessary, has been invited to join Development Agreement dated 16 April 2014 with Carrefour, part of these meetings at the request of the Committee’s Chair. and agreements entered into in the normal course of business. The directors representing the Reference Shareholder (other than the Chairman, except when the agreement in question relates to the exercise of his duties or his compensation) will not vote on these decisions; • monitoring and managing the verification and clarity of the information to be provided to shareholders and the markets; Work of the Audit Committee in 2019 The Audit Committee met six (6) times during the financial year 2019, and the attendance rate was 95.8%. 4 DIRECTORS 6 MEETINGS 95.8% ATTENDANCE RATE The Committee meetings mainly concerned: • review of the procedures to authorise “services, other than the • review of the draft individual and consolidated financial financial statements audit”, carried out by the Statutory Auditors; statements for the year ended 31 December 2018, and the halfyearly results at 30 June 2019, as well as the corresponding • review of the 2020 budget; and 6 financial reports and press releases; • review of the risk mapping and the internal control audit; • presentation of the Company’s risk exposure and its off-balance • more specifically, the actions taken and the procedures put in sheet commitments; place with regards to IT security, compliance with GDPR • review of regulated agreements entered into or ongoing during regulation, the Sapin II Law regarding the fight against fraud and the financial year 2018; corruption and the Prospectus III regulation and its consequences, particularly in terms of how risks are presented. • examination of the Board of Directors’ Management report on the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 In addition, the Chairman of the Committee reported to the Board of concerning procedures for internal control and risk management; Directors on the work of the Audit Committee. • review of the business plan; CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 165 GOUVERNANCE AND CAPITAL 6. Corporate governance Compensation and Nominating Committee • submitting proposals to the Board as to the terms of protection Composition of executive corporate officers (civil liability insurance of corporate officers); and As of 31 December 2019, the Compensation and Nominating Committee is composed of five members chosen from among the • periodically assessing the activities of the Board. Directors, at least three (3) of whom are independent Directors, including its Chairman, appointed by the Board for their term of Concerning the selection of new directors, the Compensation and office. Nominating Committee is in charge of submitting proposals to the Board after having examined all elements in detail, in particular in The Compensation and Nominating Committee will not include any light of the composition and changes in the shareholding structure executive corporate officers. of the Company, to ensure the balanced composition of the Board: The Company’s Compensation and Nominating Committee is representation of the significant shareholders of the Company (it comprised of the following persons: should be noted that representatives of the Reference Shareholder cannot be described as independent Directors), balanced • Mrs Séverine Farjon, Independent Director (Committee representation of men and women, nationality, age, qualifications, Chairwoman); professional experience, etc. It reviews the situation of each director • Mr Olivier Lecomte, Independent Director and lead Director; each year, on a case-by-case basis, in light of the independence criteria of the AFEP-MEDEF Code to which it refers. • Mrs Amal Del Monaco, Independent Director; The Compensation and Nominating Committee may consider that • Mr Jérôme Nanty, Director; and even though a director may meet the criteria stated above, he may not be deemed independent given his specific situation or that of • Mr Laurent Vallée, Director. the Company, with regard to its shareholding structure or for any other reason. Conversely, the Compensation and Nominating Duties Committee may consider that a director that fails to meet the required criteria can nevertheless be deemed independent. The Compensation and Nominating Committee, whose main task is to assist the Board of Directors with the determination and regular It also issues a recommendation on the overall amount and terms of assessment of all compensation and benefits of executive corporate breakdown of directors' compensation paid to directors. officers or of senior executives of the Company, and with the The Compensation and Nominating Committee is informed of the composition of the Company’s supervisory bodies, is in charge of: compensation policy with regard to senior executives reporting • proposing Independent Director candidates, organising the directly to the CEO. To this end, the Compensation and Nominating selection of future independent directors and carrying out its own Committee will receive the assistance of the executive corporate review of potential candidates before taking any action, as well officers. as issuing an opinion on the candidates proposed by other The Compensation and Nominating Committee draws up a plan for directors; replacement of the Company’s main executive corporate officers, • proposing candidates to be members of the Committees of the which is then presented to the Board of Directors. Board of Directors and executive corporate officers; • issuing proposals for the staff and corporate officers compensation and incentive policy of the Company and its Subsidiaries and on stock option plans and the granting of bonus shares or preference shares; Work of the Compensation and Nominating Committee in 2019 The Compensation and Nominating Committee met five (5) times in 2019. The attendance rate was 85.6%. 5 DIRECTORS 5 MEETINGS 85.6% ATTENDANCE RATE The main subjects discussed in the 2019 financial year were as The Chairwoman of the Committee reported to the Board of follows: Directors on the work discussed at each meeting of the • annual review of the status of Independent Director(s); Compensation and Nominating Committee. • review of the Corporate Governance report; Strategic and Investment Committee • review of senior executives’ compensation; Composition • setting the amount of directors’ fees to be paid for the year As of 31 December 2019, the Strategic and Investment Committee ended 31 December 2018; consists of six (6) members chosen from among the Directors and appointed by the Board for the duration of their term of office. The • implementation of a preference share plan (PSP 2019); Board appoints the Chairman of the Strategic and Investment Committee. • statement on the final conditions for vesting of shares under the 2017 Performance Plan; The Company’s Strategic and Investment Committee comprises the following persons: • review of the composition, organisation and functioning of the • Mrs Nathalie Robin, Independent Director (Committee Board of Directors and its Committees; Chairwoman); • succession plan of Mr Jacques Ehrmann; • Mr Alexandre de Palmas, CEO; • appointment of a new Chairman and CEO and the appointment • Mr Emmanuel Chabas, Independent Director; of two Deputy CEOs; • appointment of two new Directors; • Mrs Marie Cheval, Director; • examination of the new governance and independence criteria • Mr Nadra Moussalem, Independent Director; for Directors. • Mr Laurent Vallée, Director. 166 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 GOUVERNANCE AND CAPITAL Corporate governance Duties • examining and issuing an opinion regarding the conclusion, The Strategic and Investment Committee, prior to any decision of substantial modification, early termination or renewal of the the Chairman and CEO (or the Deputy CEOs, as the case may be) Renovation and Development Agreement concluded with and/or of the Board of Directors, as applicable, is tasked with: Carrefour, and regarding any asset transfer agreement exceeding • reviewing the Company’s investment strategy and that of its a given amount specified in the Internal Regulations, concluded Subsidiaries and monitoring investment opportunities; between (a) the Company and/or one of its Subsidiaries, on the one hand, and (b) a Reference Shareholder (understood to mean • reviewing, and issuing an opinion on, the annual investment any entity that directly or indirectly holds significant influence budget; over the Company and/or any Affiliate of that Reference Shareholder, on the other hand). • issuing an opinion on any investment or divestment transaction for an amount exceeding €15 million; The directors representing the Reference Shareholder will only take part in the deliberations of the Strategic and Investment Committee • examining and issuing an opinion on decisions relating to any in an advisory capacity. proposed investment or divestment requiring the prior authorisation of the Board; and Work of the Strategic and Investment Committee in 2019 The Strategic and Investment Committee met three (3) times during the financial year 2019, and the attendance rate was 90.7%. 6 DIRECTORS 3 MEETINGS 90.7% ATTENDANCE RATE The Committee met to discuss the following main topics: The Chairman of the Committee reported to the Board of Directors on the work discussed at each meeting of the Strategic and • the Company’s acquisition, disposal and asset expansion projects Investment Committee. and opportunities; • possible changes to be made to the Company’s strategy. CSR Committee Composition Duties Established by the Board of Directors at its meeting on 2 April 2020, In particular, the CSR Committee is responsible for: this committee has five (5) members: • discussing the Company's CSR commitments and policy • Mrs Séverine Farjon, Independent Director (Committee priorities, their alignment with the expectations of stakeholders, Chairwoman); monitoring their roll-out and more generally ensuring CSR-related matters are incorporated in the Company's strategy and its • Mrs Nathalie Robin, Independent Director (Committee implementation; Chairwoman); • assessing risks, identifying new opportunities, taking into account • Mrs Maria Garrido, Independent Director; the impact of the CSR policy in terms of economic performance; • Mr Laurent Vallée, Director, and • reviewing the annual statement of non-financial performance; • Mr Alexandre de Palmas; CEO. • reviewing the summary of Company ratings awarded by ratings agencies and through non-financial analysis; and • identifying and discussing emerging CSR trends and ensuring that the Company has made effective preparations for the issues that are specific to its business and objectives. 6 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 167 GOUVERNANCE AND CAPITAL 6. Corporate governance 6.1.2.5 Attendance of members of the Board of Directors in 2019 The individual attendance rate for each director at meetings and Board meetings and of the Committees reporting thereto, is set out in the table below. Attendance at Compensation Attendance at Strategic Attendance at Attendance at Audit and Nominating Committee and Investment Director Board of Directors Committee meetings meetings Committee meetings Alexandre de Palmas 100% 100% Mr Jacques Ehrmann 100% 100% Sogecap 100% 83.3% (rep. by Yann Briand) Predica 87.5% 100% (rep. by Emmanuel Chabas) Marie Cheval 87.5% 50% SIC AXA REIM France 87.5% 80% (rep. by Amal Del Monaco) Séverine Farjon 100% 100% Maria Garrido 87.5% 100% Olivier Lecomte 100% 100% 100% Laurent Luccioni 87.5% Francis Mauger 100% 100% Nadra Moussalem 87.5% 100% Jérôme Nanty 83.3% 100% Claire Noël Du Payrat 75% 100% Cardif Assurance Vie 100% 100% (rep. by Nathalie Robin) Laurent Vallée 75% 100% 66.6% Average 90%(2) 95.8% 88.0% 92.3% (1) Attendance based over the duration of the director's term of office in 2019. (2) Average attendance not including non-voting directors. 6.1.3 Executive Management Mr Jacques Ehrmann, i.e. until the Ordinary Shareholders' Meeting called to approve the financial statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2020, voted that these positions should continue to be held by one person. Method of exercising Executive Management At its meeting on 26 June 2019, the Board of Directors also In accordance with Article 14 of the Company’s by-laws, the confirmed the remaining terms of office of Mr Géry Robert-Ambroix Company’s executive management methods are determined by the and Mr Sébastien Vanhoove, i.e. until the Ordinary Shareholders' Board of Directors. Meeting called to approve the financial statements for the financial At its meeting of 12 June 2017, the Board of Directors decided not to year ended 31 December 2020. maintain the separation of the duties of the Chairman of the Board Pursuant to the Internal Regulations and without prejudice to the of Directors from those of the Chief Executive Officer, as had been applicable laws and regulations, those decisions (including their the case up until that time, in order to give priority to the efficiency main enforcement features) that may not be taken validly by the of the decision making-process within the Company and to Chairman and CEO and/or the Deputy CEOs without the prior strengthen the social cohesion. The meeting of the Board of approval of the Board of Directors obtained through a simple Directors of 26 June 2019, when Mr Alexandre de Palmas was comajority of the votes of the directors present or represented at the opted as Director and appointed as Chairman of the Board of relevant meeting, are set out in Section 6.1.2.3 paragraph (3). Directors and CEO of the Company for the remaining term of 168 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 GOUVERNANCE AND CAPITAL Corporate governance About the Executive Management Governing bodies gender balance requirement In compliance with the new AFEP-MEDEF Code’s recommendations, the Executive Management of Carmila proposed a gender diversity policy for its governing bodies as well as an action plan to the Board of Directors at its meeting of April 2, 2020. The balanced representation of women and men among the governing bodies, as well as the diversity of profiles has always been subjects on which the Executive Management of Carmila paid attention. Indeed, as soon as 2018, the Group commissioned an external expert, so as to perform a gender diversity diagnostic for Alexandre DE PALMAS France and Spain (Italy does not represent a significant scope), Information on the career and professional experience of notably indicating the men-women distribution at hire, by type of Mr Alexandre de Palmas is given in Section 6.1.2 of this Universal contracts, by average of training hours, but also by compensation Registration Document. range. This audit consisted of a quantitative analysis of the database provided by the Human Resources department, as well as a qualitative audit, based on interviews with Company’s employees. Following this audit, and so as to implement progress areas regarding gender diversity within the Company, a joint working group constituted of management members and staff representatives was created in 2019 and is still working in 2020. This joint working group aims to make proposals towards improving gender equality for all professional status within Carmila. In order to take it further, the Human Resources department, in Géry ROBERT-AMBROIX collaboration with the CSR department of Carmila, defined objectives with follow-up indicators, allowing the set up of concrete Géry Robert-Ambroix is a graduate of HEC and began his career at actions aimed at gender diversity for the governing bodies. The the Bouygues Group where he held various positions in engineering scope taken into account for the action plan is the entirety of from 1992 to 1997 in France, then London. In 1998, he joined CGIS directors’ employees within the company. (Compagnie Générale d’Immobilier et de Services) – part of the Vivendi group, now Nexity – as Deputy Head of Financial The main terms of the actions plan are as follows: Engineering. In 2000, was appointed to the Management Committee of Sari Management and appointed President of its Sari Gestion • A strong commitment by the executive officers for professional subsidiary. He joined the Affine Group in 2002 as Head of Asset equality Management and Property Leasing. Between 2005 and 2013, he • Set up of newsletters addressed to all employees so as to raise joined the Casino Group, then the newly formed company Mercialys awareness on the matter, and review the progresses; as its Deputy CEO. He then joined Carrefour Property, part of the • Appointment of a project manager reporting to the Chairman Carrefour group, in August 2013, as Director of Shopping Centre and Chief Executive Officer, responsible for setting the Operations. He became Deputy CEO of Carmila S.A.S. upon its objectives, the follow-up indicators, the planning and follow-up creation on 16 April 2014 and Deputy CEO of Carmila SA on the dedicated budget; June 2017. • Set up of a training program for the Executive Committee; • Negotiation of a professional equality deal, targeting potential compensation gaps and aiming to fill them. • Actively promote women’s career • Identify women with strong growth potential by the set up of a career committee specifically responsible for identifying women talents; • Set up of a training program specifically oriented towards leadership, self-awareness, public speaking and stress Sébastien VANHOOVE management, for women identified as talents; Sébastien Vanhoove has a Master of Advanced Studies in Corporate • All succession plans for any directors position will need to Law from the University of Lille and a Master of Advanced Studies include at least one woman in 3 years; in Business Administration from IAE Caen. He began his career as in• Organization of a women’s network within the Group; 6 house counsel then head of legal at Immochan and Gesceco, then • Analysis of compensation gaps between women and men Immobilière Carrefour. He went on to join A2C, part of the SNCF within the Company; group, where, between 2003 and 2013, he held the positions of a • Awareness campaign of all the directors to the professional Legal and Rental Management Director, Chief Operational Officer equality. then Deputy CEO, responsible for introducing and implementing the policy to enhance commercial areas tailored to each type of station. In 2014, he joined Carrefour Property France where he held the position of Chief Operational Officer, then Deputy CEO. He has been CEO of Carrefour Property France since November 2017 and is responsible for managing employees, the operational management of all projects and the management of sites, defining and implementing development, expansion and restructuring projects and, since October 2019, the operational management of Carrefour Property Spain and Italy. In August 2018, Mr Sébastien Vanhoove was appointed Deputy CEO of Carmila. CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 169 GOUVERNANCE AND CAPITAL 6. Compensation granted to executive corporate officers 6.2 Compensation granted to executive corporate officers The presentation of the compensation of executive corporate officers described below includes information arising from order 6.2.1 Components of compensation n°2019-1234 of 27 November 2019 pursuant to Law n° 2019-486 of 29 June 2020 on business growth and transformation (the so-called and benefits in kind paid in PACTE law ). Under the new legislation, the Shareholders' Meeting or awarded in respect of 2019 of 29 June 2020 was called to vote on the following resolutions: to corporate officers • Approval of information relating to the compensation of the (Article L. 225-37-3 I and L. 225-100 II corporate officers referred to under Article L. 225-37-3 of the of the French Commercial Code) French Commercial Code; The information on the compensation paid or awarded to corporate • Approval of the fixed, variable and exceptional components officers for the 2019 financial year, presented in this section is the comprising the total compensation and benefits in kind paid or information required under Article L. 225-37-3 I of the French attributable to Mr Alexandre de Palmas, Chairman and CEO, in Commercial Code and put to a shareholder vote pursuant to respect of the financial year ending 31 December 2019 for the Article L. 225-100 II of the French Commercial Code. period since his appointment; Any compensation and other benefits in kind paid in 2019 or • Approval of the fixed, variable and exceptional components awarded in respect of 2019 are compliant with the compensation comprising the total compensation and benefits in kind paid or policy approved by the Shareholders' Meeting of 16 May 2019. attributable to Mr Monsieur Jacques Ehrmann, Chairman and CEO, in respect of the financial year ending 31 December 2019 for the period until 30 June 2019; 6.2.1.1 Compensation and benefits in kind paid in or awarded in respect of 2019 to the • Approval of the fixed, variable and exceptional components Chairman and CEO comprising the total compensation and benefits in kind paid or attributable to Mr Géry Robert-Ambroix, Deputy CEO, in respect In the 2019 financial year, Mr Jacques Ehrmann, resigned from his of the financial year ending 31 December 2019; position as Chairman and CEO effective as of 30 June 2019, and was replaced by Mr Alexandre de Palmas from 1 July 2019. As such, at its • Approval of the fixed, variable and exceptional components meeting of 26 June 2019, the Board of Directors revised its comprising the total compensation and benefits in kind paid or compensation policy in respect of him, in keeping with the principles attributable to Mr Sébastien Vanhoove, Deputy CEO, in respect of approved by the Shareholders' Meeting. the financial year ending 31 December 2019; • Approval of the compensation policy applicable to Mr Alexandre Summary of the principles and criteria approved de Palmas, Chairman and CEO, in respect of FY 2020, referred to by the Shareholders' Meeting of 16 May 2019 under Article L. 225-37-2 of the French Commercial Code; The main aspects of the compensation policy approved by the • Approval of the compensation policy applicable to Mr Géry Shareholders' Meeting of 16 May 2019 are as follows: Robert-Ambroix, Deputy CEO, in respect of FY 2020, referred to under Article L. 225-37-2 of the French Commercial Code; • Fixed Compensation: one half of the fixed compensation of the Chairman and CEO is paid by the Company in respect of his • Approval of the compensation policy applicable to Mr Sébastien services to the Company, and the other half is paid by Carrefour Vanhoove, Deputy CEO, in respect of FY 2020, referred to under in respect of his services to Carrefour. In respect of the 2019 Article L. 225-37-2 of the French Commercial Code; financial year, the portion of fixed compensation of the Chairman and CEO paid by the Company amounts to €353,000. • Approval of the compensation policy applicable to members of The portion of fixed compensation is set based on the level of the Board of Directors in respect of the 2020 financial year, responsibilities, experience in management positions and industry pursuant to Article L. 225-37-2 of the French Commercial Code. practice. The next section of the Corporate Governance report sets out (i) all components of compensation and benefits in kind paid in or • Variable compensation (STI): the variable portion of the Chairman and CEO's compensation in respect of his role within awarded in respect of the financial year ending 31 December 2019, the Company is set by the Board of Directors and amounts to to corporate officers (Section 6.2.1.), (ii) compensation policies for 85% of his gross fixed compensation paid by the Company if 2020, applicable to corporate officers (6.2.2), as well as (iii) a 100% of the performance criteria are achieved and up to 170% of presentation of the bonus preference and preference share his gross fixed compensation paid by the Company if 200% of allocation plan (6.2.3). the performance criteria are achieved, with the variable portion adjusted on a linear basis depending on the percentage of performance criteria achieved. In respect of the 2019 financial year, the following performance criteria, on which his variable compensation paid by the Company are based, were set: (i) general quantifiable criteria accounting for 50% (like-for-like growth of 2019 rental income, 2019 EPRA Cost Ratio (excluding vacancy cost), CAGR 2018 and 2019 of the growth in recurring earnings per share and % of centres that had obtained BREEAM certification or equivalent at the end of 2019, as a % of the market value; (ii) individual quantifiable criteria accounting for 20% (change in vacancies, lease renewals, revenues generated by certain businesses, number of local digital marketing transactions (Kiosk), financial occupancy rate excluding strategic vacancies and performance criteria on the delivery of the Rennes Cesson extension); and 170 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 GOUVERNANCE AND CAPITAL Compensation granted to executive corporate officers (iii) qualitative criteria accounting for 30% (Governance and of the Compensation and Nominating Committee, pursuant to the compliance, including audit and internal control and CSR, principles and criteria approved by the Shareholders’ Meeting of financial communication, innovation and entrepreneurship, 16 May 2019 are as follows: quality of the customer and partner relationship and financial liquidity). Fixed compensation Variable compensation amounts paid by the Company in respect In respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2019, the share of of the role of the Chairman and CEO of the Company are billed by Jacques Ehrmann’s fixed compensation paid by the Company is Carrefour to the Company. €353,000 per annum, i.e. 50% of his total fixed compensation. For The payment of variable compensation is conditional upon the the period from 1 January 2019 to 30 June 2019, Mr Jacques approval of the Shareholders’ Meeting called to approve the Ehrmann received a gross amount of €176,500. financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2019. • Exceptional compensation: the Chairman and CEO will receive Annual variable compensation no exceptional compensation, except under specific At its meeting of 26 June 2019, the Board of Directors decided not circumstances related to transactions that have a structural to pay Mr Jacques Ehrmann variable compensation in respect of impact on the Company. The payment of exceptional 2019 for his service at Carmila due to his resignation as Chairman compensation shall be, in any case, conditional upon the approval and CEO. of the Shareholders’ Meeting called to approve the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2019. Compensation awarded in respect of Directorship On the recommendation of the Compensation and Nominating • Compensation for a Directorship: the Chairman and CEO may Committee, the Board of Directors awarded Mr Jacques Ehrmann receive compensation in respect of his position of Director and compensation (formerly attendance fees) of €19,375 for the period Chairman of the Board. of 1 January 2019 to 30 June 2019 in respect of his Directorship, • Benefits in kind: The Chairman and CEO receives no benefits in Chairmanship and membership of the Strategic and Investment Committee. kind. • Long-term compensation: Stock options, bonus shares and any Exceptional compensation other long-term compensation (LTI): the Chairman and CEO Mr Jacques Ehrmann has not received any exceptional may be awarded bonus shares or preference shares, as decided compensation. by the Board of Directors and after the Compensation and Nominating Committee has advised on the matter, up to the limit Long-term compensation: Stock options, bonus shares of the authorisations granted by the Shareholders’ Meeting. and any other long-term compensation (LTI) • Termination of service indemnity: Severance payment: the No subscription shares or share purchase was awarded to Mr Jacques Ehrmann for the financial year ending 31 December 2019. Chairman and CEO does not benefit from any severance payment in respect of the termination of his role as Chairman and CEO of At the meeting of the Board of Directors of 16 May 2019, under the the Company. authorisation given by the Shareholders' Meeting the same day and upon the recommendation of the Compensation and Nominating • Non-compete indemnity: the Chairman and CEO does not Committee, the Board of Directors voted to award, subject to benefit from any non-compete indemnity in respect of the presence and performance conditions, 21,844 preference shares termination of his role as Chairman and CEO of the Company. (equivalent of 12 months of salary) to Mr Jacques Ehrmann. Having • Supplementary pension plan: the Chairman and CEO does not resigned his position of Chairman and CEO effective from 30 June 2019, Mr Jacques Ehrmann has lost his entitlement to these benefit from any supplemental pension plan in respect of his role preference shares. as Chairman and CEO of the Company. A breakdown of the bonus shares awarded to Mr Jacques Ehrmann (a) Compensation and other benefits paid is included in Section 6.2.3 of this Universal Registration Document. or allocated to Mr Jacques Ehrmann, Chairman and CEO until 30 June 2019 Other compensation components Jacques Ehrmann is not eligible to receive any severance indemnity At its meeting of 26 June 2019, the Board of Directors noted the (in respect of voluntary resignation, dismissal, forced resignation or intention of Jacques Ehrmann to bring an end to his corporate office retirement) upon termination of his corporate office within the as Chairman and CEO, with effect from 30 June 2019. The Company, nor is he eligible to receive any indemnity in respect of a compensation components paid to Jacques Ehrmann in respect of non-compete clause or a supplementary pension plan. 2019, determined by the Board of Directors, on the recommendation 6 SUMMARY OF THE COMPONENTS OF COMPENSATION AWARDED IN RESPECT OF OR PAID IN THE FINANCIAL YEARS ENDING 31 DECEMBER 2019 AND 31 DECEMBER 2018 TO MR JACQUES EHRMANN, CHAIRMAN AND CEO, PRO-RATED FOR HIS TERM OF OFFICE (TABLE N°2 OF THE AFEP-MEDEF CODE) Financial year 2019* Financial year 2018* Amounts awarded(1) Amounts paid(2) Amounts awarded Amounts paid Mr Jacques Ehrmann Chairman and CEO until 30 June 2019 Annual basis Annual basis Annual basis Annual basis Fixed compensation (gross pre-tax base) €176,500(3) €176,500 €353,000 €353,000 Annual variable compensation €0 €455,176(4) €455,176 €480,680(5) Exceptional compensation NA NA NA NA Compensation awarded in respect €19,375 €30,000 €30,000 €41,667(2) of Directorship Benefits in kind NA NA NA NA TOTAL €195,875 €661,676 €838,176 €875,347 * Fixed and variable compensation paid by Carmila. (1) Amounts due for the year. (2) Amounts paid in year n-1. (3) Pro-rated amount according to his actual presence in the Carmila Group until 30 June 2019. (4) Payment approved by Shareholders' Meeting of 16 May 2019. (5) Total paid in the reporting periods pre-merger (within Carmila SAS, absorbed company) and post-merger (within Carmila SAS, previously Cardety SA, merging company). CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 171 GOUVERNANCE AND CAPITAL 6. Compensation granted to executive corporate officers (b) Compensation and other benefits paid (ii) 20% based on individual quantitative criteria (change in vacancy rate, lease renewals, revenues generated by certain or awarded to Alexandre de Palmas, businesses, number of local digital marketing campaigns Chairman and CEO as of 1 July 2019 (Kiosk), financial occupancy excluding strategic vacancies and On the decision of the Board of Directors at its meeting of performance criteria for the delivery of the Rennes Cesson 26 June 2019 and with effect from 1 July 2019, Alexandre de Palmas extension); and was appointed Chairman and CEO of the Company, replacing (iii) 30% based on qualitative criteria (governance and compliance Jacques Ehrmann. including audit and internal control and CSR, financial communication, innovations and entrepreneurship, the quality Alexandre de Palmas is also Executive Director at the Carrefour of relations with clients and partners and financial liquidity. group responsible for convenience stores, pursuant to a contract of employment entered into with Carrefour. A secondment agreement Variable compensation received by Alexandre de Palmas in respect has been entered into between Carrefour and the Company, which of his salaried position at the Carrefour group is determined was authorised by the Board of Directors on 26 June 2019. It will be according to the performance criteria established within the put to the Shareholders’ Meeting for approval in line with the Carrefour group; it may reach a maximum of 200% of the fixed procedure on regulated agreements. compensation he receives from Carrefour. Alexandre de Palmas does not have a contract of employment with At its meeting on 13 February 2020, the Board of Directors noted, the Company. upon consultation with the Compensation and Nominating Committee, that 178% of the performance criteria for the variable The fixed and variable compensation amounts payable by the compensation of Alexandre de Palmas had been met with respect to Company to Alexandre de Palmas in respect of his services to the the general quantitative criteria, 163% had been met with respect to Company are billed by Carrefour to the Company, according to the the individual quantitative criteria and at 150% had been met with guidelines set out below. respect to the individual qualitative criteria, corresponding to an attainment rate of 166% overall. Fixed compensation The annual variable compensation received by Alexandre de Palmas One half of the fixed compensation received by Alexandre de for the 2019 financial year was €133,209, having factored in the date Palmas is paid by the Company in respect of his role as Chairman on which he joined the Company. and CEO of the Company, and the other half by Carrefour in respect of his salaried position within the Carrefour group. Compensation awarded in respect of Directorship With regard to the financial year 2019, on 26 June 2019 the Board of On the recommendation of the Compensation and Nominating Directors determined that the portion of Alexandre de Palmas's Committee, the Board of Directors awarded Mr Alexandre de Palmas fixed compensation payable by the Company would amount to compensation (formerly attendance fees) of €10,625 for the period €250,000 per annum, i.e. 50% of his total fixed compensation. This from 1 July 2019 to 31 December 2019 in respect of his Directorship, compensation was paid over 6 months in the 2019 financial year, i.e. Chairmanship and membership of the Strategic and Investment €125,000. Committee. Annual variable compensation Exceptional compensation The annual variable compensation received by Alexandre de Palmas Mr Alexandre de Palmas has not received any exceptional for his services to the Company is determined on the basis of compensation. performance criteria relating only to the Carmila Group. The variable portion of Alexandre de Palmas' compensation will be 80% of his Long-term compensation: Stock options, bonus shares gross fixed compensation received from the Company if 100% of the and any other long-term compensation (LTI) performance criteria are achieved and up to 120% of his gross fixed No subscription shares or share purchase was awarded to compensation received from the Company if 200% of the Mr Alexandre de Palmas during the financial year ending performance criteria are achieved, with the variable portion adjusted 31 December 2019. on a linear basis depending on the percentage of performance criteria met. Other compensation In respect of the same financial year, the following performance Alexandre de Palmas is not eligible to receive any severance criteria on which his variable compensation paid by the Company indemnity (in respect of voluntary resignation, dismissal, forced are based, were set: resignation or retirement) upon taking up a position or termination (i) 50% based on general quantifiable criteria (like-for-like growth of his corporate office within the Company, nor is he eligible to of rental income for 2019, EPRA Cost Ratio 2019 (excluding receive any indemnity in respect of a non-compete clause or a vacancy costs), CAGR for 2018 and 2019, growth in recurring supplementary pension plan. earnings per share, and % of centres having obtained BREEAM Article 1.6.3 of the Carmila Board of Directors’ internal regulations certification or equivalent at the end of 2019, in % of market require the Chairman and CEO to hold 10,000 Company shares for value); the duration of his corporate office. Alexandre de Palmas holds 11,132 Company shares as of the date of this Universal Registration Document. BREAKDOWN OF COMPENSATION AWARDED OR PAID DURING THE FINANCIAL YEARS ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 AND 31 DECEMBER 2018 TO ALEXANDRE DE PALMAS, CHAIRMAN AND CEO, CALCULATED PRO RATA ACCORDING TO HIS TERM OF OFFICE (TABLE NO. 2 OF THE AFEP-MEDEF CODE) Financial year 2019* Financial year 2018* Amounts awarded(1) Amounts paid(2) Amounts awarded(1) Amounts paid(2) Alexandre de Palmas Chairman and CEO from 1 July 2019 Annual basis Annual basis Annual basis Annual basis Fixed compensation (gross pre-tax base) €125,000(3) €125,000(3) NA NA Annual variable compensation €133,209(4) NA NA NA Exceptional compensation NA NA NA NA Compensation awarded in respect €10,625 NA NA NA of Directorship Benefits in kind NA NA NA NA TOTAL €268,834 NA NA NA * Fixed and variable compensation paid by Carmila. (1) Amounts due for the year. (2) Amounts paid in year n-1. (3) Pro-rated amount according to his actual presence in the Carmila Group as from 1 July, 2019. (4) Payment submitted for approval to the Shareholders’ Meeting of 29 June 2020. 172 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 GOUVERNANCE AND CAPITAL Compensation granted to executive corporate officers 6.2.1.2 Compensation components and (ii) 30% based on individual quantitative criteria (change in vacancy rate, lease renewals, revenues generated by certain benefits of any kind paid or awarded businesses, number of local digital marketing campaigns during 2019 (Kiosk), financial occupancy excluding strategic vacancies and performance criteria for the delivery of the Rennes Cesson (a) Compensation and other benefits paid or extension); and awarded to Géry Robert-Ambroix, Deputy CEO (iii) 30% based on qualitative criteria (governance and compliance Géry Robert-Ambroix was appointed Deputy CEO of the Company including audit and internal control and CSR, financial by the Board of Directors on 12 June 2017. Géry Robert-Ambroix’s communication, innovations and entrepreneurship, the quality of relations with clients and partners and financial liquidity. term of office as Deputy CEO was confirmed at the Board meeting of 26 June 2019, Alexandre de Palmas having been appointed At its meeting of 13 February 2020, the Board of Directors noted, Chairman and CEO. upon consultation with the Compensation and Nominating Committee, that the performance criteria for the variable Géry Robert-Ambroix has a contract of employment with Almia compensation of Géry Robert-Ambroix had been met at 178% with Management, a subsidiary of the Company, for which he is Director respect to the general quantitative criteria, at 163% with respect to of asset valuation and investment. the individual quantitative criteria and at 142% with respect to the The fixed and variable compensation amounts are paid by the individual qualitative criteria, corresponding to an attainment rate of Carmila Group, in respect of his position of Deputy CEO. 163% overall. The annual variable compensation of Géry Robert-Ambroix in Fixed compensation respect of the financial year 2019 amounts to €227,644. With regard to the financial year 2019, Géry Robert-Ambroix’s fixed compensation payable by the Group amounts to €350,000. Benefits in kind Géry Robert-Ambroix has use of a company car. This benefit in kind Annual variable compensation was valued at €2,112 for the 2019 financial year. The variable portion of Géry Robert-Ambroix’s compensation amounts to 40% of his gross fixed compensation if 100% of the Exceptional compensation performance criteria are achieved and up to 80% of his gross fixed Mr Géry Robert-Ambroix has not received any exceptional compensation if 200% of the performance criteria are achieved, with compensation. the variable portion adjusted on a linear basis depending on the percentage of performance criteria achieved. Long-term compensation: Stock options, bonus shares In respect of the 2019 financial year, the performance criteria on and any other long-term compensation (LTI) which variable compensation paid are based, were set as follows: At the meeting of the Board of Directors on 16 May 2019, under the authorisation given by the Shareholders' Meeting the same day and (i) 40% based on general quantifiable criteria (like-for-like growth of rental income for 2019, EPRA Cost Ratio 2019 (excluding upon the recommendation of the Compensation and Nominating vacancy costs), CAGR for 2018 and 2019, growth in recurring Committee, the Board of Directors voted to award, subject to earnings per share, and % of centres having obtained BREEAM presence and performance conditions 16,244 preference shares certification or equivalent at the end of 2019, in % of market (equivalent of 9 months of salary) to Mr Géry Robert-Ambroix. value); A breakdown of the bonus shares awarded to Géry Robert-Ambroix is included in Section 6.2.3 of this Universal Registration Document. The valuation of the bonus shares awarded to Géry Robert-Ambroix, is set out in the table below: Financial year 2019 Value of options granted during the year NA Valuation of Carmila shares allocated free of charge in the year (2019 PSP plan dated 16 May 2019) €211,172 TOTAL €211,172 It should be recalled that under Article 1.6.3 of the Internal However, Géry Robert-Ambroix is party to a non-compete clause in Regulations of Carmila's Board of Directors, Deputy CEOs are respect of his salaried position as the Company’s Director of asset required to hold 5,000 shares for the duration of their term of office. valuation and investment and also benefits from a pension plan for employees of the Carmila Group under the terms of his contract of 6 Géry Robert-Ambroix held 32,747 Company shares at the time of employment with the company Almia Management, a Company writing this Universal Registration Document. subsidiary. Therefore, he receives a contractual seniority bonus, pegged to the collective bargaining agreement for the real estate Other compensation sector, a profit-sharing and incentive bonus, as well as a contribution Géry Robert-Ambroix is not eligible to receive any severance to the Group Savings Plan (PEG/PERCO). indemnity (in respect of voluntary resignation, dismissal, forced resignation or retirement) upon termination of his corporate office For the 2019 financial year, €28,417 in other compensation was paid. within the Company, nor is he eligible to receive any indemnity in respect of a non-compete clause or a supplementary pension plan. CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 173 GOUVERNANCE AND CAPITAL 6. Compensation granted to executive corporate officers BREAKDOWN OF COMPENSATION AWARDED OR PAID DURING THE FINANCIAL YEARS ENDING 31 DECEMBER 2019 AND 31 DECEMBER 2018, TO GÉRY ROBERT-AMBROIX, DEPUTY CEO (TABLE NO. 2 OF THE AFEP-MEDEF CODE) Financial year 2019 Financial year 2018 Mr Géry Robert-Ambroix (1) (2) Deputy CEO Amounts awarded Amounts paid Amounts awarded(1) Amounts paid(2) Fixed compensation (gross pre-tax base) €350,000 €350,000 €350,000 €350,000 Annual variable compensation €227,644 €208,460 €208,460 €221,480(3) Exceptional compensation NA NA NA NA Compensation awarded in respect of NA NA NA NA Directorship Benefits in kind (company car) €2,112 €2,112 2,112 2,112 Other compensation €28,417 €28,417 NA NA TOTAL €608,173 €588,989 €560,572 €573,592 * Fixed and variable compensation paid by Carmila. (1) Amounts due for the year. (2) Amounts paid in year n-1. (3) Total paid in the reporting periods pre-merger (within Carmila SAS, absorbed company) and post-merger (within Carmila SA, previously Cardety, merging company). (b) Compensation and other benefits paid or In respect of the 2019 financial year, the performance criteria on awarded to Sébastien Vanhoove, Deputy CEO which variable compensation paid by the Company are based, are set as follows: Sébastien Vanhoove was appointed Deputy CEO of the Company at the meeting of the Board of Directors held on 27 July 2018. (i) 40% based on general quantifiable criteria (like-for-like growth Mr Sébastien Vanhoove's position of Deputy CEO was confirmed at of rental income for 2019, EPRA Cost Ratio 2019 (excluding the Board meeting of 26 June 2019, which appointed Mr Alexandre vacancy costs), CAGR for 2018 and 2019, growth in recurring de Palmas as Chairman and CEO. earnings per share, and % of centres having obtained BREEAM certification or equivalent at the end of 2019, in % of market Sébastien Vanhoove is Chairman of Carrefour Property France. value); In this capacity he is responsible for Carrefour Property France and (ii) 30% based on individual quantitative criteria (change in its subsidiaries. He holds an employment contract with Carrefour vacancy rate, lease renewals, revenues generated by certain Management which covers these roles. The Company has entered businesses, number of local digital marketing campaigns into a secondment agreement with the Carrefour group under which (Kiosk), financial occupancy excluding strategic vacancies and half of Sébastien Vanhoove’s working hours are seconded to the performance criteria for the delivery of the Rennes Cesson Company and his fixed and variable compensation is charged back extension); and to the Company as from 1 August 2018. This secondment agreement (iii) 30% based on qualitative criteria (governance and compliance was approved by the Shareholders' Meeting of 16 May 2019 under including audit and internal control and CSR, financial the regulated agreements procedure. communication, innovations and entrepreneurship, the quality of relations with clients and partners and financial liquidity). The fixed and variable compensation amounts payable by the Company to Sébastien Vanhoove in respect of his role with the The variable compensation received by Sébastien Vanhoove in Company are billed by the Carrefour group to the Company, as respect of his operational role with Carrefour, which is paid to him described here below. by Carrefour Management will be fixed according to performance criteria established by the Carrefour group. Fixed compensation At its meeting of 13 February 2020, the Board of Directors noted, One half of the fixed compensation of Sébastien Vanhoove under his upon consultation with the Compensation and Nominating employment contract with Carrefour Management is paid by the Committee, that the performance criteria for the variable Company in respect of his operational role within the Company, and compensation of Sébastien Vanhoove had been met at 178% with the other half is paid by the Carrefour group in respect of his respect to the general quantitative criteria, at 163% with respect to services for Carrefour Property France. the individual quantitative criteria and at 142% with respect to the individual qualitative criteria, corresponding to an attainment rate of With regard to the financial year 2019, the portion of Sébastien 163% overall. Vanhoove fixed compensation paid by the Company amounts to €135,000 (50%). The annual variable compensation of Sébastien Vanhoove for the financial year 2019 amounted to €107,318. Annual variable compensation Variable compensation received by Sébastien Vanhoove for his role Exceptional compensation with the Company is determined on the basis of performance Mr Sébastien Vanhoove has not received any exceptional criteria relating only to the Carmila Group. compensation. In respect of the financial year 2019, the variable portion of Long-term compensation: Stock options, bonus shares Sébastien Vanhoove’s compensation amounts to 40% of his gross and any other long-term compensation (LTI) fixed compensation paid by the Company if 100% of the performance criteria are achieved, and up to 80% of his gross fixed At the meeting of the Board of Directors on 16 May 2019, under the compensation paid by the Company if 200% of the performance authorisation given by the Shareholders' Meeting the same day and criteria are achieved, with the variable portion adjusted on a linear upon the recommendation of the Compensation and Nominating basis depending on the percentage of performance criteria Committee, the Board of Directors voted to award, subject to achieved. presence and performance conditions 6,962 preference shares (equivalent of 9 months of salary) to Mr Sébastien Vanhoove. 174 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 GOUVERNANCE AND CAPITAL Compensation granted to executive corporate officers The valuation of bonus shares awarded to Mr Sébastien Vanhoove is set out in the table below: Financial year 2019 Value of options granted during the year NA Valuation of Carmila shares allocated free of charge in the year (2019 PSP plan dated 16 May 2019) €90,506 TOTAL €90,506 A breakdown of the bonus shares awarded to Mr Sébastien from which he is a beneficiary to the achievement of the threshold Vanhoove is included in Section 6.2.3 of this Universal Registration of 5,000 shares. Document. Other compensation It should be recalled that under Article 1.6.3 of the Internal Regulations of Carmila's Board of Directors, Deputy CEOs are Mr Sébastien Vanhoove is also Deputy CEO of Almia Management, a required to hold 5,000 shares for the duration of their term of office. subsidiary of the Company, and receives annual compensation of €30,000 for this position. Given the recent appointment of Mr Vanhoove, at its meeting of 13 February 2019 the Board of Directors agreed to authorise him to Sébastien Vanhoove is not eligible to receive any severance vest a minimum of 1,000 Carmila shares in the run up to the next indemnity (in respect of voluntary resignation, dismissal, forced Shareholders' Meeting and, in accordance with Article 22 of the resignation or retirement) upon termination of his corporate office AFEP-MEDEF Code, to devote 100% of the free allocations of shares within the Company, nor is he eligible to receive any indemnity in respect of a non-compete clause or a supplementary pension plan. BREAKDOWN OF COMPENSATION AWARDED OR PAID DURING THE FINANCIAL YEARS ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 AND 31 DECEMBER 2018 TO SÉBASTIEN VANHOOVE, DEPUTY CEO (TABLE NO. 2 OF THE AFEP-MEDEF CODE) Financial year 2019* Financial year 2018* Amounts awarded(1) Amounts paid(2) Amounts awarded(1) Amounts paid(2) Prorata temporis Prorata temporis Sébastien Vanhoove as from as from Deputy CEO Annual basis Annual basis Annual basis 1 August 2018 1 August 2018 Fixed compensation (gross pre-tax base) €135,000 €135,000 €135,000 €56,250 €56,250 Annual variable compensation €107,318 €40,948 €98,275 €40,948 NA Exceptional compensation NA NA NA NA NA Compensation awarded in respect NA NA NA NA NA of Directorship Compensation awarded in respect of term of €30,000 € 30,000 €30,000 €10,184 €10,184 office as Deputy CEO of Almia Management Benefits in kind NA NA NA NA NA TOTAL €272,318 €205,948 €233,275 €107,382 €66,434 * Fixed and variable compensation paid by Carmila. (1) Amounts due in respect of the financial year. (2) Amounts paid over the year, in respect of year n-1. 6 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 175 GOUVERNANCE AND CAPITAL 6. Compensation granted to executive corporate officers 6.2.1.3 Summary of compensation paid or awarded to corporate officers SUMMARY OF COMPENSATION AND STOCK OPTIONS AND SHARES AWARDED TO EACH EXECUTIVE CORPORATE OFFICER (TABLE N°1 OF THE AFEP-MEDEF CODE) A summary of all components of compensation awarded to executive corporate officers for the financial years ending 31 December 2019 and 31 December 2018 is presented in the table below: Jacques Ehrmann Financial year 2019 Fixed compensation (gross pre-tax base) €176,500(1) Annual variable compensation €0 Exceptional compensation NA Compensation awarded in respect of Directorship €19,375 Benefits in kind NA TOTAL COMPENSATION AWARDED IN RESPECT OF THE FINANCIAL YEAR 195,875(1) Valuation of options granted during the year NA Valuation of Carmila preference shares allocated free of charge in the year (PSP of 16 May 2019) NA TOTAL €195,875 (1) Pro-rated amount according to his actual presence in the Carmila Group until 30 June 2019. Alexandre de Palmas Financial year 2019 Fixed compensation (gross pre-tax base) €125,000(1) Annual variable compensation €133,209(2) Exceptional compensation NA Compensation awarded in respect of Directorship €10,625 Benefits in kind NA TOTAL COMPENSATION AWARDED IN RESPECT OF THE FINANCIAL YEAR €268,834 Value of options granted during the year NA Valuation of Carmila shares allocated free of charge in the year (2019 PSP plan dated 16 May 2019) NA TOTAL €268,834 Relative weight of fixed compensation 46.49% Relative weight of variable compensation 53.51% (1) Pro rata amount based on his effective presence within the Carmila Group as of 1 July 2019. (2) payment subject to the approval of the General Meeting of 29 June 2020. Géry Robert-Ambroix Financial year 2019 Fixed compensation (gross pre-tax base) €350,000 Annual variable compensation €227,44 Exceptional compensation NA Compensation awarded in respect of Directorship NA Benefits in kind €2,112 Other compensation €28,417 TOTAL COMPENSATION AWARDED IN RESPECT OF THE FINANCIAL YEAR €608,173 Value of options granted during the year NA Valuation of Carmila shares allocated free of charge in the year (2019 PSP plan dated 16 May 2019) €211,172 TOTAL €819,345 Relative weight of fixed compensation 42.72% Relative weight of variable compensation 57.28% 176 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 GOUVERNANCE AND CAPITAL Compensation granted to executive corporate officers Sébastien Vanhoove Financial year 2019 Fixed compensation (gross pre-tax base) €135,000 Annual variable compensation €107,318 Exceptional compensation NA Compensation awarded in respect of Directorship NA Compensation awarded in respect of position of Deputy CEO of Alima Management €30,000 Benefits in kind NA TOTAL COMPENSATION AWARDED IN RESPECT OF THE FINANCIAL YEAR €272,318 Value of options granted during the year NA Valuation of Carmila shares allocated free of charge in the year (2019 PSP plan dated 16 May 2019) €90,506 TOTAL €362,824 Relative weight of fixed compensation 37.2% Relative weight of variable compensation 62.8% SUMMARY OF EXECUTIVE CORPORATE OFFICERS' INDEMNITIES AND/OR BENEFITS FOR THE 2019 FINANCIAL YEAR (TABLE NO. 11 OF THE AFEP-MEDEF CODE) Compensation or benefits due Contract of or likely to be due in the Compensation employment with Supplemental event of termination or under a nonthe Company pension plan change of position compete clause Executive Corporate Officers Yes No Yes No Yes No Yes No Jacques Ehrmann Chairman and CEO until 30 June 2019 √(1) √ √ √ First appointed: 12 June 2017 Alexandre de Palmas Chairman and CEO from 1 July 2019 First appointed: 1 July 2019 √(1) √ √ √ End of term of office: Shareholders’ Meeting to approve the 2020 financial statements Sébastien Vanhoove Deputy CEO First appointed: 27 July 2018 √(1) √ √ √ End of term of office: Shareholders’ Meeting to approve the 2020 financial statements Géry Robert-Ambroix Deputy CEO First appointed: 12 June 2017 √(2) √ √(3) √(3) End of term of office: Shareholders’ Meeting to approve the 2020 financial statements (1) Jacques Ehrmann, Alexandre de Palmas et and Sébastien Vanhoove are/were each party to an employment contract with the Carrrefour group. (2) Géry Robert-Ambroix is party to an employment contract with Almia Management, a subsidiary of the Company. (3) However, Géry Robert-Ambroix has a non-compete clause in respect of his position as the Company’s Director of Portfolio Valuation and benefits from a Carmila Group employee pension plan under the terms of his employment contract with Almia Management, a subsidiary of the Company. 6.2.1.4 Equity ratios (Article L. 225-37-3 The chosen scope only includes full-time employees with a French permanent employment contract present 12 months over each year of the French Commercial Code) 6 analysed. In accordance with the provisions of Article L. 225-37-3 of the French Commercial Code, this report presents information on the The various ratios were calculated on the basis of gross ratios between the level of compensation of the Chairman and CEO compensation awarded in respect of the financial year in question as well as each Deputy CEO and mean compensation of full-time and include fixed compensation and variable compensation awarded equivalent jobs. in respect of the financial year, profit-sharing and incentive premiums, free shares and preference shares plans in the year they Since Carmila SA has no employees, it was not possible to include it were attributed, at their attribution value and related social charges. when calculating equity ratios. Consequently, the relevant scope included Almia Management, the company regrouping all the french With regards to senior executives, and insofar as there was a change workforce, in line with the provisions of recommendation 26.2 of the of Deputy CEO in 2018, and a change of Chairman and CEO in 2019, AFEP-MEDEF Code. equity ratios are presented by position, i.e. one Chairman and CEO and two Deputy CEOs, rather than in nominative form. The Company having been the result of a merger of Carmila SAS and Cardety, on 12 June 2017 a proposal was made for equity ratio The calculation of the equity ratio is subject to any adjustments figures to cover a three-year period: 2017, 2018 and 2019 since the recommended in the AFEP-MEDEF Code and take into account any years prior to 2017 cannot be considered to be representative. legislative or regulatory changes applicable. CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 177 GOUVERNANCE AND CAPITAL 6. Compensation granted to executive corporate officers 2019 2018 2017 Chairman and CEO(1) Compensation due for financial years Ratio – Mean compensation 4.21 12.61 12.35 Ratio – Median compensation 5.16 15.79 17.30 Deputy CEO 1(2) Compensation due for financial years Ratio – Mean compensation 7.91 8.61 7.68 Ratio – Median compensation 9.70 10.78 10.76 Deputy CEO 2(3) Compensation due for financial years Ratio – Mean compensation 3.50 3.76 3.85 Ratio – Median compensation 4.30 4.71 5.39 (1) The position of Chairman and CEO was held by Jacques Ehrmann for FY 2017, 2018 and until 30 June 2019, then by Alexandre de Palmas from 1 July 2019. (2) The position of Deputy CEO 1 was held by Géry Robert-Ambroix for the three financial years presented. (3) The position of Deputy CEO 2 was held by Yves Cadélano for 2017, and until July 2018, then by Sébastien Vanhoove, from that date. The significant drop in 2019 in the ratio for the Chairman and Chief The terms for allocating compensation among members of the Executive Officer is mainly linked to the change of corporate officer Board of Directors are as follows: during the year which had a double effect: the non-perception by • for the Board of Directors: Mr. Jacques Ehrmann, outgoing Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, of variable compensation for the year due to his departure • €5,000 in fixed compensation is paid per Director, and the receipt by Mr. Alexandre de Palmas of variable • variable compensation of €10,000 according to actual compensation pro rata temporis and fixed compensation lower than attendance at Board meetings and time spent on Board work, that of his predecessor. Finally, the 2019 ratio does not incorporates • compensation of €10,000 is paid to the Lead Independent any preference shares plan for the Chairman and Chief Executive Director; Officer, Mr. Jacques Ehrmann having lost his rights to the 2019 plan and Mr. Alexandre de Palmas having not benefited from it not • for the Committees: having yet his position in the Company on the date of granting of • €5,000 in fixed compensation is paid per Director, said plan. • variable compensation of €10,000 according to actual attendance at Committee meetings and time spent on 6.2.1.5 Compensation and benefits in kind Committee work, paid in or awarded in respect of 2019 • annual sum of €10,000 for the Chairman of the Audit Committee and €10,000 for the Chairman of the to the members of the Board Compensation and Nominating Committee; of Directors The maximum total annual compensation that can be awarded to • for Non-voting Directors: a reallocation, from the total compensation allocated by the General Shareholders' Meeting, of: members of the Board of Directors was set at €350,000 by the Shareholders' Meeting of 16 May 2019. • a total fixed annual sum of €5,000, • a variable sum of €10,000 for each Board meeting attended. Directors' compensation includes a fixed amount, calculated on a prorata temporis basis for terms of office having ended or begun in the financial year and a variable amount allocated by the Board of Directors based on actual attendance at Board and Committee meetings. In accordance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code, the variable component of Board members' compensation is preponderant. 178 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 GOUVERNANCE AND CAPITAL Compensation granted to executive corporate officers The table below summarises all compensation awarded and paid to Board members in respect of the 2018 and 2019 financial years, including members whose term of office ended during the financial year: 2019 financial year 2018 financial year Amounts Amounts Amounts Amounts (gross amounts in euros) awarded(1) paid(2) awarded(1) paid(2) Alexandre de Palmas Compensation (fixed, variable) 10,625,00(3) NA NA NA Other compensation NA NA NA NA Jacques Ehrmann Compensation (fixed, variable) 19,375,00(4) 30,000.00 30,000.00 33,919.17 Other compensation NA 0 NA 0 Sogecap repesented by Yann Briand Compensation (fixed, variable) 28,333.33 28,750.00 28,750.00 12,187.50 Other compensation NA 0 NA 0 Predica represented by Emmanuel Chabas Compensation (fixed, variable) Renunciation 30,000.00 30,000.00 15,187.50 Other compensation NA 0 NA 0 Marie Cheval Compensation (fixed, variable) Renunciation Renunciation Renunciation Renunciation Other compensation NA 0 NA 0 Axa Reim France represented by Amal Del Monaco Compensation (fixed, variable) Renunciation Renunciation Renunciation Renunciation Other compensation NA 0 NA 0 Séverine Farjon Compensation (fixed, variable) 40,000.00 40,000.00 40,000.00 45,476.19 Other compensation NA 0 NA 0 Maria Garrido Compensation (fixed, variable) 28,750.00 22,500.00 22,500.00 NA Other compensation NA 0 NA 0 Olivier Lecomte Compensation (fixed, variable) 65,000.00 65,000.00 65,000.00 39,866.07 Other compensation NA 0 NA 0 Laurent Luccioni Compensation (fixed, variable) Renunciation Renunciation Renunciation Renunciation Other compensation NA 0 NA 0 Nadra Moussalem Compensation (fixed, variable) 28,750.00 27,500.00 27,500.00 17,187.50 Other compensation NA 0 NA 0 Claire Noël du Payrat Compensation (fixed, variable) Renunciation Renunciation Renunciation Renunciation Other compensation NA 0 NA 0 Cardif Assurance Vie represented by Nathalie Robin Compensation (fixed, variable) 30,000.00 30,000.00 30,000.00 17,187.50 Other compensation Laurent Vallée Compensation (fixed, variable) NA Renunciation Renunciation 0 NA Renunciation Renunciation 0 6 Other compensation NA 0 NA 0 Francis Mauger Compensation (fixed, variable) Renunciation Renunciation Renunciation Renunciation Other compensation NA 0 NA 0 Laurent Fléchet Compensation (fixed, variable) 13,750.00 10,000.00 10,000.00 10,090.91(5) 14,658.01(6) Other compensation NA NA NA NA Pedro Antonio Arias Compensation (fixed, variable) 11,250.00 7,500.00 7,500.00 8,705.36 Other compensation NA NA NA NA (1) Amounts owed based on actual attendance during the financial year. (2) Amounts paid during the financial year. (3) Amounts calculated since the appointment of Alexandre de Palmas, i.e. from 1 July 2019 to 31 December 2019. Amounts paid in respect of his term of office as Chairman of the Board of Directors (excludes compensation paid in respect of his executive functions as CEO, which are described in paragraph 6.2.1.1.b.). (4) Amounts calculated for the period preceding the departure of Mr Jacques Ehrmann, i.e. for the period from 1 January 2019 to 30 June 2019. (5) In respect of Directorship. (6) In respect of term as a Non-Voting Director. CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 179 GOUVERNANCE AND CAPITAL 6. Compensation granted to executive corporate officers 6.2.2 Compensation policies Implementation of the compensation policy The compensation policy is implemented by the Board of Directors applicable to corporate in accordance with the resolutions passed by the Shareholders' officers for the 2020 Meeting. Each year, after the Company's financial statements have been approved the company the Board of Directors draws on the financial year subject to recommendations of the Compensation and Nominating Committee to set objectives linked to each of the performance criteria on which the approval of shareholders the annual variable compensation of the Chairman and CEO and (L. 225-37-2 of the French Commercial Deputy CEO is based. It also sets targets as well as maximum and Code) minimum objectives so that the amount of variable compensation can be adjusted upwards or downwards according to the performance criteria set. 6.2.2.1 Setting, reviewing and implementing Drawing on the recommendations of the Compensation and the compensation policy Nominating Committee and following the authorisation of the Shareholders' Meeting, the Board of Directors sets the terms of (a) General principles for setting, implementing long-term compensation awarded to corporate officers in the form and applying the compensation policy of bonus shares or preference shares based on the Company's performance and ambitions. applicable to corporate officers In accordance with the provisions of Article L.225-37-2 III of the Setting the compensation policy Commercial code, the Board of Directors, after Remuneration and The compensation policy applicable to all executive corporate Nomination Committee has advised on the matter, may decide not officers is set by the Board of Directors based on the to apply the compensation policy concerning annual fixed recommendations of the Compensation and Nominating Committee, compensation, annual variable remuneration and long-term and put to a vote at the Shareholders' Meeting. In accordance with compensation, and in particular the performance criteria and the provisions of Carmila's Internal Regulations, the Compensation conditions, in the event of exceptional circumstances if this and Nominating Committee has powers to make any proposals derogation remains temporary, in accordance with the company's relating to the compensation policy applicable to the Chairman and interests and necessary to guarantee the company's continuity or CEO. viability. In terms of the compensation of Deputy CEOs, Chairman and CEO Managing conflicts of interest proposes the compensation policy to the Compensation and Nominating Committee which reviews it before making a The Company adheres to the conditions set out in the AFEP-MEDEF recommendation to the Board of Directors. Code on managing conflicts of interest. As such, in accordance with the provisions of Article 16.6 of the Company's Internal Regulations, Finally, upon the recommendation of the Compensation and any situation liable to result in a conflict of interest must be brought Nominating Committee, each year the Board of Directors agrees the to the attention of the Board of Directors and may be investigated allocation of compensation to Members of the Board of Directors, by the Lead Independent Director in particular. within the budget approved by the Shareholders' Meeting and taking into account any waivers and attendance at meetings of the In the event that a conflict of interest is unavoidable, the corporate Board and any Committees on which they sit. officer abstains from taking part in discussions and any decisionmaking relating to the matters in question. The principles governing compensation awarded to executive corporate officers are set in accordance with the requirements of (b) Application of the compensation policy the AFEP-MEDEF Code to which the Company refers. As such, the Board of Directors ensures that the compensation awarded to applicable to corporate officers executive corporate officers reflects the Group's strategy in order to Appointment of new corporate officers promote the Company's medium and long-term performance and If a new Chairman and CEO is appointed, the compensation policy competitiveness and acting responsibly in the interest of the applicable to the current Chairman and CEO will be applied and any company and stakeholders. additional duties assigned by the Board of Directors. The Compensation Policy was discussed and approved by the Board If a new Deputy CEO is appointed, the compensation policy of Directors at its meetings on 13 February 2020 and 2 April 2020, applicable to Deputy CEOs will be applied. upon the recommendations of the Compensation and Nominating Committee and in accordance with the provisions of However, the specific circumstances of each corporate officer and Articles L. 225-37-2, L. 225-37-3 and L. 225-100 of the French the responsibilities of their position may be taken into account by Commercial Code. the Board of Directors, as proposed by the Compensation and Nominating Committee. Review of the compensation policy If a new Director or Non-Voting Director is appointed, the The compensation policy is reviewed each year by the Board of compensation policy applicable to current Members of the Board of Directors upon the recommendation of the Compensation and Directors will be applied. Nominating Committee. The Compensation and Nominating Committee ensures that Performance criteria evaluation method compensation awarded to executive corporate officers is The performance criteria applied to the variable compensation competitive and as such may refer to studies of comparable awarded to corporate officers and long-term compensation are companies or the opinions of external firms. measurable. Performance criteria are based on financial and nonfinancial criteria, the achievement of which is audited by the In undertaking this review, the Compensation and Nominating Statutory Auditors during the audit of the financial statements, but Committee takes into account the compensation and employment also of the Company's non-financial performance statement for the terms of the Company's employees in order to make year in question. recommendations and proposals to the Board of Directors. Moreover, the Compensation and Nominating Committee ensures (c) Compensation policy modifications that the performance criteria set reflect the Company's strategy and, The compensation policy approved by the Shareholders' Meeting of in the case of qualitative criteria, specific duties related to these. 16 May 2019 must be modified in order to take into account a number of events that have taken place since the last meeting: • the resignation of Jacques Ehrmann, Chairman and CEO, effective from 30 June 2019; • the introduction of a compensation policy applicable to Deputy CEOs and Members of the Board of Directors; • the publication of an order and of the decree dated 27 November 2019 on the compensation of corporate officers of listed companies. 180 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 GOUVERNANCE AND CAPITAL Compensation granted to executive corporate officers The Board of Directors has factored in the most recent shareholder Exceptional compensation votes on the compensation policy since, unless there are The Chairman and CEO may not receive exceptional compensation, modifications to the aforementioned compensation policy, the unless under specific circumstances related to transactions that structure of all components of compensation is comparable to that have a structural impact on the Company. approved by shareholders, 96.9% of whom voted in favour of the 12th resolution at the annual Shareholders' Meeting of 16 May 2019. The payment of exceptional compensation shall be, in any case, conditional upon the approval of the Shareholders’ meeting called to approve the financial statements for the year ending 6.2.2.2 Compensation policy applicable 31 December 2020. to the Chairman and CEO for 2020 Compensation awarded in respect of Directorship Fixed compensation As a Director and Committee member, the Chairman and CEO is Mr. Alexandre de Palmas is the Executive Director of the Carrefour entitled to compensation based on the same rules set by the Group in charge of proximity, under an employment contract with compensation policy applicable to Board members. Carrefour. A secondment agreement has been signed between Carrefour and the Company, under which Mr. Alexandre de Palmas Valuation of benefits in kind is made available to the Company for half of his time, with his fixed The Chairman and CEO is entitled to benefits in kind. and variable compensation being billed as of July 1st, 2019. This secondment agreement will be submitted for approval to the Stock options, free shares and any other long-term General Shareholders’ Meeting on June 29th, 2020 under the compensation regulated agreements procedure. The Chairman and CEO may be awarded bonus shares or preference Fixed compensation amounts paid by the Company in respect of the shares, as decided by the Board of Directors and after the role of the Chairman and CEO of the Company are billed by Compensation and Nominating Committee has advised on the Carrefour to the Company, according to the guidelines set out matter, up to the limit of the authorisations granted by the above. Shareholders’ meeting. Pursuant to the aforesaid guidelines, in respect of the financial year In addition to the authorisation granted on 16 May 2018 and 2020, the portion of fixed compensation of the Chairman and CEO 16 May 2019 by the Shareholders’ Meeting to authorise the Board of paid by the Company amounts to €250,000. Directors to award existing or newly issued bonus shares to employees and corporate officers or some of them, it is proposed to Variable compensation the annual Shareholders’ Meeting called to approve the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2019 to give the Board Calculation methods the authorisation to award preference shares ( D Shares”) to Variable compensation received by the Chairman and CEO in employees and corporate officers, convertible into existing or newly respect of his services to the Company is determined by the Board issued ordinary shares of the Company. of Directors of the Company, following consultation with the Compensation and Nominating Committee and based on Termination of service indemnity Severance payment performance criteria. The variable portion of the compensation of The Chairman and CEO does not benefit from any severance the Chairman and CEO will be 80% of his gross fixed compensation payment in respect of the termination of his role as Chairman and received from Carmila, if 100% of the performance criteria are CEO of the Company. achieved, and up to 120% of his gross fixed compensation received from the Company if 200% of the performance criteria are achieved, Non-compete indemnity with the variable portion adjusted on a linear basis depending on the percentage of performance criteria met. The Chairman and CEO does not benefit from any non-compete indemnity respect of the termination of his role as Chairman and In respect of the 2020 financial year, the performance criteria on the CEO of the Company. basis of which the variable compensation payable by the Company is set by the Company's Board of Directors, upon the Supplemental pension plan recommendation of the Compensation and Nominating Committee, The Chairman and CEO does not benefit from any supplemental are as follows: pension plan in respect of his role as Chairman and CEO of the (i) 50% based on general quantifiable criteria (like-for-like growth Company. of 2020 net rental income, 2020 EPRA Cost Ratio (excluding vacancy costs), growth in recurring earnings per share, and % of centres having obtained BREEAM certification or equivalent at the end of 2020, in % of market value); (ii) 20% based on individual quantitative criteria (change in 6 vacancy rate, revenues generated by certain businesses, financial occupancy excluding strategic vacancies and performance criteria for the delivery of the Nice Lingotière extension and project pipeline authorisation); and (iii) 30% based on qualitative criteria (governance and compliance including audit and internal control and CSR, financial communication, innovations and entrepreneurship, the quality of relations with clients and partners and financial policy). Payment terms The payment of variable compensation is conditional upon the approval of the Shareholders’ Meeting called to approve the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2020. CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 181 GOUVERNANCE AND CAPITAL 6. Compensation granted to executive corporate officers 6.2.2.3 Compensation policy applicable employees and corporate officers, or some of them, it is proposed to the annual Shareholders’ Meeting called to approve the financial to the Deputy CEOs for 2020 statements for the year ending 31 December 2019 to give the Board the authorisation to award preference shares (“D Shares”) to (a) Compensation policy applicable to employees and corporate officers, convertible into existing or newly Mr Géry Robert-Ambroix, Deputy CEO issued ordinary shares of the Company. Fixed compensation Termination of service indemnity Severance payment Mr. Géry Robert-Ambroix was appointed on June 12, 2017, by the Géry Robert-Ambroix does not benefit from any severance Board of Directors as Deputy CEO of the Company. The term of payments in respect of the termination of his corporate office within office as Deputy CEO of Mr Géry Robert-Ambroix was confirmed on the Company. the Board of Director's meeting on e June 26, 2019, having appointed Mr Alexandre de Palmas as Chairman and CEO. Non-compete indemnity Géry Robert-Ambroix is also the Company’s Director of asset Géry Robert-Ambroix does not benefit from any non-compete valuation and investment, under an employment contract with Almia indemnity in respect of the termination of his corporate office within Management, a subsidiary of the Company. the Company. Fixed and variable compensation amounts are paid by the Carmila However, Géry Robert-Ambroix is party to a non-compete clause in group, in respect of his services of Deputy CEO. respect of his salaried position as the Company’s Director of asset Pursuant to these guidelines, with regard to the 2020 financial year, valuation and investment and also benefits from a pension plan for Géry Robert-Ambroix’s fixed compensation in respect of his employees of the Carmila Group under the terms of his contract of operational role amounts to €350,000 per annum. employment with the company Almia Management, a Company subsidiary. Variable compensation The variable portion of Géry Robert-Ambroix’s compensation in Supplemental pension plan respect of his role as the Company’s Director of asset valuation and Géry Robert-Ambroix does not benefit from a supplementary investment, under an employment contract with Almia Management, pension plan in respect of his corporate office within the Company. a subsidiary of the Company, amounts to 40% of his gross fixed compensation if 100% of the performance criteria are achieved and Other Compensation up to 80% of his gross fixed compensation if 200% of the In connection with his employment agreement with Almia performance criteria are achieved, with the variable portion adjusted Management, a subsidiary of the Company, he benefits from a on a linear basis depending on the percentage of performance contractual seniority bonus, due to his affiliation to the national real criteria achieved. estate collective bargaining convention (Convention collective nationale de l'immobilier) a profit-sharing and incentive bonus, as In respect of the 2020 financial year, the performance criteria on the well as a contribution to the Group Savings Plan (PEG/PERCO). basis of which the variable compensation payable by the Company is set by the Company's Board of Directors, upon the recommendation of the Compensation and Nominating Committee, (b) Applicable to Mr Sébastien Vanhoove, are as follows: Deputy CEO (i) 40% based on general quantifiable criteria (like-for-like growth Fixed compensation of 2020 net rental income, 2020 EPRA Cost Ratio (excluding On July 27, 2018, Mr Sébastien Vanhoove has been appointed by the vacancy costs), growth in recurring earnings per share, and % Board of Directors as Deputy CEO of the Company. of centres having obtained BREEAM certification or equivalent at the end of 2020, in % of market value); The term of office of Mr. Sébastien Vanhoove as Deputy CEO was (ii) 30% based on individual quantitative criteria (change in confirmed at the Board meeting of June 26, 2019, which appointed vacancy rate, revenues generated by certain businesses, Mr. Alexandre de Palmas as Chairman and CEO. financial occupancy excluding strategic vacancies and Mr Sébastien Vanhoove is Chairman of Carrefour Property France. In performance criteria for the delivery of the Nice Lingotière this capacity, he is responsible for Carrefour Property France and its extension and project pipeline authorisation); and subsidiaries. He benefits from an employment agreement with (iii) 30% based on qualitative criteria (governance and compliance, Carrefour Management, which defines these functions. A financial communication, and investor relations, business secondment agreement has been concluded between the Carrefour development, acquisitions and financial policy). Group and the Company under which Mr. Sébastien Vanhoove is made available to the Company for half of his time with re-billing of Exceptional compensation his fixed and variable remuneration as of August 1, 2018. Mr. Géry Robert-Ambroix may not receive exceptional This agreement was approved by the Shareholders' Meeting on compensation, unless under specific circumstances related to May 16, 2019 under the procedure for regulated agreements. transactions that have a structural impact on the Company. The amounts of fixed and variable compensation paid by the Valuation of benefits in kind Company in respect of his services within the Company are billed by the Carrefour Group to the Company, according to the guidelines As the Company’s Director of asset valuation and investment, with set out above. an employment contract with Almia Management, a subsidiary of the Company, Mr Robert-Ambroix has a company car. Pursuant to the aforesaid guidelines, in respect of the financial year 2020, the portion of fixed compensation of Mr. Sébastien Vanhoove, Stock options, free shares and any other long-term paid by the Company amounts to 165,000 euros. compensation Géry Robert-Ambroix may be awarded bonus shares or preference Variable compensation shares, as decided by the Board of Directors and after the The variable portion of the compensation of the Deputy CEO will be Compensation and Nominating Committee has advised on the 40% of his gross fixed compensation received from Carmila, if 100% matter, up to the limit of the authorisations granted by the of the performance criteria are achieved, and up to 80% of his gross Shareholders’ Meeting. fixed compensation received from the Company if 200% of the performance criteria are achieved, with the variable portion adjusted In addition to the authorisation granted on 16 May 2018 and on a linear basis depending on the percentage of performance 16 May 2019 by the Shareholders’ Meeting to authorise the Board of criteria met. Directors to award existing or newly issued bonus shares to 182 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 GOUVERNANCE AND CAPITAL Compensation granted to executive corporate officers In respect of the 2020 financial year, the performance criteria on the Non-compete indemnity basis of which the variable compensation payable by the Company is set by the Company's Board of Directors, upon the Sébastien Vanhoove does not benefit from any non-compete recommendation of the Compensation and Nominating Committee, indemnity in respect of the termination of his role within the are as follows: Company. (i) 40% based on general quantifiable criteria (like-for-like growth Supplemental pension plan of 2020 net rental income, 2020 EPRA Cost Ratio (excluding Sébastien Vanhoove does not benefit from a supplementary pension vacancy costs), growth in recurring earnings per share, and % plan in respect of his corporate office within the Company. of centres having obtained BREEAM certification or equivalent at the end of 2020, in % of market value); (ii) 30% based on individual quantitative criteria (change in 6.2.2.4 Compensation policy applicable vacancy rate, revenues generated by certain businesses, to Members of the Board of Directors financial occupancy excluding strategic vacancies and for 2020 performance criteria for the delivery of the Nice Lingotière extension and project pipeline authorisation); and In accordance with the Internal Regulations of the Board of Directors, the compensation paid to each Director and Non-Voting (iii) 30% based on qualitative criteria (letting activities and retail Director or to each Committee member, up to a limit approved by brand relations, delivery of project pipelines and administrative authorisations, the quality of relations with Carrefour, local the Company’s General Shareholders' Meeting, are established by and regional stakeholder relations, client satisfaction). the Board of Directors, upon recommendation by the Compensation and Nominating Committee, and includes i) a fixed amount, The variable compensation received by Sébastien Vanhoove in calculated on a pro rata basis for terms of office having ended or respect of his operational role with Carrefour, which is paid to him begun in the financial year and ii) a variable amount, allocated by by Carrefour Management is fixed according to performance criteria the Board of Directors based on actual attendance at Board and established by the Carrefour group. Committee meetings. Exceptional compensation In accordance with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code, the variable component of Directors' compensation is Mr. Sébastien Vanhoove may not receive exceptional compensation, preponderant. unless under specific circumstances related to transactions that have a structural impact on the Company. This compensation reflects the level of responsibility of the Directors and the time their work requires. This amount was set in reference Valuation of benefits in kind to comparable companies. Mr Sébastien Vanhoove, as Deputy CEO, is entitled to receive The roles of the Chairmen of the Audit Committee and of the benefits in kind. Compensation and Nominating Committee carry additional entitlement to compensation, depending on their actual presence at Stock options, free shares and any other long-term the respective meetings. compensation The maximum total annual compensation that can be awarded to Mr Sébastien Vanhoove may be awarded bonus shares or members of the Board of Directors was set at €350,000 by the preference shares, as decided by the Board of Directors and after Shareholders' Meeting of 16 May 2019. In light of the creation of a the Compensation and Nominating Committee has advised on the new CSR Committee and the resulting increase in the number of matter, up to the limit of the authorisations granted by the meetings attended by Directors, a proposal will be made at the next Shareholders’ Meeting. Shareholders' Meeting to modify the maximum total annual amount In addition to the authorisation granted on 16 May 2018 and of compensation that can be awarded to members of the Board of 16 May 2019 by the Shareholders’ Meeting to authorise the Board of Directors, bringing it to 420,000, from the 2020 financial year. Directors to award existing or newly issued bonus shares to The methods for allocating compensation among members of the employees and corporate officers, or some of them, it is proposed to Board of Directors are described in Section 6.2.1.5 of this Universal the annual Shareholders’ Meeting called to approve the financial Registration Document. statements for the year ending 31 December 2019 to give the Board the authorisation to award preference shares (“D Shares”) to Each year, at the meeting of the Board of Directors in which employees and corporate officers, convertible into existing or newly decisions relating to allocation methods are made, each Director issued ordinary shares of the Company. may waive any compensation payable in respect of Board membership. Termination of service indemnity: Severance payment Sébastien Vanhoove was not awarded any severance pay in respect of the termination of his role within the Company. 6 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 183 GOUVERNANCE AND CAPITAL 6. Compensation granted to executive corporate officers 6.2.3 Presentation of bonus performance and preference share allocation plan 6.2.3.1 Summary of the current bonus share allocation plans PSP Plan PSP Plan Name of plan Performance Plan 2017 2018 no. 1 2018 no. 2 PSP Plan 2019 Date of Carmila meeting(1) 14/04/2016 16/05/2018 16/05/2018 16/09/2019 Date of allocation by Carmila 12/06/2017 16/05/2018 24/10/2018 16/09/2019 Number of beneficiaries 32 47 1 46 Number of Carmila shares allocated at the start of the plan 96,988 125,746 7,537 144,906 • Jacques Ehrmann 20,764 22,804 NA NA • Alexandre de Palmas NA NA NA NA • Géry Robert-Ambroix 10,294 15,073 NA 16,244 • Sébastien Vanhoove NA NA 7,537 6,962 • Other employees 60,783 80,332 NA 121,700 Residual number of shares to allocate as at 31/12/2019 36,138 112,611 7,537 140,806 Issue date and vesting date of the preference shares NA 16/05/2019 24/10/2019 16/05/2020 12/06/2019: Employees 50% Vesting date(s) 12/06/2020: Employees 50% 16/05/2021 24/10/2021 16/05/2022 and corporate officers 100% 12/06/2019 Employees 50% Availability date 12/06/2020 Employees 50%/ 16/05/2021 24/10/2021 16/05/2022 Corporate officers 100% (1) Carmila SA for dates prior to 12 June 2017 inclusive. 6.2.3.2 Assumption by the Company • for the financial year 2019, (i) improvement in the Group’s total yield in 2019 (corresponding to the year-on-year improvement in of the performance share plan the triple adjusted net asset value (NNNAV EPRA) and including (2017 Performance Share Plan) dividend discounts for the same year), compared to a panel of Carmila SAS, the target of the merger by absorption by the comparable real estate companies; and (ii) improvement in the Company upon the Merger on 12 June 2017, had set up a free share consolidated “Recurring Earnings Per Share” of the Carmila plan in 2017, prior to the merger, for the benefit of its senior Group in 2019 relative to the subscription price of the July 2017 executives and certain other salaried staff: capital increase, i.e. €24. Pursuant to the delegation granted by the Shareholders’ Meeting of Pursuant to applicable law and the associates’ decision of Carmila SAS on 14 April 2016, a new free share allocation took place 12 June 2017, as of the date of the Merger, the Company is on 12 June 2017, prior to the Merger, for the benefit of senior automatically substituted for Carmila SAS, the absorbed entity, with executives and selected employees of the Carmila Group, involving respect to its obligations to the beneficiaries of free shares. a total number of 290,993 shares, including: (i) 62,294 shares granted to Jacques Ehrmann; 6.2.3.3 2018 Bonus preference share plans (ii) 15,441 shares granted to Yves Cadélano; and no. 1 and 2 (iii) 30,882 shares granted to Géry RobertAmbroix, In the 2018 financial year, following a decision by the Board of Directors on 16 May 2018, the Company introduced a new plan in the corresponding to respective grants of 20,764, 5,147 and form of the allocation of bonus preference shares that can 10,294 shares in the Company once the Merger exchange ratio ultimately be converted into ordinary shares provided performance (one Cardety share for three Carmila SAS shares) had been taken criteria (described below) are met. into account. This plan, for senior executives and employees, represents a total of This share plan stipulates (i) continued presence in the Company at 125,746 preference shares, of which: the end of each vesting period, and (ii) the following performance criteria: (i) 22,804 preference shares allocated to Jacques Ehrmann; • for the financial year 2018, (i) improvement in the Group’s total (ii) 7,537 preference shares to Yves Cadelano; and yield in 2018 (corresponding to the year-on-year improvement in (iii) 15,073 preference shares to Géry Robert-Ambroix. the triple adjusted net asset value (NNNAV EPRA) and including It stipulates (i) continued presence in the Company at the end of dividend discounts for the same year), compared to a panel of each vesting period, and (ii) the following performance criteria: comparable real estate companies; and (ii) improvement in the consolidated “Recurring Earnings Per Share” of the Carmila • change in the total shareholder return (corresponding to the Group in 2018 relative to the subscription price of the July 2017 year-on-year change in the adjusted triple net asset value capital increase, i.e. €24; and (NNNAV) from 31 December 2017 to 31 December 2020 after reintegration of distributions during the period) compared to a panel of comparable real estate companies; 184 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 GOUVERNANCE AND CAPITAL Compensation granted to executive corporate officers • average annual growth in recurring earnings per share • change in the total shareholder return (TSR) corresponding to (corresponding to the average annual growth, expressed as a the change in the Company's stock-exchange price over the percentage, of recurring earnings per share of Carmila for the vesting period compared with that of a panel of comparable year ended 31 December 2020 compared with the recurring listed property companies; Carmila's TSR will be calculated based earnings per share of Carmila for the year ended on the average prices at closing in the last 40 trading days in the 31 December 2017, calculated on the number of shares 2021 financial year to which will be added any distributions outstanding at 31 December 2017); and between 1 January 2019 and 31 December 2021, to the closing price on 31 December 2018, i.e. €16.16. • the difference between the 2020 share price (corresponding to the average of the closing prices of the Carmila shares during the The maximum total number of ordinary shares that may be created last 40 trading days of the 2020 financial year, restated for the as a result of the conversion of preference shares granted under possible distribution of a deposit during the period) and the triple these two plans may not represent more than 0.09% of the share net EPRA NAV at 31 December, 2019. capital of the Company at the date of the Shareholders’ Meeting of 16 May 2019 and more than 0.04% for the share allocated to Furthermore, a new allocation was granted, based on the total executive corporate officers. number of shares approved by the Shareholders’ Meeting of 16 May 2018, in favour of a single beneficiary. An additional plan with specific vesting/holding periods was approved on 24 October 2018 6.2.3.5 Obligation for executive corporate by the Board of Directors which decided to grant 7,537 preference officers to retain bonus shares shares to Sébastien Vanhoove, subject to the same conditions of and obligation for executive corporate continued presence and performance as those governing the bonus preference share plan approved on 16 May 2018 and referred to officers to hold Company shares above. Yves Cadelano lost his rights to the allocation of the same Executive corporate officers are subject to an obligation to keep number of preference shares following his departure on 31 July 2018. free shares. The Board of Directors decided, at its meeting of 12 June 2017, to renew the terms set in 2016 and to set the retention Jacques Ehrmann retained his rights to the 22,804 Preference obligations as follows: Shares ( B Shares ) received on 16 May 2019, under the provisions of the 2018 Preference Share Plan, allocated by the Board meeting on • for the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer: 50% of the total the same day. However, he lost his rights to any other bonus or number of bonus shares awarded within the limit of 1.5 years of preference share plans in respect of his office that had not been gross fixed compensation; vested or converted into ordinary shares. • for the Deputy Chief Executive Officers: 50% of the total number of bonus shares awarded within the limit of 1 year of gross fixed 6.2.3.4 2019 Bonus preference share plan compensation. During 2019, following a decision taken by the Board of Directors on In addition, Article 1.6.3 of the Internal Regulations of the Board of 16 May 2019, the Company established a new share plan in the form Directors of Carmila provides for an obligation to hold the of bonus preference shares convertible into ordinary shares, Company’s shares by executive corporate officers for the duration awarded to the Company’s senior executives and employees of their mandates, up to 10,000 shares for the Chairman and Chief according to the achievement of given performance criteria Executive Officer, and 5,000 shares for the Deputy Chief Executive (described below), involving a total of 144,906 preference shares, Officers. including the allocation of: (i) 6,962 preference shares to Sébastien Vanhoove; and (ii) 16,244 preference shares to Géry Robert-Ambroix. This plan stipulates (i) continued presence in the Company at the end of each vesting period, and (ii) the following performance criteria: • change in the total shareholder return (corresponding to the year-on-year change in the adjusted triple net asset value (NNNAV) from 31 December 2018 to 31 December 2021, after the reintegration of the distributions during the period) compared to a panel of comparable real estate companies; • the annual growth in recurrent earnings per share for years 2019, 2020 and 2021 compared with the growth commitment made to the financial markets by the Company at the start of each year 6 upon on the publication of company results for year n-1; • the percentage of appraisal value, fees included, of assets in the Company's portfolio for which environmental certification was obtained as of 31 December 2021; CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 185 GOUVERNANCE AND CAPITAL 6. Share capital and shareholder structure 6.3 Share capital and shareholder structure free share subscription warrants for a maximum amount of 6.3.1 Share capital €556,263,888 (including share issue premium, excluding exercise of the over-allotment option), corresponding to a maximum nominal capital increase of €139,065,972 plus a maximum aggregate issue 6.3.1.1 Share capital – Historical data premium of €417,197,916. It should be noted that Carrefour (CRFP November 1999: Cross Systems Company (former company name 13) would subscribe to 2,083,334 new shares for a total amount of of Carrefour Property Development, subsequently named Cardety, €50,000,016 (including issue premium). The free share subscription thereafter named Carmila) introduced on the Paris Stock Exchange warrants granted the right to subscribe to new shares at a par value Nouveau Marché. of six (6) euros, ranking pari passu with the Company’s existing shares, on the basis of nine free warrants to two new shares (see the October 2008: Acquisition by the Carrefour group (CRFP 13 and Offering Circular approved by the AMF on 23 June 2017, under CRFP 16 companies) of shares of the Company representing 98.51% authorisation number 17-298, issued at the time of the transaction). of its share capital and 98.50% of its voting rights. On 25 July 2017, the Chairman and CEO of the Company noted that June 2014: The Shareholders’ Meeting approved a capital increase a total number of 104,057,181 free share subscription warrants had of €10,625,672 through the capitalisation of share premiums and been exercised during the financial year, at an exercise price of €24 reserves, thus bringing the Company’s share capital from €5,312,836 per new share and reported that a total number of 23,123,818 new to €15,938,508, with an increase in the par value of the Company’s shares had been fully subscribed (corresponding to a nominal shares from €2 to €6. capital increase of €138,742,908 plus an aggregate issue premium of July-August 2014: Following the Company’s disposal of its €416,228,724), raising the Company’s share capital from Mondevillage asset and of securities pertaining to Société du Centre €653,209,374 to €791,952,282. Commercial de Lescar, Carrefour (CRFP 13) launched a public tender In addition, on 6 July 2017, acting pursuant to the sub-delegation of offer for shares held by the Company’s minority shareholders and authority granted to him by the Board of Directors on 23 June 2017 acquired 1,615 shares at €19.20 per share. under the forty-seventh resolution of the Shareholders’ meeting of December 2014: Disposal by the Carrefour group of shares of the 12 June 2017, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer decided to Company, representing 41.20% of its share capital, to a number of issue, without preferential subscription rights, 3,143,750 share third-party investors as part of a private placement. Following these subscription warrants, reserved for Morgan Stanley & Co. disposals, the Carrefour group, through CRFP 13, held International plc, acting in the name of and on behalf of the 1,541,412 shares, representing 58.03% of the Company’s share capital. underwriters connected with the placement, as part of the overallotment option. Each warrant was issued for a unit subscription January 2015: The Company chose the tax regime applicable to price of €0.0001 and gave the right to subscribe to one new share Listed Real Estate Investment Companies (Sociétés d’Investissement at a par value of six (6) euros, ranking pari passu with existing Immobilier Cotées or SIIC) effective from 1 January 2015. shares, with a request filed for their admission to trading on the March 2016: The Company carried out a capital increase, with Euronext Paris regulated market on the same listing line as the preferential subscription rights, which was fully subscribed by the existing shares of the Company, corresponding to a maximum end of the subscription period, 6 April 2016. The gross proceeds of nominal capital increase of €75,450,000 (including share issue the capital increase, including the share premium, amounted to premium) in the event that all warrants were exercised. €36 million, represented by the issue of 1,660,260 new shares. The On 28 July 2017, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer noted share capital then comprised 4,316,678 shares with a par value of €6. that 3,067,982 share subscription warrants had been exercised at an May 2016: The Shareholders’ Meeting approved the change of the exercise price of €24 per new share, and further noted the company’s name from its prior name “Carrefour Property subsequent issue, on 31 July 2017, of 3,067,982 new shares Development” to “Cardety”. Shares in the Company are thereafter (corresponding to a nominal capital increase of €18,407,892 plus an listed under the new mnemonic “CARD”. aggregate issue premium of €55,223,676), raising the Company’s share capital from €791,952,282 to €810,360,174. June 2017: The Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of 12 June 2017 approved the merger by absorption of Carmila SAS by the May 2018: The Shareholders' Meeting held on 16 May 2018 voted to Company. A corresponding “E Document” describing the offer shareholders an option to receive the balance of the 2017 transaction, was created and filed with the AMF on 5 May 2017 dividend payment in shares (i.e. €0.75 per share). Acting upon subunder No. E.17-040. The exchange ratio of one share of the delegation granted by the Board of Directors at its meeting Company for three shares of Carmila SAS was applied. of 16 May 2018, the Company’s Chairman & CEO decided, on As consideration for this exchange ratio, 104,551,551 new shares of 12 June 2018, to carry out a capital increase via the allocation of the Company were issued by the Company by way of a capital 1,501,666 bonus shares, corresponding to a capital increase for a increase in the nominal amount of €627,309,306, on the terms maximum nominal amount of €9,009,996, raising the Company’s established in the draft Merger agreement. On conclusion of the share capital from €810,360,174 to €819,370,170. Merger, the Company’s share capital, which had previously May 2019: On 16 May 2019, the Board of Directors of Carmila noted amounted to €25,900,068, had increased to €653,209,374. The the entry into force of the amendments to the bylaws in respect of Company’s shares are now listed under the new mnemonic code the eleventh resolution adopted by the Shareholders' Meeting on “CARM”. 16 May 2018 and noted the definitive allocation of 112,611 B-Class June-July 2017: The Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of Shares, increasing the share capital from €819,370,170 to 12 June 2017, in its thirty-seventh resolution, also delegated authority €820,045,836. to the Board of Directors, for a period of twenty-six months from B-Class Shares are preference shares that entitle the holder to a the date of the aforesaid meeting, to increase the Company’s share maximum of one (1) ordinary share (A-Class Share), provided that capital, in particular, through the issue of transferable securities the performance conditions of the bonus share allocation plan are giving immediate or future access to the Company’s capital, with met. B-Class Shares do not entitle the holder to voting rights or preferential subscription rights upheld. dividends. Acting upon sub-delegation granted by the Board of Directors at its October 2019: On 24 October 2019, the Chairman and CEO noted meeting of 23 June 2017, the Chairman and CEO decided, on the definitive allocation of 7,537 B-Class Shares, increasing the share 6 July 2017, to carry out a capital increase through the allocation of capital from €820,045,836 to €820,091,058. 186 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 GOUVERNANCE AND CAPITAL Share capital and shareholder structure The table below shows the change in the Company’s share capital over the last three financial years: 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Share capital €820,091,058 €819,370,170 €810,360,174 Number of Class-A(1) Shares 136,561,695 136,561,695 135,060,029 Number of Class-B(2) Shares 120,148 N/A N/A Theoretical number of voting rights(3) 136,561,695 136,561,695 135,060,029 Actual number of voting rights(3) 136,408,412 136,332,347 134,946,290 (1) Class-A Shares are ordinary shares. (2) Class-B Shares are preference shares and do not entitle the holder to voting rights or dividends. (3) The theoretical number of voting rights is calculated based on shares at 31 December 2019, less Class-B Shares. (4) The actual number of voting rights is calculated based on shares at 31 December 2019, less Class-B Shares, and 153,286 treasury shares that do not entitle the holder to voting rights. The table below shows the change in share capital during the financial year 2019: Period Number of shares Share capital (in euros) 1 January 2019 136,561,695 €819,370,170 136,561,695 Class-A Shares 16 May 2019 €820,045,836 112,611 Class-B Shares 136,561,695 Class-A Shares 24 October 2019 €820,091,058 120,148 Class-B Shares 6.3.1.2 Share capital subscribed at 31 December 2019 At 31 December 2019, the Company’s share capital amounted to €820,091,058, distributed among 136,561,695 shares with a par value of six (6) euros each, fully subscribed and paid up, and all of the same share class and 120,148 B-Class preference shares, each with par value of six (6) euros. 6 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 187 GOUVERNANCE AND CAPITAL 6. Share capital and shareholder structure 6.3.1.3 Share capital authorised but not issued The table below sets out the current, valid delegations granted to the Board of Directors by the Shareholders' Meeting held on 16 May 2019: Utilisations Term of the during the Resolution Subject of the resolution Maximum nominal amount authorisation financial year Authorisation granted to the Board of Directors so that it may 10% of the Company’s share 14 18 months carry out transactions in the Company’s shares capital 0.13% of the Company's share Delegation of authority granted to the Board of Directors capital (after conversion of See Section 15 38 months to allocate bonus preference shares to be issued. preference shares into ordinary 6.3.3.1 shares) Delegation of authority granted to the Board of Directors so that it may decide to increase the share capital of the €500 million corresponding Company, or that of another company, through the issue to capital increases(1) 17 26 months None of shares and/or transferable securities giving immediate €2 billion for the issuance or future access to the Company’s share capital, with of debt securities preferential subscription rights upheld Delegation of authority granted to the Board of Directors so that it may decide to increase the share capital of the €165 million corresponding Company, or that of another company, through the issue to capital increases(1) 18 26 months None of shares and/or transferable securities giving immediate €1 billion for the issuance or future access to the Company’s share capital, to be issued of debt securities by public offering, without preferential subscription rights Delegation of authority granted to the Board of Directors so that it may decide to increase the share capital of the Company, or that of another company, through the issue €165 million corresponding of shares and/or transferable securities giving immediate to capital increases(1)(2) 19 26 months None or future access to the Company’s share capital, to be issued €1 billion for the issuance by a securities placement pursuant to Article L. 411-2 of the of debt securities French Monetary and Financial Code, without preferential subscription rights Authorisation granted to the Board of Directors to issue €85 million corresponding shares and/or transferable securities giving immediate to capital increases(1) 20 or future access to shares to be issued by the Company as 26 months None €1 billion for the issuance consideration for contributions in kind consisting of securities of debt securities or transferable securities giving access to share capital Determination of the issuance price, which is not to exceed 10% of the share capital per year, as part of a capital No more than 10% of the share 21 NA increase by issuance of equity shares without preferential capital per year subscription rights Delegation of authority granted to the Board of Directors 22 to approve the capital increase by way of incorporation €500 million 26 months None of premiums, reserves, benefits or other resources Delegation of authority granted to the Board of Directors Limit stipulated by the applicable to increase the number of securities to be issued 23 regulations (currently 15% of the 26 months None in the event of a capital increase with or without initial issue)(1) preferential subscription rights Delegation of authority granted to the Board of Directors to approve the capital increase of the Company by issuance of shares and/or transferable securities giving immediate 24 €85 million(1) 26 months None or future access to the share capital, without preferential subscription rights, reserved for members of company savings plans No more than 10% of the shares Authorisation to be granted to the Board of Directors 25 making up the Company’s share 26 months None to reduce the share capital by cancelling treasury shares capital (1)The maximum total nominal amount of the capital increases that may be carried out by virtue of this delegation will count towards the total maximum limit set at €500 million. (2)The maximum total nominal amount of the capital increases that may be carried out by virtue of this delegation will count towards the maximum limit for the nominal amount of capital increases by issuance of shares and/or securities giving immediate or future access to the share capital, to be issued by public offering without preferential subscription rights, which is set at €165 million by the 18th resolution. 6.3.1.4 Securities not representing As part of this programme, the Company issued a new bond (private placement) on 6 November 2019 with a maturity of 12 years share capital and a coupon of 1.89%. Carmila’s outstanding bond debt of €1,550 at On 26 June 2019, the Company's Board of Directors authorised the end-2018 rose to €1,600 at end-2019. implementation of a Euro Medium Term Note Programme (EMTN) with a €1.5 billion limit. On 17 July 2019, the Company obtained authorisation from the French Financial Market Authority (AMF) for its EMTN programme under approval number 19-364. 188 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 GOUVERNANCE AND CAPITAL Share capital and shareholder structure 6.3.1.5 Shares controlled by the Company, treasury stock and purchase by Carmila of its own shares Background and current situation The Company’s Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of 16 May 2019 authorised the Board of Directors, for a period of 18 months, to implement a share buyback programme to buyback the Company’s own shares, pursuant to the provisions of Article L. 225-209 of the French Commercial Code and in accordance with the AMF General Regulations, under the conditions specified below. This authorisation replaced the authorisation previously granted by the Company’s Shareholders' Meeting of 16 May 2018 to trade in its own shares. Transaction Term of the authorisation Maximum unit price Maximum Amount Maximum number of shares Share repurchase programme 18 months €50 €50 million 10% of the Company’s share capital These shares may be acquired at any time up to the limits The maximum purchase price of the shares as part of this authorised by applicable legal or regulatory provisions, including repurchase programme is set at €50 (or the equivalent amount in during a takeover bid and/or exchange offer initiated by the any other currency on the same date). Company or by another party in relation to the Company’s securities, for the following purposes: Summary of share repurchase program • the implementation of any stock option plan for the Company For each of the purposes pursued, the number of securities pursuant to Articles L. 225-177 et seq. of the French Commercial purchased was as follows: Code or any similar plan; (1) Liquidity agreement • the allocation or sale of shares to employees as part of their On the settlement date of 31 December 2019, under the liquidity participation in a Company profit-sharing plan and/or the contract entrusted by Carmila to EXANE BNP PARIBAS, the implementation of any employee savings plan pursuant to following assets were in the liquidity account: applicable law, in particular Articles L. 3332-1 et seq. of the French Labour Code; • 46,576 Carmila shares; • the allocation of free shares pursuant to Articles L. 225-197-1 et • €1,795,625. seq. of the French Commercial Code; or You are reminded that at the last half-year review (30 June 2019) • generally satisfying obligations under stock option plans or other the following resources were affected to the liquidity account: allocations of shares to employees or corporate officers of the • 86,460 Carmila shares; issuer or an affiliated company; • €1,039,123. • delivery of shares upon exercising voting rights attached to securities granting access to the issuer’s share capital via Over 2019, 395,922 shares were purchased at an average price of redemption, conversion, exchange, presentation of a bond or any €16.54 per share and 450,836 shares were sold at an average price other manner; of €16.86 per share. • management of the secondary market or the liquidity of the (2) Acquisition for the purposes of bonus share plans Company’s shares by an investment services provider, under a for employees and corporate officers (L. 225-197-1 et seq. liquidity agreement in accordance with the Code of Ethics of the of the French Commercial Code) French Financial Markets Association recognised by the AMF, in In 2019, the Company did not award any contracts to investment accordance with the market practice permitted by the AMF. service providers (ISPs) to hedge bonus share plans for employees The company may also: and executive corporate officers. • proceed with the cancellation of all or part of the shares thus (3) Cancellation bought back, provided that the Board of Directors has a valid In 2019, the Company did not cancel any shares. authorisation from the Shareholders' Meeting, acting in an extraordinary capacity, enabling it to reduce the share capital by (4) Sale of treasury shares cancelling shares purchased as part of a share-buyback programme; or In 2019, the Company did not sell any shares. • retain them with a view to issuing them at a later date as As at 31 December 2019, the Company holds 153,283 treasury shares 6 directly, representing a value €2,676,000 on the basis of the book payment or in exchange as part of or following any acquisitions. value and €6 per share in par value. This programme is also intended to allow the Company to engage in As of 31 March 2020, the Company holds 190,337 treasury shares any other activity that is currently authorised or that may in the representing approximately 0.14% of the capital. Consequently, the future be authorised by law or by the regulations in force, including maximum number of additional shares that can theoretically be any market practice that may be permitted by the AMF subsequent purchased under this authorisation is 13,477,847 shares to the Shareholders’ Meeting of 16 May 2019 and, more generally, the (i.e. approximately 99.86% of the share capital. performance of any other operation in compliance with the regulations currently in force. In such an event, the Company will inform its shareholders by way of a press release. CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 189 GOUVERNANCE AND CAPITAL 6. Share capital and shareholder structure The Company’s position as at 31 December 2019 and 31 March 2020 is as follows: 31/12/2019 31/03/2020 Number of shares held in the portfolio 153,283 190,337 Percentage of self-owned capital directly and indirectly 0.11% 0.14% Number of shares cancelled in the last 24 months None None Book value of portfolio (in euros) €2,676,000 €3,083,730 Market value of portfolio (in euros) €3,065,660 €2,466,768 The authorisation granted on 16 May 2019, in force on the filing date This programme is also intended to allow the Company to engage in of this document, will end after a period of eighteen months i.e. on any other activity that is currently authorised or that may in the 16 November 2021, unless a new share buyback programme is future be authorised by law or by the regulations in force, including authorised by the next Shareholders’ Meeting to be held on any market practice that may be permitted by the AMF subsequent 29 June 2020. to this Shareholders’ Meeting and, more generally, the performance of any other operation in compliance with the regulations currently Share repurchase programme submitted to the Ordinary in force. In such an event, the Company will inform its shareholders Shareholders’ Meeting of Shareholders on 29 June 2020 by way of a press release. A motion will be put to the Shareholders’ Meeting on 29 June 2020 A number of Company shares may be purchased such that, as of the to renew the authorisation given to the Board of Directors by the date of each repurchase, the total number of shares purchased by Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting on 16 May 2019 to carry out the Company since the start of the repurchase programme transactions in the Company’s shares in the following conditions: (including those currently being repurchased) must not exceed 10% 20th resolution (Authorisation will be granted to the Board of of the shares making up the Company's share capital. This Directors so that it may carry out transactions in the Company’s percentage applies to capital adjusted for transactions that may shares). The Shareholders’ Meeting, with the conditions of quorum affect the share capital subsequent to this Shareholders' Meeting. and majority required for ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings met, It should be noted that having read the report of the Board of Directors, hereby authorises (i) where Company shares are to be purchased to promote the Board of Directors, with the power to delegate in accordance liquidity under the conditions set out under the General with the provisions of Articles L. 225-209 et seq. of the French Regulations of the French Financial Market Authority, the Commercial Code and pursuant to the conditions set out in Articles number of shares factored in when calculating the 241-1 et seq. of the AMF General Regulations, European Regulation aforementioned 10% limit shall correspond to the number of (EU) No. 596/2014 of the European Parliament and Council of shares purchased, less any shares resold in the period in 16 April 2014, the European Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) question; No. 2016/1052 of 8 March 2016 and market practices accepted by (ii) the number of shares vested to be retained and remitted at a the AMF, to purchase or arrange for the purchase of shares in the later date as part of a merger, spinoff or contribution may not Company, particularly with a view to: exceed 5% of the share capital; and • the implementation of any stock option plan for the Company (iii) the number of shares held by the Company at any given time pursuant to Articles L. 225-177 et seq. of the French Commercial may not exceed 10% of the shares that make up the Code or any similar plan; or Company's share capital on the date in question. • the allocation or sale of shares to employees as part of their Shares may be purchased, sold, exchanged or transferred at any time, in one or more instalments, within the limits authorised by the sharing the profits of the Company’s expansion and/ or the legal and regulatory provisions in force, and through any means, implementation of any group or company employee savings plan particularly on regulated markets, multilateral trading systems, using pursuant to applicable law, in particular Articles L. 3332-1 et seq. systematic or ad-hoc internalisers, including through the acquisition of the French Labour Code; or sale of blocks, public offers of purchase, sale or exchange or • the allocation of free shares pursuant to Articles L. 225-197-1 et through the use of options or other financial instruments ultimately seq. of the French Commercial Code; or traded on regulated markets, multilateral trading systems, using systematic or adhoc internalisers, or through the reissuing of • generally satisfying obligations under stock option plans or other shares following the issuance of securities giving access to the allocations of shares to employees or corporate officers of the Company’s share capital through the conversion, repayment or issuer or an affiliated company; or exercising a bond, either directly or indirectly through an investment service provider, or in any other way with no limit on the portion of • delivery of shares upon exercising voting rights attached to the repurchase programme that may be realised using any of these securities granting access to the issuer’s share capital via methods). Subject to the legal and regulatory provisions in force, redemption, conversion, exchange, presentation of a bond or any these transactions may be performed at any time. other manner; The maximum share price covered by this authorisation is at €50 • management of the secondary market or the liquidity of the (fifty euros) per share (or the equivalent amount in any other Company’s shares by an investment services provider, under a currency on the same date). The total amount allocated to the liquidity agreement in accordance with the Code of Ethics of the repurchase programme authorised above may not exceed French Financial Markets Association recognised by the AMF; or €50,000,000 (fifty million euros). and authorises the company to In event of a change in the share price, the increase in capital through the incorporation of reserves, the allocation of bonus • cancellation of all or part of the shares thus bought back, shares, stock split or reverse stock stick, capital depreciation or any provided that the Board of Directors has a valid authorisation other transaction on the share capital or equity, the Shareholders’ from the Shareholders’ Meeting, acting in an extraordinary Meeting delegates to the Board of Directors the power to adjust the capacity, enabling it to reduce the share capital by cancelling aforementioned purchase price so as to take into account the effect shares purchased as part of a share-buyback programme; of these transactions on the share price. • retaining them with a view to issuing them at a later date as The Shareholders’ Meeting grants the Board of Directors, who may payment or in exchange as part of or following any acquisitions. delegate under the conditions set out in law, decision-making powers and the power to implement this authorisation, to specify, where necessary, the wording and set the procedure for implementing the repurchase programme, and particularly to issue any stock exchange instruction, enter into any agreements, particularly to keep the share register, to allocate and reallocate the shares acquired for the objectives set out in the relevant legal and regulatory conditions, to set the procedures for maintaining the rights of owners of securities giving access to capital or other shares giving access to capital in accordance with the legal and regulatory provisions and, where relevant, contractual provisions relating to other cases of adjustment, to make any declarations to the AMF and 190 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 GOUVERNANCE AND CAPITAL Share capital and shareholder structure any other authority, to perform any formalities and, in general 6.3.1.7 Conditions governing rights of terms, to do as required. acquisition and/or obligations attached The Shareholders’ Meeting decided that the Board of Directors may to capital subscribed, but not paid-up not use this authorisation and continue its repurchase programme in the event of a public offering of the shares or securities issued by None. the Company. From this Shareholders’ Meeting, this authorisation replaces any 6.3.1.8 Share capital of any Group companies unused part of any previous delegation granted to the Board of subject to options or option Directors to trade in Company shares. It is granted for an eighteen agreements month period from this Shareholders’ Meeting. None. 6.3.1.6 Securities giving access to the share capital As of the date of this document, there are no securities in circulation that are exchangeable, convertible or that include subscription warrants with respect to shares of the Company or its subsidiaries. 6.3.2 Shareholding structure 6.3.2.1 Description of the Company's shareholding structure At 31 December 2019, the Company’s share capital was held as follows: Percentage of Percentage of Shareholders Number of shares share capital(7) voting rights(8) CRFP 13(1) 48,288,568 35.33% 35.40% Prédica(2) 12,564,212 9.19% 9.21% Cardif Assurance Vie(3) 12,060,973 8.82% 8.84% Colkart Sarl(4) 10,087,738 7.38% 7.40% SA Sogecap(5) 7,759,603 5.68% 5.68% Colkart II Sarl(6) 1,973,903 1.44% 1.45% Treasury shares 153,283 0.11% NA Management and employees 165,977 0.12% 0.12% Class-B Shares 120,148 0.09% None Public 43,507,438 31.83% 31.89% TOTAL 136,681,843 100.00% 100.00% (1)CRFP 13 is controlled by Carrefour. (2)Prédica is controlled by Crédit Agricole Assurances, which is itself controlled by Crédit Agricole SA. (3)Cardif Assurance Vie is controlled by BNP Paribas. (4)Colkart Sarl is controlled by Colkart Investment SCS whose general partner and manager is Colony Retail Europe III Sarl. (5)SA Sogecap is controlled by Société Générale. (6)Colkart II Sarl is controlled by Colkart Investment II SCS, whose managing general partner is Colony Retail Europe III Sarl. (7) Calculated on the basis of the 136,681,843 shares that make up the share capital. (8) Calculated on the basis of the 136,408,412 shares, 120,148 Class-B Shares and 153,283 treasury shares in the company that do not entitle the holder to voting rights. 6.3.2.2 Transactions involving the share of Directors voted to approve a Class-C (Class-C Shares) preference share plan, subject to a one-year vesting period, the terms of which 6 capital of the Company during are set out in paragraph 6.3.3.1 of this document. the last financial year and the present financial year 6.3.2.3 Threshold crossing declarations Acting on the authorisation given by Carmila's Shareholders' Pursuant to Article L. 233-7 of the French Commercial Code, any Meeting on 16 May 2018, at its meeting on the same day, the Board natural person or legal entity, acting alone or in concert, that comes of Directors voted to approve an initial Class-B (Class-B Shares) to hold a number of shares representing more than 5%, 10%, 15%, preference share plan, subject to a one-year vesting period, the 20%, 25%, 30%, 33.33%, 50%, 66.66%, 90% or 95% of the Company’s terms of which are set out in paragraph 6.3.3.1 of this document. share capital or voting rights, must report their holding to the The aforementioned Shareholders' Meeting had decided to amend Company and to the AMF, indicating the total number of shares and the Bylaws to reflect this at the end of that vesting period. the total number of voting rights held, within a period of four trading Consequently, at its meeting on 16 May 2019, the Board of Directors days from the date the applicable threshold is crossed. The AMF voted to increase the share capital by €675,666 by creating will ensure the public disclosure of any threshold crossings reported 112,611 B-Class Shares, and amending the bylaws to reflect this. to it. This information must also be conveyed, in the same time Acting on the authorisation given by Carmila's Shareholders' period and under the same conditions, when the percentage of Meeting on 16 May 2018, at its meeting on 24 October 2018, share capital or voting rights falls below the thresholds referred to the Board of Directors voted to approve a second Class-B above. If threshold crossings are not properly disclosed, the shares (Class‑B Shares) preference share plan, subject to a one-year vesting exceeding the percentage that should have been disclosed in period. Following this vesting period, on 24 October 2019, at its accordance with the legal provisions specified here above, shall be meeting on the same day the Board of Directors voted to increase stripped of their voting right at any Shareholders’ Meeting held up to the share capital by €45,222 by creating 7,537 Class-B Shares and to two years following the date on which the threshold crossing is amend the Bylaws to reflect this. finally reported. Acting on the authorisation given by Carmila's Shareholders' In addition to the legal thresholds, Article 8 of Carmila’s bylaws Meeting on 16 May 2019, at its meeting on the same day, the Board provides that any natural person or legal entity, acting alone or in CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 191 GOUVERNANCE AND CAPITAL 6. Share capital and shareholder structure concert, who holds a number of shares representing 1% or more of the event of failure to declare the crossing of thresholds specified in the share capital or of voting rights, up to a total of 30% of the share Carmila’s own bylaws, at the request of one or more shareholders capital or voting rights, must inform the Company of the total holding at least 5% of the share capital or voting rights of the number of shares and voting rights held, as well as the number of Company, such request being duly recorded in the minutes of the securities giving access to the share capital in the future, and any Shareholders’ Meeting. voting rights potentially attached to those shares, and any shares A standard form to declare the crossing of a legal threshold is that such person may acquire by virtue of an agreement or financial available on the AMF website. instrument. In each case, the information must be conveyed by registered letter with acknowledgement of receipt within five To the best of the Company’s knowledge, and since trading days after crossing the applicable threshold. The obligation 31 December 2018: to inform the Company also applies in cases where the interest of the relevant holder of share capital or voting rights falls below the • CDC Croissance, controlled by La Caisse des Dépôts, notified the thresholds mentioned above. Company and the AMF that it had crossed the legal shareholding threshold when its interest in the Company’s share capital was In the event of failure to comply with the obligation to declare reduced by 0.99% on 9 August 2019, bringing the number of the crossing of a legal threshold, the penalties provided for in shares it holds in the Company to 1,364,804. Article L. 233-14 of the French Commercial Code shall also apply in 6.3.2.4 Shareholders’ agreements None. 6.3.2.5 Transactions on the Company’s securities by corporate officers, including senior executives and related persons Pursuant to the provisions of Article 223-26 of the AMF General Regulation, we hereby inform you of transactions carried out in the 2019 financial year by the persons referred to in Article L. 621-18-2 of the French Monetary and Financial Code: Corporate officer at Nature of Transaction First name / Last name the Company on the Nature of the the financial Number Unit price amount Transaction date or company name day of the transaction transaction instrument of shares (in euros) (in euros) 09/05/2019 Sébastien Vanhoove Deputy CEO Acquisition Share 1,000 19.0958 19,095.80 01/08/2019 Alexandre de Palmas Chairman and CEO Acquisition Share 2,000 15.0200 30,040 23/09/2019 Alexandre de Palmas Chairman and CEO Acquisition Share 1,032 15.2000 15,686.40 6.3.2.6 Employee share ownership The Company has introduced four free share plans as a means of retaining its best-performing employees. For further details, refer to Section 6.3.3 below. Shares held by Group employees and its corporate officers within the meaning of Article L. 225-102 of the French Commercial Code, representing 0.12% of share capital at 31 December 2019. 192 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 GOUVERNANCE AND CAPITAL Share capital and shareholder structure As Yves Cadélano forfeited his share allocation rights following his 6.3.3 Stock option plan and departure from the Company on 31 July 2018, a new allocation was performance share plans made based on the total number of shares approved by the Shareholders’ Meeting of 16 May 2018, in favour of a single beneficiary. An additional plan with specific vesting/holding periods was approved on 24 October 2018 by the Board of Directors which 6.3.3.1 Description of the plans decided to grant 7,537 preference shares to Sébastien Vanhoove, On 12 June 2017, prior to the Merger, Carmila SAS had introduced a subject to the same conditions of continued presence and new bonus share allocation plan under the delegation granted by performance as those governing the bonus preference share plan the Company's Shareholders' Meeting on 14 April 2016, for the approved on 16 May 2018 and referred to above ( PSP 2018 benefit of senior executives and employees of the Carmila Group, Number 2 ). involving a total of 290,993 shares, including 62,294 shares allocated The maximum total number of ordinary shares that may be created to Jacques Ehrmann, 15,441 shares to Yves Cadélano and as a result of the conversion of preference shares granted under 30,882 shares to Géry Robert-Ambroix, corresponding to respective these two plans may not represent more than 0.09% of the share allocations of 20,764, 5,147 and 10,294 shares in the Company, once capital of the Company at the date of the Shareholders’ Meeting of the Merger exchange ratio (one Cardety share for three Carmila May 16, 2019 and more than 0.04% for the share allocated to SAS shares) had been taken into account. (the 2017 Performance Plan ). The 2017 plan is conditional upon (i) continued employment executive corporate officers (1). at the end of each vesting period, and (ii) the following performance During 2019, following a decision taken by the Board of Directors on conditions, for 50% of the shares: 16 May 2019, the Company established a new share plan in the form • for the financial year 2018, (i) improvement in the Group’s total of bonus preference shares ( Class-C Shares ) convertible into yield in 2018 (corresponding to the year-on-year improvement in ordinary shares, awarded to the Company’s senior executives and the triple adjusted net asset value (NNNAV EPRA) and including employees according to the achievement of given performance dividend discounts for the same year), compared to a panel of criteria (described below), involving a total of 144,906 preference comparable real estate companies; and (ii) improvement in the shares, including the allocation of, 6 962 preference shares to consolidated Recurring Earnings Per Share of the Carmila Group Sébastien Vanhoove and 16,244 preference shares to Géry Robertin 2018 relative to the subscription price of one Carmila share; Ambroix ( PSP 2019 ). As it was noted at the meeting that Jacques and Ehrmann would be leaving the Board of Directors, no preference shares were granted to him under this plan. • for the financial year 2019, (i) improvement in the Group’s total This plan stipulates (i) continued presence in the Company at the yield in 2019 (corresponding to the year-on-year improvement in end of each vesting period, and (ii) the following performance the triple adjusted net asset value (NNNAV EPRA) and including criteria: dividend discounts for the same year), compared to a panel of comparable real estate companies; and (ii) improvement in the • change in the total shareholder return (corresponding to the consolidated Recurring Earnings Per Share of the Carmila year-on-year change in the adjusted triple net asset value Group in 2019 relative to the subscription price of one Carmila (NNNAV) from 31 December 2018 to 31 December 2021, after the share. reintegration of the distributions during the period) compared to a panel of comparable real estate companies; Pursuant to applicable law, as of the date of the Merger, the Company is automatically substituted for Carmila SAS, the acquiree, • the annual growth in recurring earnings per share for years 2019, with respect to its obligations to the beneficiaries of free shares. 2020 and 2021 compared with the growth commitment made to the financial markets by the Company at the start of each year During 2018, following a decision taken by the Board of Directors on upon on the publication of company results for year n-1; 16 May 2018, the Company established a new share plan in the form of bonus preference shares ( Class-B Shares ) convertible into • the percentage of appraisal value, including transfer taxes, of ordinary shares ( Class-A Shares ) , awarded to the Company’s assets in the Company's portfolio for which environmental senior executives and employees according to the achievement of certification was obtained as of 31 December 2021; given performance criteria (described below), for its executives and employees. The total allowance was 125,746 preference shares, of • change in the total shareholder return (TSR) corresponding to which 22,804 preference shares allocated to Jacques Ehrmann, the change in the Company's stock-exchange price over the 7,537 preference shares to Yves Cadelano and 15,073 preference vesting period compared with that of a panel of comparable shares to Géry Robert-Ambroix ( PSP 2018 Number 1 ). This plan listed property companies. Carmila's TSR will be calculated based stipulates (i) continued presence in the Company at the end of each on the average prices at closing in the last 40 trading days in the vesting period, and (ii) the following performance criteria: 2021 financial year to which will be added any distributions • change in the total shareholder return (corresponding to the between 1 January 2019 and 31 December 2021, to the closing price on 31 December 2018, i.e. €16.16. year-on-year change in the adjusted triple net asset value 6 (NNNAV) from 31 December 2017 to 31 December 2020, after the The maximum total number of ordinary shares that may be created reintegration of the distributions during the period) compared to as a result of the conversion of Class-C preference shares granted a panel of comparable real estate companies; under this plan may not represent more than 0.11% of the share capital of the Company at the date of the Shareholders’ Meeting of • average annual growth in recurring earnings per share 16 May 2019 and more than 0.02% for the share allocated to (corresponding to the average annual growth, expressed as a executive corporate officers. percentage, of recurring earnings per share of Carmila for the year ended 31 December 2020 compared with the recurring earnings per share of Carmila for the year ended 31 December 2017, calculated on the number of shares outstanding at 31 December 2017); and • the difference between the 2020 share price (corresponding to the average of the closing prices of the Carmila shares during the last 40 trading days of the 2020 financial year, restated for the possible distribution of a deposit during the period) and the triple net EPRA NAV at 31 December, 2019. (1) Of which Jacques Ehrmann 0.02%, Géry Robert-Ambroix 0.01% and Sébastien Vanhoove 0.01% of the capital. CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 193 GOUVERNANCE AND CAPITAL 6. Share capital and shareholder structure 6.3.3.2 Share plans – Historical data PSP 2018 PSP 2018 Plan name Plan Performance 2017 No. 1 No. 2 PSP 2019 Carmila Shareholders' Meeting date 14/04/2016(3) 16/05/2018 16/05/2018 16/05/2019 Carmila grant date 12/06/2017 16/05/2018 24/10/2018 16/05/2019 Number of recipient 32 47 1 46 Number of Carmila shares originally granted under the plan 96,988 125,746 7,537 144,906 • incl. Jacques Ehrmann 20,764 22,804 NA • incl. Alexandre de Palmas NA NA NA NA • incl. Géry Robert-Ambroix 10,294 15,073 NA 16,244 • incl. Yves Cadélano 5,147 7,537 NA NA • incl. Sébastien Vanhoove NA NA 7,537 6,962 • incl. other employees 60,783 80,332 NA 121,700 Remaining number of shares to be granted as of 31/12/2019 36,138 112,611 7,537 140,806 Issue date and definitive acquisition of the Class-B Shares(1) NA 16/05/2019 24/10/2019 NA Issue date and definitive acquisition of the Class-B Shares(2) NA NA NA 16/05/2020 Date of conversion of preference shares into ordinary 16/05/2021 24/10/2021 16/05/2022 shares (Class-A Shares) 12/06/2019: Employees 50% Acquisition date(s) 12/06/2020: Employees 50% 16/05/2019 24/10/2019 16/05/2020 and corporate officers 100% 12/06/2019: Employees 50% Availability date(s) 12/06/2020: Employees 50% 16/05/2021 24/10/2021 16/05/2022 and corporate officers 100% (1) The preference share plan stipulates that one year after the grant date, Class-B Shares will be created and definitively allocated to the beneficiaries and, in accordance with the plan, will be converted into Carmila ordinary shares, subject to attendance and performance conditions. (2) The preference share plan stipulates that one year after the grant date, Class-C Shares will be created and definitively allocated to the beneficiaries and, in accordance with the plan, will be converted into Carmila ordinary shares, subject to attendance and performance conditions. (3) Plan introduced by Carmila S.A.S. and renewed by Carmila following a decision by the Shareholders' Meeting which voted on the merger on 12 June 2017. 6.3.4 Agreements which may lead 6.3.5 Effects of a tender offer to a change of control or public exchange offer (Article L. 225-37-5 of the French To Carmila’s knowledge, there is no agreement at the date of this Commercial Code) document that could result in a change of control over Carmila at a date subsequent to the Merger. The Company has not issued securities carrying special control rights and no control mechanism is anticipated in the event of an employee shareholding scheme, where the control rights are not exercised directly by the employees. To the best Carmila’s knowledge, as of the date of this document, no agreement exists which would be changed or terminated in the event of a change of control of the Company. Furthermore, no agreements exist providing for indemnities for members of the Board of Directors, or for employees, in the event of their resignation or dismissal without due and serious cause, or if their employment is terminated as a consequence of a tender offer. 194 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 GOUVERNANCE AND CAPITAL Statutory Auditor’s report on the Corporate Governance Report 6.4 The AFEP-MEDEF Code's apply or explain rule In accordance with the Comply or Explain rule of the AFEP-MEDEF Code, the Company lists below the provisions of this Code that have been excluded for fiscal year 2019: AFEP-MEDEF Code recommendations Group policy and explanations A formal evaluation of the Board of Directors is carried out at least As the Company has experienced a change of Chairman and Chief every three years (Article 10.3 of the Code). Executive Officer during fiscal year 2019, the Board of Directors considered that it was irrelevant to carry out a formal evaluation during the fiscal year. However, the Board of Directors did carry out a self-evaluation, the summary of which is set out in section 6.1.2.3 (5) of the Universal Registration Document. A formal evaluation of the Board of Directors will be carried out by an external consultant under the responsibility of the compensation and nominating Committee for the financial year 2020. The compensation and nominating Committee draws up a succession The Company's compensation and nominating Committee has plan for executive corporate officers (Article 17.2.2 of the Code) implemented a succession plan for the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer upon the departure of Mr. Jacques Ehrmann, resulting in the appointment of Mr. Alexandre de Palmas as of July 1, 2019. A new succession plan for executive officers will be submitted by the compensation and nominating Committee to the Board of Directors during the financial year 2020. 6.5 Regulated agreements and commitments under Articles L. 225-38 et seq. and L. 225-42-1 of the French Commercial Code We hereby notify you that an agreement under Articles L. 225-38 et Procedures for evaluating standard and regulated seq. and L. 225-42-1 of the French Commercial Code has been agreements authorised by the Board of Directors as stated in the special report At its meeting on 2 April 2020, the Board of Directors adopted an by the Statutory Auditors in accordance with Article L. 225-40 of internal code for the Carmila Group in order to determine which the aforementioned Code, which must reference all agreements and agreements should be subject to the regulated agreements commitments authorised and entered into during the financial year procedure and as such distinguish them from agreements relating to as well as any previous such agreements and commitments that standard transactions under normal conditions. remained in place in the financial year. Other than a reminder of the regulatory framework applicable to the Indeed, this agreement relating to the secondment of Alexandre de various agreements likely to be entered into, this code includes Palmas from Carrefour France to Carmila SA, following his provision for regular evaluations by the Company of the conditions appointment as Chairman and CEO, will be put to the vote at the under which standard agreements are entered into within the Group. Shareholders' Meeting on 29 June 2020. Any individuals with a direct or indirect interest in any of these Moreover, at its meeting on 13 February 2020, the Board of agreements do not take part in their evaluation. Directors discussed the agreements and commitments entered into and authorised during previous financial years which remained in place in the 2019 financial year. 6.6 Statutory Auditor’s report on the Corporate Governance Report 6 Report included in the Statutory Auditor’s report on the annual financial statements (see Section 7.5). CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 195 196 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 7. 7.1 Annual consolidated 198 financial statements at 31 december 2019 7.1.1 Consolidated statement 198 of comprehensive income 7.1.2 Consolidated statement of financial 199 position 7.1.3 Consolidated cash-flow statement 200 7.1.4 Statement of changes in 201 consolidated Shareholders' equity 7.1.5 Notes to Consolidated Financial 202 Statements 7.2 Statutory auditors’ report 240 on the consolidated financial statements 7.3 Statutory financial 243 statements Financial 7.3.1 Statutory financial statements 243 at 31 December 2019 7.3.2 Notes to the statutory financial 245 statements statements 7.4 Management report to shareholders 258 7.4.1 Key highlights for the year 258 7.4.2 Activity and earnings 258 7.4.3 Information on payables 258 and receivables 7.4.4 Equity interests 259 7.4.5 Net income allocation 259 7.4.6 Earnings for the last five financial 260 years 7.5 Statutory Auditors’ report 261 on the financial statements 7.6 Statutory Auditors’ 264 special report on regulated agreements and commitments CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 197 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7. Annual consolidated financial statements at 31 december 2019 7.1 Annual consolidated financial statements at 31 december 2019 7.1.1 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income(1) (in thousands of euros) Note 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Gross Rental Income 359,457 340,250 Charges rebilled to tenants 79,359 74,799 Total Income from rental activity 438,816 415,049 Real Estate expenses -21,214 -18,659 Service charges -71,307 -71,076 Property expenses (landlord) -13,111 -11,656 Net Rental Income 8.1 333,184 313,658 Overhead expenses 8.2 -52,840 -50,574 Income from management, administration and other activities 10,477 4,595 Other income 1,407 6,631 Payroll expenses -25,145 -24,839 Other overhead expenses -39,579 -36,961 Allowances for depreciation of fixed assets, amortisation of intangible fixed assets 8.3 -3,493 -3,508 and provisions Other operating income and expenses 1,343 -277 Gain (loss) on disposals of investment properties and equity investments 8.4 -610 -1,796 Change in fair value adjustments 5.2 -90 172 13,586 Increase in the fair value of property adjustments 65,118 128,330 Decrease in the fair value of property adjustments -155,290 -114,744 Share in net income of equity-accounted investments 7.3 4,376 3,882 Operating income 191,788 274,971 Financial income 559 384 Financial expense -57,277 -54,011 Cost of net indebtness -56,718 -53,627 Other financial income (expenses) -1,389 -4,931 Financial income (expense) 6.1 -58,107 -58,558 Income before taxes 133,681 216,413 Income tax 9.1 -25,277 -52,804 CONSOLIDATED NET INCOME 108,404 163,609 Group share 108,213 163,557 Non-controlling interests 191 53 Average number of shares comprising Carmila's share capital 7.8.4 136,408,412 135,653,512 Earnings per share, in euros (Group share) 0.79 1.21 Diluted average number of shares comprising Carmila's share capital 7.8.4 136,705,504 135,860,096 Diluted earnings per share, in euros (Group share) 0.79 1.20 (1) The income statements for the years ended 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2019 show the income and expenditure related to the rental activity as presented in Note 8.1 “Net rental income” in the financial statements for 2018 included in that year’s registration document (Section 7.1 “Annual consolidated financial statements at 31 December 2018”). Consolidated statement of comprehensive income (in thousands of euros) Note 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Consolidated net income 108,404 163,609 Items to be subsequently recycled in net income -10,923 -4,152 Cash-flow hedges (effective part) 6.2.8 -10,923 -2,978 Fair value of other financial assets -1,174 Related income tax 106 Items not to be subsequently recycled in net income 106 Re-valuation of the net liabilities under defined-benefit schemes 12.3.1 Related income tax CONSOLIDATED NET COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 97,481 159,563 198 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual consolidated financial statements at 31 december 2019 7.1.2 Consolidated statement of financial position Assets (in thousands of euros) Note 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Intangible assets 7.1 4,262 4,556 Property, plant and equipment 7.2 4,244 2,062 Investment properties carried at fair value 5.1 6,001,608 5,953,655 Investment properties carried at cost 5.1 68,785 62,605 Investment in equity-accounted companies 7.3 52,459 49,766 Other non current assets 7.4 12,427 11,948 Deffered tax assets 9.4 11,548 7,776 Non-current assets 6,155,332 6,092,368 Investment properties held for sale 5.3 Trade receivables 7.5 117,105 123,616 Other current assets 7.6 69,127 217,244 Cash and cash equivalent 7.7 178,172 70,518 Current assets 364,404 411,378 TOTAL ASSETS 6,519,736 6,503,746 Liabilities & shareholders’ equity (in thousands of euros) Note 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Share capital 820,091 819,370 Additional paid-in capital 2,129,169 2,268,204 Treasury shares -2,676 -3,861 Other comprehensive income -42,906 -31,983 Consolidated retained earnings 528,543 431,612 Consolidated net income – Group share 108,213 163,557 Shareholders' equity – Group share 3,540,434 3,646,899 Non-controlling interests 5,612 5,781 SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY 7.8 3,546,046 3,652,680 Non-current provisions 7.9 6,865 5,685 Non-current financial debt 6.2 2,295,954 2,301,426 Lease deposits and guarantees 77,722 76,454 Non-current tax liabilities and deferred tax liabilities 9.3 & 9.4 175,685 159,261 Other non-current liabilities 7.10 7,489 7,473 Non-current liabilities 2,563,715 2,550,299 Current financial debt 6.2 160,313 82,885 Bank facilities 6.2 & 7.7 4,141 5,617 Current provisions 658 Trade payables 7.11 28,855 28,370 Fixed assets payables 7.11 81,674 52,141 Current tax and payroll related liabilities 7.12 49,356 44,237 Other current liabilities 7.12 84,978 87,517 Current liabilities 409,975 300,767 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY 6,519,736 6,503,746 7 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 199 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7. Annual consolidated financial statements at 31 december 2019 7.1.3 Consolidated cash-flow statement (in thousands of euros) Note 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Consolidated net income 108,404 163,609 Ajustements Elimination of income from equity-accounted investments 7.3 -4,376 -3,882 Elimination of depreciation, amortisation and provisions 659 6,350 Elimination of change in fair value adjustments 5.1 85,563 -11,388 Elimination of capital (gain) loss on disposals 879 1,371 Other non-cash income and expenses 3,567 -1,501 Cash-flow from operations after cost of net debt and tax 194,696 154,559 Elimination of tax expense (income) 9.1 25,277 52,804 Elimination of cost of net debt 55,462 53,628 Cash-flow from operations before cost of net debt and tax 275,435 260,991 Change in operating working capital 7,718 -17,247 Change in lease deposits and guarantees 1,259 4,387 Income tax paid -2,795 -6,012 Cash-flow from operating activities 281,617 242,119 Change in scope of consolidation 0 Change in fixed assets payables 29,533 -19,610 Acquisitions of investment properties 5.1 -120,845 -571,903 Acquisitions of other fixed assets -185 -502 Change in loans and advances 782 3,019 Disposal of investment properties and other fixed assets 5,467 19,163 Dividends received 1,684 1,480 Cash-flow from investment activities -83,565 -568,353 Share capital increase 7.8 36,350 Transactions in share capital of equity accounted companies 7.3 0 Net sale (purchase) of treasury shares 1,185 -1,893 Issuance of bonds 50,000 350,000 Issuance of new bank loans 6.2 75,235 10,000 Loan repayments 6.2 -100,000 -2,322 Change in short-term investment disclosed in other current receivables 145,020 -145,053 Interest paid -56,019 -44,138 Interest received 559 384 Dividend and share premium distributed to shareholders -204,903 -101,461 Cash-flow from financing activities -88,923 101,867 CHANGE IN NET CASH POSITION 109,130 -224,367 Opening cash position 64,901 289,268 Closing cash position 7.7 174,031 64,901 200 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual consolidated financial statements at 31 december 2019 7.1.4 Statement of changes in consolidated Shareholders' equity Additional Other Consolidated Shareholders' NonShareholders' Share paid-in Treasury comprehensive retained Consolidated equity – controlling equity (in thousands of euros) Note capital capital shares income earnings net income Group share interests BALANCE AT 810,360 2,321,671 -2,653 -27,937 121,234 313,787 3,536,462 5,999 3,542,461 31 DECEMBER 2017 First-time application 19,754 19,754 19,754 of IFRS 9 BALANCE AT 810,360 2,321,671 -2,653 -27,937 140,988 313,787 3,556,216 5,999 3,562,215 1 JANUARY 2018 Share capital 9,010 27,340 36,350 36,350 transactions Share-based payments -1,501 -1,501 -1,501 Treasury share -1,208 -1,208 -1,208 transactions Dividend paid -80,807 -20,384 -101,191 -271 -101,462 Allocation of 2017 313,787 -313,787 net income Net income of the year 163,557 163,557 53 163,610 Gains and losses recorded directly in equity Recycling of OCI to income 2,608 2,608 2,608 Change in fair value of other financial assets -1,174 -1,174 -1,174 Change in fair value of hedging instruments -5,586 -5,586 -5,586 Actuarial gains and losses on retirement benefits 106 106 106 Other comprehensive income -4,046 -4,046 -4,046 Other changes -1,278 -1,278 -1,278 BALANCE AT 819,370 2,268,204 -3,861 -31,983 431,612 163,557 3,646,899 5,781 3,652,680 31 DECEMBER 2018 Share capital 7.8 721 -721 transactions Share-based payments 12.3.2 -17 -17 -17 Treasury share 7.8.3 1,185 1,185 1,185 transactions Dividend paid 1.3 -138,314 -66,229 -204,543 -360 -204,903 Allocation of 2018 163,557 -163,557 net income Net income of the year 108,213 108,213 191 108,404 Gains and losses recorded directly in equity Recycling of OCI 6.2.8 1,944 1,944 1,944 to income Change in fair value of hedging instruments Change in fair value 6.2.8 -12,867 -12,867 -12,867 of other financial assets 7 Actuarial gains and losses on retirement 12.3.1 benefits Other comprehensive -10,923 -10,923 -10,923 income Other changes -380 -380 -380 BALANCE AT 820,091 2,129,169 -2,676 -42,906 528,543 108,213 3,540,434 5,612 3,546,046 31 DECEMBER 2019 The line share capital transactions reflects the creation of 120,148 class B preference shares under the bonus preference share plans for key Group employees and corporate officers. CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 201 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7. Annual consolidated financial statements at 31 december 2019 7.1.5 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements NOTE 1 KEY HIGHLIGHTS FOR THE YEAR, 203 NOTE 7 DETAIL OF OTHER BALANCE221 2019 SHEET ITEMS NOTE 1.1 Investments 203 NOTE 7.1 Intangible assets 221 NOTE 1.2 Disposals 203 NOTE 7.2 Property, plant and equipment 221 NOTE 1.3 Distribution of dividends 203 NOTE 7.3 Investments in equity-accounted 222 NOTE 1.4 Debt and financing 203 investment NOTE 7.4 Other non-current assets 223 NOTE 7.5 Trade receivables 224 NOTE 2 ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES 203 NOTE 7.6 Other current assets 224 AND METHODS NOTE 7.7 Net cash 225 NOTE 2.1 Presentation of the Group 203 NOTE 7.8 Shareholder’s equity 225 NOTE 2.2 Shareholding, stock-market listing 203 NOTE 7.9 Provisions 226 and strategic partnership NOTE 7.10 Other non-current liabilities 226 NOTE 2.3 Accounting standards 203 NOTE 7.11 Trade and fixed-asset supplier 226 NOTE 2.4 Principal estimates and judgements 204 payables by management NOTE 7.12 Other current liabilities 226 NOTE 2.5 Other principles applied 205 in presenting the financial statements NOTE 8 DETAIL OF OTHER INCOME 227 STATEMENT ITEMS NOTE 3 SCOPE OF CONSOLIDATION 205 NOTE 8.1 Net Rental Income 227 AND METHODS NOTE 8.2 Overhead expenses 228 NOTE 3.1 Consolidation scope and methods 205 NOTE 8.3 Depreciation, amortisation, 228 provisions and impairment NOTE 3.2 Main events of 2019 206 NOTE 8.4 Gains (losses) on disposals 228 NOTE 3.3 Description of main partnerships 206 of investment properties and equity investments NOTE 4 SEGMENT REPORTING 206 NOTE 4.1 Definition of operating segments 206 NOTE 9 TAXES 229 and indicators used NOTE 9.1 Income tax expense 230 NOTE 4.2 Operating income by operating 207 NOTE 9.2 Tax reconciliation 230 segment NOTE 9.3 Current tax assets and liabilities 230 NOTE 4.3 Breakdown of investment property 207 by operating segment NOTE 9.4 Deferred tax assets and liabilities 231 NOTE 4.4 Breakdown of capital expenditure 208 by operating segment NOTE 10 OFF-BALANCE-SHEET 231 COMMITMENTS AND ASSOCIATED RISK NOTE 5 INVESTMENT PROPERTIES 208 NOTE 10.1 Contingent liabilities 231 NOTE 5.1 Details of investment properties 211 carried at fair value and at cost NOTE 10.2 Commitments received 231 NOTE 5.2 Valuation assumptions 213 NOTE 10.3 Commitments given 232 and sensitivity analysis NOTE 10.4 Reciprocal commitments 232 NOTE 5.3 Investment properties held for sale 213 NOTE 11 TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED 233 NOTE 6 FINANCING AND FINANCIAL 214 PARTIES INSTRUMENTS NOTE 6.1 Net financial income 215 NOTE 12 EMPLOYEE COMPENSATION 234 NOTE 6.2 Current and non-current financial 216 AND BENEFITS liabilities NOTE 12.1 Payroll expenses 234 NOTE 6.3 Management of financial risks 220 NOTE 12.2 Headcount 234 and hedging strategy NOTE 12.3 Employee benefits 234 NOTE 13 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 238 NOTE 13.1 Subsequent events 238 NOTE 13.2 Statutory Auditors’ fees 238 NOTE 14 LIST OF CONSOLIDATED 239 COMPANIES 202 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual consolidated financial statements at 31 december 2019 Note 1 Key highlights for the year, 2019 After a year that saw major acquisitions in France and Spain Note 1.2 Disposals totalling over €450 million, the Group has focused its 2019 development on the restructuring of existing assets in order to During the year, Carmila did not carry out any material asset consolidate their local and regional leadership positions. disposals. Accordingly, the Group continued the extension works at Nice Lingostière and the restructuring of Cité Europe in Calais Coquelles. In November 2019, the Rennes Cesson extension was delivered, Note 1.3 Distribution of dividends creating 35 new shops covering an area of 6,000 sqm and bringing the total number of retail brands at the site to 70. On 16 May 2019, the Shareholders’ Meeting, based on a proposal by the Board of Directors, appoved the distribution of a dividend of €1.50 per share for the 2018 financial year. This distribution, paid Note 1.1 Investments in May 2019, comprised €66.3 million deducted from distributable income and the remaining €138.2 million from the merger premium. Investments during the year mainly concerned extensions and restructuring of existing French portfolio assets. Note 1.4 Debt and financing Note 1.1.1 Acquisitions During the period, Carmila renegotiated a one-year extension to its The Group acquired commercial space in Barentin (Normandy), syndicated bank borrowing, €770 million drawn, extending the operating rights for the specialty leasing activity in Spain for eight maturity from June 2023 to June 2024. Group-owned shopping malls and a score of plots of land in France for installing mobile phone relay antennas. On 6 November 2019, Carmila carried out a private placement of a €50 million 12-year bond issue with a coupon of 1.89%. This bond Note 1.1.2 Developments and extensions issue allows the Group to extend the overall maturity of its debt. During the year the Group also continued to redevelop its existing At 31 December 2019 the average maturity of all borrowings was 5.0 assets through value-creating renovations, restructuring and years. extension projects. Accordingly, the Group continued the extension works started in 2018 on the sites of Nice Lingostière (€41.6 million, total investment to date €55.2 million), Rennes Cesson (€23.9 million), the Cité Europe restructurings in Coquelles (€17.9 million) and Bourg-enBresse (€2.6 million). Note 2 Accounting principles and methods These current Group financial statements are the first to incorporate IFRS 16. The changes to accounting methods which have had the Note 2.2 Shareholding, stock-market most marked effects are described in this paragraph. listing and strategic partnership On 13 February 2020 the Board of Directors approved and Carmila’s share capital is divided among long-term associates. At authorised the publication of Carmila’s consolidated financial 31 December 2019, the largest shareholder is the Carrefour group, statements for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2019. which has an equity investment of 35.4% in Carmila’s share capital, These financial statements will be submitted for approval to the which it consolidates in its financial statements using the equity Shareholders’ Meeting on 14 May 2020. method. Carrefour is developing a strategic partnership with Carmila, aimed at revitalising and transforming shopping centres adjoining its hypermarkets in France, Spain and Italy. The remaining Note 2.1 Presentation of the Group 64.6% of the share capital is mainly owned by long-term investors from major insurance companies or leading financial players. The The Carmila Group (“the Group” or “the Carmila Group”) has as its second-largest shareholder is the Colony Group, which holds 9.3% of corporate purpose the management and value enhancement of Carmila’s share capital. shopping centres and retail parks anchored by Carrefour hypermarkets located in France, Spain and Italy, operated directly or Carmila S.A.’s shares are listed for trading on compartment A of indirectly by Carrefour Euronext Paris since 1 January 2018. At 31 December 2019, the Group employed 189 people, of whom 129 in France, 45 in Spain and 15 in Italy (not including apprentices). The Note 2.3 Accounting standards Group owns a portfolio of 215 shopping centres and retail parks, mainly as a result of transactions carried out in 2014. In April 2014, Carmila acquired 126 sites in France, Spain and Italy from the Note 2.3.1 IFRS standards applied Klépierre Group and later in the year six shopping malls in France The Carmila Group’s consolidated financial statements as of from Unibail-Rodamco. The same year, the Group received a 31 December 2019 have been prepared in accordance with the contribution from the Carrefour group comprising 47 sites in France, IFRS (International Financial Reporting Standards) published by the along with various premises and an equity investment in Spain. IASB (International Accounting Standards Board) as adopted by the European Union at 31 December 2019, comprising the IFRS, the 7 Carmila S.A. (“the Company”), which is the Group’s parent company, IAS (International Accounting Standards) as well as their is a SIIC company (French REIT) under French law. Its registered interpretations (SIC and IFRIC). All the texts adopted by the office is located at 58, avenue Émile-Zola, 92100 BoulogneEuropean Union are available on the European Commission's Billancourt in France. website at: Initially, the company Carmila S.A.S. was incorporated by https://ec.europa.eu/info/law/international-accounting-standardsCarrefour S.A. on 4 December 2013 for the sole purpose of the regulation-ec-no-1606-2002/amending-and-supplementary-acts/ operations described above, which took place in 2014. On acts-adopted-basis-regulatory-procedure-scrutiny12 June 2017, the company merged with Cardety S.A., a listed rps_en#individual-rps-acts-adopting-international-accountingcompany in Paris, and was renamed Carmila S.A. following the standards-ifrsias-and-related-interpretations-ifric. merger. Since that date, the Group's consolidated financial statements reflect this reverse acquisition. CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 203 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7. Annual consolidated financial statements at 31 december 2019 The European Union adopted the following standards, In addition, the application of the following standards effective interpretations and amendments, which are mandatory from 1 January 2019 has no material impact on the Group: 1 January 2019: • IFRIC 23 – Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments. • IFRS 16 – Leases. This interpretation applies to any instance of uncertainty associated The European Union adopted IFRS 16 which supersedes IAS 17 and with the acceptability of a tax treatment regarding income tax. The related interpretations. This new standard became effective on analysis of these situations as they apply to the Group did not reveal 1 January 2019 and eliminates the distinction that was previously any significant uncertain issues. The impact of the first-time made between finance leases and operating leases. It results in the application of IFRIC 23 on the Group's income tax expense is recognition on the lessee’s balance sheet of a right-of-use asset with therefore not material. a corresponding lease liability, for all types of contracts qualifying as leases. The Group has chosen to use the simplified transition • annual IFRS improvements 2015-2017 cycle; method. • limited amendments to IAS 19; As a lessor, the Group is not significantly impacted by the application of this new standard. • amendment to IAS 28 – Investments in associates and joint ventures; As a lessee, the Group has identified three types of leases that fall under the scope of IFRS 16: • amendments to IFRS 9 – Prepayment features with negative • land leases in the form of ground leases on which the Group compensation. owns shopping malls built on land belonging to a third party; The Group has not chosen anticipated implementation of the • the leasing of equipment corresponding to the leasing of vehicles; following standards which are not compulsory as of 1 January 2019: • the leasing of real estate for the Group's registered offices in • the amendments to IAS 1 and IAS 8 relative to the change in the significance of the term “materiality” which will become France and Spain. compulsory as of 1 January 2020, according to the IASB; Based on the identified leases, a fixed term rental commitment was • the amendments to the IFRS 3 standard, relating to the definition discounted and recognised as a liability. The discount rate used is of a company, which will become compulsory as of 1 January the interest rate at which the Group could have financed the 2020 according to IASB; acquisition of the underlying assets over a period equivalent to the fixed term of the lease agreement. • the change in references to the conceptual framework made Pursuant to the standard, leases of less than one year, or low-value compulsory as of 1 January 2020 according to the IASB; assets, were excluded from the scope of first-time application of this standard. • the IFRS 17 standard relating to insurance contracts which becomes compulsory as of 1 January 2021. a. Leasing of land The Group has identified eight ground leases involving seven assets in France. The Group does not lease land in Spain or Italy. Note 2.4 Principal estimates and Accordingly, the Group recorded a financial debt of judgements by management €35,135 thousand on the date of first-time application, with the Preparation of the consolidated financial statements involves the related assets recorded as an investment property at fair value. assessment of estimates and assumptions by Group management. Annual depreciation is recorded as a change in fair value in These may affect the book value of certain assets and liabilities, the Group's financial statements. The impact at 31 December 2019 income and expenses, as well as information provided in the notes was -€622 thousand in change in fair value, -€946 thousand in to the financial statements. Group management reviews its financial expenses and +€1,581 thousand, in reduction of real estate estimates and assumptions regularly in order to ensure their expenses. The net impact at 31 December 2019 of the first-time relevance in light of past experience and the current economic application of IFRS 16 on ground leases was therefore situation. Depending on changes in these assumptions, items +€13 thousand. appearing in future financial statements may be different from current estimates. b. Movable and immovable property leases (offices, The main estimates used by management to prepare the financial registered offices) statements relate to: The Group has identified three leases included in the scope of application of IFRS 16: vehicle leases and the leases for the Group's • measurement of the fair value of investment property (Note 5 registered offices in Boulogne-Billancourt in France and those in “Investment property”). The Group has its property assets Madrid in Spain. The Group has chosen to present the right-of-use of appraised every six months by independent appraisers according the asset on the same line as the underlying asset. to the methods described in Note 5. The appraisers use assumptions for future cash-flows and rates with a direct effect The Group recorded a €3,355 thousand financial debt on the date of on property values; first-time application with the related assets recorded as property, plant and equipment. The impact at 31 December 2019 was • valuation of financial instruments. The Group measures the fair -€982 thousand in depreciation, -€38 thousand in financial expenses value of the financial instruments that it uses, in accordance with and +€837 thousand in reduction of lease expenses. The net impact the standard models and practices in on the market and under at 31 December 2019 of the first-time application of IFRS 16 on IFRS 13, as described in Note 6.2.8; equipment and office leases is therefore -€183 thousand. • provisions for risks and other potential liabilities related to The net impact for the Group of the first-time application of this operations (Note 7.9 “Non-current provisions”); standard at 31 December 2019 amounts to -€170 thousand and is therefore not material over the period. • the assumptions used to calculate and recognise deferred taxes (Note 9 “Income tax”). 204 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual consolidated financial statements at 31 december 2019 Note 2.5 Other principles applied Note 2.5.3 Transactions eliminated from the in presenting the financial consolidated financial statements statements Items recorded on the balance sheet or the income statement as income or expenses resulting from intra-Group transactions are eliminated when the consolidated financial statements are prepared. Note 2.5.1 Conversion of foreign companies’ financial statements Note 2.5.4 Balance sheet classification The Group’s financial statements are presented in thousands of Assets expected to be sold, consumed or transferred over the euros, unless otherwise specified. Rounding differences may lead to normal operating cycle or in the 12 months following the end of the minor differences between statements. financial period are classified as “current assets”, as are assets held An entity’s functional currency is the currency used for the majority for sale and cash and cash equivalents. All other assets are classified of its cash flows related to operations. All entities within the Group’s as “non-current assets”. scope of consolidation are in the euro zone and use the euro as their Liabilities that the Group expects to settle over the normal operating functional currency. cycle or in the 12 months following the end of the financial period are classified as “current liabilities”. Note 2.5.2 Conversion of transactions conducted The Group’s normal operating cycle is 12 months. in foreign currencies When a Group entity carries out transactions in a currency other Deferred taxes are always shown as non-current assets or liabilities. than its functional currency, they are initially converted at the rate prevailing on the date of the transaction. At the end of the year, Note 2.5.5 Income statement classification monetary financial assets and liabilities denominated in foreign The Group has opted to present its proportionate share in the net currencies are translated into euros at the closing rate of the income of the equity-accounted investments as Operating income, currency concerned, with the exchange difference recorded as a as their business is part of ongoing Group operations. profit or a loss. Note 3 Scope of consolidation and methods Note 3.1 Consolidation scope and methods CONSOLIDATION METHODS Determination of control Significant influence is presumed when the percentage of voting The consolidation method is determined in accordance with the rights held is equal to or exceeds 20%. All equity interests, control exercised, as defined by IFRS 10 – Consolidated financial regardless of the percentage held, are subject to an analysis to statements. determine whether the Company exerts a significant influence. The Group’s investments in associates and joint ventures are Exclusive control: fully consolidated initially recognised at cost, increased or reduced by changes in the Subsidiaries are companies controlled by the Group. An investor percentage of the net assets of the associate after the acquisition. controls an entity when it exercises power over relevant activities, Goodwill related to an associate is included in the book value of is exposed or entitled to variable returns by reason of its links to the investment. the entity, and has the ability to influence those returns due to the power it holds over the entity. The Group exercises power over an For companies under joint control and significant influence, the entity when it has the effective rights that confer the actual ability share of income for the period is presented under “Share in net to direct the relevant activities, i.e. those activities that materially income of associates”. On the balance sheet, these equity affect the entity’s returns. The financial statements of subsidiaries investments are presented under “Investments in associates”. are included in the consolidated financial statements from the The financial statements for associates are prepared for the same date of effective transfer of control up until such time as that reference period as that of the Group, and adjusted, where control ceases to exist. appropriate, to ensure compliance with the accounting policies Joint control and significant influence: equity method applied by the Group. Joint control means the contractually-agreed sharing of control Information on investments in associates is presented pursuant to over an entity, which exists only where decisions about the IFRS 12 – Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities. relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties Business combinations/acquisitions of assets sharing control. In accordance with IFRS 11 – Joint Arrangements, interests in partnerships can be classified as either joint operations To determine whether a transaction is a business combination, the or joint ventures. Group considers, in particular, whether a portfolio of activities is acquired in addition to the real estate assets. Thus, if securities are Joint operations: partners (“joint operators”) in a joint operation purchased in a company whose sole purpose is the holding of (JO) have direct rights to the assets and assume direct obligations investment property, and in the absence of any other ancillary relating to the liabilities of the partnership. Joint operations entail services (asset-related contract, personnel, know-how), the the recognition by each joint operator of the assets over which it 7 acquisition is recognised as the acquisition of assets in accordance has rights, liabilities for which it has obligations, and income and with paragraph 2(b) of IFRS 3 – Business Combinations. expenses related to interests in the joint operation. Carmila has no joint operations. Joint ventures: “joint-venturers” in a joint venture only have rights over the joint venture’s net assets. Joint ventures are consolidated using the equity method. CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 205 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7. Annual consolidated financial statements at 31 december 2019 Note 3.2 Main events of 2019 Note 3.3 Description of main partnerships During the year the Group did not carry out any acquisitions, disposals, or mergers. Note 3.3.1 AS Cancelas – Spain The shares and voting rights in the Spanish company As Cancelas In France, the company Lou5G was created in order to develop the are held equally by Carmila and its partner, Grupo Realia. All rental of land plots for 5G antennas using the leverage of the resolutions are adopted by a 50.01% majority. Group's technical knowledge and the land resources of its properties. This company carried out its first acquisitions at the end Property management, marketing and management of the centre of the year. are handled by the Group, with administration provided by Grupo Realia. Carmila considers this to be joint control, and the company is therefore consolidated under the equity method. Note 4 Segment reporting Note 4.1 Definition of operating segments The Group defines recurring operating income as operating income before changes in the fair value of investment properties and and indicators used adjusted for non-recurring expenses and income, such as: The Group’s Management Committee has been identified as the • gain/(losses) on disposals of investment properties and equity “chief operating decision-maker” pursuant IFRS 8 – Operating investments; Segments. The operating segments that have been identified by the Management Committee are the three countries in which the Group • any other non-recurring income or expense. operates: Direct overhead expenses for each segment are recorded as • France; expenses by each segment. Shared overhead expenses that are borne by the France segment are rebilled to the other segments on • Spain; a prorated basis for the services rendered. • Italy. Furthermore, the Management Committee also reviews changes in the fair value of investment properties by segment when this The Group uses the following indicators to measure the Group’s information is available (twice per year). performance and activity: Over the two financial years presented, no individual lessee • gross rental income; represented more than 5% of the Group’s rental income. • net rental income by operating segment; • operating income, recurring and non-recurring. 206 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual consolidated financial statements at 31 december 2019 Note 4.2 Operating income by operating segment France Spain Italy Total (in thousands of euros) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Gross Rental income 242,408 234,177 93,259 82,018 23,790 24,055 359,457 340,250 Real estate expenses -3,012 -1,825 -775 -1,106 -858 -943 -4,645 -3,874 Non-recoverable rental -4,424 -6,295 -3,780 -4,806 -313 39 -8,517 -11,062 charges Property expenses (landlord) -10,841 -8,789 -1,488 -1,215 -782 -1,652 -13,111 -11,656 Net Rental Income 224,131 217,268 87,216 74,891 21,837 21,499 333,184 313,658 Overhead expenses -37,752 -38,266 -11,637 -9,323 -3,451 -2,985 -52,840 -50,574 Income from management, administration and other 9,343 4,273 409 224 725 98 10,477 4,595 activities Other income 1,282 4,909 17 1,708 108 14 1,407 6,631 Payroll expenses -20,248 -20,570 -3,660 -3,548 -1,237 -721 -25,145 -24,839 Other overhead expenses -28,129 -26,878 -8,403 -7,707 -3,047 -2,376 -39,579 -36,961 Other income from operations Allowances for depreciation of fixed assets, amortisation -2,459 -3,049 -871 -46 -163 -413 -3,493 -3,508 of intangible fixed assets and provisions Other recurring operating 1,405 -261 -62 -16 1,343 -277 income and expense OPERATING INCOME – 185,325 175,692 75,523 66,364 18,204 18,071 279,052 260,127 CURRENT Other non-recurring operating income and expense Gain (loss) on disposals of investment properties -610 -1,635 6 -167 -610 -1,796 and equity investments Gain (losses) on disposals of intangible and other tangible assets Change in fair value -84,425 -14,829 -7,192 15,384 1,445 13,031 -90,172 13,586 adjustments Increase in the fair value 45,609 81,699 16,329 33,600 3,180 13,031 65,118 128,330 of property adjustments Decrease in the fair value -130,034 -96,528 -23,521 -18,216 -1,735 -155,290 -114,744 of property adjustements Share of net income in equity accounted investments – 3,527 3,060 -9 -6 3,518 3,054 non‑current OPERATING INCOME 100,290 159,228 71,858 84,814 19,640 30,929 191,788 274,971 Note 4.3 Breakdown of investment property by operating segment The value of investment properties by country is presented separately whether relating to assets at fair value or assets at cost. (in thousands of euros) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Investment properties carried at fair value 6,001,608 5,953,655 France 4,305,544 4,283,277 Spain 1,342,870 1,319,540 Italy 353,194 350,838 Investment properties carried at cost France 68,785 68,735 62,605 39,243 7 Spain 50 23,362 Italy 0 0 TOTAL 6,070,393 6,016,260 At 31 December 2019, regarding value of assets, 72.1% of the Group’s investment properties were located in France (compared to 71.9% at 31 December 2018), 22.1% in Spain (compared to 22.3%) and 5.8% in Italy (same as 31 December 2018). CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 207 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7. Annual consolidated financial statements at 31 december 2019 Note 4.4 Breakdown of capital expenditure by operating segment ICapital expenditures in investment properties by country are disclosed separately depending on whether they are for acquisitions, developments or capital expenditure on the portfolio on a like-for-like basis (constant scope) (extensions, restructuring, benefits granted to tenants or renovation). France Spain Italy Total (in thousands of euros) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Acquisitions 5,390 172,205 2,969 285,013 0 4 8,359 457,222 Developments 0 11,600 0 0 0 0 0 11,600 Like-for-like capital 106,934 101,949 4,206 9,908 1,179 3,069 112,319 expenditures 114,926 Extensions 68,296 75,847 0 0 442 2,277 68,738 78,124 Restructuring 19,552 3,529 0 0 0 0 19,552 3,529 Advantages granted 9,899 8,417 1,914 1,566 45 0 11,858 to lessees 9,983 Renovation 3,926 2,096 2,223 8,298 30 468 6,179 10,862 Maintenance Capex 5,261 12,060 69 44 662 324 5,992 12,428 TOTAL CAPITAL 112,324 285,754 7,175 294,921 1,179 3,073 120,678 583,748 EXPENDITURES “Acquisitions” include the acquisition of commercial leasable area in Restructuring and benefits granted to tenants: the two main Barentin (Normandy), operating rights for the specialty leasing restructuring operations in the year were Bourg-en-Bresse activity in Spain for eight Group-owned shopping malls and a score (€2.6 million) and Cité Europe in Coquelles (€17.9 million). of plots of land in France for building mobile phone relay antennas. Renovations: renovations were made on sites in the process of being There are no “Developments” in 2019, as the Group had not carried extended or restructured in France, mainly Bourg-en-Bresse, out any greenfield projects. In 2018, the Cap-Saran retail park in Rennes Cesson and Thionville. Renovation work was started on the Orléans was shown under this heading. sites acquired in 2018 in Spain. Lastly, Capital expenditure on a like-for-like basis” includes Capital expenditure on maintenance: these investments account for extensions, restructuring, benefits granted to tenants, renovations just 5% of the total investments. They are mainly spent on assets and capital expenditure on maintenance. In 2019, it essentially being redeveloped where renovation and modernisation works are concerned operations in France. being carried out. They will upgrade pre-existing parts of the malls in order to optimise value creation. Extensions: extensions essentially concerned the Nice Lingostière (€41.6 million) and Rennes Cesson (€23.9 million) projects. Note 5 Investment properties ACCOUNTING POLICIES Method adopted: fair value In addition, intangible fixed assets such as lease rights or An investment property is a property that is held for the purpose commercial rights for common areas for the specialty leasing of earning rental income or for capital appreciation, or both. The business are taken into account in the valuations made by Group views shopping centres as investment properties. appraisers, and are therefore incorporated in the asset value In accordance with the method proposed by IAS 40 and the shown in the consolidated financial statements. recommendations of EPRA (European Public Real Estate Early termination paid to the lessee upon termination of a lease Association), investment properties are recognised and valued still in force is recognised as follows: individually at cost and then subsequently at fair value. • restructuring of a site: if compensation is paid as part of a The difference between the fair value of an investment property property renovation programme, the compensation is included on the closing date and its book value before its fair value in the cost price of the work performed; adjustment on this date is recorded in the income statement as a gain or loss. • replacement of a lessee: if compensation is paid to enable earning a higher level of rent than that of the previous lessee The fair value excludes transfer taxes and costs (taxes are and thus to increase the asset’s value, this expense is included assessed on the basis of a disposal of the asset even though these in the cost of the asset. Otherwise, it is booked as an expense. costs may sometimes be reduced if the disposal is performed through a share deal of the company holding the related asset). Cost of investment property – under construction Under IFRS 13, fair value is defined as the price that would be The capitalised expenditure for investment properties under received for the sale of an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an construction (including extensions) includes the cost of works, the arm’s-length transaction between market operators on the cost of loans directly attributable to the acquisition, the valuation date. construction or production of the asset, when this is a prerequisite to using this asset, as well as the costs related to letting the retail Cost of investment property – general space for the first time. The acquisition costs of an investment property are capitalised Capitalised borrowing costs are determined by applying the with the value of the investment property. Group’s weighted average cost of borrowing for the related During the life of the property, expenses such as building works, country to the average outstanding amount of construction work letting costs and other internal project development costs are also done, or, where applicable, based on the borrowing costs paid for capitalised. specific borrowings. Capitalisation of interest ceases when the asset under construction is commissioned. 208 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual consolidated financial statements at 31 december 2019 Investment properties under construction may be appraised at fair Discounted cash-flow method value. If the fair value cannot be reliably determined, these With this method, a property’s discounted value is equal to the projects will continue to be valued at cost, until their fair value can total future net revenue available over a given time-frame be reliably determined. As with the other fair value assets, they (generally 10 years). The net revenue available for each year is are valued at market value by an independent appraiser. calculated in the same way as the net revenue defined in the The Group believes that a development project’s fair value can be capitalisation method, to which are added non-recurring expenses reliably determined if the following three conditions are (works, rent changes, and other) indexed over time. A resale simultaneously met: value is calculated for the property, based on the last indexed rent as of the resale date, less any related expenses, to which a yield is • all necessary administrative authorisations required for the applied. development have been obtained; The discount rate used is a risk-free rate (the Public French OAT • the construction contract has been signed and the works have TEC 10year rate), increased by property market risk and liquidity begun; and premiums as well as asset-specific premiums (based on the nature of the property, rental risk, obsolescence premium). • there is no longer uncertainty regarding the amount of future rents. The appraisers appointed by Carmila are as follows: The project margin is then recognised (IPUC) on the line • Cushman & Wakefield and Catella in France; “Investment properties at fair value”. • Cushman & Wakefield and Catella in Spain; Appraisal method • BNP Paribas Real Estate in Italy. Fair value is calculated using the valuation rules of IFRS 13; given the complexity of property asset valuation and the nature of They use one or more of the above methods. Cushman & certain inputs that are publicly unobservable (pace of rental Wakefield primarily uses the discounted cash-flow method, while growth, capitalisation rate), the fair values have been categorised Catella systematically uses an average of the two methods. in Level 3 in accordance with the fair value hierarchy, established Compensation paid to appraisers, previously approved for under the standard based on the type of inputs used for valuation. appraisal campaigns, is set at a flat rate depending on the number The fair values used are determined on the basis of the of retail units and complexity of the appraised assets. It is entirely conclusions of independent experts. Carmila uses appraisers to independent from the valuation of the assets. During the 2019 value its assets at the end of every half-year. The assets are appraisal campaign, appraisers' compensation was as follows: inspected during these appraisals. The expert valuations comply with the guidance contained in the RICS Appraisal and Valuation Manual, published by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (in thousands of euros) Appraisal fees 2019 (“Red Book”). In order to conduct their work, the appraisers have Cushman & Wakefield 218 access to all the information required for valuation of the assets, Catella 186 and specifically the rent roll, the vacancy rate, rental arrangements and the main performance indicators for tenants (revenues). BNP Paribas Real Estate 23 They independently establish their current and future cash-flow TOTAL 427 estimates by applying risk factors either to the net income capitalisation rate or to future cash-flows. In addition, during the financial year, these three experts were On the basis of the data provided, two methods are used to value hired to perform valuation assignments on proposed acquisitions assets: for €8 thousand. Net-income capitalisation method The valuations completed by the independent appraisers are This method consists in applying a yield to the total triple-net reviewed internally by the relevant Department as well as by revenue for occupied premises and capitalising the net market competent individuals within each operational division. This rent for vacant premises. process includes discussions regarding the assumptions used by the independent appraisers, as well as a review of the results of For rented units, the total triple-net revenue is determined on the the valuations. These reviews of the valuation process occur every basis of the rents indicated in the rental base, less any nonsix months and involve the investment department and the recoverable charges. For vacant premises, a market rent is used independent appraisers. that takes into account an appropriate vacancy period. The difference between the fair value thus determined at the The yield used is that found in the property market for a reporting date and the fair value at the start of the year plus comparable property, and, in particular, reflects the sale area as works and expenses capitalised for the year is recorded in profit well as such specific factors as location, access, visibility, retail or loss. competition, form of mall ownership (full ownership, joint ownership, etc.), rental and expansion potential, and recent Property under construction valued at cost is subject to transactions involving the same type of asset. impairment testing, determined by comparison with the project’s estimated fair value. The project’s fair value is measured internally From the value thus obtained are deducted the net present value by the Development teams, on the basis of an exit capitalisation of the benefits granted to lessees, all vacancy costs on empty rate and the expected net rents at the end of the project. If the premises and other non-recurring costs or works. fair value is less than the book value, a write-down is performed. The investment properties valued at cost are tested for impairment at 30 June and 31 December of each year, as soon as there is an indication of loss of value. When such an indication appears, the new recoverable value is compared to its book value 7 and an impairment is recorded. Investment property acquired over six months earlier is assessed by independent appraisers at 30 June and 31 December each year. Acquisitions of the current half-year are therefore recognised at acquisition cost. CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 209 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7. Annual consolidated financial statements at 31 december 2019 Lease agreements Investment properties held for sale When signing long-term lease agreements notably involving Assets under commitment to sell, a mandate for sale or whose property assets, the Group analyses contractual provisions to disinvestment has been approved by the Investment Committee determine whether the agreement is an operating lease or a are presented, in accordance with the provisions of IFRS 5 – Nonfinance lease, i.e. an agreement that effectively transfers to the current assets held for sale, on a separate line in the statement of lessee virtually all of the inherent risks and benefits of the financial position at their last appraisal value. The capital gain or property’s ownership. When a property complex is leased, the loss on the disposal of the investment property, which is the land and building are analysed separately. difference between the net sale proceeds and the book value of the asset, is recorded in the income statement. The first-time application of IFRS 16 on 1 January 2019 resulted in the elimination of the distinction that was previously made Income on disposal between finance leases and operating leases. This results in the Finally, disposal gains are determined by the difference between recognition on Carmila's balance sheet of a right-of-use over the the proceeds from the sale and the book value of the property leased asset with a corresponding lease liability on ground leases asset at the start of the period adjusted for investment (3.3 “Accounting standards”). Guaranteed future incoming lease expenditure over the period and any deferred taxes recognised on payments are discounted. Assets are depreciated over the same the historic unrealised gain recorded for this asset. period as property, plant and equipment that the Group owns or over the term of the lease where this is shorter than the useful life of the properties. Lease payments are allocated between financial expenses and amortisation of the debt. 210 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual consolidated financial statements at 31 december 2019 Note 5.1 Details of investment properties carried at fair value and at cost (in thousands of euros) Investment properties carried at fair value – 31/12/2017 5,356,002 Acquisitions 271,534 Change in scope of consolidation 153,765 Investments 107,579 Capitalised interest 1,070 Disposal and removals from scope of consolidation -23,490 Other movements and reclassifications 73,609 Change in fair value 13,586 Investment properties carried at fair value – 31/12/2018 5,953,655 Acquisitions 5,523 Change in scope of consolidation 0 Investments 70,413 Capitalised interest 253 Disposal and removals from scope of consolidation -6,361 Other movements and reclassifications 33,162 Change in accounting method 35,135 Change in fair value -90,172 Investment properties carried at fair value – 31/12/2019 6,001,608 (in thousands of euros) Investment properties carried at cost – 31/12/2017 91,581 Acquisitions 31,923 Change in scope of consolidation 0 Investments 17,356 Capitalised interest 521 Disposal and removals from scope of consolidation 0 Other movements and reclassifications -78,776 Change in accounting method 0 Change in fair value 0 Investment properties carried at cost – 31/12/2018 62,605 Acquisitions 2,836 Change in scope of consolidation 0 Investments 41,042 Capitalised interest 611 Disposal and removals from scope of consolidation 0 Other movements and reclassifications -38,309 Change in accounting method 0 Change in fair value 0 Investment properties carried at cost – 31/12/2019 68,785 7 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 211 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7. Annual consolidated financial statements at 31 december 2019 Note 5.1.1 Investment properties measured Note 5.1.2 Investment properties carried at cost at fair value The line “Acquisitions” includes the acquisition at year-end of a The “Acquisitions” include the acquisition of the commercial rights score of plots of land in France for building mobile phone relay of the specialty leasing activity in eight shopping malls held by antennas. Carmila in Spain, for €2.9 million, and one unit in Barentin, for The lines “Investments” and “Capitalised interest” include the Nice €2.1 million. Lingostière project (€41.6 million). The “Investments” include the main investments described in Note 1.1 At 31 December 2019, no indication of a loss in value requiring an “Investments”. impairment had been identified for investment properties valued at The Changes in accounting methods recoups the first-time cost. application of IFRS 16, whose impacts are presented in Note 2.3 The reconciliation of the investments broken down by country “Accounting standards”. (Note 4.4 “Investments broken down by operating segment”) and The “Other movements and reclassifications” item shows the net the above data is as follows: balance of asset commissioning during the period, the replacement of assets measured at cost at 31 December 2018 by their fair value and properties reclassified as assets held for sale. Finally, the “Change in fair value” records the adjustment to fair value of the value of the assets using appraisals by independent experts over the period. (in thousands of euros) 31/12/2019 Investment properties carried at fair value – Investment 5.1 5,523 Investment properties carried at fair value – Capitalised interest 5.1 0 Investment properties carried at cost – Investments 5.1 2,836 Investment properties carried at cost – Capitalised interest 5.1 0 TOTAL ACQUISITIONS AND CHANGE IN SCOPE OF CONSOLIDATION 8,359 TOTAL ACQUISITIONS – INVESTMENTS BY COUNTRY 4.4 8,359 (in thousands of euros) 31/12/2019 Investment properties carried at fair value – Investment 5.1 70,413 Investment properties carried at fair value – Capitalised interest 5.1 253 Investment properties carried at cost – Investments 5.1 41,042 Investment properties carried at cost – Capitalised interest 5.1 611 TOTAL INVESTMENTS AND CAPITALISED INTERESTS 112,319 Development and extensions 4.4 68,738 Like for like investments 4.4 43,581 TOTAL ACQUISITIONS – DEVELOPMENT AND EXTENSIONS AND LIKE FOR LIKE INVESTMENTS 4.4 112,319 212 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual consolidated financial statements at 31 december 2019 Note 5.2 Valuation assumptions At 31 December 2019, 98.9% of the Group’s net asset value had been subject to an independent appraisal. It should be noted that the and sensitivity analysis value of assets acquired during the second half of the year, and therefore measured at its acquisition cost, is marginal. Given the limited public data available, the complexity of real estate appraisals and the fact that real estate appraisers use the Group’s The balances of rental charge deferrals and front-end fees spread confidential rental statements for their valuations, Carmila believes over the fixed term of the leases amount to €1.9 million. These that a Level 3 fair value classification of its assets is the most amounts are included in the appraisal method used by the appropriate. In addition, non-publicly observable data, such as rent independent appraisers for their valuation and thus included in the growth rate assumptions or capitalisation rates, are used by experts asset value and taken into account in the calculation of the change to determine the fair values of Carmila’s investment property. in the fair value adjustment. The table below presents the quantitative information used to determine the fair value of investment properties: Rent 31/12/2019 – Weighted average Yield in € per sq.m(1) Discount rate(2) Exit rate(3) CAGR of NRI(4) France 5.4% 264 5.9% 5.8% 1.6% Spain 6.4% 227 8.5% 6.4% 1.7% Italy 6.2% 293 7.2% 6.3% 1.8% (1) The rent is an annual average rent equal to (guaranteed minimum lease payments + variable rental revenu) per asset and per occupied sqm. (2) Rate used to calculate the present value of future cash flows using the DCF method (discount rate). (3) Rate used to capitalise revenues in the exit year in order to calculate the exit value of the asset (exit yield). (4) Average annual 10-year NRI growth rate used by the appraisers. These data are stable when compared to 31 December 2018: Rent 31/12/2018 – Weighted average Yield in € per sq.m(1) Discount rate(2) Exit rate(3) CAGR of NRI(4) France 5.2% 266 5.9% 5.6% 1.6% Spain 6.2% 224 8.2% 6.2% 1.7% Italy 6.2% 301 7.3% 6.4% 1.8% (1) The rent is an annual average rent equal to (guaranteed minimum lease payments + variable rental revenu) per asset and per occupied sqm. (2) Rate used to calculate the present value of future cash flows using the DCF method (discount rate). (3) Rate used to capitalise revenues in the exit year in order to calculate the exit value of the asset (exit yield). (4) Average annual 10-year NRI growth rate used by the appraisers. The table below summarises the impact of the change in the in fair value of investment properties in the income statement, by country: France Spain Italy Total (in thousands of euros) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Change in fair value -84,425 -14,829 -7,192 15,384 1,445 13,031 -90,172 13,586 adjustments Increase in the fair value 45,609 81,699 16,329 33,600 3,180 13,031 65,118 128,330 of property adjustments Decrease in the fair value -130,034 -96,528 -23,521 -18,216 -1,735 -155 290 -114 744 of property adjustments Based on the asset fair value, excluding transfer taxes and related costs, the average yield on assets is stable and stands at 5.90% at 31 December 2019 (compared to 5.76% at 31 December 2018). All else being equal, a 10 basis-point increase in yields would result in a decrease in the value of the total portfolio, including transfer taxes and duties (excluding assets under development or equity-accounted and excluding the effect of changes in rents resulting from the decrease in yield) of €106 million (or -1.7%). A 25 basis-point drop in yields would reduce the value of the portfolio by €258 million (-4.1%). Note 5.3 Investment properties held for sale At 31 December 2019, there were no investment properties held for sale. 7 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 213 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7. Annual consolidated financial statements at 31 december 2019 Note 6 Financing and financial instruments ACCOUNTING POLICIES Loans and other financial liabilities are valued as amortised cost The values estimated by valuation models are based on the calculated in accordance with the effective interest rate method. discounting of expected future cash-flows for future contracts and on the Black-Scholes models for options. These models use Redemption premiums on bond loans and issuance costs are parameters based on market data (yield curves and exchange recorded as a deduction from the nominal amount of the rates) obtained from recognised financial-data providers. borrowings concerned and are accounted for as amortised cost, thereby increasing the nominal interest rate. The assessment of fair value for derivative financial instruments includes a “counterparty risk” component for derivatives held as The Carmila Group has introduced a debt hedging policy that assets and a “self credit risk” component for derivatives held as aims to secure the cash-flows related to its financing requirements liabilities. Counterparty risk is calculated using the “Expected-loss” represented by debt in euros, IFRS 9 – Financial Instruments method, which takes default risk exposure into account as well as defines three types of hedging relationships: the likelihood of default and the loss rate in the event of default. • fair value hedging: a hedge of exposure to changes in the fair The probability of default is determined based on available market value of a recognised asset or liability or an unrecognised firm data for each counterparty (so-called “implied CDS default commitment (or an identified portion of such an asset, liability probability”). or firm commitment), which is attributable to a specific risk and The fair value of long-term debt is estimated according to the could affect earnings; market value of bonds or of all future flows discounted in • cash-flow hedging: a hedge against exposure to changes in accordance with market conditions for a similar instrument (in cash-flow that (i) is attributable to a specific risk associated terms of currency, maturity, interest type and other factors). with a recognised asset or liability (such as all or a part of Application of IFRS 9 – Renegotiation of debt future interest payments on floating-rate debt) or a highly probable forecasted transaction, and ii) could affect earnings; Carmila is also financed by way of a bank loan for a nominal initial amount of €770 million. The loan was underwritten in 2013 and • hedging of a net investment in a foreign operation, as defined has been renegotiated several times since. Successive in IAS 21 – The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates. renegotiations did not make any substantial modifications to the initial contract as defined under IFRS 9. As a result, the book value In Carmila’s case, all interest-rate derivatives in the portfolio are of the debt with its original effective interest rate (EIR) was documented as cash-flow hedges except for one residual cost recognised as equity, leading to a €19,754 thousand decrease in recognised at fair value with changes through profit and loss. the value of the debt and an increase in equity for the same The use of cash-flow hedge accounting has the following amount. This reduction of the debt’s original EIR is spread over consequences: at the reporting date, interest-rate swaps are the residual duration of the underlying liability. recognised at fair value on the statement of financial position, with In June 2018, the debt was renegotiated. Its maturity was the effective portion of the change in fair value being recognised extended by one year, to 2023. No other terms of the loan were directly in Other Comprehensive Income (OCI), and the ineffective changed. portion as a loss though the Income statement. The amount recognised in Other comprehensive income is later recognised Finally, in May 2019, that same debt was renegotiated. The through profit and loss in a symmetrical manner to the hedged maturity of the debt was extended by one year, to 2024. No other interest flows. terms of the loan were changed. This reduction of the debt at its original EIR led to recognizing a gain of €4,707 thousand Carmila uses the dollar offset method for measuring hedge recorded in other financial income, spread out over the residual effectiveness. duration of the underlying liability. At 31 December 2019, the total Method for determining the fair value of financial charge linked to the spreading over time of the reduction of the original EIR of the liability amounted to €4,895 thousand and is instruments recognised in other financial expenses. The market values of interest rate instruments are determined based on market-recognised valuation models or by using prices from third-party financial institutions. 214 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual consolidated financial statements at 31 december 2019 Note 6.1 Net financial income Note 6.1.1 Cost of net debt (in thousands of euros) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Financial income 506 384 Interest on Group current-account 231 222 Financial income on cash equivalents 275 162 Other financial income 0 0 Financial expense -57,224 -54,011 Interest expense on bonds -36,160 -34,593 Interest expense on borrowings from lending institutions -6,244 -6,482 Capitalised interest expense 864 1,591 Amortisation of costs, bond redemption premiums and deferred swaps reversal costs -6,905 -7,276 Interest expense on swaps -7,731 -6,048 Other interest expense -1,018 0 Interest on Group current-account -30 0 Other financial expenses -30 -1,203 COST OF NET INDEBTEDNESS -56,718 -53,627 The cost of net debt for 2019 breaks down as follows: • a charge relating to amortisation of the expenses for bond and • interest on bank borrowings is -€6,244 thousand. The reduction borrowing premiums and issuance costs in the amount of of this item is mainly due to the decrease in interest rates and a €6,905 thousand. They include the amortisation of prior year’s repayment of €100 million of the nominal amount of the debt, on swap breakage costs (-€1,944 thousand). This item decreased as 16 December 2019. Financial charges were reduced by the a result of the decline in the amortisation charge for swap capitalisation of €864 thousand in borrowing costs for the breakage costs (-€0.7 million), offset by the accelerated extension projects. The sharp fall in the amount of financial amortisation of €0.6 million of issuance costs for the proportional interest capitalised was basically due to the decline in the number part of the loan repaid; of extension projects under way, only Rennes Cesson and Nice Lingostière are concerned in 2019; • the net cost of hedging derivatives was -€7,731 thousand compared with -€6,048 thousand in 2018, as a result of • interest on bonds stands at -€36,160 thousand, compared to contracting new swaps during the year; -€34,593 thousand in 2018. This increase is explained by the fullyear effect in 2019 of the bond issue of February 2018 for a • other interest expenses on loans and equivalent of nominal value of €350 million and by the cost of the €50 million €1,018 thousand represent the impact of the application of bond issue of November 2019 which contributed €142 thousand IFRS 16; to financial expenses; • financial income includes interest received on current accounts extended to non-consolidated companies and interest collected on drawdowns of commercial paper (in a negative rate context). Note 6.1.2 Other financial income and expenses (in thousands of euros) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Other financial income 8,813 5,240 Financial income from investments 0 0 Change in value of financial instruments 543 768 Reversal of short-term investment provision 3,046 0 Change in fair value of participations 496 0 Other financial income 4,728 4,472 Other financial expenses -10,202 -10,171 Change in fair value of financial instruments 0 0 Commitment fees on undrawn credit lines -2,956 -2,947 Loss on short-term investments -1,033 -3,046 Amortisation of IFRS 9 implementation -4,895 -4,026 Swap unwinding amortised cost Other financial expenses -555 -763 0 -152 7 OTHER FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSES -1,389 -4,931 The net balance of other financial income and expense improved by comprises income of €4,728 thousand resulting from the application €3.6 million, mainly due to an increase in financial income. of IFRS 9 to the one-year extension of the bank loan of €770 million. The change in the fair value of the hedging instruments The improvement in other financial income is due to the reversal of a (ineffective portion and change in CAP values over time) and of the provision for impairment of the book value of short term credit risk had a positive impact of €543 thousand over the year. investments for €3,046 thousand. Other financial income essentially CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 215 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7. Annual consolidated financial statements at 31 december 2019 Other financial charges were stable at -€10,202 thousand compared The Group decided to recognise one of its non-consolidated with -€10,171 thousand in 2018. The effect of spreading over time the investments at fair value, which gave rise to an unrealised capital adjustment back to the initial EIR of the bank loan was recognised gain of €496 thousand at 31 December 2019. for €4,895 thousand. The remainder consists mainly of nonLastly, in December, the unwinding of swaps nearing maturity led to utilisation fee on undrawn credit lines for €2,956 thousand and a the recognition of an expense of €555 thousand caused by the loss on the disposal of marketable securities of €1,033 thousand, write-down of hedging derivatives as a resultof the nominal partially off-set by the reversal of the provision of €3,046 thousand. €100 million early repayment of the bank loan. Note 6.2 Current and non-current financial liabilities On 16 July 2019, S&P confirmed Carmila's BBB rating. At 31 December 2019, the interest coverage ratio was 5.0x, the loan-to-value ratio stood at 34.9% and the average debt maturity at 5.0 years. Note 6.2.1 Evolution of indebtedness Other Fair value (in thousands of euros) 31/12/2018 Change Issuance Repayment Reclassifications movements adjustment 31/12/2019 Non-current financial 2,301,426 -4,113 48,887 -95,039 -686 0 10,923 2,261,398 liabilities Bonds 1,550,000 50,000 1,600,000 Bond issuance premiums -10,236 1,777 -8,459 Borrowings from lending 755,002 -100,000 -686 654,316 institutions Loan and bond issuance fees -12,085 -1,113 3,184 -10,014 Derivative instruments – 18,746 -4,113 10,923 25,556 liabilities Current financial liabilities 88,502 -1,476 76,637 -2,395 686 161,954 Borrowing from lending -2,134 188 -2,381 686 -3,641 institutions Accrued interest on loans 15,019 449 -14 15,454 Other loans and related 70,000 76,000 146,000 current debt(1) Derivative instruments – 0 0 liabilities Bank facilities 5,617 -1,476 4,141 Other financial debt related 0 0 0 -1,004 -430 38,490 0 37,056 to IFRS 16 Other financial debt IFRS 16 – 0 0 0 0 -1,407 35,963 0 34,556 non-current Other financial debt IFRS 16 – 0 0 0 -1,004 977 2,527 0 2,500 current GROSS DEBT 2,389,928 -5,589 125,524 -98,438 -430 38,490 10,923 2,460,408 (1) Other loans and related current debt comprise a commercial paper program. The maximum drawn from the programme was €155,000 thousand during 2019. . 216 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual consolidated financial statements at 31 december 2019 Note 6.2.2 Principal Group financing Currency Final Repayment Maximum Amount drawn (in thousands of euros) Borrower of Issue Interest rate maturity date profile amount at 31/12/2019 Bonds 1,600,000 1,600,000 Carmila SA EUR 2.375% Sept-23 in fine 600,000 600,000 Carmila SA EUR 2.375% Sept-24 in fine 600,000 600,000 Carmila SA EUR 2.125% Mar-28 in fine 350,000 350,000 Carmila SA EUR 1.890% Nov-31 in fine 50,000 50,000 Bank loans 770,000 670,000 Carmila SA EUR Euribor 3M June 24 in fine 770,000 670,000 Treasury bills 600,000 146,000 Carmila SA EUR 600,000 146,000 Other financing – mortgages 3,068 686 Financière Géric EUR 2,65% Dec-19 amortised 1,054 0 Financière Géric EUR Euribor 3M Mar-20 amortised 1,098 222 Financière Géric EUR 2,70% Dec-20 amortised 916 464 TOTAL 2,973,068 2,416,686 Note 6.2.3 Bonds drawn down in 2014. A rider to this agreement was signed on Carmila has four bonds, issued in 2015, 2016, 2018 and 2019, for a 30 July 2015, extending the maturity to 30 July 2020, with the total amount of €1,600 million. option of two further one-year extensions. The first extension, requested in 2016, extended the maturity date to 30 July 2021. On 10 September 2015, Carmila issued a bond for a nominal amount of €600 million, for a net consideration received on On 17 September 2014, Carmila and a banking syndicate entered into 18 September 2015 of €593,034 thousand, after deduction of the a second loan agreement to partially finance the acquisition of issue premium and bank commissions. This bond was issued for an assets from Unibail and Carrefour in the autumn of 2014, with a eight-year term maturing on 18 September 2023 with a coupon of Tranche A loan of €496 million and a revolving credit facility of 2.375% per annum. €124 million. The Tranche A loan was drawndown in full on 27 November 2014. This agreement was signed for five years and Carmila issued a second bond for a notional value of €600 million, was set to mature on 17 September 2019. During 2016, following the dated 24 March 2016. After the issue premium and bank placement of the second bond, the Group made a partial repayment commissions were deducted, Carmila received €592,998 thousand. of the Tranche A drawdown in the amount of €406 million. This bond matures on 16 September 2024 and bears a coupon of On 31 May 2016, Carmila negotiated an increase in the existing 2.375% per annum. revolving credit facility, signed under the same loan agreement, As part of the merger with Cardety, Carmila secured approval from increasing it from €124 million to €396.5 million. a qualified majority of bondholders for both bonds, convened to a Another amendment was signed to this syndicated loan agreement first meeting on 24 May 2017, to transfer these financial liabilities to on 16 June 2017. The drawdown amount was adjusted to Cardety. €770 million and the revolving credit facility was cancelled. The In February 2018, Carmila issued a third bond with a par value of maturity date of this loan agreement was extended by five years to €350 million, dated 7 March 2018. Net of the premium and bank 16 June 2022. commissions, deducted from the nominal amount of the debt, On 16 June 2017, the Group repaid the outstanding balance of Carmila received €347,767 thousand. This 10-year bonds matures on €90 million of this syndicated loan and cancelled the related unused 7 March 2028. revolving credit facility. Lastly, in November 2019, Carmila launched a private bond Carmila renegotiated all its bank loans in June 2017, at the same time placement for a nominal value of €50 million. Net of the premium as the merger with Cardety, and signed a new five-year loan and bank commissions, deducted from the nominal amount of the agreement for €770 million. debt, Carmila received €49,787 thousand. This 12-year bond, the longest of the Group, matures on 6 November 2031. On 16 May 2018, the maturity of the syndicated loan fully-drawn in 2017 was extended by one year to June 2023. This “renegotiation” At 31 December 2019, Carmila’s outstanding bonds therefore totalled led to the capitalisation of €765 thousand in fees spread over the €1,600 million, of which €11,946 thousand in premiums and issue remaining term of the underlying debt. In May 2019, the maturity of costs remained to be amortised over the residual period of the this fully drawn credit facility of €770 million, was extended by one underlying debts. year to June 2024. This renegotiation led to the capitalisation of an additional €765 thousand in fees spread over the remaining term of Note 6.2.4 Borrowings from lending institutions the underlying debt. In December 2019, the company elected to On 15 December 2013, Carmila and a pool of banks signed a loan prepay €100 million of the term loan reducing the closing balance to agreement for a total amount of €1,400 million, including a €670 million. €1,050 million term loan as Tranche A, used to partially fund the At 31 December 2019, €6,491 thousand of issuance costs for these acquisition of investment properties from the Klépierre group, and a loans remain to be amortised over the period of the underlying 7 five-year revolving credit facility of €350 millions. Facility A was fully debts. CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 217 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7. Annual consolidated financial statements at 31 december 2019 Note 6.2.5 Compliance with prudential ratios Note 6.2.6 Other loans at 31 December 2019 In 2015, Carmila acquired Financière Géric. This company had taken The loan agreement and the revolving credit facilities are subject to out three amortisable bank loans, the residual outstanding amount compliance with covenants measured at the closing date of each of which at 31 December 2019 was €686 thousand, maturing in half-year and year: 2020. These three loans were amortised for €2,382 thousand during the year. The outstanding amount of these loans is guaranteed by a • interest cover: the ratio of EBITDA to the net cost of debt must mortgage on the assets of the Thionville shopping centre. be greater than 2.00 at the test dates. This ratio stands at 5.0x at 31 December 2018 (compared with 4.9x at 31 December 2018); The Group strives to diversify its sources of financing and their maturities, and has set up a short-term commercial paper • loan-to-value ratio: the ratio of consolidated net financial debt to programme (NEU CP) for a maximum amount of €600 million, the fair value of the investment assets (including transfer costs) registered with the Banque de France on 29 June 2017 and renewed must not exceed 55% on the same date. with the possibility of annually. exceeding this ratio for a six month period. This ratio stands at The outstanding balance at the end of December 2019 was 34.9% at 31 December 2019 (compared with 34.0% at €146 million with maturities ranging from one to three months. The 31 December 2018). maximum outstanding balance drawn over the period was Failure to comply with these ratios entitles the lenders to require €155 million. As part of its 2017 refinancing, Carmila negotiated new immediate repayment of their facilities. credit lines with leading banks within the framework of the loan agreements signed on 16 June 2017: Under the loan agreements, Carmila may provide collateral for up to 20% of the total amount of the fair value of investment properties. • a confirmed revolving credit facility agreement in the amount of Moreover, the latter amount must be greater than €2,500 million at €759 million currently undrawn (the “RCF”) with an initial all times. maturity of June 2022, first extended to June 2023. In May 2019, the maturity of this line was extended to 16 June 2024; At 31 December 2019, the Group complied with the applicable covenants. • a confirmed credit facility agreement in the amount of €250 million in the form of a club deal (“CD”) with a limited number of top-tier banking partners close to the Group, maturing on 16 June 2020. Note 6.2.7 Breakdown of financial debt by maturity date At 31 December 2019, the financial debt classified by maturity breaks down as follows: Less than 5 years (in thousands of euros) 31/12/2019 1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years or more Bonds 1,612,701 22,160 -2,490 -2,550 -2,247 1,597,828 Bonds – non-current 1,600,000 1,600,000 Bond redemption premiums -8,459 -1,827 -1,868 -1,915 -1,683 -1,166 Accrued interests 24,597 24,597 Issuance costs -3,437 -610 -622 -636 -564 -1,006 Bank loans 780,955 126,120 -7,005 -7,022 -7,040 675,901 Borrowings from bank – non-current 654,316 -5,447 -5,447 -5,447 -5,447 676,104 Issuance costs -6,577 -1,649 -1,558 -1,575 -1,593 -203 Accrued interest -9,143 -9,143 Borrowings from bank – current -3,641 -3,641 Other loans and related debt – current 146,000 146,000 Other financial debt related to IFRS 16 37,056 2,500 2,644 2,276 2,276 27,360 Other financial debt IFRS 16 – non-current 34,556 2,644 2,276 2,276 27,360 Other financial debt IFRS 16 – current 2,500 2,500 BANK AND BOND BORROWINGS 2,430,712 150,780 -6,850 -7,297 -7,010 2,301,089 Derivative instruments – liabilities 25,556 5,084 4,540 4,057 3,276 8,599 Bank facilities 4,141 4,141 GROSS DEBT BY MATURITY DATE 2,460,408 160,005 -2,310 -3,240 -3,734 2,309,687 218 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual consolidated financial statements at 31 december 2019 Contractual flows including principal and interest break down by maturity date as follows: 2019 Year of repayment (in thousands of euros) 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025+ Total Principal 146 686 0 0 600,000 1,270,000 400,000 2,416,686 Interest 47,047 47,375 47,660 40,215 26,535 32,037 240,869 GROUP TOTAL 193,733 47,375 47,660 640,215 1,296,535 432,037 2,657,555 (PRINCIPAL + INTEREST) 2018 Year of repayment (in thousands of euros) 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024+ Total Principal 156,198 686 0 0 1,370,000 950,000 2,476,884 Interest 49,263 49,501 48,913 49,223 45,270 29,468 271,638 GROUP TOTAL 205,461 50,187 48,913 49,223 645,270 1,749,468 2,748,522 (PRINCIPAL + INTEREST) Note 6.2.8 Hedging transactions • level 2: Financial instruments whose fair value measurement uses As the parent company, Carmila provides for almost all of the techniques based on observable market parameters; Group’s financing and manages interest-rate risk centrally. • level 3: Financial instruments whose fair value measurement uses The Group distinguishes three categories of financial instruments techniques based on non-observable parameters (parameters using the various valuation methods and uses this classification, in whose value results from assumptions that are not based on compliance with international accounting standards, to present the observable transaction prices on markets for the same instrument characteristics of the financial instruments recognised in the balance or on observable market data available on the closing date) or sheet at fair value on the closing date: only partially observable parameters. • level 1: financial instruments quoted on an active market; Fair value in Liabilities at Value in Fair value Fair value in OCI period Loans and amortised Liabilities at balance sheet (in thousands of euros) level profit and loss impact receivables cost fair value 31/12/2019 ASSETS 324,940 Security deposits 12,834 12,834 Trade receivables 117,105 117,105 Other current financial 16,626 16,626 receivables Short term investment Level 1 203 203 Cash and cash equivalent Level 1 178,172 178,172 LIABILITIES 2,403,912 Bonds 1,588,054 1,588,054 Bank loans 644,302 644,302 Commercial paper 146,000 146,000 Financial derivatives liability Level 2 -6,840 25,556 25,556 For assets other than financial assets: the book values used are the The fixed interest rate position (fixed-rate debt + swapped variablereasonable estimates of their market value. rate debt) stands at 82% of gross debt at 31 December 2019 (compared with 88% at end-2018), and hedging instruments The fair value of derivative financial instruments is determined using represent 73.5% of variable-rate debt on the same date. standard valuation methods which include market conditions on the closing date. At 31 December 2019, the Group had contracted, with leading partner banks, five fixed-rate payer swaps against three-month The valuation of marketable securities and other current financial Euribor for a notional amount of €385 million, the longest of which receivables is based on the last quoted price. matured in December 2027. During the year the Group also Carmila has implemented a policy of hedging its variable rate debt in contracted a cap of €100 million maturing in June 2023. order to secure future cash flows by fixing or capping the interest 7 rate paid. This policy involves setting up plain vanilla derivatives, interest rate swaps or options and swaptions which are eligible for hedge accounting. CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 219 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7. Annual consolidated financial statements at 31 december 2019 Liabilities Nominal value FV Total 2020 2021 2022 > 2022 Swap & Swaptions 26.6 385 0 385 Swaptions 0.0 100 100 These instruments hedge the future variable-rate interest payments under “Other financial income and expenses”. The fair value of the of the Group’s financing, the highly probable nature of which is swaps at 31 December 2019 is considered to be 100% effective and confirmed by the €670 million bank loan. therefore recognised in shareholders’ equity for €26,615 thousand. The impact of -€10,923 thousand on OCI therefore includes These hedging instruments, still effective, were recognised as cash-€6,840 thousand of change in fair value of swaps, flow hedges for the financial year. As a consequence of this cash+€1,944 thousand of recycling of OCI as a result of prior period flow hedge accounting the derivative instruments are recognised on swap cancelations and -€6,027 thousand of compensation for the closing balance sheet at their market value, with the change in swaps unwound during the period and amortised over their fair value on the effective part of the hedge recognised in remaining initial term. shareholders’ equity (OCI) and the ineffective part in profit and loss (in thousands of euros) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS LIABILITIES Interest rate derivative liabilities – FV charged to earnings 0 226 Interest rate derivative liabilities – Cash-flow hedges 26,615 19,775 The sensitivity of derivative instruments to an interest rate change of +/-0.50% is as follows: Drop in interest rates of 0.50% Rise in interest rates of 0.50% Fair value of hedging instruments Change in profit Change in profit (in thousands of euros) Change in equity and loss Change in equity and loss Swap as CFH -13,527 12,982 Options as trading 0 0 Note 6.3 Management of financial risks Note 6.3.2 Liquidity risk and hedging strategy Liquidity risk is the risk incurred by the Group in the event that it encounters difficulties in repaying its debts as they fall due. Note 6.3.1 Credit risk Carmila’s policy is to ensure that the Group’s available liquid funds Credit risk is the risk of financial loss for the Group in the event that are sufficient to meet its obligations. In the short term, the liquidity a client or debtor fails to meet its contractual obligations. This risk risk is under control since cash and financial investments (as well as mainly derives from trade receivables, financial investments made in the committed revolving credit facilities) more than cover current order to place invest surplus funds and hedging agreements with liabilities. financial institutions as counterparties. Carmila has two revolving credit facilities at its disposal, totalling In France as in Spain and Italy, trade receivables relate to tenants; €759 million and €250 million. At 31 December 2019, neither of these none of which represent a significant percentage of the related two facilities had been drawn. revenue. In addition, upon signing the lease agreement, tenants pay security deposits or supply bank guarantees that, on average, Note 6.3.3 Other financial risks represent quarterly rents. Moreover, the Group strives to implement Changes in exchange rates, interest rates and the market for procedures for verifying the financial soundness of its clients, publicly-traded stocks each pose different risks. monitoring credit collection and systematically following up on unpaid receivables. Since Carmila operates entirely within the euro zone, the Group is not exposed to exchange risk. Cash investments are restricted to high-quality instruments; speculative or risky investments are excluded. With regard to interest-rate risk, Carmila has implemented a hedging policy with the use of derivatives (interest rate swaps and plain Hedging agreements are intended to hedge interest-rate risk and vanilla options), as described in Section 6.2.8 “Hedging transactions”. are solely for non-speculative hedging transactions. The counterparties for these transactions are large, blue-chip banks. As the Group does not hold any shares in listed companies excluding its own shares it is not exposed to a risk of fluctuating stock prices. 220 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual consolidated financial statements at 31 december 2019 Note 7 Detail of other balance-sheet items Note 7.1 Intangible assets ACCOUNTING POLICIES IAS 38 – Intangible Assets states that intangible assets with a finite performed on these fixed assets annually (IAS 36) or as soon as useful life are amortised on a straight-line basis over periods there is an indication of loss in value. spanning their expected useful life. Intangible assets without a Intangible assets are recognised, after initial recognition, at cost finite useful life are not amortised. The indeterminate nature of the reduced by amortisation and impairment, if any. useful life is reviewed every year. An impairment test is Allowances/ Reclassification/ (in thousands of euros) 31/12/2018 Acquisitions reversals Changes in scope Disposal 31/12/2019 Software 1,532 106 38 1,676 Other intangible assets 16,404 84 -3 16,485 Intangible assets in progress 41 16 -38 19 Intangible assets – gross value 17,977 206 -3 18,180 Amortisation/impairment of software -910 -182 -1 -1,093 Amortisation/impairment of other -12,512 -314 -12,826 intangible fixed assets Intangible assets – total amortisation -13,422 -496 -1 -13,919 TOTAL INTANGIBLE ASSETS – 4,555 206 -499 -1 4,261 NET VALUE Note 7.2 Property, plant and equipment ACCOUNTING POLICIES In accordance with IAS 16 – Property, Plant and Equipment, equipment that are not classified as investment properties, are valued at their historic cost less depreciation and write-downs due to impairment. Property, plant and equipment in progress are accounted for at cost less any identified impairment Allowances/ Change in Reclassification/ (in thousands of euros) 31/12/2018 Acquisitions reversals accounting method Disposal 31/12/2019 Technical plant, machinery and equipment 4,154 78 4,232 Office and computer equipment 448 42 490 Transportation equipment 599 599 Company's office buildings 2,755 2,755 Other property, plant and equipment 85 17 102 Property, plant and equipment – 4,687 137 3,354 8,178 gross value Depreciation/impairment of technical -2,192 -298 -2,490 plant, machinery and equipment Depreciation/impairment of office -388 -28 -416 and computer equipment Depreciation/impairment of transportion -342 -342 equipment Depreciation/impairment of company's -639 -639 office buildings Depreciation/impairment of other property, plant and equipment fixed assets Property, plant and equipment – -45 -2 -47 7 -2,625 -1,309 -3,934 total depreciation TOTAL PROPERTY, PLANT 2,062 137 -1,309 3,354 4,244 AND EQUIPMENT NET VALUE At 31 December 2019, property, plant and equipment mainly includes The change in method column represents the first-time application fixtures and office equipment for the Group’s service centres in of IFRS 16 which resulted in the recognition of €3,354 thousand in France and Spain. No acquisitions or write-offs occurred during the property, plant and equipment for the long-term leases of company period. vehicles in France and the leases of the registered offices in France and Spain. The associated depreciation expense amounts to €981 thousand for the period. CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 221 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7. Annual consolidated financial statements at 31 december 2019 Note 7.3 Investments in equity-accounted investment ACCOUNTING POLICIES The accounting policies applied are described in Note 3.1 The method used for accounting for investment properties at fair “Consolidation scope and methods”. The details of equityvalue was also applied to investments in associates in proportion accounted companies are available in Note 14 “List of to the Group’s interest in these entities. consolidated companies”. Capital Changes in scope (in thousands of euros) 31/12/2018 Net income Distribution increase of consolidation 31/12/2019 Investment in equity-accounted companies 49,766 4,376 -1,683 0 52,459 At 31 December 2019, this item consisted exclusively of As Cancelas (Spain), acquired in 2014 and currently in operation, and Carmila Thiene (Italy), the purpose of which is to harbor a project. Note 7.3.1 Financial information on equity-accounted investment With regard to all the equity investments accounted for using the equity method, the principal items in the financial position are as follows; they are items presented as if 100% owned (and including consolidation adjustments): Equity-accounted investments (in thousands of euros) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Investment properties 136,774 135,079 Other non-current assets 1,379 1,566 Deffered tax assets 214 184 Non-current assets 138,367 136,829 Trade receivables 396 442 Other current assets 816 866 Cash and Cash equivalent 3,905 4,078 Current assets 5,117 5,386 TOTAL ASSETS 143,484 142,215 Equity-accounted investments (in thousands of euros) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Shareholders' equity 93,684 92,064 Equity 93,684 92,064 Borrowings and financing from associates 28,126 31,126 Other non-current liabilities 18,160 16,327 Non-current liabilities 46,286 47,453 Current liabilities 3,514 2,698 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY 143,484 142,215 Equity-accounted investments 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 (in thousands of euros) Gross rental income 9,348 9,238 NET INCOME 4,376 5,426 Dividend distributed 3,365 2,960 222 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual consolidated financial statements at 31 december 2019 Note 7.4 Other non-current assets ACCOUNTING POLICIES In accordance with IFRS 9 – Financial Instruments, the principal The classification is determined by the Group on the date on financial assets are classified in one of the following three which the instrument is initially recorded, based on the asset type categories: and the purpose for which the asset was acquired. Sales and • loans and receivables; acquisitions of financial assets are recorded on the transaction date, i.e. the date on which the Group bought or sold the asset. • assets held to maturity; Other long-term investments include minority stakes in young companies developing innovative and promising retail concepts • assets available-for-sale. for goods and services. The application of IFRS 9 leads to a redefinition of the Loans and receivables are initially booked at fair value and then at methodology for classifying and measuring financial assets: their amortised cost on the basis of the effective interest rate method. For short-term receivables without a declared rate of • based on the contractual characteristics of cash-flows, on the interest, the fair value will be the same as the amount on the one hand; original invoice. They are subject to impairment testing when • and on the economic model for asset management, on the there is evidence that their value has declined. An impairment other. write-down is recognised if the book value is higher than the estimated recoverable value. The definition of financial assets used is a broad one: loans, This category includes receivables related to equity investments, advances, non-consolidated securities, current accounts, trade other loans and receivables, and trade receivables. They appear in receivables and derivative products. IFRS 9 also makes a the balance sheet under “Other financial assets” or “Trade distinction between two categories of financial assets: debt receivables”. instruments and equity instruments. Depending on the characteristics of the contractual cash-flows and business model, For assets available-for-sale, see Note 5 “Investment properties”. the resulting valuation method is different. Fair Value Other (in thousands of euros) 31/12/2018 Acquisitions Disposals Adjustment movements 31/12/2019 Non-consolidated equity interests 72 177 0 496 -1 744 Advances to associates or non-consolidated 0 -202 0 0 0 companies 202 Security deposits 12,826 52 -43 0 0 12,835 Other financial assets 71 0 0 0 0 71 Other non-current assets – gross value 13,171 229 -245 496 -1 13,650 Impairment on other non-current assets -1,223 0 0 0 0 -1,223 OTHER NON-CURRENT ASSETS – NET 11,948 229 -245 496 -1 12,427 The security deposits recognised as non-current assets relate to account. The increase in non-consolidated equity interests in the deposits made with the Spanish administrative authority, which period reflect the fair value adjustment of a minority, nonrequire that a percentage of the lease security deposits received consolidated investment through profit and loss. from tenants be deposited with these authorities in a special escrow 7 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 223 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7. Annual consolidated financial statements at 31 december 2019 Note 7.5 Trade receivables ACCOUNTING POLICIES Trade receivables mainly comprise rent from tenants, front-end These are tenants in safeguard procedures, in receivership, fees and any advisory services. The trade receivables also include liquidation, or any tenant for which a significant credit risk has the effect of staggering benefits granted to tenants (rent-free been identified. periods and step rents). In the event of loss in value, these The trade receivables have a maturity of less than one year, with receivables are subject to depreciation, which takes into account the exception of rent discounts and step rents, which are spread the debtor’s capacity to honour its debt and the period for which over the lease term. the receivable is overdue. The Group makes provisions at 50% when the receivable is overdue by over 6 months and less than Lastly, pursuant to the application of IFRIC 21, provisions were one year, and at 100% of the receivables if overdue by more than recorded for all property taxes owed for the year 2019 as of a year. In addition, for any tenant presenting a risk of insolvency, a 1 January of that year. Simultaneously, an accrual for the share of provision is made for 100% of the receivables. property taxes rebilled to tenants was recorded as unbilled revenue. This adjustment has no impact on the annual financial statements. (in thousands of euros) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Trade receivables – gross value 140,875 143,265 Depreciation of trade receivables -23,770 -19,649 TRADE RECEIVABLES AND OTHER RECEIVABLES – NET 117,105 123,616 The change in the period is basically due to improved collection of current receivables thanks to the active credit collection enforced. The increase in customer receivables is mainly attributable to France (see 9.1 Net rental income). (in thousands Accounting >= 15 days >= 30 days >= 60 days >= 90 days >= 180 days >= 360 Total of euros) balance(1) current overdue < 15 days < 30 days < 60 days < 90 days < 180 days < 360 days days Provision Spain 5,558 0 5,558 -204 192 122 -111 878 1,221 3,459 -4,032 Italy 9,217 6,034 3,184 50 93 114 228 108 374 2,217 -2,774 France 113,812 90,324 23,488 529 -425 -74 380 3,662 7,965 11,451 -16,964 TOTAL GROUP 128,588 96,358 32,230 375 -140 163 498 4,649 9,560 17,127 -23,770 (INCLUDING VAT) Impairment trade receivable (excluding VAT) TOTAL GROUP -23,770 (1) The aged balance does not include accrued receivables, nor receivables unrelated to rental activty. Note 7.6 Other current assets (in thousands of euros) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Tax receivables 28,787 37,020 Corporate tax receivables 3,083 2,590 Other tax receivables 25,704 34,430 Financial receivables 22,231 161,784 Receivables related to investment properties 21,485 19,607 Derivative instruments – assets 543 0 Short term investments 203 142,177 Other receivables 18,109 18,440 Receivables from charges rebilled to tenants 9,792 10,942 Other miscellaneous receivables 8,007 7,740 Prepaid expenses 310 -242 TOTAL OTHER RECEIVABLES – GROSS VALUE 69,127 217,244 Depreciation of other receivables 0 0 OTHER CURRENT RECEIVABLES – NET 69,127 217,244 At 31 December 2019, the significant decline in tax receivables is due €11,500 thousand and Carmila Thiene for €5,126 thousand) and to to payments of VAT receivables on extension works in France and advances by Carmila Retail Development to joint venture companies the settlement of tax receivables linked to the Spanish acquisitions in which the company has an equity stake. in 2018. Marketable securities acquired in 2018 following the bond issue Financial receivables relating to equity investments consist mainly of of February 2018, were gradually sold over the course of 2019. the Group’s loans to equity-accounted companies (As Cancelas for 224 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual consolidated financial statements at 31 december 2019 Note 7.7 Net cash ACCOUNTING POLICIES Cash equivalents are short-term investments (maturity of less than three months), highly liquid, easily convertible into a known amount of cash, and subject to a negligible risk of change in value. Cash includes shares in money-market funds and cash deposits. They are adjusted at fair value through profit or loss. (in thousands of euros) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Cash 178,172 70,518 Cash equivalent 0 0 Cash and cash equivalent 178,172 70,518 Bank facilities -4,141 -5,617 NET CASH(1) 174,031 64,901 (1) Excluding short term investments classified as Other current assets Financial receivables and booked at their 203 142,177 fair value at 31 December. Marketable securities held at 31 December 2019 are presented in other current financial assets to the extent that all the criteria defined in IAS 7 – Cash and cash equivalents do not appear to be met to classify these marketable securities as cash equivalents. The change in the Group’s net cash position is detailed in 7.1.3 Consolidated cash-flow statement . Note 7.8 Shareholder’s equity Note 7.8.1 Share capital and premiums on Carmila’s capital (in euros) Number of shares Share capital Issuance premium Merger premium On 1 January 2019 136,561,695 819,370,170 519,655,151 1,748,548,849 Cash payment dividend AGM 16/05/2019 -138,314 000 New shares issued 120,148 720,888 -720,888 Premium reclassification of 2017 IPO costs 1,677,000 -1,677,000 ON 31 DECEMBER 2019 136,681,843 820,091,058 520,611,263 1,608,557,849 On 31 December 2019, the share capital was made up of Note 7.8.3 Treasury stock 136,561,695 ordinary A-class shares each with a nominal value of Treasury stock is deducted from consolidated shareholders’ equity six euros (€6) fully subscribed and paid up. The capital also includes at its acquisition cost. Any income from the sale of treasury stock 120,148 B-class preferred shares, each with a nominal value of (together with the related tax effects) is directly charged to six euros (€6). shareholders’ equity and does not contribute to net income for the On 16 May 2019, based on a proposal by the Board of Directors, the financial year. The company set up a share liquidity contract Shareholders’ Meeting approved the distribution of a dividend of following its listing on Euronext Paris. At 31 December 2019, the €1.50 per share for the 2018 financial year, paid in a single payment. company held a total of 153,283 Carmila shares including the shares The ex-dividend date was 21 May and payment was made on held as part of the liquidity contract and the shares held in view of 23 May. An amount of €66.5 million was deducted from distributable using them in share-based bonus plans. income and the remaining €138.2 million from the merger premium. In addition, the company issued 120,148 class B shares under the Note 7.8.4 Earnings per share preference share-based bonus plans for Carmila's key employees Earnings per share are calculated by dividing earnings attributable and corporate officers. This capital increase was charged against to the bearers of the Company’s ordinary shares by the weighted issuance premiums. average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period. Treasury stock is not considered as shares in circulation and therefore they are deducted from the number of shares used to Note 7.8.2 Distributions of premiums and capital calculate net earnings per share. increases For the distribution of premiums, refer to Note 1.3 “Distribution of Fully diluted earnings per share are determined by adjusting dividends”. earnings attributable to bearers of ordinary shares and the average weighted number of ordinary shares in circulation to include the For operations on the share capital refer to Note 7.8.1 Equity effects of all potentially dilutive financial instruments as well as the above. potential shares in particular those linked to share-based bonus 7 plans. At 31 December 2019 Average number of shares (non diluted) 136,408,412 Number of shares resulting from share-based payments present 297,092 and future at 31 December 2019 Average number of shares (fully diluted) 136,705,504 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 225 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7. Annual consolidated financial statements at 31 december 2019 Note 7.9 Provisions ACCOUNTING POLICIES In accordance with IAS 37 – Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and resources representing economic benefits. This obligation may be Contingent Assets, provisions are posted when, on the closing of a legal, regulatory or contractual nature, or it may be implicit. date, the Group has a present legal or implicit obligation arising These provisions are estimated for each category based on the from a past event, the amount of which can be reliably estimated most likely assumptions. Amounts are discounted when the and the settlement of which is likely to require the outflow of impact of the passage of time is significant. Actuarial (in thousands of euros) 31/12/2018 Allowances Reversal Reclassification adjustments (OCI) 31/12/2019 Other contingency provisions 5,175 1,249 -266 6,158 Contingency provisions 5,175 1,249 -266 6,158 Provision for pensions and retirement 510 264 -67 707 benefits Provisions for charges 510 264 -67 707 TOTAL NON-CURRENT PROVISIONS 5,685 1,513 -333 6,865 Contingency provisions include all tenant-related disputes and disputes (e.g. ongoing negotiations with possible renewal) and litigation and any other operating risks. These provisions were possible appeal procedures (right of withdrawal). reviewed to better understand the facts and circumstances of these Note 7.10 Other non-current liabilities This item includes an earn-out payment related to the acquisition of an asset in 2016, in which the appraisal of future performance and the amount were sufficiently reliable to be provisioned. The payment of this earn-out is planned in 2021. Note 7.11 Trade and fixed-asset supplier payables (in thousands of euros) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Fixed assets payables 81,674 52,141 Miscellaneous trade payables 4,508 3,804 Trade payables and invoices yet to be received 24,347 24,566 TRADE AND FIXED ASSETS PAYABLES 110,529 80,511 Payables in respect of fixed assets showed an appreciable increase (+3.4 million). This impact is offset by the settling of payables with due to the ongoing projects in Nice Lingostière (+€37.1 million), fixed asset suppliers for completed extension and restructuring Rennes Cesson (+€7.0 million) and Cité Europe in Coquelles (Calais) projects, notably Orléans Place d’Arc and Evreux. Note 7.12 Other current liabilities (in thousands of euros) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Tax and payroll related payables 49,356 44,237 Tax liabilities (excluding corporate income tax) 29,974 27,730 Tax liabilities – corporate income tax 8,508 5, 834 Social-security liabilities 10,874 10,673 Miscallaneous liabilities 84,978 87,517 Other miscellaneous debts 16,462 17,784 Prepaid income 68,516 69,733 OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES 134,334 131,754 The increase in tax and payroll related payables is essentially linked to the increase in tax payable in Spain (+€1.7 million), and corporate income tax due in France for €0.4 million. 226 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual consolidated financial statements at 31 december 2019 Note 8 Detail of other income statement items Note 8.1 Net Rental Income ACCOUNTING POLICIES Gross Rental income • front-end fees collected by the lessor are considered additional Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straightrent. The front-end fee forms part of the net sum exchanged line basis over the entire term of the lease agreement. between the lessor and the lessee under the lease. Therefore, Pursuant to IAS 17 and SIC 15, any inducements granted by a the accounting periods during which this net amount is lessor when negotiating or renewing an operating lease should be recognised should not be affected by the form of the recognised as an integral part of the consideration accepted for agreement and payment schedules. These fees are amortised use of the leased asset, regardless of the nature, form or payment over the initial minimum period of the lease; date of those inducements: • early termination penalties are received from tenants when • any step rents or discounts granted are recorded by including a they cancel the lease before its contractual term. Such reduction or increase in the rental income spread over time. penalties relate to the terminated lease and are recognised as The reference period used is the first non-cancellable lease income in the year in which they are received. term; Property expenses • any temporary rent reduction granted to a lessee on an • Real estate expenses: exceptional basis to support its business activity are recorded as charges for the year; special sales or marketing promotions These are fees paid (or amortisation of initial payments) when the undertaken on a tenant’s behalf are recorded in the same way; land is made available through a ground lease or concession agreement, as well as the expense and the expense and recovery • any works undertaken on the lessee’s behalf may, under certain of the land tax. conditions, be depreciated on a straight-line basis over the fixed term of the lease or incorporated into the cost of the • Non-recoverable rental charges: asset; These expenses are shown net of rebilling to tenants and primarily • where the lessor cancels an ongoing lease, it pays lease represent charges arising from vacant premises and yet termination compensation to the sitting tenant. When the unrecovered expenses not yet invoiced. conditions are met, the compensation is recorded as a fixed asset (Note 5 “Investment properties”); • Property expenses (landlord): These consist of rental charges borne by the landlord, and charges • transfer compensation, i.e. compensation paid to a lessee in the related to works, litigation costs, allowances for bad debt, and event of relocation to other premises in the same building, property management costs. may, under certain conditions, be spread over the minimum lease term, or, if the building is being renovated, it may be Net rents are calculated based on the difference between rental included in the cost price of the asset; income and these various expenses net of those rebilled. (in thousands of euros) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Rent 359,565 338,955 Front-end fees and other indemnities -108 1,295 Gross Rental Income 359,457 340,250 Property tax -21,214 -20,755 Charges rebilled to tenants 16,569 15,105 Real estate expenses -4,645 -5,650 Rental charges -71,307 -70,785 Charges rebilled to tenants 62,790 59,702 Non-recovered rental charges -8,517 -11,083 Management fees -139 -774 Charges rebilled to tenants 0 0 Losses and depreciation of receivables -10,010 -6,430 Other expenses -2,962 -2,656 Property expenses (landlord) -13,111 -9,860 NET RENTAL INCOME 333,184 313,658 7 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 227 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7. Annual consolidated financial statements at 31 december 2019 Note 8.1.1 Gross rental income Note 8.1.3 Non-recovered rental charges The growth in rental income is mainly the result of the full-year The improvement in net rental charges results from a finer recovery contribution of the acquisitions of the year 2018 made in Spain and of these charges in France (+€1.9 million) and Spain (+€1.0 million). in France (€6.4 million), the deliveries of extension projects during the year (€5.3 million), and by like-for-like growth (€8.4 million). Note 8.1.4 Property expenses The increase in net property expenses is mainly linked to the Note 8.1.2 Real estate expenses deterioration of customer risk in France (+€3.3 million), as the The improvement in real estate expenses is explained by the effects in Spain and Italy compensate each other. restatement of land lease contracts (€1.6 million) and increased reinvoicing of the property tax in Spain (+0.7 million) offset by lower re-invoicing in France (-€0.8 million). Note 8.2 Overhead expenses (in thousands of euros) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Income from management, administration and other activities 10,477 4,595 Other income 1,407 6,631 Payroll expenses -25,145 -24,839 Other overhead expenses -39,579 -36,961 OVERHEAD EXPENSES -52,840 -50,574 Since 2016, the Group has set up share-based bonus plans Note 8.2.1 Income from management, for executives and key employees. The benefits associated with administration and other activities these plans are recognised as payroll expenses in the amount of These revenues mainly include initial letting fees, marketing services -€946 thousand (-€1,295 thousand in 2018), including the social and the cross-charging of marketing expenses aimed at developing security contribution, over the year. The decrease is mainly and enhancing the attractiveness of the centres, to retailers’ explained by shares cancelled under previous plans due the associations and various rebilling by real estate companies to codeparture of beneficiaries, and to a decline in performance in the owners. This item also includes rebilling of shopping centre 2017 plan. management services, previously presented in other service income (€4.7 million). Note 8.2.4 Other external expenses Other external expenses are related to administrative expenses. Note 8.2.2 Other service income They mainly include marketing costs, in particular related to the Other service income comprises the rebilling of overheads, mainly to build-up of digital tools, and miscellaneous fees including Carrefour the Carrefour group, and marketing fees, in France and Spain. group fees related to services provided (accounting, human resources, janitor services, etc.), appraisal fees for investment Note 8.2.3 Payroll expenses properties, financial communication and advertising fees, travel Payroll expenses amounted to €25,145 thousand at expenses and Director’s fees. 31 December 2019; up 1%. Note 8.3 Depreciation, amortisation, provisions and impairment (in thousands of euros) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Depreciation and amortisation allowance for fixed assets and impairment of intangible fixed assets -1,807 -1,141 Reversal/accruals for provisions of contingent liabilities and current assets -1,686 -2,367 ALLOWANCES FOR DEPRECIATION OF FIXED ASSETS, AMORTISATION OF INTANGIBLE FIXED -3,493 -3,508 ASSETS AND PROVISIONS Depreciation and amortisation provisions mainly concern software The net provisions for losses, contingencies and liabilities mainly and fixtures and fittings in the Group's office buildings, but also the concern property disputes with tenants, depreciation of current depreciation and amortisation resulting from the restatement in assets, and potential tax disputes in France. There were no material accordance with IFRS 16 of the leases of the headquarter offices in changes during the year. France and Spain, along with the company cars. Note 8.4 Gains (losses) on disposals of investment properties and equity investments There were no significant disposals during the year. The negative income on disposal results from exchange transactions and write-offs during the period. 228 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual consolidated financial statements at 31 december 2019 Note 9 Taxes ACCOUNTING POLICIES The Group companies are subject to the tax laws that apply in the Income tax for companies not subject to the REIT tax countries in which they operate. Income tax is calculated regime according to local rules and rates. Since its adoption of the SIIC regime on 1 June 2014, Carmila has In France, the Group benefits from the specific tax regime for segregated a REIT segment that is exempt from tax on propertyREITs (Real Estate Investment Trusts). The Group’s subsidiaries in leasing transactions and capital gains on disposal, from a segment Spain and Italy are subject to ordinary taxation in their respective subject to corporate income tax for other activities. jurisdictions. Income tax for companies not subject to the REIT regime in French tax regime for REITs (Real Estate Investment France and for foreign companies is calculated under conditions of ordinary tax law. Financière Géric, which was previously subject Trusts) to corporate income tax, opted for the SIIC regime on On 1 June 2014, Carmila and its French subsidiaries subject to 1 January 2017. corporate income tax opted for the SIIC regime (French REIT) as of that date. Ordinary-law arrangements and deferred tax Current income tax expense is determined on the basis of the Characteristics of the regime rules and rates adopted or in the process of being adopted at the The specific corporate tax exemption regime for REITs is an end of the financial year in each country over the period to which option for companies listed on a French stock market with share the profit relates. capital of at least €15 million, having bylaws aimed at the acquisition or construction of investment properties for leasing The income tax payable as well as the tax on future income are purposes or for the direct or indirect holding of equity offset when they originate within the same tax group, are the investments in legal entities with the same corporate objective. responsibility of the same tax authority, and there is a legal right This option cannot be revoked. Subsidiaries subject to corporation to offset. tax may also opt for the regime if at least 95% of their share Deferred taxes are recognised when there are temporary capital is held by a company having opted for the REIT regime. differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities In exchange for this benefit, these listed property investment and their tax base, in respect of those that give rise to taxable companies are required to distribute 95% of their rental income, income in future periods. 70% of their capital gains on disposals and 100% of the dividends A residual deferred tax asset will first be used to offset existing received from their REIT subsidiaries. The distribution requirement liabilities, and the remaining balance will be recorded if it is related to capital gains was 60% up to 31 December 2018, and is probable that the company will have future taxable profits that 70% since 1 January 2019. the deferred tax assets can be used to offset. The option of the REIT regime entails the immediate taxation of an Deferred tax assets and liabilities are valued by the liability exit tax at a rate of 19% on unrealised capital gains relating to method at the income tax rate assumed to apply to the period in properties and shares in partnerships not subject to corporate which the asset will be realised or the liability will be paid, on the taxation. The exit tax is payable over a four-year period starting basis of income tax rates and tax regulations that have been when the entity concerned opts for the REIT status. adopted or quasi-adopted prior to the balance-sheet date. The Discounting of the exit tax liability measurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities should reflect The exit tax liability is discounted according to its payment the tax consequences resulting from the way in which the schedule. The liability initially recognised in the balance sheet is company expects, at the balance-sheet date, to recover or settle discounted, and an interest expense is recorded at each balancethe book value of its assets and liabilities. sheet date in other financial expenses, enabling the liability to be Deferred tax is calculated at the local tax rates approved on the reduced to its net present value at the balance-sheet date. closing date. The rates applied at 31 December 2019 are 27.90% in Italy and 25% in Spain. In France, the Finance Act has maintained the social contribution rate at 3.3% but has introduced a progressive reduction in income tax from 33.33% to 25% by 2022. The theoretical tax rate of 34.4% thus is equivalent to the ordinary tax rate of 33.3% (28% for profits up to €0.5 million) and to the corporate income tax social contribution of 3.3% in effect as of 31 December 2019. 7 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 229 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7. Annual consolidated financial statements at 31 december 2019 Note 9.1 Income tax expense (in thousands of euros) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Deferred tax -20,764 -49,410 Withholding tax -372 -394 Current tax -4,141 -3,000 INCOME TAX CHARGE -25,277 -52,804 The deferred tax expense totals -€20,764 thousand and is mainly contributes to reducing the tax base for deferred taxation, and on due to the change in deferred taxation linked to changes in fair the other hand by a -€24.5 million adjustment in 2018. value. This amount is based on a deferred tax rate in Italy of 27.9%, Tax payable by the Group amounts to -€4,513 thousand, of which including 3.9% of IRAP (Italian regional production tax), not €1.8 million in Italy and Spain, €0.4 million of withholding taxes, and previously accrued. €0.5 million of income tax payable in France. The change relative to the previous year is explained on the one hand by a slight reduction in appraisal values in Spain, which Note 9.2 Tax reconciliation The reconciliation of the effective tax rate with the theoretical tax rate is as follows: (in thousands of euros) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Net consolidated income 108,401 163,609 Income tax expense 25,277 52,804 Share of net income of equity-accounted companies -4,376 -3,882 Net income before taxes and excluding equity-accounted companies' net income 129,302 212,531 Tax rate applicable to the parent company 34.43% 34.43% THEROETICAL INCOME TAX (EXPENSE)/INCOME -44,519 -73,174 Tax exempt income resulting from the SIIC regime 19,618 39,484 Temporary differences -7,546 -141 Value-added contribution 0 0 Permanent differences 374 -61 Other tax accrual 0 -28,913 Difference in tax rates 6,637 9,091 Tax deficit allocation 0 418 Tax loss without deferred tax recognition 159 492 EFFECTIVE TAX (EXPENSE)/INCOME -25,278 -52,804 EFFECTIVE TAX RATE 19.55% 24.85% Note 9.3 Current tax assets and liabilities (in thousands of euros) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Tax credits 3,083 2,590 TOTAL TAX ASSETS 3,083 2,590 Tax liabilities non-current 0 4,569 Tax liabilities current 8,475 5,806 Liabilities related to tax consolidation 33 28 TOTAL TAX LIABILITIES 8,508 10,403 At 31 December 2019, tax receivables totalled €2,765 thousand for the company. The decrease in this non-current tax liability comes Italy and €318 thousand for France. from the payment of €4,569 thousand that occurred in December 2019 concerning this exit tax. In the balance sheet, at The French companies subject to corporate income tax opted for 31 December 2019, the 2020 contribution of the exit tax of the SIIC regime on 1 June 2014. Financière Géric chose the SIIC Financière Géric totalled €4,569 thousand, with a maturity of less regime at 1 January 2017. A provision was recorded in the 2016 than one year. financial statements for the total amount of exit tax to be paid by 230 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual consolidated financial statements at 31 december 2019 Note 9.4 Deferred tax assets and liabilities Profit and loss Change in scope (in thousands of euros) 31/12/2018 impact of consolidation Other 31/12/2019 Deferred tax – assets 7,776 3,772 11,548 Deferred tax – liabilities 154,692 21,508 176,200 NET BALANCE OF DEFERRED TAX -146,916 -17,736 0 0 -164,652 Breakdown of differed tax by category Properties -154,419 -21,410 -175,829 Tax losses 7,503 3,674 11,177 NET BALANCE OF DEFERRED TAX -146,916 -17,736 0 0 -164,652 Note 10 Off-balance-sheet commitments and associated risk ACCOUNTING POLICIES Off-balance-sheet commitment Contingent liabilities An off-balance sheet commitment can be any transaction or A contingent liability is a potential obligation for the entity to a agreement between a company and one or several entities which third party resulting from an event whose existence will only be is not entered on the balance sheet. These commitments, which confirmed by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or several are received, given or reciprocal, represent risks and advantages future uncertain events that are outside the entity’s control. which are useful for assessing the Group’s financial position. Note 10.1 Contingent liabilities In 2017, Carmila received a tax assessment for the 2014 financial year disputing the basis of this adjustment and considers that its chances including an adjustment notice for €62,134 thousand, interest and of success in litigation are probable. In 2019, the tax authorities penalties included. After consulting its tax lawyers, Carmila was dropped this adjustment claim. Note 10.2 Commitments received (in thousands of euros) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Unused credit facilities 1,009,000 1,009,000 Commitments related to Group financing 1,009,000 1,009,000 Sale commitments 0 0 Bank guarantees received from tenants 25,740 24,778 Other commitments received 0 0 Commitments related to Group operating activities 25,740 24,778 TOTAL COMMITMENTS RECEIVED 1,034,740 1,033,778 Note 10.2.1 Unused credit facilities Note 10.2.3 Other guarantees received – liability The Group finances itself through equity and borrowings contracted guarantees by the parent company. At 31 December 2019, the Group had two As part of the acquisition of the Italian assets, Carmila Italia received confirmed undrawn credit lines set-up as part of its refinancing an assessment notice from the tax authorities. This tax risk is programme in June 2017, totalling €1,009 million (see Note 6.2.6 covered by a liability guarantee granted by the vendor. Other Loans ). Note 10.2.2 Bank guarantees received from tenants As an owner and manager of shopping malls, some leases provide for the lessor to receive a first demand bank guarantee securing the sums owed by the tenants. 7 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 231 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7. Annual consolidated financial statements at 31 december 2019 Note 10.3 Commitments given (in thousands of euros) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Commitments to acquire 0 0 Commitments given related to the scope of the consolidation 0 0 Financial guarantees issued 686 3,067 Commitments related to Group financing 686 3,067 Commitments under conditions precedent 0 2,460 Commitments to complete works 20,235 65,704 Rental guarantees and deposits 10,331 6,553 Commitments given on swaps 0 100,000 Commitments related to the Group operating activities 30,566 174,717 TOTAL COMMITMENTS GIVEN 31,252 177,784 Note 10.3.1 Financial guarantees issued Note 10.3.4 Rental guarantees and collateral Prior to its acquisition by the Group, Financière Géric granted prime The rental guarantees and collaterals mainly comprise guarantees mortgages for an initial amount of €13 million as a guarantee to its covering the operating premises of the Group and its subsidiaries. It bank financing. At 31 December 2019, the outstanding amount also includes, since 2018, a guarantee given to the tax authorities by guaranteed is €686 thousand and this amount matures in 2020. the Italian subsidiaries for the application of its consolidated VAT regime. Note 10.3.2 Commitments subject to conditions precedent Note 10.3.5 Commitments given on swaps The commitments subject to conditions precedent are undertakings The Group had contracted swaptions covering a notional value of to purchase land, assets or securities and earn-out payments for €100 million in 2018. These swaptions became effective during the previous acquisitions some of which are sufficiently uncertain to be year, and the commitment was cancelled. recognised in the financial statements. At 31 December 2019, the Group had not signed any promises to acquire. Note 10.4 Reciprocal commitments Directly linked to development and redevelopment projects, Note 10.3.3 Commitments to complete works reciprocal commitments relate to the acquisition contracts (VEFA) Work commitments relate to the projects approved by the and other contracts for real estate development. Investment Committee and/or already under contract. These are At 31 December 2019, the secured acquisition contracts totalled mainly restructuring projects in France. At 31 December 2019, the €70,994 thousand mainly composed of the Nice Lingostière project. work commitments mainly concerned the restructuring work on Cité To the best of our knowledge, there is no omission of any material Europe in Coquelles (Calais). off-balance-sheet commitment or commitment which could become significant in the future as determined by the accounting principles applied. 232 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual consolidated financial statements at 31 december 2019 Note 11 Transactions with related parties On 16 April 2014, the Carrefour group and Carmila signed During the first half of 2019, Carmila acquired from the Carrefour agreements entrusting functions or services performed by Carrefour Group in Spain, the operating rights for the specialty leasing activity for Carmila. The term of these agreements was set at five years, i.e. in eight shopping malls for a total investment of 2.9 million euros until 15 April 2019, and has been extended until 31 December 2020. over the period. In addition, Carrefour and Carmila signed an agreement for the There were no substantial changes over the financial year as regards execution of the renovation and development of Carmila’s assets. transactions with related parties. FRANCE (in thousands of euros) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Agreement on renovation and development – Carmila-Carrefour Personnel secondment agreement 1,290 1,000 Exclusive mandate – Carrefour Property Gestion 8,189 7,845 Lease and asset management Service agreement between Carmila France and Almia Management and Carrefour Administratif France 802 893 Services in the field of insurance management, legal (both corporate and litigations), tax, accounting, treasury back-office, payroll Service agreement between Carmila and Carrefour Administratif France 88 0 Services in the field of insurance management, tax, accounting, treasury back-office Service agreement between Carmila and Carrefour 74 102 Accounting, tax, legal assistance, insurance management Service Agreement between CPF Asset Management and Carmila France 607 567 Legal real estate services, human ressources, management accounting, janitor services TOTAL BILLED TO CARMILA AND SUBSIDIARIES IN FRANCE 11,050 10,367 Shopping mall Director mandate with Carrefour Property Gestion -4,624 -4,624 Agreement billed by Almia Management Exclusive mandate with Carrefour Property France, Immobilière Carrefour, Hyparlo, Sogara 0 0 and Carrefour Property Development Lease negotiations and specialty leasing activity New extension or other development lease negotiation fees -310 -1,200 Fees billed byAlmia Management TOTAL BILLED BY CARMILA IN FRANCE -4,934 -5,824 TOTAL NET AMOUNT INVOICED TO CARMILA FRANCE (EXPENSE) 6,116 4,583 SPAIN (in thousands of euros) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Exclusive mandate – Carrefour Property España 2,663 2,363 Lease management Service contract – Centros Comerciales Carrefour 668 635 Insurance, legal assistance, tax, accounting, cash management, IT, payroll, janitor services Service contract – Carrefour Property España 320 303 Legal real estate services, management, human resources Marketing of specialty leasing 37 0 TOTAL CHARGED TO CARMILA IN SPAIN 3,688 3,301 Exclusive mandate – Carrefour Property España, Carrefour Norte, Carrefour Navarra and third parties -172 -168 Asset management Exclusive mandates – Carrefour Property España, Carrefour Navarra, Carrefour Norte and third parties -238 -789 Marketing of premises in shopping malls -12 -68 Marketing of leasable areas comprised within common areas -226 -721 TOTAL INVOICED BY CARMILA IN SPAIN -410 -957 TOTAL NET AMOUNT INVOICED TO CARMILA – SPAIN (EXPENSE) 3,278 2,344 7 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 233 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7. Annual consolidated financial statements at 31 december 2019 ITALY (in thousands of euros) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Service contract with GS S.p.A. 534 466 Legal assistance, tax, accounting, technical maintenance Service contract with Carrefour Property Italia S.r.l. 230 253 Management accounting, project investment, janitor services Cash Management Service contract with Carrefour Italia Finance S.r.l. 55 55 Exclusive mandate with Carrefour Property Italia S.r.l. 566 664 Lease negociation and asset management 275 378 Specialty leasing 292 286 TOTAL AMOUNT INVOICED TO CARMILA ITALY (EXPENSE) 1,385 1,438 Note 12 Employee compensation and benefits Note 12.1 Payroll expenses See Note 8.2.3. Note 12.2 Headcount At 31 December 2019, the Carmila Group had 189 employees, including 129 in France employed by its Almia Management subsidiary, 45 in Spain and 15 in Italy (excluding apprentices). Note 12.3 Employee benefits Employees receive benefits during their employment (paid leave, sick leave, profit-sharing, long service awards, etc.) and defined-benefit or defined-contribution post-employment benefits (end-of-service indemnities, pension benefits, etc.). Note 12.3.1 Pension benefits ACCOUNTING POLICIES Defined-contribution schemes These total benefits are then allocated over each of the past and Defined-contribution schemes are schemes whereby the company future financial years for which the participant accrued rights makes periodic fixed contributions to external benefit agencies under the retirement programme: that provide administrative and financial management. These • the share of this total benefit allocated to financial years prior schemes free the employer from any further obligation; with the to the valuation date (Actuarial Debt or Value of the agency taking responsibility for paying employees the amounts Obligations) reflects amounts due under the company’s owed them (basic social security pension schemes in France, obligations for “services rendered”. The actuarial debt reflects supplementary pension schemes and pension funds with fixed amounts due under the total obligations indicated on the contributions). balance sheet; These contributions are recognised as expenses when they fall • the share of the total cost allocated to financial years due. subsequent to the valuation date (Cost of Services) represents Defined-benefit schemes and long-term benefits the likely increase in obligations as a result of the additional year of service that the participant will have performed at the Carmila makes provisions for various defined-benefit schemes that end of the financial year. Depending on their nature, charges depend upon individuals’ accumulated years of service within the related to the cost of services are recorded either under Group. Operating income or under other financial income and The actuarial method used for this evaluation is a prospective expenses for the portion relating to interest expenses. method that projects career-end salaries and calculates pro-rata entitlements based on years of service, a method that complies In accordance with IAS 19, actuarial gains and losses resulting with the recommendations of IAS 19. The calculations are made by from a change in assumptions are entered under “Other a qualified actuary. comprehensive income”. For each active participant, the benefit likely to be paid is With this method, the value of the obligations or the actuarial debt estimated based on the rules defined in the collective bargaining at the valuation date is obtained by distributing the total plan agreement or schedule in force, using personal data projected to cost or Present Value of Future Benefits (PVFB) on a straight-line the standard age for payment of the benefit. The company’s total basis from the participant’s employment start date to his or her obligations toward each participant (actuarial value of future retirement date. benefits) are then calculated by multiplying the estimated benefit The discount rate reflects the expected year-end yield from by an actuarial factor, which takes into account the following: investment-grade (AA) euro-zone bonds with a maturity equal to • assumptions concerning the employee’s probability of either the valued obligation (with reference to the rate for iBoxx Euro leaving the company or dying before the age of payment of the AA corporate bonds maturing in 10 years or more). benefit; At 31 December 2019, the Group applied the following principal actuarial assumptions: • the discounted value of the benefit at the valuation date. • discount rate: 0.75% (vs. 1.44% in 2018); • salary indexation: 2.0% (unchanged from 2018). 234 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual consolidated financial statements at 31 december 2019 Note 12.3.2 Share-based payments ACCOUNTING POLICIES The Group applies the provisions of IFRS 2 – Share-based • in 2018, the preference share-based performance plan payment. The fair value of share-based payment rights granted to incorporates, in addition to a continued employment criterion, employees is determined at their assignment date. It is recorded the fulfilment of conditions relating to the Group’s financial as payroll expenses, with an increase in shareholders’ equity as performance: counterpart over the period when the rights are definitively vested. The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to • 1/3 relates to the fulfilment of conditions linked to the reflect the number of rights for which it is estimated that the nonchange in the total shareholder return (based on the NNNAV market service and performance conditions will be met. Thus, the indicator as defined by EPRA) versus a comparable panel of real estate companies, amount recognised as an expense is ultimately based on the actual number of rights that fulfil the service conditions and the • 1/3 relates to the fulfilment of conditions linked to the non-market performance conditions at the vesting date. For growth in recurring earnings per share between the years share-based payment rights with other conditions, the fair value ended 31/12/2017 and 31/12/2020, measurement at the assignment date reflects these conditions. • 1/3 relates to the fulfilment of conditions linked to the The differences between the initial estimate and actual costs do comparison of the 2020 stock market price to the NAV at not give rise to any subsequent adjustments. 31 December 2019; Under IFRS 2.11, the equity instruments granted must be measured • a new preference share-base preference plan was approved in at their fair value at the assignment date using an option pricing 2019 incorporating, in addition to a continued employment model. The Black & Scholes and Monte-Carlo models were used to criterion, the fulfilment of conditions relating to the Group’s simulate the fair unit value of the instruments. financial performance: The Group has four share-based bonus plans for corporate • 1/4 relates to a total shareholder return over three years by officers and key employees in France, Spain and Italy. The cost is end 2021 compared to a panel, spread over the vesting period (period of work to be completed • 1/4 relates to the growth in recurring earnings per share, by the employee prior to being able to exercise the options • 1/4 relates to the percentage of environmental certifications allocated to him or her). in the portfolio at end 2021, The two plans granted in 2016 (plan 1 and plan 2) were delivered • 1/4 relates to the total stock market yield over three years in 2018. by end 2021 compared to a panel. The plans in effect at 31 December 2019, granted in 2017, 2018 and Fifty percent of the 2017 plan was definitively allocated over the 2019, were as follows: period for key employees. The class B preference shares were issued during the period under the bonus preference share-based • the 2017 share-based Performance Plan that incorporates, plan approved by the Shareholders' Meeting in 2018. along with a presence criteria outlined above, the fulfilment of conditions relating to the Group’s financial performance. The benefits granted were thus spread over the vesting period Of these Performance Plans: and recognised as payroll expenses for €946 thousand, with a • 50% relates to the fulfilment of conditions linked to the corresponding increase in equity of €454 thousand and socialchange in the total shareholder’s return for 2017 (based on security accruals (20% and 30% social-security expenses) of the NNNAV indicator as defined by EPRA) versus a €492 thousand. comparable panel of real estate companies, • 50% relates to the fulfilment of conditions relating to the change in recurring earnings per share in 2017 compared with the original subscription price; 7 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 235 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7. Annual consolidated financial statements at 31 december 2019 Plan n° 3 (1) Plan n° 4 Summary of the plans France Abroad France Abroad Date of General Meeting 14/04/2016 16/05/2018 Date of grant 12/06/2017 16/05/2018 Key employees: Tranche 1: 12/06/2019 Tranche 1 -20%: 16/05/2019 End of vesting period Tranche 2: 12/06/2020 Tranche 2 -20%: 16/05/2020 Tranche 3 -60%: 16/05/2021 Corporate officers(2): 12/06/2020 Key employees: Tranche 1: 12/06/2019 End of holding period Tranche 2: 12/06/2020 16/05/2021 Corporate officers(2): 12/06/2020 The employment will influence the The beneficiary's continued employment conversion ratio of B shares into A shares, Continued employment condition during the vesting period by tranches as described over the acquisition period. Total Shareholder Return (TSR) Based on NNNAV and recurring EPS: based on net Changes in the NAV as compared to a panel Performance conditions Recurring EPS: CAGR recurring consolidated income in accordance Changes in the share price with IFRS principles Shares initially allocated (1) 79,990 16,998 108,888 16,858 Shares cancelled at 31/12/2019 -33,405 -13,135 Discount for performance shares in 2019 -6,295 Shares vested in 2019 -21,151 Outstanding shares at 31 December 2019 19,139 16,998 95,753 16,858 (1) Number of shares allocated post-merger, applying merger parity. (2) President and Chief Operating Officers. Plan n° 5 Plan n° 6 Summary of the plans France Abroad France Abroad Date of General Meeting 16/05/2018 16/05/2019 Date of grant 24/10/2018 16/05/2019 Tranche 1 – 20%: 24/10/2019 Tranche 1 -20%: 16/05/2020 End of vesting period Tranche 2 – 20%: 24/10/2020 Tranche 2 -20%: 16/05/2021 Tranche 3 – 60%: 24/10/2021 Tranche 3 -60%: 16/05/2022 End of holding period 24/10/2021 16/05/2022 The employment will influence the The employment will influence the conversion ratio of B shares into A shares, conversion ratio of B shares into A shares, Continued employment condition by tranches as described over by tranches as described over the acquisition period. the acquisition period. Changes in the NAV as compared to a panel Changes in the NAV as compared to a panel Performance conditions Recurring EPS: CAGR Recurring EPS: CAGR Changes in the share price Changes in the share price Shares initially allocated 7,537 0 121,806 23,100 Shares cancelled at 31/12/2019 -4,100 Discount for performance shares in 2019 Shares vested in 2019 Outstanding shares at 31 December 2019 7,535 0 117,706 23,100 236 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual consolidated financial statements at 31 december 2019 Plan n°3 Plan n°3 Average share price on the allocation date €28.50 Dividend per share €1.50 Unit value €24.68 – €23.84 Expense for the period(1) -€53 k (1) Including social charges. Plan n°4 Plan n°4 Average share price on the allocation date €24.90 Dividend per share €1.50 Unit value €17.90 Expense for the period(1) €553 k (1) Including social charges. Plan n°5 Plan n°5 Average share price on the allocation date €20.42 Dividend per share €1.50 Unit value €17.90 Expense for the period(1) €26 k (1) Including social charges. Plan n°6 Plan n°6 Average share price on the allocation date €16.16 Dividend per share €1.50 Unit value €13.10 Expense for the period(1) €420 k (1) Including social charges. 7 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 237 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7. Annual consolidated financial statements at 31 december 2019 Note 13 Additional information Note 13.1 Subsequent events None. Note 13.2 Statutory Auditors’ fees KPMG Deloitte Other Total Statutory Statutory Statutory Statutory auditors Network auditors Network auditors Network auditors Network (in thousands of euros) 31/12/2019 % 31/12/2019 % 31/12/2019 % 31/12/2019 % 31/12/2019 % 31/12/2019 % 31/12/2019 31/12/2019 Audit of statutory and consolidated financial statements 368 89% 0% 176 96% 228 100% 43 100% 0% 587 228 and half year limited review Carmila S.A. 258 63% 0% 162 88% 0% 0% 0% 420 Fully consolidated 167 228 subsidiaries 110 27% 0% 13 7% 228 100% 43 100% 0% Services other than audit of the financial 44 11% 0% 8 4% 0% 0% 0% 52 statements Carmila S.A.(1) 42 10% 0% 8 4% 0% 0% 0% 50 Fully consolidated 2 subsidiaries 2 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% TOTAL FEES 412 100% 0% 184 100% 228 100% 43 100% 0% 639 228 (1) In 2019, these fees are mainly related to services rendered in connection with the issuance of bonds (comfort letter) and the review of the CSR information. 238 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual consolidated financial statements at 31 december 2019 Note 14 List of consolidated companies % interest % control List of consolidated companies December December December December Fully consolidated companies Country 2019 2018 Change 2019 2018 Change FRANCE Carmila SA France 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Carmila France SAS France 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Almia Management SAS France 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% SCI du centre Commercial de Lescar France 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% SCI de l'Arche France 50.00% 50.00% 50.00% 50.00% SCI des Pontots France 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% SCI Carmila Anglet France 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% SCI Carmila Coquelles France 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% SCI Carmila Labège France 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% SCI Carmila Orléans France 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% SCI Carmila Bourges France 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% SCI Sothima France 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Hyparmo Sarl France 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Bay1Bay2 SAS France 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Financière Géric SAS France 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Louwifi SAS France 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Carmila Crèche sur Saone SAS France 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Carmila Evreux SAS France 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Carmila Retail Development SAS France 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% KC11 SNC France 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Best of the web SAS France 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Carmila Saran SAS France 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Carmila Nice SAS France 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Lou5G SAS France 100.00% 0.00% 100% 100.00% 0.00% 100% SPAIN Carmila España SL Spain 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Carmila Santiago SLU Spain 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Carmila Talavera SL Spain 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Carmila Huelva SL Spain 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Carmila Mallorca SL Spain 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Carmila Puerto SL Spain 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Carmila Cordoba SL Spain 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% ITALY Carmila Holding Italia SRL Italy 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Carmila Italia SRL Italy 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Carmila Milano Nord SRL Italy 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% % interest % control List of consolidated companies December December December December equity-accounted companies Country 2019 2018 Change 2019 2018 Change As Cancelas Spain 50.00% 50.00% 50.00% 50.00% Carmila Thiene SRL Italy 50.10% 50.10% 50.10% 50.10% % interest % control 7 December December December December List of deconsolidated companies in 2019 Country 2019 2018 2019 2018 Comments Carmila Assago SRL Italy 0.00% 100.00% 0.00% 100.00% Merged Carmila Limbiate SRL Italy 0.00% 100.00% 0.00% 100.00% Merged Galleria Commerciale Nichelino SRL Italy 0.00% 100.00% 0.00% 100.00% Merged CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 239 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7. Statutory auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements 7.2 Statutory auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements Year ended 31 December 2019 This is a free translation into English of the statutory auditors’ report Independence on the consolidated financial statements of the Company issued in We conducted our audit engagement in compliance with French and it is provided solely for the convenience of English independence rules applicable to us, for the period from 1 January speaking users. 2019 to the date of our report and specifically we did not provide any prohibited non-audit services referred to in Article 5(1) of This statutory auditors’ report includes information required by Regulation (EU) No 537/2014 or in the French Code of ethics (Code European regulation and French law, such as information about the de déontologie) for statutory auditors. appointment of the statutory auditors or verification of the management report and other documents provided to shareholders. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. Emphasis of Matter To the Carmila S.A. Shareholders’ Annual General Meeting We draw attention to the following matter described in Note “3.3 Accounting Standards” to the consolidated financial statements relating to the initial application of the standard IFRS 16 – Leases and Opinion the interpretation IFRIC 23 – Uncertainty over Income Tax. Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter. In compliance with the engagement entrusted to us by the Shareholders’ meetings, we have audited the accompanying financial statements of Carmila S.A. for the year ended 31 December 2019. Justification of Assessments – In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets and liabilities and of the financial position of Key Audit Matters the Group as at 31 December 2019 and of the results of its operations for the year then ended in accordance with International In accordance with the requirements of Articles L.823-9 and R.823-7 Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union. of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) relating to the justification of our assessments, we inform you of the key audit The audit opinion expressed above is consistent with our report to matters relating to risks of material misstatement that, in our the Audit Committee. professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period, as well as how we addressed those risks. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the Basis for Opinion consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on specific items of the consolidated financial statements. Audit Framework We conducted our audit in accordance with professional standards applicable in France. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Statutory Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements section of our report. Key Audit Matters Responses as part of our audit Valuation of investment property We have assessed the compliance of the accounting treatment applied by (Note 6 to the financial statements) the Group to IFRS accounting principles and the pertinence of the As of 31 December 2019, investment property is recorded on disclosures presented in Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements. the balance sheet for a net carrying amount of €6,002 million Our work and work performed by Components’ auditors under our compared to total assets of €6,520 million. instructions and control consisted in: As indicated in Note 6 to the consolidated financial • Conducting interviews with independent appraisers and Management to statements, in application of the method proposed by IAS 40, assess the pertinence of the valuation methodology and assumptions Investment property is recorded at fair value. The fair values used; used are those determined on the basis of findings by • Assessing the competence, independence and objectivity of the external independent experts. appraisers of the Group, in particular with regard to their reputation and The property assets are appraised twice a year by experts. by verifying the certificate of independence issued by the expert included They independently establish their current and future cash as a statement in it report; flow estimates by applying risk factors (as location, retail • Analyzing the changes in fair value of each investment property and competition, etc.) either to the net income capitalization rate assessing the basis with respect to market changes and the rental or to future cash-flow. In order to conduct their work, the situation of the building; experts have access to all the information needed to value the • Verifying that the fair value methods used are in line with market assets, and specifically the list of leases, the vacancy rate, practices, and assess, on a sample basis, the consistency with the market rental arrangements and the main aggregates on lessees data of the valuation assumptions used by the independent experts, (such as sales). particularly the rates of return and the market rental values; The valuation of investment property which is the main • Corroborating, on a sample basis, the main information provided by the portion of total assets, is considered to be a key audit matter company to independent experts with rental statements and investments; due to: • Comparing investment property amounts in the consolidated financial • the use of judgments of Management and independent statements with independent experts’ valuation; experts to determine the fair value of investment property, • the complexity of the fair value valuation model • Assessing the appropriateness of the disclosures presented in Note 6 to • the sensitivity of these fair values to assumptions adopted the consolidated financial statements. by the experts. 240 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Statutory auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements Specific verifications Statutory Auditors’ Responsibilities We have also performed, in accordance with professional standards for the Audit of the Consolidated applicable in France, the specific verifications required by laws and regulations of the Group’s information given in the management Financial Statements report of the Board of Directors. We have no matters to report as to its fair presentation and its Objectives and audit approach consistency with the consolidated financial statements. Our role is to issue a report on the consolidated financial statements. Our objective is to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but Report on Other Legal and is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with professional standards will always detect a material misstatement Regulatory Requirements when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of Appointment of the Statutory Auditors users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial statements. We were appointed statutory auditors of Carmila S.A. by the As specified in Article L.823-10-1 of the French Commercial Code Shareholders’ Meeting of 25 June 2010 for KPMG and 25 June 2009 (Code de commerce), our statutory audit does not include for Deloitte & Associés. assurance on the viability of the Company or the quality of As at 31 December 2019, KPMG was in its 10th year of uninterrupted management of the affairs of the Company. engagement and Deloitte & Associés in its 11th year of uninterrupted As part of an audit conducted in accordance with professional engagement, and respectively 10 and 11 years since the securities standards applicable in France, the statutory auditor exercises were admitted to trading on a regulated market. professional judgment throughout the audit and furthermore: • Identifies and assesses the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, Responsibilities of Management designs and performs audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtains audit evidence considered to be sufficient and and Those Charged with appropriate to provide a basis for his opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher Governance for the Consolidated than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override Financial Statements of internal control. • Obtains an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the on the effectiveness of the internal control. European Union and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated • Evaluates the appropriateness of accounting policies used and financial statements that are free from material misstatement, the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related whether due to fraud or error. disclosures made by management in the consolidated financial statements. In preparing the consolidated financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to continue as a • Assesses the appropriateness of management’s use of the going going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless it is obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events expected to liquidate the Company or to cease operations. or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. This assessment is based The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring the financial on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of his audit report. reporting process and the effectiveness of internal control and risks However, future events or conditions may cause the Company to management systems and where applicable, its internal audit, cease to continue as a going concern. If the statutory auditor regarding the accounting and financial reporting procedures. concludes that a material uncertainty exists, there is a The consolidated financial statements were approved by the Board requirement to draw attention in the audit report to the related of Directors. disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are not provided or inadequate, to modify the opinion expressed therein. • Evaluates the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements and assesses whether these statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. • Obtains sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within 7 the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. The statutory auditor is responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the audit of the consolidated financial statements and for the opinion expressed on these consolidated financial statements. CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 241 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7. Statutory auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements Report to the Audit Committee We also provide the Audit Committee with the declaration provided for in Article 6 of Regulation (EU) N° 537/2014, confirming our We submit a report to the Audit Committee which includes in independence within the meaning of the rules applicable in France particular a description of the scope of the audit and the audit such as they are set in particular by Articles L.822-10 to L.822-14 of program implemented, as well as the results of our audit. We also the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) and in the report, if any, significant deficiencies in internal control regarding the French Code of Ethics (Code de déontologie) for statutory auditors. accounting and financial reporting procedures that we have Where appropriate, we discuss with the Audit Committee the risks identified. that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and Our report to the Audit Committee includes the risks of material the related safeguards. misstatement that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period and which are therefore the key audit matters, that we are required to describe in this audit report. Paris-La Défense, 14 February 2020 The Statutory Auditors KPMG S.A. Deloitte & Associés French original signed French original signed Éric Ropert Adrien Johner Stéphane Rimbeuf Partner Partner Partner 242 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Statutory financial statements 7.3 Statutory financial statements 7.3.1 Statutory financial statements at 31 December 2019 7.3.1.1 Income statement for the year ended 31 december 2019 (in thousands of euros) Notes 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Net revenue 4 5,237 Reversal of depreciation and provisions 34 838 Other income 956 2,176 Operating income 6.1 994 8,251 Purchases and operating expenses 6.1.1 -4,300 -7,253 Taxes 6.1.2 9 -543 Allowances for depreciation and provisions 6.1.3 -60 -2,113 Other expenses -669 -700 Operating expenses -5,020 -10,609 Operating income -4,026 -2,358 Share in profit or loss of investments 0 37 Financial income 86,301 94,593 Financial expenses -61,701 -55,068 Allowance for impairment and provisions on financial assets -1,377 -8,030 Net financial income/(expense) 6.2 23,223 31,495 Current income before tax 19,197 29,173 Extraordinary income 1,740 228,378 Extraordinary expenses -636 -187,340 Extraordinary profit/(loss) 6.3 1,104 41,038 Income tax 6.4 -372 -394 NET INCOME FOR THE PERIOD 19,929 69,817 7 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 243 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7. Statutory financial statements 7.3.1.2 Balance sheet at 31 december 2019 Balance sheet Assets Gross amount Depreciation and Net amount Net amount (in thousands of euros) Notes 31/12/2019 amortisation 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Share capital subscribed but not paid-up Intangible fixed assets 4.1.1 201 183 18 27 Property plant and equipment 4.1.2 1 1 Financial assets 4.2 5,379,865 5,379,865 5,377,184 Fixed Asset 5,380,067 183 5,379,884 5,377,211 Trade receivables 4,3 1,419 1,419 1,781 Other receivables 4,3 2,291 2,291 75,917 Marketable securities 4,4 142,007 Cash 4,5 61,421 61,421 21,356 Prepaid expenses 25 25 28 Current Assets 65,156 0 65,156 241,089 Bond redemption premiums 4.6 5,457 5,457 6,833 TOTAL ASSETS 5,450,680 183 5,450,497 5,625,133 Balance sheet liabilities (in thousands of euros) Notes 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Share capital 820,091 819,370 Issuance premium 520,611 519,655 Merger premium 1,608,558 1,748,549 Retained earnings 15,342 11,851 Prior period unallocated income 98 0 Net income for the period 19,929 69 817 Shareholders' Equity 5.1 2,964,700 3,169,242 Contingencies and provisions 5.2 2,527 6,149 Provisions 2,527 6,149 Financial indebtedness 5.3 2,455,026 2,436,064 Trade and other accounts payable 5.4 3,856 4,784 Other liabilities 5.5 & 5.6 4,363 8,866 Prepaid income 96 28 Liabilities 2,463,341 2,449,742 TOTAL LIABILITIES & SHAREHOLERS' EQUITY 5,430,568 5,625,133 244 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Statutory financial statements 7.3.2 Notes to the statutory financial statements NOTE 1 COMPANY’S BUSINESS 246 NOTE 5 NOTES TO THE BALANCE SHEET – 250 LIABILITIES NOTE 5.1 Equity 250 NOTE 2 KEY HIGHLIGHTS 246 NOTE 5.2 Contingencies, provisions 250 NOTE 2.1 Debt: bond issue 246 and impairment of assets NOTE 2.2 Internal restructuring 246 NOTE 5.3 Financial indebtedness 252 NOTE 2.3 Distribution 246 NOTE 5.4 Trade and other payables 253 NOTE 5.5 Tax and payroll payables 253 NOTE 3 ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES 246 NOTE 5.6 Other payables 253 AND VALUATION METHODS NOTE 3.1 Accounting principles applied 246 NOTE 6 NOTES TO THE INCOME 254 NOTE 3.2 Appraisal method 246 STATEMENT NOTE 3.3 Mergers and similar transactions. 247 NOTE 6.1 Operating income 254 NOTE 3.4 Operating receivables and payables 247 NOTE 6.2 Net financial income/expense 254 NOTE 3.5 Marketable securities 247 NOTE 6.3 Extraordinary income/loss 255 NOTE 3.6 Deferred charges: Debt issuance 247 NOTE 6.4 Corporate income tax 255 costs NOTE 3.7 Provisions – Employee benefits 247 NOTE 3.8 Financial liabilities 247 NOTE 7 NOTES ON OFF-BALANCE SHEET 255 NOTE 3.9 Tax regime 247 COMMITMENTS NOTE 7.1 Commitments given 255 NOTE 7.2 Commitments received 255 NOTE 4 NOTES TO THE BALANCE SHEET – 248 NOTE 7.3 Reciprocal commitments 255 ASSETS NOTE 4.1 Intangible assets and property, 248 plant and equipment NOTE 8 NOTES TO THE STATUTORY 256 NOTE 4.2 Financial assets 248 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – NOTE 4.3 Trade receivables and other 249 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS receivables NOTE 4.4 Marketable securities 250 NOTE 9 OTHER INFORMATION 257 NOTE 4.5 Cash & cash equivalents 250 NOTE 9.1 Cash pooling 257 NOTE 4.6 Bond redemption premiums 250 NOTE 9.2 Headcount 257 NOTE 9.3 Compensation of corporate officers 257 NOTE 9.4 Subsequent events 257 NOTE 10 INFORMATION ON 257 CONSOLIDATION 7 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 245 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7. Statutory financial statements Note 1 Company’s business Note 3 Accounting principles Carmila SA, the Company, was incorporated in March 1991. Its and valuation methods corporate purpose is to acquire or build properties for commercial use or for leasing in France and abroad, as well as to directly or indirectly hold interests in companies with the same corporate Note 3.1 Accounting principles applied purpose. It is a real estate company involved in managing and enhancing the value of shopping centres and retail parks anchored The Company’s statutory financial statements have been prepared by Carrefour hypermarkets, operated directly or indirectly by and presented in accordance with the principles and methods Carrefour. defined by French Accounting Standards Board Regulation ANC 2014-03 as amended by all subsequent regulations. The Company opted for the “SIIC”, or listed real estate investment company regime in France at 1 January 2015. As such, it must Generally accepted accounting principles in France have been distribute 95% of its rental income and 70% of the capital gains on applied, in compliance with the cautiousness principle, according to the disposals of properties and 100% of the dividends received from the general rules applied in the preparation and presentation of SIIC subsidiaries. This regime is considered to be a specific tax annual financial statements and with the following basic exemption status and not one that offers a lower rate of tax on assumptions: distributed earnings. In return, the beneficiary is taxed on the • going concern; distributed profits at the tax rate applicable to the beneficiary, without the possibility of applying the parent subsidiary allowance. • independence of financial years; The Company’s registered office is at 58, avenue Émile-Zola, 92100 • consistency of accounting policies applied. Boulogne-Billancourt, France. The measurement basis used to prepare the financial statements is The Statutory financial statements were approved by the Board of the historic cost method. Directors on 13 February 2020 for submission for the approval of the General Shareholders’ Meeting to be held on 14 May 2020. The measurement basis and accounting policies have not changed relative to the prior year. The annual financial statements are shown in thousands of euro, rounded to the nearest thousand. Note 2 Key highlights Note 3.2 Appraisal method Note 2.1 Debt: bond issue Note 3.2.1 Intangible assets On 17 July 2019 Carmila received approval from the AMF, the French Software licenses are amortised over 48 months. Financial Markets Authority, for the prospectus of its Euro Medium Term Notes (EMTM) programme which is authorised for up to Note 3.2.2 Property, plant and equipment €1.5 billion. On 6 November Carmila issued a private placement Property, plant and equipment are stated on the balance sheet at under this programme, issuing bonds for an amount of €50 million their acquisition cost, plus the ancillary costs and expenses incurred with a 12-year maturity (November 2031) and a coupon of 1.89%. to acquire the asset, particularly transfer taxes. This bond issue is the Group’s longest term yet, following the 10When fixed assets include significant components with different year public bond issue of March 2018. useful lives, they are recognised separately. The bonds represent senior Company debt. They do not provide for The costs to replace or renew a fixed assets are recognised as a guarantees or security. They are listed on the Euronext Paris bond separate asset, and the replaced asset is eliminated. Other costs market. incurred subsequently for fixed assets are only recognised as fixed assets if they improve the condition of the asset and expand its capacity relative to its original performance. Note 2.2 Internal restructuring The valuation method used is that of historical cost. A provision for With a view to opting for the SOCIMI (Spanish REIT) tax regime, a impairment is funded when the future economic benefits associated legal reorganisation was carried out whereby the subsidiaries of to an item of property, plant and equipment is less than its net book Carmila España, which had hitherto been the head of the Carmila value. Impairment is calculated by comparing the net book value of Group in Spain, were sold to Carmila SA. A SOCIMI listed in a the asset with the higher of the usage value or the market value, European country other than Spain cannot directly hold subsidiaries. determined where appropriate by an independent expert. If the Each subsidiary owns a separate assets in Spain. market value thus determined is lower, an impairment loss is This transaction was carried out in December. Carmila bought 100% recognised for the difference. of the shares in its five subsidiaries from Carmila España and 50% of Assets under construction include the costs incurred on the project. the shares of a company held jointly with a third party, for a total They are not amortised until the project has been commissioned and share value of €290.2 million. On this occasion Carmila also bought reclassified to fixed assets accounts. the shareholder loans granted by Carmila España to its subsidiaries, leading the latter to repay a significant part of its shareholder loan. Note 3.2.3 Financial assets Financial assets are comprised of equity interests and receivables related to equity investments and property security deposits. They Note 2.3 Distribution are carried at their acquisition cost plus any expenses incurred to On 16 May 2019, the Shareholders’ Meeting, on the proposal of the acquire the asset, on the date of initial recognition. Board of Directors, approved the distribution of a dividend of €1.50 Equity interests are impaired when their current value is less than per share, for which €66,327 thousand were deducted from the their acquisition cost. The current value of the equity interests is the distributable income and the balance of €138,216 thousand from the net asset valuation based on the fair value of the assets. The net merger premium. assets value in real estate companies is determined by appraisals of investment property by independent experts, based on information specific to the asset and the market rate of return. Loans and other financial assets are recorded at their face value. A provision for impairment is recognised when the current value is lower than the book value. Impairments are recognised in net financial income/(expense), including reversals of impairments on disposal of an equity interest. The proceeds from the disposal of equity interests are recognised in extraordinary income/(loss). 246 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Statutory financial statements Note 3.3 Mergers and similar transactions. A provision is recognised for share payment bonus plans, once it is probable or certain that the obligation to grant existing shares to Mergers are recognised in the financial statements in line with the employees will generate an outflow of resources without receiving regulations of the French Accounting Standards Board. at least equivalent consideration. When the assignment of shares or stock options is conditional upon the presence of the beneficiary in Opinion no. 2004-01 of the French National Accounting Board the Company’s employment for a given future period, a defines the rule on merger gains or losses. The accounting consideration is yet to be given to the Company, such as in the case treatment of technical losses on mergers was amended by of corporate officers in which case the liability is recognised in the regulation no. 2015-06, approved by the decree of 4 December 2015 form of a provision, accrued for services already rendered by the and defining gains and losses as follows: beneficiary. • for the amount of the share of earnings accumulated by the acquiree (from the date of acquisition of shares in the acquiree by the acquirer) and not distributed, the gain must be recognised Note 3.8 Financial liabilities in the net financial income (expense) of the acquiror. Any residual amount will be accounted for in equity; Financial liabilities are recognised at face value. However, during the merger of Carmila SAS with Cardety SA in 2017, financial liabilities • if the net merger impact is a loss it must be accounted for on the were recorded in the acquirer’s liabilities, adjusted to their market basis of the nature of the underlying asset in a specific intangible value including: asset, property, plant and equipment, financial or current asset • the unrealised loss on hedging instruments in the amount of account. Any remaining loss must be recognised as a financial €22,113 thousand; expense. • the unrealised loss on fixed-rate bonds expressed at their market value at 31 December 2016, as a result of persistent low interest Note 3.4 Operating receivables rates in the period, in the amount of €23,834 thousand. and payables These adjustments for a total of €45,947 thousand are recognised as income on a straight-line basis for the remaining term of the debt Receivables are recognised at face value. They mainly comprise the or the underlying instrument. Thus, €7,218 thousand was recognised debtor balance of subsidiaries’ current accounts. These receivables in income in 2019. are estimated on an individual basis at each reporting date, and a provision is accrued whenever there is a risk of uncollectability. Debt issuance costs are expensed in the year in which the debt is issued. As the Group head company, the Company ensures almost Trade accounts payable and other payables are recorded at cost. all the financing requirements needed by the Group and manages the Group’s interest rate risk. Note 3.5 Marketable securities Interest rate hedges are intended to limit the impact of interest rate fluctuations on variable rate debt. The Company uses over-theMarketable securities are recognised on the date of acquisition at counter financial instruments with top-tier bank as counterparties their acquisition price. Gains or losses on the disposal of marketable for these hedges. The derivative instruments used are mainly swaps, securities are determined using the weighted average cost method. caps and swaptions. Gains and losses on these hedging instruments At 31 December, mutual fund units are measured at market value, or are recognised symmetrically with the gains and losses on the the last known net unit price value. underlying debt. The Company’s treasury shares, acquired under a liquidity contract, are shown at cost and impairment is recognised if the carrying amount is higher than the market price on 31 December of each Note 3.9 Tax regime year. The Company opted for the “SIIC”, or listed real estate investment company regime in France at 1 January 2015. Note 3.6 Deferred charges: Debt issuance This regime is considered to be a specific tax exemption status and not one that offers a lower rate of tax on distributed earnings. In costs exchange for this benefit, these listed property investment Debt issuance costs are not staggered in the parent company companies are required to distribute 95% of their rental income, 70% financial statements and are directly expensed. of their capital gains on disposals and 100% of the dividends received from their “SIIC” subsidiaries as recorded in 2019. In return, the beneficiary is taxed on the distributed profits at the tax rate Note 3.7 Provisions – Employee benefits applicable to his status, without the possibility of applying the parent subsidiary allowance. In general, provisions are established to cover clearly identifiable risks and expenses, for which the timing or the amount is uncertain, made probable by events that have occurred, and it is likely that these events will result in an outflow of resources to a third party by virtue of a legal or implicit obligation, without receiving at least equivalent consideration, and where the amount of risk or expense can be estimated with sufficient reliability, but when the fulfilment and due date are uncertain. 7 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 247 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7. Statutory financial statements Note 4 Notes to the balance sheet – Assets Unless indicated otherwise, the values indicated below are in thousands of euros. Note 4.1 Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment Note 4.1.1 Intangible assets Other intangible assets comprise software applications which taken individually are not material. Note 4.1.2 Property, plant and equipment In 2018 Carmila SA contributed its assets to Carmila France and Carmila Saran. Consequently, Carmila SA no longer directly owns any real estate assets or property, plant and equipment since 31 December 2018. Note 4.2 Financial assets Gross value Gross value (in thousands of euros) at 31/12/2018 Increase Decrease at 31/12/2019 Equity interests 3,158,835 290,235 3,449,070 Equity interests 3,158,835 290,235 0 3,449,070 Loans to subsidiaries 2,215,100 148,118 435,100 1,928,118 Treasury shares 4,546 8,282 10,152 2,676 Security deposits 2 2 Other financial assets 2,219,648 156,399 445,252 1,930,796 FINANCIAL ASSETS 5,378,483 446,634 445,252 5,379,866 At 31 December 2019, impairment tests enabled to conclude that At 31 December 2019, Carmila SA held 153,283 treasury shares, there was no impairment requirements for equity interests. comprising shares held in the context of the liquidity contract and shares held with a view to using them in share-based bonus plans. In December 2019, with a view to opting for the SOCIMI tax regime for its Spanish subsidiaries, Carmila SA acquired their shares for a In accordance with the accounting principles and methods detailed total proceed of €290,235 thousand. It acquired 100% of the shares in Section 3, a €685 thousand provision for the impairment of of Carmila Mallorca, Carmila Huelva, Carmila Talavera, Carmila treasury shares for the previous financial year was reversed. Puerto and Carmila Cordoba and 50% of those of As Cancelas In 2019, the liquidity contract saw: (Santiago). At the same time Carmila bought the shareholder loans granted to each company by its Group parents for a total amount of • the purchase of 395,922 shares at an average price of €16.54 per €147,500 thousand. No new debt was created by these share; transactions. Lastly these transactions enabled Carmila España to repay €400,000 thousand of its shareholder loan. Likewise, Carmila • the sale of 450,836 shares at an average price of €16.86 per Holding Italia repaid €35,100 thousand over the period. share. 248 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Statutory financial statements SUBSIDIARIES AND OTHER EQUITY INTERESTS Shareholders' Guarantees equity other Net income Sales Gross book Net book Loans and and Dividends Share than share for the (excluding value of value of advances collateral received (in thousands of euros) % held capital capital period VAT) shares shares outstanding granted in 2019 1. Subsidiaries (%>50) France Carmila France 100% 707,907 2,273,026 66,268 148,137 2,557,463 2,557,463 1,340,000 30,063 Almia Management 100% 500 1,874 803 19,300 2,467 2,467 0 0 Total France 708,407 2,274,900 67,071 167,437 2,559,929 2,559,930 1,340,000 0 30,063 Abroad Carmila España (Spain) 100% 186,315 213,081 113,354 77,813 415,252 415,252 335,000 0 Carmila Talavera (Spain) 100% 4,003 6,974 416 3,980 29,455 29,455 6,500 0 Carmila Huelva (Spain) 100% 20,003 23,419 -1,398 9,452 69,031 69,031 22,900 0 Carmila Mallorca (Spain) 100% 37,403 69,560 348 12,699 91,447 91,447 69,300 0 Carmila Puerto (Spain) 100% 15,788 18,966 -909 3,054 21,349 21,349 14,400 0 Carmila Cordoba (Spain) 100% 26,161 31,515 -1,543 4,657 32,921 32,921 22,600 0 Carmila Holding Italia (Italy) 100% 15,730 157,425 -1,912 135 183,654 183,654 105,000 10,900 0 Total Foreign 305,403 520,940 108,356 111,790 843,109 843,109 575,700 10,900 0 Total Subsidiaries 1,013,810 2,795,840 175,427 279,227 3,403,038 3,403,039 1,915,700 10,900 30,063 2. Equiy investments (10<%<50) France Abroad As Cancelas (Spain) 50% 900 45,818 3,419 9,348 46,031 46,031 11,500 0 Total equity investments 900 45,818 3,419 9,348 46,031 46,031 11,500 0 0 TOTAL 1,014,710 2,841,658 178,846 288,575 3,449,069 3,449,070 1,927,200 10,900 30,063 Note 4.3 Trade receivables and other receivables Balance Maturing in Maturing in Balance Maturing in Maturing in (in thousands of euros) 31/12/2019 less than 1 year over 1 year 31/12/2018 less than 1 year over 1 year Trade receivables 1,419 1,419 1,781 1,781 Impairment/losses in value 0 0 Total trade receivables 1,419 1,419 1,781 1,781 Other taxes receivables 704 704 2 370 2 370 Other receivables 1,585 1,587 73,547 73,547 Prepaid expenses 25 25 28 28 Impairment/loss in value of other 0 0 receivables Total other receivables 2,314 2,315 75,945 75,945 TOTAL TRADE RECEIVABLES AND OTHER 3,733 3,735 77,726 77,726 RECEIVABLES Other receivables mainly comprise down payments on invoices for works done in the past on shopping centres directly held by the Company until September 2018, and VAT on invoices not yet received. 7 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 249 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7. Statutory financial statements Note 4.4 Marketable securities Note 4.6 Bond redemption premiums Carmila SA held units in UCITS for a total of €145,053 thousand at The company has proceeded to issue four bonds. The premium paid the end of 2018. The company recognised an impairment loss of for each issue is accrued over the tenor of the underlying debt, so €3,046 thousand on the basis of the market value at that the book value of the bond is equal to the nominal amount 31 December 2018. Over the course of 2019 they were sold, giving subscribed at maturity. At 31 December 2019, €5,457 thousand rise to a loss of €1,033 thousand, in line with the negative yield of the remained to be accrued and. €1,377 thousand were accrued during EONIA money market rate. the year. Note 4.5 Cash & cash equivalents Cash comprises the Company’s bank account balances at 31 December 2019. Note 5 Notes to the balance sheet – Liabilities Note 5.1 Equity Balance at Dividend Income Balances at (in thousands of euros) 31/12/2018 Increase distribution allocation Reclassifications 31/12/2019 Share capital 819,370 721 820,091 Issuance premium 519,655 -721 1,677 520,611 Merger premium 1,748,549 -138,314 -1,677 1,608,558 Revaluation adjustment 9,448 9,448 Legal reserve 2,033 3,491 5,524 Regulatory provisions 370 370 Other reserves 0 Prior period unallocated income 98 98 Net income for the period 69,818 19,929 -66,327 -3,491 19,930 TOTAL 3,169,243 19,929 -204,543 0 0 2,984,629 At 31 December 2019, the share capital was made up of share deducted from the distributable profits, and for the balance 136,561,695 ordinary A-class shares, each with a nominal value of from the merger premium in an amount of €138,314 thousand; six euros (€6) fully subscribed and paid up. The share capital also includes 120,148 B-class shares, with a nominal value of • in addition, the Company issued 120,148 class B shares under the six euros (€6) each. preference share-based bonus plan for Carmila's key employees and corporate officers. This capital increase was charged to the During 2019: merger premium. • on 16 May 2019, the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting of the Company approved the distribution of a dividend of €1.50 per Note 5.2 Contingencies, provisions and impairment of assets Gross value at Provision during Reversals during Gross value at (in thousands of euros) 31/12/2018 financial year financial year 31/12/2019 Contingencies and provisions 6,149 46 -3,668 2,527 Provisions for contingencies 6,115 0 -3,634 2,481 Provisions for other charges 34 46 -34 46 Impairment provisions 4,346 0 -4,346 0 On property, plant and equipment 0 0 0 0 On financial assets 1,300 0 -1,300 0 On trade receivables 0 0 0 0 On marketable securities 3,046 0 -3,046 0 TOTAL 10,495 46 -8,014 2,527 The provision for other contingencies includes the assessment of the treasury shares (€685 thousand). These two provisions were no total cost of the three bonus share plans awarded in 2017, 2018 and longer necessary at 31 December 2019 and were therefore reversed 2019 for €2,481 thousand. At 31 December 2018, the provision for through profit and loss. The same applies to the provision for impairment of financial assets included the provision for the current assets relating to the impairment of marketable securities investment in Almia Management (€615 thousand) and the one for that were gradually sold during the course of the year. 250 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Statutory financial statements Note 5.2.1 Bonus share plans • 1/3 relates to the fulfilment of conditions linked to the growth in recurring earnings per share between the years ended The Group has four share-based bonus plans for corporate officers 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2020, and key employees in France, Spain and Italy. The cost is spread over the vesting period (period of employment to be completed by • 1/3 relates to the fulfilment of conditions linked to the the beneficiary prior to being able to exercise the options allocated comparison of the 2020 stock market price to the NAV at to him or her). 31 December 2019; The shares of the two plans granted in 2016 (plan 1 and plan 2) were • a new preference share-base plan was approved in 2019 delivered in 2018. incorporating, in addition to a continued employment criterion, the fulfilment of conditions relating to the Group’s financial The plans in effect at 31 December 2019, granted in 2017, 2018 and performance: 2019, were as follows: • 1/4 relates to a total shareholder return over three years by the • the 2017 share-based Performance Plan that incorporates, along end of 2021 compared to a panel, with presence criteria outlined above, the fulfilment of conditions • 1/4 relates to the growth in recurring earnings per share over relating to the Group’s financial performance. Of these 3 years, Performance Plans: • 1/4 relates to the percentage of environmental certifications in • 50% relates to the fulfilment of conditions linked to the change the portfolio at the end of 2021, in the total shareholder’s return for 2017 (based on the • 1/4 relates to the total stock market yield over three years by NNNAV indicator as defined by EPRA) versus a comparable the end of 2021 compared to a panel. panel of real estate companies, • 50% relates to the fulfilment of conditions relating to the Fifty percent of the 2017 plan was definitively allocated over the change in recurring earnings per share in 2017 compared with period for key employees. The class B preference shares were issued the original subscription price; during the period under the bonus preference share-based plan approved by the Shareholders' Meeting in 2018. • in 2018, the preference share-based performance plan incorporates, in addition to a continued employment criterion, the fulfilment of conditions relating to the Group’s financial performance: • 1/3 relates to the fulfilment of conditions linked to the change in the total shareholder return (based on the NNNAV indicator as defined by EPRA) versus a comparable panel of real estate companies, Plan n°1(1) Plan n°2(1) Plan n°3(1) Summary of the plans France Abroad France Abroad France Abroad Date of General Meeting 14/04/2016 14/04/2016 14/04/2016 Date of grant Key employees: 15/06/2016 Key employees: 15/06/2016 12/06/2017 Corporate Officers (2): 14/04/2016 Corporate Officers(2): 17/05/2016 End of vesting period 31/12/2017 13/04/2018 Key employees: 15/06/2018 Key employees: Corporate officers:(2): 04/04/2018 Tranche 1: 12/06/2019 Tranche 2: 12/06/2020 Corporate officers(2): 12/06/2020 End of holding period Key employees: 15/06/2018 Key employees: 15/06/2018 Key employees: Corporate Officers(2): 14/04/2018 Corporate Officers(2): 17/05/2018 Tranche 1: 12/06/2019 Tranche 2: 12/06/2020 Corporate officers (2): 12/06/2020 Continued employment condition The beneficiary's continued employment The beneficiary's continued employment The beneficiary's continued employment during the vesting period during the vesting period during the vesting period Performance condition No Total Shareholder Return (TSR) Total Shareholder Return (TSR) Based on NNNAV and recurring EPS: Based on NNNAV and recurring EPS: based on net recurring consolidated based on net recuring consolidated income in accordance with income in accordance with IFRS principles IFRS principles Shares initially allocated 47,062 9,599 74,159 15,181 79,990 16,998 Shares cancelled at 31/12/2019 -2,399 -4,351 -33,405 Discount for performance shares in 2019 -2,934 -6,295 Shares vested in 2019 -44,663 -9,599 -66,874 -15,181 -21,151 OUTSTANDING SHARES AT 31 DECEMBER 2019 0 0 0 0 19,139 16,998 (1) Number of shares allocated post-merger, applying merger parity. (2) President and Chief Operating Officers. 7 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 251 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7. Statutory financial statements Plan n°4 Plan n°5 Plan n°6 Summary of the plans France Abroad France Abroad France Abroad Date of General Meeting 16/05/2018 16/05/2018 16/05/2019 Date of grant 16/05/2018 24/10/2018 16/05/2019 Tranche 1 – 20% : 16/05/2019 Tranche 1 – 20% : 24/10/2019 Tranche 1 – 20%: 16/05/2020 End of vesting period Tranche 2 – 20% : 16/05/2020 Tranche 2 – 20% : 24/10/2020 Tranche 2 – 20%: 16/05/2021 Tranche 3 – 60% : 16/05/2021 Tranche 3 – 60% : 24/10/2021 Tranche 3 – 60%: 16/05/2022 End of holding period 16/05/2021 24/10/2021 16/05/2022 The employment will influence the The employment will influence the The employment will influence the Continued employment conversion ratio of B shares into conversion ratio of B shares into conversion ratio of B shares into condition A shares, by tranches as described A shares, by tranches as described A shares, by tranches as described over the acquisition period. over the acquisition period. over the acquisition period. Changes in the NAV as compared Changes in the NAV as compared Changes in the NAV as compared to a panel to a panel to a panel Performance condition Recurring EPS: CAGR Recurring EPS: CAGR Recurring EPS: CAGR Changes in the share price Changes in the share price Changes in the share price Shares initially allocated 108,888 16,858 7,537 0 144,906 Shares cancelled at 31/12/2019 -13,135 -4,100 Discount for performance shares in 2019 Shares vested in 2019 OUTSTANDING SHARES 95,753 16,858 7,537 0 140,806 AT 31 DECEMBER 2019 Note 5.3 Financial indebtedness Maturing in Maturing in Maturing in (in thousands of euros) 31/12/2018 31/12/2019 less than 1 year 1 to 5 years over 5 years Bonds 1,550,000 1,600,000 1,200,000 400,000 Borrrowings from lending institutions 801,597 694,378 6,777 687,601 Accrued interest on loans 14,464 14,644 14,644 Commercial paper 70,000 146,000 146,000 Security deposits 2 3 3 FINANCIAL INDEBTEDNESS 2,436,064 2,455,025 167,422 1,887,606 400,000 At 31 December 2019, gross financial debt stood at €2,455 million. Note 5.3.2 Bank loan It is made up of two main components: It should be recalled that, on 15 December 2013, Carmila and a pool of banks signed a five-year loan agreement for a total amount of • €1,600 million in bonds; and €1,400 million, comprising a €1,050 million A Tranche, used to • €670 million in a syndicated bank loan. partially fund the acquisition of investment properties from the Klépierre group, and a five-year revolving credit facility (RCF) of At 31 December 2019, the Company has also drawn €146 million of €350 million. Facility A was fully drawn down in 2014. An its commercial paper programme which has maximum amount of amendment to this agreement was signed on 30 July 2015, €600 million. extending the maturity to 30 July, 2020, with the option of two further one-year extensions. The first extension, requested in 2016, Note 5.3.1 Bonds extended the maturity date to 30 July 2021. Carmila has issued four bonds, in 2015, 2016, 2018 and 2019, for a Another amendment was signed to this syndicated loan agreement total amount of €1,600 million. On 10 September 2015, Carmila on 16 June 2017. The drawdown amount was adjusted to issued a bond for a nominal amount of €600 million, for a net €770 million and the revolving credit facility was cancelled. The consideration received on 18 September 2015 of €593,034 thousand maturity date of this loan agreement was extended by five years to after deducting the issue premium and bank commissions. This bond 16 June 2022. was issued for an eight-year term maturing on 18 September 2023 with a coupon of 2.375% per annum. Carmila issued a second bond Following an initial one-year extension in 2018, in May 2019 the for a notional value of €600 million, dated 24 March 2016. maturity of the syndicated loan was once again extended by one After the issue premium and bank commissions were deducted, year, to 16 June 2024. In December 2019, Carmila repaid €100 million Carmila received €592,998 thousand. This bond matures on of the syndicated loan, bringing the outstanding principal to 16 September 2024 and bears a coupon of 2.375% per annum. €670 million. In 2018, the company issued, on February 28, a 10-year bond for a In June 2017, at the same time as the merger with Cardety, Carmila nominal value of €350 million, with a 2.125% per annum coupon. The set up two confirmed revolving credit facilities with two bank net consideration, received on 7 March 2018, amounted to syndicates. The first facility amounts to €759 million initially €347,767 thousand after deduction of the issue premium and the maturing in June 2022, and extended to June 2024 during the year. issuance costs. The second facility amounts to €250 million and matures in June 2020. Lastly, in 2019, the company issued a private placement under its Euro Medium Term Note (EMTN) programme for an amount of Moreover, the Borrowings from lending institutions item includes an €50 million with a coupon of 1.89% and a 12 year tenor. It received adjustment resulting from the contribution at market value of €49,787 thousand on 6 November 2019 after deduction of bank financial liabilities at 31 December 2016 upon the merger with charges and fees. Cardety, both in terms of bonds and derivative instruments. This €45,947 thousand adjustment will be recognised as income over the period covered by the related underlying debt or derivative instruments After an amortisation of €7,218 thousand in 2019, the remaining balance to be amortised amounts to €24,378 thousand. 252 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Statutory financial statements Note 5.3.3 Interest-rate risk management During the year, certain swaps nearing maturity were unwound and The Company is exposed to interest rate risk on its variable-rate led to paying breakage costs of €6,582 thousand in order to borrowings. The aim of the interest-rate risk management policy in increase the variable rate portion of the debt. For the remaining place is to limit the impact of changes in interest rates in the income hedging instruments in the portfolio at 31 December 2019, their fair statements and on the current and future cash flows using interest value stood at -€26,615 thousand at that date. As an example, a rate derivative instruments such as caps, swaps or swaptions. 0.50% increase in rates would result in a fair value of the hedging instruments of -€12,911 thousand. Conversely, a 0.50% fall in the The fixed-rate position stood at 82% of gross debt at rates would lead to a fair value of -€40,324 thousand. 31 December 2019, versus 87% at 31 December 2018. The position includes fixed-rate payer swaps and a cap for respective notional amounts of €385 million and €100 million. Note 5.4 Trade and other payables Gross value at Gross value at Maturing in Maturing in Maturing in (in thousands of euros) 31/12/2018 31/12/2019 less than 1 year 1 to 5 years over 5 years Trade payables 694 50 50 Trade payable accruals 4,090 3,807 3,807 TOTAL TRADE AND OTHER ACCOUNTS 4,784 3,856 3,856 PAYABLE This item is mostly comprised of invoices for overheads yet to be received (€3,807 thousand). Note 5.5 Tax and payroll payables (in thousands of euros) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Payroll expenses 402 550 Tax liabilities 409 413 TAX AND PAYROLL PAYABLES 812 963 Note 5.6 Other payables (in thousands of euros) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Fixed asset supplier payables 2,039 6,466 Other payables 1,511 1,437 TOTAL 3,550 7,903 Fixed asset supplier payables mainly comprise accruals for invoices yet to be received from ongoing development projects transferred to Carmila France and Carmila Saran in the course of 2018. They amount to €2,017 thousand and were incorporated in the value of the assets contributed. 7 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 253 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7. Statutory financial statements Note 6 Notes to the income statement Note 6.1 Operating income Revenues for 2018 are primarily made up of the rental income from Other income comprises the re-invoicing of a part of the properties owned by Carmila during part of 2018 but contributed to management costs borne by the holding company in the interests of other group subsidiaries during the course of that same year. There the subsidiaries as a whole and, in 2018, re-invoicing of rental were no such revenues in 2019. charges to tenants. Note 6.1.1 Other purchases and external expenses (in thousands of euros) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Purchases and subcontracting -1,399 -1,421 Wages 0 -550 Payroll social charges and taxes 0 0 Fees -2,493 -2,682 Bank services -220 -1,874 Other -187 -726 PURCHASES AND OPERATING EXPENSES -4,300 -7,253 Fees mainly comprise legal and auditing fees, along with financial communication fees incurred as required since the company’s listing in June 2017. Note 6.1.2 Taxes (in thousands of euros) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Waste removal tax -1 -83 Property tax 13 -425 Value-added contribution -0 0 Miscellaneous taxes -3 -35 TAXES 9 -543 Note 6.1.3 Depreciation, amortisation and provisions For allowances for contingencies and liabilities, see Section 5.2 “Contingencies, provisions and impairment of assets”. Note 6.2 Net financial income/expense (in thousands of euros) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Financial income 86,301 94,593 Dividends received 30,339 42,400 Interest on loans to subsidiaries 40,704 38,725 Other interest income 7,278 9,706 Reversal of impairment and provisions on financial assets 7,980 3,762 Financial expenses and allowances -63,078 -63,098 Allowance for impairment and provisions for financial assets -1,377 -8,030 Interest expense -60,194 -51,694 Share of loss in partnerships -5 -2 Expenses on disposals of treasury shares -471 -3,292 Loss on sale of marketable securities -1,033 -208 Interest on commercial paper 128 NET FINANCIAL INCOME/(LOSS) 23,223 31,495 Financial income consists primarily of dividends received from Almia Management and for other financial liabilities. The main subsidiaries in the amount of €30,339 thousand and interest income reversals of provisions that are no longer required in 2019 had been received on loans to subsidiaries of €40,704 thousand. accrued by way of the depreciation, amortisation and provisions line item in 2018. In 2019, this line item comprised exclusively the Other interest income mainly relates to the reversal as a profit of the amortisation of the issue premium on the bonds of €1,377 thousand. debt adjustment of the Company merged in 2017 as described above in 3.8. Interest expense includes €36,160 thousand in interest on the four bonds, €6,244 thousand in interest on borrowings from lending Reversals of depreciation, amortisation and provisions take account institutions and interest on swaps for -€7,740 thousand as well as of the reversals of provisions for marketable securities held for €6,582 thousand of swap breakage costs. Lastly, this item includes short-term investment, for treasury shares, for equity holdings in the non-utilisation fee on undrawn credit lines. 254 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Statutory financial statements Note 6.3 Extraordinary income/loss (in thousands of euros) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Extraordinary income 1,740 228,378 Income from asset disposals 0 228,281 Other extraordinary income 1,740 97 Extraordinary expenses 636 187,340 Book value of asset disposals 0 186,998 Other extraordinary expenses 636 342 EXTRAORDINARY PROFIT/(LOSS) 1,104 41,038 In 2018, the income from disposals and the book value of these • Loan to Value: the ratio of consolidated net financial debt to the disposals relate to the successive contributions of 15 shopping fair value of investment properties, including transfer taxes, may centres to Carmila France on 30 April 2018, followed by the Cap not exceed 55% on the same date (although for one semi-annual Saran retail park contribution on 1 October 2018. These two transfers measurement, the ratio may reach a maximum of 60%); led to the recording of a capital gain of €26,512 thousand and of €14,770 thousand respectively. Certain provisions concerning works • Security interests granted may not exceed 20% of the total fair or passed liabilities which were not transferred since they were value of the investment properties; included in the fair value of the asset contributed were analysed in depth and were judged to be groundless for an amount of • and the total value of invested properties may not be less than €1,740 thousand. Lastly net losses on the sale of treasury shares €2,500,000 thousand. related to the liquidity contract amounted to €636 thousand. Failure to comply with these covenants entitles the lenders to demand early repayment of the facilities. Note 6.4 Corporate income tax At 31 December the Company complied with all the applicable covenants. The €372 thousand income tax expense reported relates to the withholding tax on the interest paid by Carmila Holding Italia SRL to Carmila SA. Note 7.2 Commitments received The Company has €1,009 million in undrawn committed facilities (revolving credit facilities), which are available under the terms of Note 7 Notes on off-balance sheet two credit facility agreements entered into on 16 June 2017. The commitments maturity of the first agreement, for €759 million, was extended in 2019 to June 2024, and that of the second agreement, for €250 million, is June 2020. Note 7.1 Commitments given At 31 December 2019, the Credit agreement for a total initial amount Note 7.3 Reciprocal commitments of €770 million in principal, with a balance of €670 million, and the The Group’s interest rate hedging policy uses swaps to hedge over committed Revolving Credit Facilities of €759 million and time against higher interest rates on its floating-rate debt. On an €250 million agreed between the Company and a syndicate of outstanding amount of €816 million in floating-rate debt at lending banks, are subject to compliance with the following 31 December 2019, the company has €385 million in swaps. It also covenants drawn from the Company’s consolidated financial has €100 million in. statements: • Interest Cover: the ratio of EBITDA to the net cost of debt must be greater than 2 at test date; NOTIONAL OUTSTANDING AMOUNTS ON DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS ON THE CLOSING DATE BY MATURITY (in millions of euros) 31/12/2019 less than 1 year from 1 to 5 years over 5 years Carmila pays a fixed rate (interest rate swap) against Euribor 3M/set quarterly/360 385 60 325 Purchase of interest rate options (caps/floor/collars) Oustanding 100 100 FAIR VALUE OF DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS ON THE CLOSING DATE (in millions of euros) 31/12/2019 Carmila pays a fixed rate (interest rate swap) (in millions of euros) against Euribor 3M/set quarterly/360 Purchase of interest rate options (cap) -26.6 -26.8 0.2 7 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 255 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7. Statutory financial statements Note 8 Notes to the statutory financial statements – related party transactions CARMILA S.A. WITH ITS SUBSIDIARY CARMILA FRANCE AND ALMIA MANAGEMENT (in thousand euros) Assets Liabilities Financial fixed-assets 3,897,463 Financial debts Accounts receivables Trade accounts payable Other debts Expenses Income Operating expenses 10 Operating income 1,126 Commercialisation fees 10 Re-invoicing payroll 1,126 Financial expenses 17 Financial income 52,264 Dividends 30,063 Loan interest 22,201 CARMILA S.A. WITH ITS SUBSIDIARIES CARMILA ESPAÑA AND OTHER SUBSIDIARIES HELD AT 100% (in thousand euros) Assets Liabilities Financial fixed-assets 1,130,155 Financial debts Accounts receivables 3,318 Trade accounts payable Other debts Expenses Income Operating expenses Operating income Financial expenses Financial income 14,773 Loan interest 14,773 CARMILA S.A. WITH THE COMPANY AS CANCELAS HELD AT 50% (in thousand euros) Assets Liabilities Financial fixed-assets 57,531 Financial debts Accounts receivables 13 Trade accounts payable Other debts Expenses Income Operating expenses Operating income Financial expenses Financial income 13 Loan interest 13 CARMILA S.A. WITH ITS SUBSIDIARY CARMILA ITALIA (in thousand euros) Assets Liabilities Financial fixed-assets 105,000 Financial debts Accounts receivables 2,441 Trade accounts payable Other debts Expenses Income Operating expenses Operating income Financial expenses Financial income 3 718 Loan interest 3 718 256 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Statutory financial statements Note 9 Other information Note 9.1 Cash pooling The Carmila Group’s cash in France is pooled, with Carmila SA managing the cash pool. Note 9.2 Headcount Carmila SA has no staff. Note 9.3 Compensation of corporate officers Directors receive Directors’ fees. The expense with respect to 2019 was €306 thousand. Moreover, two corporate officers were seconded by Carrefour Management and Carrefour Hypermarchés with the cost of the seconded staff being billed. Note 9.4 Subsequent events None. Note 10 Information on consolidation Carmila SA is the ultimate parent entity of the Carmila Group and prepares the Group’s consolidated financial statements. 7 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 257 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7. Management report to shareholders 7.4 Management report to shareholders 7.4.1 Key highlights for the year 7.4.2.2 Operating expenses In 2019, operating expenses which declined sharply, correspond to The 2018 financial year, the first full year of the entity merged in 2017 costs of the holding company, including, on the one hand, the costs between Carmila and Cardety, was marked by the contribution of of seconded personnel and, on the other, overheads. Part of the the real estate activities managed by Carmila to two operational costs of seconded personnel are rebilled within the Carmila Group. subsidiaries of the Carmila Group. In 2019, Carmila strengthened its Overheads include costs relating to the company's listing on role as the Group's holding company with the acquisition of its Euronext Paris Compartment A, with the organisation of financial Spanish subsidiaries and adapted its financing structure accordingly. communication events, fees paid to institutional bodies or fees for With the prospect of its Spanish subsidiaries opting for the SOCIMI legal counsel, rating agencies, statutory auditors and banking tax regime, Carmila adjusted the Group's legal structure in Spain. services. Under this regime, a company owned by a company listed on a European stock exchange outside Spain cannot hold equity 7.4.2.3 Net financial income/(expense) interests. To comply with this condition, Carmila acquired the real estate subsidiaries held by Carmila España as well as the 50% stake Financial income includes: in As Cancelas, which operates the Santiago site. The acquisitions • interest charged on shareholder loans and current accounts were made in December for a total amount of €290,234,858 and granted to subsidiaries in the amount of €40,704 thousand; relate to: • 37,403,000 shares in Carmila Mallorca representing 100% of the • dividends received from subsidiaries. Carmila France paid a dividend of €30,062 thousand during the year; capital of the company that operates FAN shopping centre in Palma de Mallorca; • an accounting liability recognised through the income statement corresponding to the revaluation at market value of the debt and • 20,003,000 shares in Carmila Huelva representing 100% of the derivatives contributed in connection with the merger in capital of the company that manages the Olea shopping centre in June 2017, resulting in an increase in the contributed liability. This Huelva in the south; increase will not result in any outflow of funds and is recognised • 4,003,000 shares in Carmila Talavera, representing 100% of the through the income statement for the remaining term of the underlying debt. Thus, an income of €7,278 thousand was capital of the company that operates the Talavera shopping centre, some 100 km southeast of Madrid; recognised in this respect for the 2019 financial year; 15,788,000 shares of Carmila Puerto representing 100% of the • €7,980 thousand in reversals of provisions, including a reversal of capital of the company that manages the El Paseo shopping centre a provision for financial risk and a reversal of a provision for in Puerto, near Cadiz; marketable securities. • 26,161,000 shares in Carmila Cordoba representing 100% of the Financial expenses include: capital of the company that operates the La Sierra shopping centre in Cordoba, Andalusia; • interest on bonds and debt with lending institutions and hedging instruments in an amount of €50,144 thousand. Compared to • 450,000 shares in As Cancelas Siglo XXI, representing 50% of the 2018, the sharp increase is mainly due to the financial expense capital of the company that manages the Siglo XXI shopping incurred over the period as a result of the breakage costs of centre in Santiago de Compostela. unwinding of swaps in the amount of €6,582 thousand; In addition, Carmila took over shareholder loans granted by Carmila • charges on sales of marketable securities of €1,033 thousand España to its subsidiaries for a total amount of €147,200,000. All of should be assessed in relation to a reversal of a provision of Carmila's transactions conducted directly or indirectly with Carmila €3,046 thousand recorded in financial income, as the overall España enabled the latter to repay €400 million of the shareholder performance of these instruments is close to what an investment loan it had received from its parent company, Carmila, reducing the in a money-market fund paying interest on the basis of the Eonia shareholder loan at 31 December 2019 to €335 million. rate yield. A second highlight of 2019 was the private placement carried out In view of the dividends received from Carmila France, net financial under the EMTN programme for an amount of €1.5 billion, which was income stands at €23,223 thousand. approved by the AMF in July 2019. In order to finance its growth with long-term financial resources, a private placement was made with a single investor for an amount of €50 million and a term of 7.4.2.4 Extraordinary profit/(loss) 12 years, maturing in November 2031, with a coupon of 1.89%. Extraordinary profit/loss includes a cancellation of a provision for invoices yet to be received relating to assets contributed in 2018. Net income for the financial year amounts to a profit of 7.4.2 Activity and earnings €19,929 thousand. During 2018, Carmila SA terminated its direct operational real estate management activities through the contribution of its assets to 7.4.3 Information on payables wholly owned subsidiaries. The 2018 income statement reflects this activity for part of the year. Following these contributions and and receivables during 2019, Carmila turned its focus to its operations as a holding and management company for equity interests it holds in France As a result of the contribution of operating assets to its subsidiaries and abroad. in 2018, there are no longer any revenues. Only the rebilling of expenses generates revenue and at 31 December 2019 all receivables had been settled. 7.4.2.1 Operating income With regard to suppliers, the payable balances of the balance sheet Operating income includes almost exclusively the invoicing of almost exclusively include accruals for invoices not yet received. management services rebilled to subsidiaries within the Carmila There were 13 supplier invoices included in the accounts at Group. 31 December 2019 and the debt due in less than one month amounts to -€24 thousand, this being a credit note. The 12 other invoices are more than 90 days overdue and represent €44 thousand, or 0.0004% of purchases including all taxes for the year. 258 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Management report to shareholders 7.4.4 Equity interests • Carmila Talavera owns the premises of the Los Alfares shopping centre in Talavera, which was built in 2005 and covers 20,506 sqm with 53 units; As indicated in the Highlights above, in 2019 Carmila acquired five wholly-owned Spanish real estate subsidiaries and a stake in a • Carmila Cordoba's asset is the La Sierra shopping centre in Spanish joint venture with a 50% partner. Each of these companies Cordoba, bought in 2018 from the Pradera group, which is owns the premises of a shopping centre and manages its assets. developing its activity on 17,611 sqm of leasable area; Operationally, the organisation will remain the same gong forward. Carmila España's teams will continue to ensure the marketing, • Carmila Puerto owns the El Paseo shopping centre near Cadiz, management and maintenance of these centres. The shopping also acquired from the Pradera Group in 2018 and covering centres owned by these companies are as follows: 10,454 sqm. • Carmila Palma owns the FAN shopping centre in Palma de Finally, As Cancelas owns a shopping centre located in Santiago de Mallorca, which was significantly expanded in 2016 to represent Compostela, which covers 25,000 sqm. 104 units over 38,141 sqm of leasable area; • The Oléa shopping centre located in Huelva in Andalusia and owned by Carmila Huelva, was expanded and transformed in 2013, it now covers 34,036 sqm of leasable area for its 93 units; 7.4.5 Net income allocation Shareholders will be asked at the Shareholders’ Meeting to be held on 14 May 2020 to approve the allocation of net income as follows: Net income for the financial year €19,929,792.82 Prior period unallocated income €97,951.98 Distributable profit €20,027,744.80 Allowance to legal reserve -€996,489.64 Distribution paid out of distributable income -€19,031,255.16 ----------------Balance of unallocated income after allocation €0.00 ----------------The total amount of the proposed dividend distribution for 2019 will be €1.50 per share and breaks down as follows: Distribution paid out of distributable income €19,031,255.16 Distribution paid out of the merger premium €185,811,287.34 ----------------Total dividend distribution from which the dividends on treasury shares will be deducted €204,842,542,50 Pursuant to legal disclosure requirements, dividends distributed in respect of the last three financial years were (in euros/share): Year Euros/share 2016 1.88 2017 1.50 2018 1.50 7 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 259 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7. Management report to shareholders 7.4.6 Earnings for the last five financial years The table of earnings for the last five financial years is as follows: 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 31/12/2016 31/12/2015 SHARE CAPITAL AT YEAR-END Share capital(1) €820,091,058 €819,370,170 €810,360,174 €25,900,068 €15,938,508 No. of existing ordinary shares 136,561,695 136,561,695 135,060,029 4,316,678 2,656,418 OPERATIONS & RESULTS Turnover excluding VAT €4,000 €5,237,070 €7,095,000 €5,964,433 €4,305,178 Earnings before income tax, profit-sharing scheme and allowance for depreciation, €20,361,824 €72,324,927 €36,129,000 €3,971,538 €6,117,931 amortisation, and provisions Income tax €371,753 €394,234 €257,000 -€148,753 -€804,481 Employee participation Earnings after income tax, profit-sharing scheme and allowance for depreciation, €19,929,793 €69,817,496 €21,443,000 €648,016 €2,794,241 amortisation, and provisions Amount distributed(2) : • of which net income for the period: €19,031,255.16 €66,336,621.27 €20,371,290.90 €615,604.66 €6,561,350.56 • of which retained earnings: €12 774,60 €7,161,187.57 • of which issuance premium: €338,562.41 • of which merger premium: €185,811,287.34 €138,515,921.23 €182,205,978.00 EARNINGS PER SHARE Earnings after tax, employee participation, but before depreciation, amortisation €0.15 €0.53 €0.20 €0.89 €2.00 and provisions Earnings after income tax, profit-sharing scheme and allowance for depreciation, €0.15 €0.51 €0.16 €0.15 €1.05 amortisation, and provisions Amount distributed per share(2): • of which net income for the period: €0.14 €0.49 €0.15 €0.14 €0.65 • of which retained earnings: €0,00 €1.66 €0.87 • of which issuance premium: €0.08 • of which merger premium: €1.36 €1.01 €1.35 STAFF Average staff during the year 1.17 Amount of payroll for the year €1,290,338 €1,000,232 €826,000 €263,654 Amount paid for social benefits €6,876 (1) The share capital has increased following the creation of the B Shares issued under the free share plans, issued with a par value of €6. (2) Regarding the 2019 financial year, will be submitted for approval to the Ordinary Shareholders' Meeting. 260 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Statutory Auditors’ report on the financial statements 7.5 Statutory Auditors’ report on the financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2019 Basis for opinion This is a translation into English of the statutory auditors’ report on the financial statements of the Company issued in French and it is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking users. Audit framework This statutory auditors’ report includes information specifically We conducted our audit in accordance with professional standards required by French law, such as information about the appointment applicable in France. We believe that the audit evidence we have of the statutory auditors or verification of the management report obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our and other documents provided to shareholders. opinion. This report should be read in conjunction with, and, construed in Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in accordance with French law and professional auditing standards the “Statutory Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the applicable in France. Financial Statements” section of our report. To the Carmila S.A. Shareholders’ Meeting, Independence We conducted our audit in compliance with independence rules applicable to us, for the period from January 1, 2019 to the issue date of our report and in particular we did not provide any prohibited Opinion non-audit services referred to in Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) no. 537/2014 or in the French Code of ethics for statutory auditors. In compliance with the engagement entrusted to us by your Shareholders’ Meeting, we have audited the accompanying statutory financial statements of Carmila S.A. for the year ended 31 December 2019. In our opinion, the statutory financial statements give a true and fair Justification of Assessments – view of the assets and liabilities and of the financial position of the Company as at 31 December 2019 and of the results of its operations Key Audit Matters for the year then ended in accordance with accounting rules and In accordance with the requirements of Articles L.823-9 and R.823-7 principles applicable in France. of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) relating to The audit opinion expressed above is consistent with our report to the justification of our assessments, we bring your attention to the the Audit Committee. key audit matters relating to risks of material misstatement that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period, as well as how we addressed those risks. These assessments were addressed in the context of the statutory financial statements taken as a whole, and, in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on specific items of the statutory financial statements. Key Audit Matters Responses as part of our audit Valuation of investments To assess the reasonableness of the value in use estimates of (Notes 3.2.3. and 4.2 to the statutory financial statements) investments, based on the information communicated to us, our work As of 31 December 2019, investments are recorded in the balance mainly consisted in: sheet at a net carrying amount of €3 449 million and represent 63 % • verifying that the estimate of these values in use made by of total assets. Management is based on an appropriate valuation method; As indicated in Note 3.2.3 to the statutory financial statements, they • check the calculation of the share of revalued equity which takes are recorded as of their entry date at acquisition cost and impaired into account in particular unrealized gains or losses on investment when their book value is less than their acquisition cost. The book properties; value corresponds to the value in use, determined by taking into • compare the acquisition values of the securities with their value in consideration revalued equity. Revalued equity of real estate use. companies is estimated based on valuations of investment property carried out by independent experts who take into account specific The procedures that we have performed on investment property, and information about the assets as well as market returns. that was also carried out by auditors of the components, under our management and supervision, has mainly consisted in: The valuation of investments is considered to be a key audit matter due to the importance: • conducting interviews with independent appraisers and Management to assess the pertinence of the valuation • of this account heading compared to total assets, methodology and assumptions used; • of the use of judgments by Management and independent experts • assessing the competence, independence and objectivity of the to determine the fair value of investment property, external appraisers of the Carmila group, in particular with regards • the complexity of the methods used to assess these fair values, to their reputation and by verifying the certificate of independence • the sensitivity of these fair values to assumptions adopted by the issued by the expert included as a statement in it report; 7 experts. • analyzing the changes in fair value of each investment property and assessing the basis with respect to market changes and the rental situation of the building; • verifying that the fair value methods used are in line with market practices, and assess by sampling the consistency with the market data of the valuation assumptions used by the independent experts, particularly the rates of return and the market rental values; • corroborating by sampling the main information provided by the company to independent experts with rental statements and investments. We also assessed the appropriateness of disclosures in Note 3.2.3. and 4.2 to the financial statements. CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 261 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7. Statutory Auditors’ report on the financial statements Specific verifications Responsibilities of Management We have also performed, in accordance with professional standards and those charged with Governance applicable in France, the specific verifications required by French law and regulations. for the Financial Statements Information given in the management report Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in accordance with French accounting and in the other documents addressed to principles, and for such internal control as management determines shareholders with respect to the financial is necessary to enable the preparation of statutory financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to position and the statutory financial statements fraud or error. We have no matters to report as to the fair presentation and the consistency with the financial statements of the information given in In preparing the statutory financial statements, management is the management report of the Board of Directors and in the other responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to continue as a documents addressed to shareholders with respect to the financial going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going position and the financial statements. concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless it is expected to liquidate the Company or to cease its operations. We attest to the fair presentation and consistency with the statutory financial statements of disclosures relating to the payment period The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring the financial required by Article D. 441-4 of the French Commercial Code (Code reporting process and the effectiveness of internal control and risk de commerce). management systems and, where applicable, its internal audit, regarding the accounting and financial reporting procedures. Report on corporate governance The financial statements have been approved by the Board of Directors. We attest that the Board of Directors’ report on corporate governance contains the information required by Articles L. 225-37-3 and L. 225-37-4 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce). Concerning the information presented in accordance with the Statutory Auditors’ Responsibilities requirements of Article L.225-37-3 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) relating to remuneration and benefits received for the Audit of the Financial or allowed by the directors and any other commitments made in their favor, we have verified its consistency with the financial Statements statements, or with the underlying information used to prepare these financial statements and, where applicable, with the information obtained by your Company from controlled companies Objective and audit approach which are included in the scope of consolidation. Based on this work, Our role is to issue a report on the statutory financial statements. we attest the accuracy and fair presentation of this information. Our objective is to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the statutory financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with Report on Other Legal and professional standards will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are Regulatory Requirements considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. Appointment of the Statutory Auditors As specified by Article L.823-10-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), the scope of our statutory audit does not We were appointed as statutory auditors of Carmila S.A. by the include assurance on the future viability of the Company or the Shareholders’ Meeting of 25 June 2010 for KPMG and 25 June 2009 quality with which Company’s management has conducted or will for Deloitte & Associés. conduct the affairs of the entity. As at 31 December 2019, KPMG was in its 10th year of uninterrupted As part of an audit in accordance with professional standards engagement and Deloitte & Associés in its 11th year of uninterrupted applicable in France, the statutory auditor exercises professional engagement, and respectively 10 and 11 years since the securities judgment throughout the audit and furthermore: were admitted to trading on a regulated market. • identifies and assesses the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, designs and performs audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtains audit evidence considered to be sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for his opinion; The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control; • obtains an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the internal control; • evaluates the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by management in the financial statements; 262 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Statutory Auditors’ report on the financial statements • assesses the appropriateness of management’s use of the going Report to the Audit Committee concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence We submit a report to the Audit Committee which includes in obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events particular a description of the scope of the audit and the audit or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s program implemented, as well as significant audit findings. We also ability to continue as a going concern. This assessment is based bring to its attention any significant deficiencies in internal control on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of his audit report. regarding the accounting and financial reporting procedures that we However, future events or conditions may cause the Company to have identified. cease to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we draw attention in our audit report Our report to the Audit Committee includes the risks of material to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such misstatement that, in our professional judgment, were of most disclosures are not provided or inadequate, we modify our significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current opinion; period and which are therefore the key audit matters that we are required to describe in this report. • evaluates the overall presentation of the statutory financial We also provide the Audit Committee with the declaration referred statements and whether the financial statements represent the to in Article 6 of Regulation (EU) no. 537/2014, confirming our underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair independence pursuant to the rules applicable in France as defined presentation; in particular by Articles L.822-10 to L.822-14 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) and in the French Code of ethics for statutory auditors. Where appropriate, we discuss with the Audit Committee the risks that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, the related safeguards. Paris-La Défense, 14 February 2020 The Statutory Auditors KPMG S.A. Deloitte & Associés French original signed French original signed Éric Ropert Adrien Johner Stéphane Rimbeuf Partner Partner Partner 7 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 263 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7. Statutory Auditors’ special report on regulated agreements and commitments 7.6 Statutory Auditors’ special report on regulated agreements and commitments Shareholders’ Meeting held to approve the financial statements for Terms and conditions the year ended December 31, 2019 On July 1, 2019, Carmila SA and Carrefour France entered into a This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditors’ three-year partial secondment agreement, under which Alexandre de Palmas, an employee of Carrefour France, will carry out special report on regulated agreements that is issued in the French operational tasks for the Company, for a portion of his activity, language and is provided solely for the convenience of English evaluated at half the time he devotes to all his duties. speaking readers. This report on regulated agreements should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French During the secondment period, the Company will repay to Carrefour France half the remuneration paid to Alexandre de Palmas, the law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. It related social security contributions, vacation pay and the business should be understood that the agreements reported on are only expenses reimbursed with respect to the secondment. Considering those provided by the French Commercial Code (Code de that Alexandre de Palmas’s objectives will include, throughout the Commerce) and that the report does not apply to those related secondment period, components related to his various duties and party transactions described in IAS 24 or other equivalent performance with the Company, the reimbursed wages will include accounting standards. the variable annual compensation attributed to Alexandre de Palmas in this respect. To the Carmila S.A. Shareholders’ Meeting, Under this agreement, the Company repaid €212,471 excluding taxes in respect of fiscal year 2019. In our capacity as statutory auditors of your Company, we hereby report to you on regulated agreements. Reasons justifying the agreement is in the Company’s The terms of our engagement require us to communicate to you, interest based on information provided to us, the principal terms and In the Board of Directors’ opinion, it was in the Company’s interest conditions of those agreements brought to our attention or which to enter into this agreement to enable the Company to benefit from we may have discovered during the course of our audit, as well as Alexandre de Palmas’ expertise, experience and knowledge. the reasons justifying that such agreements are in the Company’s interest, without expressing an opinion on their usefulness and appropriateness or identifying other such agreements, if any. It is your responsibility, pursuant to Article R. 225-31 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), to assess the interest Agreements and commitments involved in respect of the conclusion of these agreements for the purpose of approving them. previously approved by Our role is also to provide you with the information stipulated in Article R. 225-31 of the French Commercial Code relating to the shareholders’ meetings implementation during the past year of agreements previously approved by the Shareholders’ Meeting, if any. Agreements approved in previous years We performed the procedures that we considered necessary in accordance with the professional guidelines of the French National a) with continuing effect during the year Institute of Statutory Auditors (Compagnie Nationale des Commissaires aux Comptes) relating to this engagement. These Pursuant to Article R. 225-30 of the French Commercial Code, we procedures consisted in agreeing the information provided to us have been informed that the following agreements, previously with the relevant source documents. approved by shareholders’ meetings of prior years, had continuing effect during the year. Secondment agreement covering Jacques Ehrmann Agreements submitted to the Person concerned approval of the shareholders’ CRFP 13 (company indirectly controlled by Carrefour SA), a shareholder holding more than 10% of the voting rights of the meeting Company. Nature and purpose Agreements authorized and entered At its meeting of March 31, 2017, the Board of Directors of Carmila SAS authorized a new agreement covering the secondment into during the year of Jacques Ehrmann. Pursuant to Article L. 225-40 of the French Commercial Code, the As part of the merger-absorption of Carmila SAS by the Company following agreement, entered into during the year and previously on June 12, 2017, the Company assumed the rights and obligations authorized by the Board of Directors, has been brought to our of Carmila SAS with respect to the partial secondment agreement attention. concluded with Carrefour SA and covering Jacques Ehrmann. The remuneration of Jacques Ehrmann, as Chairman and Chief Executive Agreement with Carrefour Management relating Officer, was approved by the Company’s Shareholders’ Meeting on to the secondment of Alexandre de Palmas June 12, 2017. Person concerned CRFP 13 (company indirectly controlled by Carrefour SA, as is Carrefour France), a shareholder holding more than 10% of the voting rights of the Company. Nature and purpose The Board of Directors’ meeting of June 26, 2019 authorized the conclusion of an agreement with Carrefour France relating to the secondment of Alexandre de Palmas. 264 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Statutory Auditors’ special report on regulated agreements and commitments Terms and conditions Service agreement with Carrefour SA On April 12, 2017, Carmila SAS and Carrefour SA entered into a fourPerson concerned year partial secondment agreement, under which Jacques Ehrmann, an employee of Carrefour, is seconded to Carmila SAS and then the CRFP 13 (company indirectly controlled by Carrefour SA), a Company by Carrefour SA for a portion of his activity, evaluated at shareholder holding more than 10% of the voting rights of the half the time he devotes to all his duties. Company. During the secondment period, the Company will repay to Nature and purpose and terms and conditions Carrefour SA half the remuneration paid to Jacques Ehrmann, the On April 16, 2014, Carmila SAS and Carrefour SA entered into a fiverelated social security contributions and the business expenses year service agreement under which Carrefour SA provides reimbursed with respect to the secondment. Considering that Carmila SAS with the expertise and resources necessary to assist it Jacques Ehrmann’s objectives will include, throughout the with accounting, tax consolidation and legal monitoring, for a fee of secondment period, components relating to his duties and €62,000 per calendar year excluding taxes. performance with the Company, the reimbursed wages will include the variable annual remuneration attributed to Jacques Ehrmann in On May 17, 2017, Carmila SAS and Carrefour SA amended this this respect. agreement, in order to (i) increase the annual overall fees to €102,000 per calendar year excluding taxes, and (ii) extend the Under this agreement, the Company repaid €840,788 excluding initial term of the agreement to December 31, 2020. taxes for fiscal year 2019. As part of the merger-absorption of Carmila SAS by the Company This agreement terminated on the effective date of Jacques on June 12, 2017, the Company assumed the rights and obligations Ehrmann’s departure from the Company, i.e. June 30, 2019. of Carmila SAS with respect to a services agreement entered into with Carrefour SA. Amendment to the Renovation and Development Under this agreement, the Company set aside a provision of Agreement with Carrefour SA €62,000 excluding taxes for fiscal year 2019. Person concerned CRFP 13 (company indirectly controlled by Carrefour SA), a Agreement with Carrefour Management relating shareholder holding more than 10% of the voting rights of the to the secondment of Sébastien Vanhoove Company. Person concerned Nature and purpose CRFP 13 (company indirectly controlled by Carrefour SA, as is The Carmila SAS Board of Directors’ meeting of March 31, 2017 Carrefour Management), a shareholder holding more than 10% of the authorized the conclusion of an amendment to the Renovation and voting rights of the Company. Development Agreement entered into between Carmila SAS and Carrefour SA on April 16, 2014. The Carmila SAS Shareholders’ Nature and purpose Meeting of June 12, 2017 approved this amendment. The Board of Directors’ meeting of July 27, 2018 authorized the conclusion of an agreement with Carrefour Management relating to As part of the merger-absorption of Carmila SAS by the Company the secondment of Sébastien Vanhoove. on June 12, 2017, the Company assumed the rights and obligations of Carmila SAS with respect to the Renovation and Development Terms and conditions Agreement entered into with Carrefour SA. On August 1, 2018, Carmila SA and Carrefour Management entered Terms and conditions into a four-year partial secondment agreement, under which Sébastien Vanhoove, an employee of Carrefour Management, will Wishing to implement a strategy designed to boost the appeal of carry out operational tasks for the Company, for a portion of his shopping centers and optimize their value, Carmila SAS and activity, evaluated at half the time he devotes to all his duties. Carrefour SA (acting in their own name and in the name and on behalf of their subsidiaries) entered into a renovation and During the secondment period, the Company will repay to Carrefour development agreement on April 16, 2014 (the “Renovation and Management half the remuneration paid to Sébastien Vanhoove, the Development Agreement”). related social security contributions, vacation pay and the business expenses reimbursed with respect to the secondment. Considering On May 3, 2017, Carmila SAS and Carrefour amended the that Sébastien Vanhoove’s objectives will include, throughout the Renovation and Development Agreement in order to: secondment period, components related to his various duties and • incorporate the new assets acquired by the Carmila group in performance with the Company, the reimbursed wages will include the variable annual compensation attributed to Sébastien Vanhoove France, Italy and Spain since April 16, 2014 within the scope of in this respect. assets covered by the Renovation and Development Agreement; and Under this agreement, the Company repaid €275,938 excluding taxes in respect of fiscal year 2019. • incorporate the assets held by the Company and the principles applicable to the development and renovation transactions relating to these assets into the Renovation and Development Agreement and extend the initial term of the Renovation and Development Agreement until December 31, 2027. No new project acquisition contract was signed under this agreement in fiscal 2019, the contracts signed in previous years remaining in effect. 7 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 265 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7. Statutory Auditors’ special report on regulated agreements and commitments b) With no continuing effect during the year Terms and conditions Furthermore, we have been informed that the following agreement, The exclusive lease and asset management agreement, dated previously approved by shareholders’ meetings of prior years, had May 17, 2017, sets out the terms and conditions of the lease and no continuing effect during the year. asset management of real estate properties entrusted to Carrefour Property Gestion. It was entered into for the period from June 12, 2017 to December 31, 2020 for a fixed remuneration equal to 3.5% of Lease and asset management agreement net annual rent invoiced and collected, excluding charges and with Carrefour Property Gestion insurance. Person concerned As the Company no longer owns any real estate properties, no lease or asset management service was invoiced to the Company in CRFP 13 (company fully controlled by Carrefour SA, as is Carrefour respect of fiscal year 2019. Property Gestion), a shareholder holding more than 10% of the voting rights of the Company. Nature and object The Board of Directors’ meeting of March 31, 2017 authorized the signature of a lease and asset management agreement covering all the Company’s real estate properties which it owns or which it occupies pursuant to a construction or emphyteutic lease. Paris-La Défense, February 21, 2020 The Statutory Auditors KPMG S.A. DELOITTE & ASSOCIÉS Éric Ropert Adrien Johner Stéphane Rimbeuf Partner Partner Partner 266 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 8. 8.1 Information on the Company 268 8.1.1 Company name 268 and corporate purpose 8.1.2 Registration place and number 268 8.1.3 Date of incorporation and term 268 8.1.4 Registered office, legal structure 268 and applicable jurisdiction 8.2 Articles of incorporation 268 and By-laws 8.2.1 Corporate Purpose 268 (Article 3 of the By-laws) 8.2.2 Rights, Privileges and Restrictions 269 with respect to Shares 8.2.3 Board of directors and Executive 270 Management 8.3 Person responsible 270 for the Universal Registration Document and certification Additional 8.3.1 Surname and first name 8.3.2 Certification by the person responsible for the Universal 270 270 information Registration Document and the Annual Financial Report 8.4 Statutory Auditors 271 8.4.1 Principal Statutory Auditors 271 8.4.2 Alternate Statutory Auditors 271 8.5 Person responsible 271 for the information 8.6 Documents available 271 to the public 8.7 Correspondence tables 272 8.7.1 Correspondence table of the 272 Universal Registration Document 8.7.2 Correspondence table of the 274 Annual Financial Report 8.7.3 Correspondence table 274 of the Management report to Shareholders 8.7.4 Correspondence table 276 to the Corporate governance report 8.8 Glossary 277 8.9 Information incorporated 278 by reference CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 267 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 8. Information on the Company 8.1 Information on the Company 8.1.1 Company name 8.1.3 Date of incorporation and corporate purpose and term The Company is registered under the corporate name “Carmila”. The Company was incorporated on 6 March 1991 for a term to expire on 1 May 2090, except in the event of an early dissolution or an extension provided for in the ws. 8.1.2 Registration place and number 8.1.4 Registered office, legal The Company is registered with the Nanterre Trade and Companies structure and applicable Registry under number 381 844 471. jurisdiction The Company’s Legal Entity Identifier is 222100P6D3QKU33LZQ72. The Company’s registered office is at 58, avenue Émile-Zola, 92100 Boulogne-Billancourt, France (Tel: +33 1 58 33 64 99). The Company’s website is: carmila.com (it being specified that all information provided on the Company’s website will not be provided on the prospectus, unless such information are included by reference in the prospectus). The Company is a limited liability company (société anonyme) incorporated under French law with a Board of Directors, and is governed by the laws and regulatory provisions of the French Commercial Code. 8.2 Articles of incorporation and By-laws The Company’s by-laws were modified on 12 June 2017, following the Merger of the same date. These amendments were mainly • The Annual General Meeting held on 16 May 2018 decided to offer shareholders an option to receive the balance of the 2017 related to (i) the extension of directors’ terms from three to four dividend payment in shares (i.e. €0.75 per share). The option years and the inclusion of an option to shorten terms in order to period was opened from 23 May 2018 to 6 June 2018. At the end allow for the staggered renewal of the Board of Directors, in of the option period, shareholders having elected to receive the accordance with the recommendations of the AFEP/MEDEF Code, balance of the 2017 dividend in shares represented 34.27% of (ii) the option to appoint non-voting directors to assist the Board of Carmila shares. For the purposes of the dividend payment in Directors and (iii) a number of drafting changes and amendments in shares, 1,501,666 new shares have been issued. The settlement response to new provisions of the French Civil Code or certain and delivery of the shares as well as their admission to trading on conditions concerning the Company’s distributions. Euronext Paris occurred on 14 June 2018. After this capital By-laws were also modified on 25 July 2017, 31 July 2017 and increase, the number of Carmila outstanding shares is 14 June 2018 to take into account Increases of capital occurred at 136,561,695 shares. By-laws were modified accordingly. those dates: • Finally, the Company's By-laws have been amended on • On 6 July 2017, Carmila finalised a placement, launched on May 16th, 2019 and October 24th, 2019 as to implement the 25 June 2017, of 23,041,668 new shares for a total amount of creation of a new class of B shares, the B Shares , which are €578 million. This operation included an additional period to allow preference shares in accordance with Articles L. 228-11 et seq. of Carmila shareholders who had not sold or exercised their the French Commercial Code, and have been created in warrants to exercice them before 17 July 2017. As a consequence, connection with the allocation of preference shares to Group the total number of shares issued (excluding the exercise of the employees. overallotment option) was 23,123,818 ordinary shares for a total The description below covers the main provisions of the By-laws. amount of €555,0 million including i) 20,958,334 shares issued as part of the share placement representing €503,0 million, and ii) 2,165,484 shares issued following the exercise of the remaining warrants (including the subscription of Carrefour through the 8.2.1 Corporate Purpose partial exercise of Its warrants for an amount of €50 million) (Article 3 of the By-laws) representing c. €52,0 million. The settlement and delivery of the 82,150 new shares issued through the exercise of the warrants Pursuant to Article 3 of the By-laws, the Company’s main purpose is since 10 July 2017 took place on July 25, 2017. Following the to acquire or construct commercial or industrial buildings or groups exercise of the remaining warrants, and upon issuance of the of buildings for leasing or rental purposes, to directly or indirectly corresponding additional new shares, Carmila’s outstanding share hold equity interests in legal entities whose purpose is to acquire or capital was composed of 131,992,047 shares. As a consequence, construct buildings or groups of commercial buildings for leasing or by-laws were modified on 25 July 2017. rental purposes, and, more generally, to hold and operate sites, • In connection with the increase of capital of the 6 July 2017, a commercial or industrial buildings or groups of buildings, and in stabilisation agent, acting in the name and on behalf of the particular, shopping centres, located in France and abroad, for underwriters, exercised the over-allotment option granted in the leasing or rental purposes, and, to that end: offering with respect to the purchase of 3,067,982 additional new • to acquire by any means (including through exchange or shares. The proceeds from the exercise of the over-allotment contribution or any other type of transfer) and/or construct any option amounts to €73.6 million, increasing the total capital sites, buildings, assets and property rights for leasing or rental increase amount to €628.6 million. Following the completion of purposes; to manage, administrate, rent, lease and develop any the capital increase and the exercise of the over-allotment option, sites, assets and property rights; to furnish and equip all building Carmila’s share capital was composed of 135,060,029 shares. Bycomplexes for rent; and any other activities associated with or laws have been modified accordingly on 31 July 2017. related to the abovementioned business, directly or indirectly, acting alone or through an association, joint venture, group or company with any other persons or companies; 268 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Articles of incorporation and By-laws • to participate, by any means, in transactions relating to its Buyback of the B Shares (article 10 of the By-laws) purpose by way of acquisition of equity interests or investments, In the scenario where, after the lock-up period expiry date, the by any means and in any form, in any French or foreign real number of A Shares to which the B Shares held by some of all of the estate, industrial, financial or commercial company, in particular holders would give rights through conversion is equal to zero, the by way of acquisition, creation of new companies, subscription or Company will, at its sole initiative, buy back the said B Shares for the purchase of securities or corporate rights, contributions, purpose of cancelling them. mergers, alliances, joint ventures, economic interest groups or otherwise, as well as to administer, manage and control these All B Shares bought back in this way will be permanently cancelled equity interests or investments; on their buyback date and the Company's share capital reduced by that amount, with creditors benefiting from a right to oppose. • on an exceptional basis: to exchange or dispose of securities held, B Shares will be bought back at their unit face value. property rights or assets or real estate acquired or built for leasing or rental purposes in accordance with the Company’s The Company will notify B Shareholders of the buyback by any main purpose by way of sale, contribution or otherwise; and means prior to the actual buyback date. • generally, all commercial, financial and industrial transactions and The Board of Directors must note the number of any B Shares all transactions in movable or real property relating directly or bought back and cancelled by the Company and make the indirectly to the purpose of the Company and any similar or necessary changes to the Articles of these By-laws. connected purpose likely to facilitate the completion thereof or promoting its extension or development (including, in particular, Preferential Subscription Rights concerning buildings or groups of buildings for leasing or rental Shares of the Company will carry preferential subscription rights to purposes, other than for commercial purposes). capital increases under the conditions set out in the French Commercial Code. 8.2.2 Rights, Privileges and Participation in Shareholders’ Meetings Restrictions with respect (Article 19 of the By-laws) to Shares Shareholders may attend meetings in person or by proxy. Any shareholder may be represented or vote by mail, in accordance with the terms and conditions provided for by applicable law. Class of shares (Article 7 of the By-laws) The ability to participate in Shareholders’ Meetings is subject to the registration of the shares in the name of the shareholder or The shares are divided into two categories: 136,561,695 category A intermediary registered on the shareholder’s behalf, two business shares, which are ordinary shares ; and 120,148 category B shares, days before the applicable meeting at 12:00 midnight, Paris time, which are preference shares issued in accordance with either in the registered share accounts held by the Company or in Articles L. 228-11 et seq. of the French Commercial Code. the bearer share accounts held by the authorised intermediary. For holders of bearer shares, the certificate of participation justifying the Category A shares ownership of their shares will be issued by the authorised intermediary holding their account and will allow them to participate Voting rights (article 10 of the By-laws) in the Shareholders’ Meeting. Each A Share entitles the holder to one (1) vote. Upon the decision of the Board of Directors in its convening notice, any shareholder may also participate and vote in Shareholders’ Dividends rights and liquidation dividends rights Meetings by videoconference or any other means of (article 10 of the By-laws) telecommunication, including by Internet, provided that the means Each A Share entitles the holder to a share in the profits in of communication permits the identification of the shareholder in proportion to the number of A shares in existence. question in accordance with the terms and conditions set out by applicable law and regulations. Each Share entitles the holder to liquidation dividends in proportion to the number of shares in existence. Procedures for convening and conducting ordinary Category B shares and extraordinary Shareholders' meetings (Articles 20 and 22 of the By-laws) Voting rights (article 10 of the By-laws) Ordinary and extraordinary Shareholders’ meetings held under the B shares do not carry voting rights. quorum and majority conditions prescribed by law exercise the powers granted to them under law. They will be convened by the Dividends and liquidation dividends rights Board of Directors under the conditions and within the time limits set by law. (article 10 of the By-laws) B shares do not carry dividend rights. Special Shareholders' Meeting Each Share entitles the holder to liquidation dividends in proportion to the number of shares in existence. (Article 23 of the By-laws) B Shareholders are consulted on issues that fall specifically within their competence under the law. Conversion into A shares (article 10 of the By-laws) After the B Share lock-up period given in the free B Share plan Only B Shareholders entered in the Company accounts may attend under which they are allocated, B Shares will automatically be these Special Shareholder's meeting and take part in the vote. The converted into A Shares, it being stated that, with respect to the Special B Shareholders's meeting exercise their powers in Company's corporate officers, the Board of Directors would have accordance with the conditions set out in the applicable regulations. the option of delaying the conversion date to the date of Company's decisions taken by a General Shareholder's meeting only termination of their functions as corporate officers within the become final following the approval by the Special B Shareholders' Company. meeting where these modify rights relating to B Shares. Each B Share would carry the right of a maximum of one (1) A Share, subject to meeting the performance conditions as provided under Article 10 of the By-laws. The number of A Shares that may result from the conversion of the B Shares will be calculated by the Board of Directors on the lock-up period expiry date according to the extent to which the performance conditions have been met, it being stated that if the average level of achievement of the applicable performance conditions exceeds 100%, the conversion ratio will be, 8 as the case may be, one (1) A Share for one (1) B Share. CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 269 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 8. Person responsible for the Universal Registration Document and certification Identifiable Bearer Shares Chairman of the Board of directors (Article 8 of the By-laws) (article 13 of the By-laws) The Company may use means authorised by applicable law and The Board of Directors shall elect a Chairman from among its regulations for the identification of holders of shares conferring an members, who must be a natural person. The President organizes immediate or future right to vote in its Shareholders’ Meetings, and and directs the work of the Board of Directors, on which it reports to may apply any sanctions related to such shares. the General Meeting of Shareholders' meeting. It ensures the proper functioning of the Company's governing bodies and ensures, in Holders who fail to comply with requests for information within the particular, that the directors are able to perform their duties. time period provided for by applicable laws and regulations or who transmit incomplete or inaccurate information as to their capacity or as to the owners of the shares or the quantity of shares held by Chief Executive Officer each of them, securities giving current or future access to the share (article 14 of the By-laws) capital and on behalf of whom such holders are registered by bookentry, will be stripped of voting rights for any Shareholder’s Meeting The General Management of the Company is assumed under the held before such identification is corrected, and the payment of any responsibility of either the Chairman of the Board of Directors, or corresponding dividend will be deferred until such date. another individual appointed by the Board of Directors, with the title of Chief Executive Officer. The Chief Executive Officer is vested with the following powers to 8.2.3 Board of directors and act in all circumstances on behalf of the Company. It exercises these powers within the limits of the Company's corporate purpose and Executive Management under reserve those expressly attributed by law and by the By-laws to the Shareholders' Meetings and to the Board of Directors. The Chief Executive Officer represents the Company in its relations Board of directors (article 12 of the By-laws) with third parties. The Company is managed by a Board of Directors consisting of three to eighteen members, subject to derogations provided for by Non-voting members (article 17 of the By-laws) law in the event of a merger. The Shareholders' meeting may appoint non-voting directors The Board of Directors shall be renewed each year by bearing, such (natural persons or legal entities) to assist the Board of Directors. that the bearing covers a portion of themembers of the Board of Non-voting directors may be, but are not required to be, Directors. Directorships last for four years. Exceptionally, so that the shareholders, and no more than three may be appointed. Non-voting Board of Directors is renewed each year on a rolling basis, the directors are invited to all meetings of the Board of Directors, under Shareholders’ meeting may appoint one or more directors for a the same conditions and in the same way as members of the Board different duration, which may not exceed four years. of Directors; they may take part in the deliberations, but only in an The number of members of the Board of Directors having exceeded advisory capacity. Non-voting members may share their the age of 70 may not be more than one-third of the members in observations during meetings of the Board of Directors. They may function. not take the place of members of the Board of Directors, and may only give opinions. 8.3 Person responsible for the Universal Registration Document and certification 8.3.1 Surname and first name Mr. Alexandre de Palmas Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Carmila 8.3.2 Certification by the person responsible for the Universal Registration Document and the Annual Financial Report “I hereby declare that, having taken all reasonable care to ensure that such is the case, the information contained in this Universal Registration Document is, to the best of my knowledge, in accordance with the facts and contains no omission likely to affect its meaning. I further declare that, to the best of my knowledge, the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the applicable accounting standards and give a true and fair view of the assets, financial position and results of the Company and of all the companies included in the scope of consolidation, and that the Management Report to Shareholders faithfully reflects the changes in the business, results and financial position of the Company and of all companies included in the scope of consolidation, while presenting the main risks and uncertainties faced by them (correspondence table that allows to find out sections of the Management Report in this Universal Registration Document is presented on page 274). I have obtained a completion letter from the Statutory Auditors affirming that they have verified the information concerning the financial position and financial statements provided in this document, and have read all of the information contained herein.” Mr. Alexandre de Palmas, Chairman and CEO of Carmila 270 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Documents available to the public 8.4 Statutory Auditors 8.4.1 Principal Statutory Auditors 8.4.2 Alternate Statutory Auditors Deloitte & Associés, 6 place de la Pyramide, BEAS, 6 place de la Pyramide, 92908 Paris-La Défense Cedex 92908 Paris-La Défense Cedex KPMG S.A., 2, avenue Gambetta (Tour Eqho), Salustro Reydel, 2, avenue Gambetta (Tour Eqho), 92066 Paris-La Défense Cedex 92066 Paris-La Défense Cedex 8.5 Person responsible for the information Pierre-Yves Thirion Chief Financial Officer of Carmila 8.6 Documents available to the public Copies of this document and other documents related to the This document can also be consulted on the Company’s website Company, in particular its By-laws, financial statements, reports (www.carmila.com/en/finance/registration-documents) and the submitted to its Shareholders’ Meetings by the Board of Directors website of the French Autorité des marchés financiers (www.amfand the Statutory Auditors, are available free of charge at the france.org). Company’s registered office (58, avenue Émile-Zola – 92100 Boulogne-Billancourt). These documents may also be found on the Company’s website (www.carmila.com/fr). 8 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 271 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 8. Correspondence tables 8.7 Correspondence tables 8.7.1 Correspondence table of the Universal Registration Document Annex I Commission Delegated Regulation (EC) no. 2019/980 Chapter/section No. 1/ Persons responsible, information originating from third parties, expert statements and approval by the 8.3.1 and 8.3.2 competent authority 2/ Statutory auditors 2.1. Identity 8.4.1 2.2. Any changes N/A 3/ Risk factors 5.2 4/ Information about the issuer 4.1. Corporate name 4.2. Registration place and number, legal identity identifier 4.3. Date of incorporation and term 4.4. Registered office, legal structure and applicable jurisdiction, address and phone number, website 5/ Business overview 5.1. Principal activities 3.4 / 5.1.1 5.2. Principal markets 2.3.3 / 3.4 5.3. Exceptional factors N/A 5.4. Strategy and purposes N/A 5.5. Dependence of the issuer N/A 5.6. Competitive position 2.3.1 5.7. Investments 6/ Organisation chart 6.1. Brief description of the group 5.1 6.2. List of significant subsidiaries 5.1.3 7/ Operating and financial review 7.1. Financial condition 3.7 7.2. Operating income 3.5 8/ Cash and capital resources 8.1. Information concerning capital resources 3.1 / 3.2.4 / 3.7 / 7.1.4 8.2. Cash flows 3.2.3 / 7.1.3 8.3. Borrowing requirements and funding structure 3.7 8.4. Restrictions on the use of capital resources 3.7 8.5. Anticipated sources of funds 3.7 9/ Regulatory framework 10/ Trend information 3.10 10.1. Most significant recent trends since the end of the last financial year 6.2 10.2. Event likely to have a material effect on the issuer’s prospects 6.2.1 11/ Profit forecasts or estimates 3.10 12/ Administrative, management and supervisory bodies and senior management 12.1. Board of Directors and Senior Management 6.1.2 / 6.1.3 12.2. Conflicts of interest towards the administrative, management and supervisory bodies 6.1.2.2 and senior management 13/ Compensation and benefits 13.1. Compensation and benefits in kind granted 6.2 13.2. Amounts provisioned for or otherwise recognized for the purpose of paying pensions, retirement 6.2.1 or other benefits 14/ Functioning of the administrative and management bodies 14.1. Date of expiry of terms of office 6.1.2.1 14.2. Services agreements 6.2.2 14.3. Information about the Audit Comittee, and the Compensation Comittee 6.1.2.3 14.4. Compliance with the applicable corporate governance regime 6.1.1 / 6.1.2.2 14.5. Potential significant impacts on corporate governance N/A 272 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Correspondence tables Annex I Commission Delegated Regulation (EC) no. 2019/980 Chapter/section No. 15/ Employees 15.1. Number of employees and staff distribution 4.4.2.1 15.2. Shareholdings and stock options of members of the Board of Directors and Management bodies 6.2.3 / 6.3.3 15.3. Arrangements for involving the employees in the share capital of the issuer 6.2.3 / 6.3.3 16/ Main shareholders 16.1. Threshold crossing 6.3.2.3 16.2. Existence of different voting rights N/A 16.3. Direct or indirect control 6.3.2.1 16.4. Agreement implementation of which could result in a change in control 6.3.4 17/ Related party transactions 5.1.5 / 7.1.5 Note 11 18/ Financial information concerning the issuer’s assets and liabilities, financial position and profits and losses 18.1. Historical financial information 3.1 / 7.1 / 7.3 / 7.4.6 18.2. Interim and other financial information N/A 18.3. Auditing of historical financial information 7.2 / 7.5 18.4. Pro forma financial information N/A 18.5. Dividend distribution Policy 3.7.5 18.6. Legal and arbitration proceedings 5.5 18.7. Significant changes in the financial situation 3 19/ Additional information 19.1. Share capital 3.8 / 6.3.1 19.1.1. Suscribed capital 6.3.1.2 19.1.2. Other shares 6.3.1.5 19.1.3. Treasury shares 6.3.1.5 19.1.4. Securities 6.3.1.6 19.1.5. Vesting conditions 6.3.1.7 19.1.6. Options or agreements 6.3.1.8 19.1.7. History of the capital 6.3.1.1 19.2. Memorandum and Articles of Association 8.2 20/ Material contracts 5.6 21/ Documents available 8.6 8 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 273 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 8. Correspondence tables 8.7.2 Correspondence table of the Annual Financial Report Chapter/ Headings in Article L. 451-1-2 of the French Monetary and Financial Code section No. 1/ Management report to Shareholders 2 / 3 / 5 / 7.4 2/ Consolidated financial statements 7.1 3/ Parent company financial statements 7.3 4/ Report of the Statutory Auditors on the parent company financial statements 7.2 / 7.5 and consolidated financial statements 5/ Corporate governance report 6 6/ Statutory Auditors’ Report on the Corporate governance report 6.4 7/ Declaration by the physical persons with responsibility for the Annual Financial Report 8.3 / 8.5 8.7.3 Correspondence table of the Management report to Shareholders Chapter/ Reference texts section No. COMMENTS ON THE FINANCIAL YEAR French Commercial L. 225-100-1, Situation of the Company during the financial year ended and objective 3 Code L. 232-1, and comprehensive analysis of changes in the business, results and of L. 233-6 and the Company and Group L. 233-26 French Commercial L. 225-100-1 Key non-financial performance indicators relating to the Company’s 3.1 / 3.6 Code specific business French Commercial L. 225-102-1 Extra-financial performance statement 4 Code French Commercial L. 233-6 Significant holdings taken during the financial year in companies with their 5.1.3 Code registered office in France French Commercial L. 232-1 and Significant events between the financial year closing date and the date 7.1 Note 13 / 7.3 Code L. 233-26 of this report Note 9.4 French Commercial L. 232-1 and Foreseeable change in the Company or Group situation 3.10 Code L. 233-26 French General Tax 243 bis Dividends distributed in respect of the last three financial years and 4.2.3 Code amount of income distributed in respect of these same financial years eligible for the 40% tax credit French Commercial L. 441-6, Information on the Company’s supplier and customer payment terms Code AMF positionL. 441-6-1 and recommendation D. 441-4 2009-16 ELEMENTS OF GROUP PRESENTATION French Commercial L. 225-100-1 Description of the main risks and uncertainties faced by the Company 7.2 Code French Commercial L. 225-100-1 Financial risks related to the effects of climate change and presentation 5.4.5 Code of measures taken by the Company to mitigate them by implementing a low-carbon strategy in all areas of its activity French Commercial L. 225-100-1 Principal characteristics of internal control and risk management 5.4.4 Code procedures put in place by the Company relating to the preparation and processing of accounting and financial information French Commercial L. 225-100-1 Indications about the objectives and policy for hedging each main 3.7.2 Code category of transactions for which hedge accounting is used French Commercial L. 225-100-1 The Company’s exposure to price, credit, liquidity and cash risks 5.2.3 Code French Commercial L. 225-102-1, Social and environmental consequences of the activity and related 4 / 4.7 Code R. 225-105 and Statutory Auditors’ report R. 225-105-1 French Commercial L. 225-102-1 Collective agreements concluded in the Company and impacts on the 4.4.2 Code Company’s financial performance as well as on employees’ working conditions 274 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Correspondence tables Chapter/ Reference texts section No. French Commercial L. 225-102-2 In the event of operation of an installation referred to in article L. 515-36 NA Code of the French Environmental Code: • description of the technological accident risk prevention policy; • report on the ability to cover public liability in respect of people and property; and • detail of the resources put in place by the Company to ensure management of compensation for victims in the event of a technological accident for which the Company is liable (including Seveso installations). French Commercial L. 225-102-4 Vigilance plan enabling identification of risks and prevention of serious NA Code abuses of human rights and fundamental freedoms, or serious impacts on health, safety and the environment resulting from the Company’s activity and that of sub-contractors and suppliers French Commercial L. 232-1 Research and development activities 5.7 Code INFORMATION ABOUT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE French Commercial L. 225-185 Conditions for exercise and holding of options by senior executives NA Code French Commercial L. 225-197-1 Conditions for holding bonus shares awarded to senior executives 6.2.2.1 (4) / 6.3.3 Code French Monetary and L. 621-18-2 Transactions on the Company’s securities by senior executives and related 6.3.2.5 Financial Code persons French Monetary and L.225-184 Option granted, subscribed or acquired during the financial year by senior NA Financial Code executives and any of the top ten executives of the company and options granted to all employees by category INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY AND THE SHARE CAPITAL French Commercial L. 225-211 Detail of purchases and sales of treasury shares during the financial year 6.3.1.5 Code Information about acquisitions by the Company of treasury shares in order to allocate them to employees or senior executives French Commercial R. 228-90 Any adjustments for securities giving access to the share capital 6.3.1.6 Code in the event of share repurchases or financial transactions French Commercial L. 225-102 Status of employee shareholding in the share capital on the last day 6.3.2 Code of the financial year and proportion of the share capital represented by shares held by employees through company savings plans and by employees and former employees as part of company mutual funds French Commercial L. 464-2 Injunctions or monetary penalties for anti-competitive practices NA Code French Commercial L. 233-13 Identity of natural or legal persons holding, directly or indirectly, more 6.3.2 Code than one-twentieth, one-tenth, three-twentieths, one-fifth, one-quarter, one-third, one-half, two-thirds, eighteen-twentieths or nineteen-twentieths of the share capital or voting rights at General Meetings of Shareholders French Monetary and L. 511-6 Amount of loans with terms of less than two years granted by the NA Financial Code Company, as an ancillary activity to its main business, to micro-enterprises, SMEs or intermediate-size companies with which it has business links justifying such loans ELEMENTS RELATING TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS French Commercial L. 232-6 Any changes to the presentation of the financial statements or valuation 7.1.5 Note 2 Code methods used French Commercial R. 225-102 Company’s results over the last five financial years 7.4.6 Code 8 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 275 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 8. Correspondence tables 8.7.4 Correspondence table to the Corporate governance report Chapter/ Reference texts section No. COMPENSATION French Commercial L. 225-37-2 Compensation policy of corporate officers 6.2.2 Code French Commercial L. 225-37-3 Information relating to the compensation of corporate officers 6.2.1 Code L. 225-100, II R. 225-29-1 Com. Code INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY AND THE SHARE CAPITAL French Commercial L. 225-37-4 List of all offices and positions held in any company by each of these 6.1.2 Code officers during the financial year French Commercial L. 225-37-4 Agreements concluded between a corporate officer or a shareholder 5.1.5.3 Code holding more than 10% of the voting rights and a subsidiary French Commercial L. 225-37-4 Choice of methods of exercising executive management 6.1.3 Code French Commercial L. 225-37-4 Summary table of currently valid delegations granted by the General 6.3.1.3 Code Meeting of Shareholders to the Board of Directors with regard to capital increases French Commercial L. 225-37-4 Composition, conditions of preparation and organisation of the Board 6.1.2 Code French Commercial L. 225-37-4 Description of the diversity policy applied to Board members as to 6.1.2.1 / 6.1.3 Code criterias such as age, gender, qualification and professional expertise, together with a description of this policy, its aims, ways of application and results obtained during the financial year. Information regarding the way the company is looking for a balanced organisation as far as gender is concerned, thanks to the ad-hoc committee put In place by the senior management of the company to assist them in general missions to obtain results expected as far as mixity is concerned at the top 10% senior management level. French Commercial L. 225-37-4 Limitations to the powers of the Chief Executive Officer 6.1.2.3 (3) / 6.1.3 Code French Commercial L. 225-37-4 Compliance with the Corporate Governance Code 6.1.1 Code French Commercial L. 225-37-4 Specific arrangements for the participation of shareholders 8.2.2 Code in Shareholders’ Meetings French Commercial L. 225-37-5 Rules applicable to the appointment and replacement of members 8.2.3 Code of the Board of Directors or the Executive Board as well as to changes to the Company’s articles of association French Commercial L. 225-37-5 Powers of the Board of Directors or Executive Board, in particular 6.1.2.4 / 6.3.1.5 Code relating to the issuance or repurchase of shares INFORMATION ON SHARE CAPITAL French Commercial L. 225-37-5 Structure and changes in the Company’s share capital 6.3 Code French Commercial L. 225-37-5 Statutory restrictions on the exercise of voting rights and the transfer 8.2.2 Code of shares or agreement clauses brought to the Company’s notice French Commercial L. 225-37-5 Direct or indirect holdings in the Company’s share capital of which 6.3.2.1 Code it is aware French Commercial L. 225-37-5 List of holders of any securities bearing special control rights 6.3.5 Code and description of such rights French Commercial L. 225-37-5 Control mechanisms provided for in any shareholding system for 6.3.5 Code employees, when the control rights are not exercised by the latter French Commercial L. 225-37-5 Shareholder agreements of which the Company is aware and which may 6.3.5 Code give rise to restrictions on the transfer of shares and the exercise of voting rights French Commercial L. 225-37-5 Agreements concluded by the Company that are modified or end in the 6.3.5 Code event of a change of control of the Company, unless such disclosure, other than when there is a legal obligation to disclose, would be seriously prejudicial to the Company’s interests French Commercial L. 225-37-5 Agreements providing for payments to members of the Board of Directors 6.3.5 Code or Executive Board or employees, in the event that they resign or are dismissed without actual and serious basis or if their employment ends on account of a tender offer 276 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Glossary 8.8 Glossary Continuation NAV: the continuation NAV (NAV including transfer green and blue “belts” and ecologically coherent regional schemes, taxes) includes the property transfer taxes in consolidated while reducing greenhouse gas emissions and improving energy shareholder equity – Group share (corresponding to the efficiency. The Grenelle commitments have been put into practice consolidated net assets) and does not take into account the mainly through two specific laws (i) Law no. 2009-967 of deferred taxes on unrealised capital gains, as well as the fair value 3 August 2009, programming the implementation of Grenelle recognition of hedging instruments. (known as Grenelle I) and (ii) Law no. 2010-788 of 12 July 2010 covering the national environmental commitment (known as Temporary stores: Carmila leverages the attractiveness of its Grenelle II). shopping centres to offer tenant retailers the opportunity to open temporary stores in premises of between 50 and 3,000 sqm, for ICC (Cost of Construction Index): the Cost of Construction Index durations of between 4 and 34 months. measures the quarterly change in the price of new, primarily residential buildings in France. VAT is included, paid by the project BREEAM (Building Research Establishment Environmental managers to the construction companies. It applies exclusively to Assessment Method): developed by the Building Research construction works. It excludes the prices and costs of land (viability Establishment (BRE) in the United Kingdom in 1990, BREEAM is studies, special foundations, etc.) as well as fees, promotion and recognised as the leading appraisal and certification system for the financial costs. Moreover, it does not cover maintenance and environmental performance of buildings. improvement works. CDAC (Commission départementale d’aménagement commercial or ICR (Interest Cover Ratio): EBITDA Ratio (excluding fair value Departmental commission on retail development): opening a retail adjustments)/Cost of net financial debt. This ratio measures the area greater than 1,000 sqm in France requires prior administrative company’s ability to cover the cost of its debt from its cash flows authorisation from CDAC. from operations. Leader shopping centre: a shopping centre is defined as a “leader” if ILC (Indice des Loyers Commerciaux, or French Commercial Rent (i) it is the leader in its commercial area by number of commercial Index): the quarterly ILC was created by Law no. 2008-776 of units (Source: Codata database, 2016) or (ii) it includes, for shopping 4 August 2008 on the modernisation of the economy and comprises centres in France, more than 80 commercial units or, for shopping indices representing the changes in consumer prices, new building centres in Spain or Italy, more than 60 commercial units. construction prices and revenues from retail activities. In France, Co-leader shopping centre: a shopping centre is defined as a “cobase rent, whether solely fixed or with a minimum guarantee, is leader” if (i) it is not a “leader” and (ii) (x) it includes the leading contractually indexed to INSEE’s commercial rent index. hypermarket in its commercial area (for France and Italy) in terms of LMG (Minimum Guaranteed Rent): the minimum guaranteed rent (or revenues or (for Spain) in terms of surface area (Source: Nielsen annual base rent) in the lease contract. database, 2016) or (y) the annual revenue of the hypermarket adjoining it is over €100 million for hypermarkets in France or Loan-to-Value including transfer taxes: the ratio of Consolidated net €60 million for hypermarkets in Spain or Italy. financial debt/Fair value of investment properties including transfer taxes (and including the share of the fair value of assets of equityCNCC (Conseil National des Centres Commerciaux, or National accounted companies). Shopping Centre Advisory Board): for 30 years, the CNCC has been the French professional organisation for all professionals operating Loan-to-Value excluding transfer taxes: the ratio of Consolidated net in the shopping centre sector. financial debt/Fair value of investment properties excluding transfer taxes (and including the share of the fair value of assets of equityAverage cost of debt: the average cost of debt represents the accounted companies). average effective rate that a company pays on its borrowings from financial institutions or other sources. This debt may be in the form Net rental income: Gross Rental Income less land tax expenses, of bonds, loans or any other liabilities. property expenses and unrecovered rental expenses (expenses payable by tenants but not rebilled by the lessor because of vacant EBITDA (excluding fair value adjustments): EBITDA is the acronym premises or specific contractual provisions). for Earnings before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation, and Amortization. It therefore measures the wealth creation from operating the assets. Variable rents: variable rents comprise a fixed portion, the minimum Its French equivalent is EBE (Gross Operating Surplus). guaranteed rent (or base rent), and an additional variable rent, calculated as a percentage of the tenant’s annual revenue, excluding EPRA (European Public Real Estate Association): created in 1999, the taxes. EPRA is a European association representing real estate companies, whose role is to promote, develop and represent the listed Constant/current scope: Carmila reviews the change in certain companies in the real estate sector at the European level. indicators, whether at current scope (including the entire property portfolio on a given date) or at constant scope. Growth at constant EPRA NAV: the EPRA NAV (Net Asset Value) is an indicator of the scope is calculated on a comparable basis of shopping centres. The fair value of a real estate company. The NAV is calculated by adding elements adjusted in order to analyse data at constant scope are the unrealised capital gains or losses on the assets to the (i) the contribution of acquisitions in the years in question as well as consolidated shareholder equity Group share (corresponding to negative reversion linked to acquisitions in previous years, (ii) the consolidated net assets). This indicator excludes the deferred tax on impact of current restructurings and (iii) and the impacts of unrealised capital gains as well as the fair value of hedging extensions delivered during the periods in question. instruments. Proforma: proforma data at 31 December 2016 includes Cardety in EPRA NNNAV: the triple net asset value is calculated by deducting order to be comparable. This information is shown in the Appendix the fair value of fixed rate debt and deferred taxes on unrealised to Document E filed on 5 May 2017 with the AMF under filing capital gains, which would be owed if the assets were sold, from the number E.17-040. EPRA NAV. Financial instruments are recognised at fair value. EPRA Earnings: operational performance measure excluding fair EPRA NIY (Net Initial Yield): the EPRA Net Initial Yield is the ratio value adjustments, the impact of asset disposals and other non-cash between net annualised rental income based on the rental status items in the Company’s result. and market value, including transfer taxes, of the assets. Recurring earnings: recurring earnings are equal to EPRA earnings NPY (Net Potential Yield): the Net Potential Yield is the ratio excluding certain non-recurring items (restatement of debt issuance between net annualised rental income (with reintegration of step costs related to the Carmila/Cardety merger in 2017, restatement of increases and rent-free periods) plus the market rental value of the property development margins and disposal proceeds and other vacant lots defined by the experts and the market value, including non-recurring expenses). transfer taxes, of the assets. Gross Rental Income: minimum guaranteed rent billed by Carmila to EPRA topped-up Net Initial Yield: the EPRA Topped Up Net Initial its tenants, to which additional variable rent and front-end fees and Yield adds back reductions and step rents into rental income. other despecialisation indemnities are added, where appropriate. Grenelle Environment Roundtable: the Grenelle Environment Reversion: the change (positive or negative) in the minimum Roundtable is a series of political meetings organised in France in guaranteed rent (LMG) obtained on renewal of a lease compared to 8 September and December 2007 with the aim of taking long-term its former LMG. decisions on environmental and sustainable development issues, in particular to restore biodiversity through the implementation of CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 277 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 8. Information incorporated by reference REIT (Real Estate Investment Trust): company benefiting from adFinancial Occupancy Rate: the financial occupancy rate corresponds hoc tax treatment subject to certain distribution constraints: to the ratio between the minimum guaranteed rent of the portfolio on a given date and the amount of rent that Carmila would collect if • requirement to distribute at least 95% of its recurring income and its entire operating property portfolio were leased (with the 60% of its capital gains (and 100% of the dividends received assumed rent for vacant lots determined on the basis of rental from its REIT subsidiaries); in exchange, its result is exempt from values set by the appraiser). The financial occupancy rate is stated tax at the REIT level; excluding strategic vacancies, which are the vacant premises necessary in order to implement renovation, extension, or • regarding shareholders: a shareholder may not hold more than restructuring projects in shopping centres. 60% of the share capital and 15% of the share capital must be held by shareholders holding less than 2% each. Developer yield on cost: expected net annualised rents divided by the estimated amount of the developer investment. Specialty leasing: specialty leasing refers to a set of services provided to commercial and advertising initiatives that generate Yield (Carmila share): expected net annualised rents, divided by the additional revenue and energise the shopping centres. The Specialty total amount of Carmila’s investment (including transfer taxes), leasing department operates in two segments: leasing of space in including Carrefour’s share (50%) to be acquired upon delivery at a the shopping centres and car parks, and managing the advertising market value agreed by the parties and based on an independent partnership agreement with Clear Channel, which aims to digitalise appraisal. shopping centres and assist in jointly designing solutions that closely EPRA vacancy rate: the EPRA vacancy rate is the ratio between the match new consumer behaviour. market rent of vacant surface areas and the total market rent (of Occupancy cost ratio: Carmila takes each tenant’s occupancy cost vacant and let surface areas). ratio into account in determining its rent levels. The occupancy cost ratio is defined as the ratio between (i) the total amount charged to tenants (fixed rent, variable rent and rental expenses passed on to the tenant) and (ii) the tenants’ revenues. 8.9 Information incorporated by reference In compliance with Appendix 1 of the supplementing Regulation (EU) 2019/980 dated March 14, 2019 which complete Commission Delegated Regulation (UE) 2017/1129 applicable starting 21 July 2019, the following information are incorporated by reference into this Universal Registration Document: • for the year ended 31 December 2018: consolidated financial • for the year ended 31 December 2016: consolidated financial statements, annual statutory financial statements and related statements, annual statutory financial statements and related auditor’s reports, along with all document related to this financial auditor’s reports, along with all document related to this financial year are disclosed in section 3 and 7 of the Registration year are disclosed in section 9 and 20 of the Registration Document 2018 filled with the Financial Market Authority (“AMF”) Document 2016 filled with the Financial Market Authority (“AMF”) on the 23 April 2019 with reference D. 19-0372; on the 25 April 2017 with reference D. 17-0428. • for the year ended 31 December 2017: consolidated financial statements, annual statutory financial statements and related auditor’s reports, along with all document related to this financial year are disclosed in section 3 and 7 of the Registration Document 2017 filled with the Financial Market Authority (“AMF”) on the 20 April 2018 with reference D. 18-0358; 278 CARMILA UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2019 This document has been printed on paper sourced from sustainably-managed forests. Design and production: Tél. : +33 (0)1 55 32 29 74 Cover: Thomas Raffoux Photo credits: Carmila; Bruno Conty; CC Creative Commoms; Diamond Prod Paris; Nicola Gleichauf & Frank Barylko; Greg Gonzalez; Garcia Johann; Xisco Kamal Fotógrafo; Michel Labelle; Franck Lavis ; Philippe Meunier; Thomas Raffoux; Shoootin; Stephane Vacca; Saint Thomas TV. Illustrations: Dylan Jones/Creasenso. 58, avenue Émile-Zola 92100 Boulogne-Billancourt – France Tel.: +33 (0)1 58 33 63 00 www.carmila.com
