UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014 Local patient examined at PPL Public Welfare Hospital, Pakistan Petroleum Limited’s latest community healthcare project Principle 1 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Pakistan Petroleum Limited Commitment Pakistan Petroleum Limited (PPL) respects the dignity and rights of its human resource. Through our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Programme, we also support the right to education, healthcare and basic civic amenities for communities. 3 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 ACTION Strategic System for Organizational and Human Development Benefits Performance The company provides its staff with competitive remuneration Organizational Surveys packages as well as strives to facilitate enabling working environment with ample capacity development and career Performance PPL conducts and participates regularly in organizational progression opportunities surveys, enabling the company management to review and 4 In line with the Companies Profits adopt best practices from benchmark companies. This (Worker’s Participation) Act 1968, proactive approach helps in continuous improvement of PPL contributes five percent of its systems and procedures. net profit to the Workers’ 4 PPL participates in various countrywide Human Resource (HR) Participation Fund. benchmarking surveys to assess prevailing and emergent 4 PPL follows the Employees Old trends. The findings enable the company to align its HR system Age Benefits (EOB) Act 1976, with leading companies and consolidate best practices already contributing five percent of followed by the company. Pakistan Petroleum Limited minimum basic salary to EOB 4 ‘Good Learning Practices Award 2013’ was conferred to PPL by institutions with employees’ Pakistan Society for Training and Development (PSTD). The participation of 1 percent. award demonstrates management’s commitment for building a 4 The company pays Statutory learning culture at PPL and enhancing human resource Bonus under Section 10-C of the competencies. West Pakistan Industrial and 4 The company sends its head office staff on regular field visits to Commercial Employment seek their opinion and suggestions for work-related (Standing Order) Ordinance 1968 improvements. Posting of staff between fields and head office, as well as Annual Settlement on a rolling-basis, has been streamlined during the last few Bonus to non-management staff. years. To this end, a number of staff was moved from head office to fields and vice versa to enrich their experiences. Also, 4 Annual Leave Fare Assistance is regular lateral staff rotation within head office has assisted given to non-management staff in employees in diversifying their learning and helping the addition to monthly remuneration. company to benefit from their experiences. 4 PPL also extends loans to staff for house construction/ renovation and purchase of 2 Industrial Relations and Employees vehicle. 4 The company offers 13 scholarships to children of permanent non-management ACTIONS staff, with four scholarships for post-intermediate and professional and 9 for postFair Investigation Procedures matriculation education on an annual basis. 4 Free bachelor accommodation Performance PPL protects employee rights, ensuring equitable treatment along with necessary utilities is and opportunity for all to voice their views. given to field-stationed staff. 4 The company has an effective policy for redressal of staff 4 Gratis Hajj and Umrah facilities grievances, if any. are provided to workers. 4 Based on laws relevant to its various locations, PPL follows the 4 PPL provides pick-and-drop Standing (Orders) Ordinance 1968 for official reprimand of staff. transport facility to women staff. 4 The company organizes town hall meetings for staff to share 4 For senior executives and concern and issues in an open communication with the women employees, the company 4 management. The forum also provides an opportunity for provides a nutritious and management to share company’s progress and challenges with balanced lunch facility at the employees. head office. UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Employee Recognition 4 Company management and staff celebrate religious and cultural festivals as well as national days. Performance PPL follows fair and transparent policies and procedures to recognize and reward high standards of performance and enhance staff motivation. Preventing Forcible 4 Performance Excellence Awards are given on an annual basis to Displacement of employees in recognition of their outstanding achievements in both tangible and intangible categories. The company recognizes Individuals and rewards individual efforts for extraordinary performance, innovation, creativity, cost savings, productivity gains and Performance complexity reduction. The scheme also sets out to establish role models within the organization that other employees can emulate. Due to its strict adherence to prescribed laws, PPL has never 4 PPL considers human capital its premium asset and had a case of forcible acknowledges longevity of service, ranging from 15 to 40 years, displacement of employees. through annual long service awards. 4 The company arranges farewells for retiring staff in appreciation of their services. Employment Policy for Handicapped and Disabled People Pakistan Petroleum Limited Healthy Entertainment 4 PPL follows the Disabled Persons (Employment and for Employees Rehabilitation) Ordinance 1981 and ensures employment of Performance handicapped personnel. PPL attaches great importance to providing sports facilities 4 In line with the Workmen and entertainment for staff. Compensation Act in matters 4 PPL encourages sports among head office and field employees related to disability, alternate job such as Annual Inter-location Cricket Tournaments. Besides, the assignments are given to company has teams for various sports such as cricket and table disabled staff. tennis that participate in contests/ matches with other organizations. 4 PPL has a dedicated Exploration Library that subscribes to leading industry journals to enhance staff’s knowledge and keep them updated with the latest trends and use of technology in the Exploration and Production sector. 3 Employee Safety and Security ACTIONS 4 PPL has established Data Management Centre to facilitate technical staff for easy access to information. 4 Current reading material, including newspapers, magazines and periodicals are provided to keep staff updated on latest trends and Safe Working information. Conditions 4 The company’s monthly newsletter Progress, now in its 58th year of publication regularly reports on company activities and industryrelated news. The Urdu version of Progress was initiated in Performance January 2011 to increase reach and update staff and stakeholders Employee safety and security is who were otherwise not able to get first-hand information due to one of PPL’s top priorities. The language barrier. company has dedicated Security and Quality, Health, Safety and 4 PPL maintains a fully-equipped health and fitness facility to keep its employees mentally and physically fit. Head Office Sports Club Environment departments to remains available for staff recreation during lunch break and after ensure hazard-free working working hours. The club at Sui Gas Field (SGF) also has a jogging conditions and has taken the track, badminton, tennis and squash courts and a swimming pool following initiatives to help for staff use. Besides, the company has proper indoor games/ protect its employees from risky recreation facilities at all field locations. PPL also organizes indoor situations and conditions: 5 games competition among head office and field employees. 4 Safety alerts and travel advisories 4 PPL organizes musical and other cultural programmes for are sent regularly to employees. employees. 4 Employees are provided personal UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress protective equipment (PPE) and clothing according to the nature of their job. 4 Safety and fire drills are regularly conducted as per Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) requirements at head office and all field locations. 4 HSE awareness and training sessions on fire fighting, incident 4 ACTIONS Health investigation and reporting and permit-to-work system are regularly held. Besides, safety talk is regularly shared with staff, Healthy Environment through local portal, highlighting safety measures for common and emerging issues. for Employees 4 Security passes are compulsory for PPL employees at the head office and field locations. Performance 4 ‘Hazard Identification, Risk Assessment and Management’, PPL supports a safe and healthy processes are shared with staff, particularly on fields, for workplace by enhancing staff compliance. Field-based HSE representatives provide training to health and well-being all concerned for conducting risk assessment of routine and project activities at PPL locations. 4 Periodic check-ups at all field locations are carried out for fire 4 Head Count System in the form of T-Card is implemented at PPL extinguishers, fire alarms and fields and drilling sites. As a quick and accurate estimation of sprinklers. personnel’s location at various field sites, the T-Card boards are 4 Assessment of Occupational Pakistan Petroleum Limited in use at Kandhkot, Mazarani, Adhi, Chachar and Hala fields. Besides, the T-Card system is also implemented at the regional Health, Safety and Environment office in Islamabad. (OHSE) performance against 4 To ensure safe operations at plants together with proactively identified Key Performance avoiding incidental environmental releases, a project on ‘Process Indicators, including Loss Time Safety Management’ has been initiated. Injury Frequency (LTIF) for the year, PPE compliance by management, non-management and contract staff in routine and project activities and implementation of annual work Employee Travel Safety plans, is undertaken through Performance regular monitoring and conducting awareness sessions. PPL regularly arranges training programmes on defensive and evasive driving and road sense and safety 4 In line with the company’s efforts for company staff. to ensure safety and hazardousfree environment for both staff and 4 Any unsafe driving practices, travel route issues, vehicle or contractors through employee complaints regarding transport are reported to the implementation of HSE Administration Department for necessary countermeasures. procedures, it has achieved 0.12 4 All company vehicles are regularly inspected for fitness/ LTIF in 2013 which is 60 percent tuning/ service at designated workshops/ garages. less than the preceding year. 4 Wearing seat belts is mandatory for company transport drivers 4 The company has developed an and employees using company vehicles. A policy is in place to Occupational Health Surveillance bind staff to wear seat belts. Programme to ensure healthy 4 All PPL employees are insured while travelling locally, environment for employees by domestically or internationally. keeping a check on work-related 4 Use of mobile phones is prohibited while driving company illness/ diseases. The programme vehicles. is gradually implemented with 4 First aid boxes and fire extinguishers are placed in all necessary capacity building and company vehicles. fulfilling procedural requirements. 6 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Basic Health Facilities Performance PPL extends a comprehensive health plan and medical 5 Corporate Social Responsibility PPL stands committed to policy to employees and their families. The company has qualified doctors for providing medical consultation and community development treatment in the head office and field locations. through provision of 4 The company provides medical assistance to all employees, education, healthcare, including their immediate family, and pensioners as per infrastructure, livelihood medical policy. 4 PPL maintains a city clinic in Karachi, providing services in two generation and shifts, to ensure easy access for employees and their families. post-disaster rehabilitation Besides, PPL has a full-fledged hospital located within the support and has allocated premises of the SGF. At other company fields and locations, Kandhkot, Adhi, Mazarani, Chachar and Hala fields, proper minimum 1.5 percent of its arrangements for emergency medical care are in place. pre-tax profit for CSR 4 PPL follows the Factories Act – 1934, Mines Act – 1923 and activities. Oil and Gas (Safety in Drilling and Production) Regulations – The company spent around 1974, which include employee personal hygiene, environment, Pakistan Petroleum Limited emergency medical assistance and periodic medical Rs. 1,070 million for CSR checkups. initiatives during July 2012 4 Health awareness sessions are regularly conducted by to June 2013 and about company doctors and guest consultants for informing and updating staff on preventive measures and treatment of Rs. 440 million during July common diseases and outbreaks. 2013 to March 2014, which is 4 Ex-gratia payments are made to staff in case of prolonged over and above its minimum sickness. commitment. 4 Clean drinking water is provided to staff at all locations. ACTIONS Education Performance As its key CSR priority, PPL promotes educational facilities for rural communities, especially around the company’s operational areas, to improve their quality of life. 4 The company has been providing quality education to children of company employees and local communities at Sui Model School (SMS) since 1957. SMS was upgraded to girls’ college in 2009. Currently, the college offers education to 50 girls and the school caters to nearly 2900 students both boys and girls. 7 4 The company earlier constructed and operationalized UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress the first-ever Computer Training Centre and Library (CTCL) its two adopted schools in at Sui in 2010 for general public and engaged Kalsoft, an District Kambar Shahdadkot: Information Technology company, to operate the centre. So Government Primary schools in far, more than 200 local students, in three batches, have Ghazi Khan Chandio and completed three-month basic computer course. Since Ghaibi Dero. During 2013-2014, January 2011, CTCL has offered a six-month Certificate in PPL provided nearly Rs. 2 Information Technology (CIT). 360 students, 60 in each million to meet operational batch, have completed CIT until December 2013, bringing expenses and constructionthe total number of computer literates to nearly 550. related activities. Besides, CTCL also houses a reading area where books and 4 PPL has constructed three selected magazines are provided. Over 650 residents have primary schools in Kandhkot, been registered as regular library visitors. near its operational field. These 4 The company provides free-of-cost transport facility to schools are run by The Citizen’s students of Taaleem Foundation Grammar School (TFGS) Foundation (TCF). As per the and Federal Government Public School (FGPS), Sui. Memorandum of Understanding 4 PPL regularly provides scholarships for students residing (MOU) signed between the two around its operational fields, especially in District Dera Bugti, organizations, TCF ensures to enable them to acquire quality education at renowned provision of quality education to institutions. To this end, a scholarship programme was children from local communities initiated in 2005 to support both boys and girls in District while PPL finances operations, Dera Bugti to pursue higher professional education in construction and other expenses Pakistan Petroleum Limited renowned universities/ colleges across the country. Later in besides continuous monitoring 2009, the scholarship programme was expanded to include on progress. The company students living around other producing assets. To date, the created an endowment fund higher professional education scholarship has benefited over Rs. 83 million for more than 90 students in District Dera Bugti, among these establishment and 53 have completed studies, and about 35 students in operationalization of these districts Kashmore, Sanghar, Gujjar Khan and Kambarschools over a period of 10 Shahdadkot. years. The schools became operational during 2011 with an 4 A four-year scholarship programme for secondary and higher encouraging enrolment of nearly secondary students of Balochistan has commenced during 300, including both girls and 20112012. Under this scheme, 30 scholarships are boys students. To date, the total provided annually for a study programme from grade IX to number of students has XII to students already enrolled at renowned educational increased to about 600. The institution across the country. So far, 70 students have company plans to construct two benefitted. Currently, scholarships are being awarded for secondary schools for the 2013-2014, which will bring the total number of beneficiaries primary grades to move swiftly to 100. to the next level. 4 The company is supporting Balochistan Public School (BPS) 4 Based on the success of in Sui since the early 2000. BPS provides quality secondary PPL-TCF schools in Kandhkot, education to local boys from grade VII to XII through a the company is building residential facility, latest teaching and learning resources and PPL-TCF Tando Mohammad qualified teachers. Initially, PPL provided about Rs. 6 million Khan campus on the same lines for renovation of the school building and provision of books over an area of 4000 sq. ft. with and uniforms. Later, Rs.14.108 million was provided for eight class rooms, laboratory, construction of hostel and messing facility. In 2009, PPL’s art room, library and staff Board of Directors approved 12 annual scholarships for six rooms. The school has become years for deserving students from District Dera Bugti to study operational in a makeshift at BPS. For 2013-2014, the fifth tranche of scholarship was arrangement with about 100 provided to BPS bringing the total number of beneficiaries to students from kindergarten to 60. Besides, the company also provided laboratory grade II with four teachers. apparatus, equipment and books worth Rs. 0.750 to BPS The company has earmarked during 2013. Rs. 12 million for construction 4 PPL regularly provides furniture, stationary and other and furnishing the facility and relevant items/ equipment to schools near its operational provided Rs. 4.5 million for 8 areas to support their curricular and co-curricular activities. operational expenses for To this end, the company supports operational expenses of three years. UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 4 The National Outreach Programme (NOP) of the Lahore covered area of 4600 sq. ft. at University of Management Sciences (LUMS) was launched a cost of Rs. 8.55 million. The in 2001 to provide financial assistance towards study for a company also equipped the bachelor’s degree for high-achieving matriculation and facility with Rs. 4.5 million. intermediate students across Pakistan. PPL signed a MOU The initiative enabled the DCE with LUMS to create an endowment fund for the NOP to to secure accreditation from finance two deserving students from PPL’s operational Pakistan Engineering Council. areas, particularly Balochistan, each year for a period of 4 Support was extended to the four years, bringing the total number of students to eight. Department of Petroleum and During 2011-2012, two students from Balochistan were Gas Engineering at inducted at LUMS for a four-year degree programme. The Balochistan University of company bears the admission and tuition fee together with Information Technology, accommodation and messing facility with an annual cost Engineering and Management of Rs. 1.85 million per scholar. Sciences (BUITEMS) for 4 A scholarship scheme for students of Balochistan and furnishing and equipping its Khyber Pukhtunkhwa (KPK) under National Talent Hunt existing lab. PPL provided Rs. Programme of Institute of Business Administration (IBA), 25 million to BUITEMS in two Karachi was initiated last year. The scheme started off tranches during 2012-2013 with offering scholarships to three students each from KPK and 2013-2014 to encourage and Balochistan for the first year and one student from research and development each province during subsequent years until 2019-2020, (R&D) in petroleum Pakistan Petroleum Limited who qualify the entry test and secure admission at IBA. engineering through the use of Only two students qualified for the scheme from KPK latest equipment. during 2012-2013. The total expenditure for a four-year 4 During 2012, PPL established degree programme for each student comes to about Rs. 2 Geophysics Chair at Bahria million, including admission and tuition fees, University (BU) to promote accommodation and messing, stipend and purchase of credible and relevant research course material. and development in the field 4 The company established a computer laboratory at and enable BU to become a Government Girls Degree College, Khuzdar. The lab was knowledge and research hub set-up in a hall earlier constructed by District Education in geophysics for academia Department. PPL provided computers, printers, relevant and industry. As part of its equipment, furniture and fittings at a cost of nearly Rs. 1.3 long-term commitment with million for the facility. BU, the company provided Rs. 4 A multi-purpose open plan building with a seating capacity 5 million during 2013-2014 to of over 400 was constructed for Government Boys High obtain relevant software for School, Mohra Noori, close to PPL’s Adhi Field, at a cost Digital Geophysics Lab and of nearly Rs. 8 million. The facility will enable the host R&D initiatives. school and nearby institutions/ schools to organize various 4 PPL is endeavouring to events, including examinations and celebrations. strengthen industry-academia 4 PPL constructed and established a multipurpose hall linkage to promote R&D in spanning an area of 5000 sq. ft. at Government Girls petroleum engineering and Junior Model High School, Bahawalpur at a cost of Rs. 10 geosciences to not only million to enable school management to organize various facilitate its business but also events. Besides, the company also provided Rs. 1 million bring academic excellence in to furnish the facility. these disciplines to nurture future human resource for the 4 The company committed to support construction of a country’s development. To this purpose-built Babaza Foundation Trust School in Korangi, end, a MoU was signed Karachi with a contribution of Rs. 15 million over the between PPL, NED University period of two years. The first tranche of Rs. 9 million was of Engineering and provided during 2013-2014. PPL’s assistance will enable Technology and Norwegian trustees to match existing school development funds to University of Science and provide quality education to nearly 500 children from Technology in 2014. marginalised communities. 4 To further its efforts in 4 PPL constructed a laboratory block at the Department of 9 promoting education, Chemical Engineering (DCE), University of Karachi with a especially in remote areas, UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress PPL has made contribution/ donations and provided support to the following institutions, including: Healthcare Initiatives Institutions/ Initiatives Spending during April 2013March 2014 Performance (Rs. in millions) The company has provided Annual scholarship/ fees for girls transferred from FGPS 1.256 extensive medical facilities in at TFGS some of the remotest regions of Pakistan through building and Architecture Department, NED University of Engineering 0.240 & Technology, Karachi for First Architectural Conference assisting hospitals, rural health/ mother and childcare centres, Pakistan Association of Petroleum Geoscientists for 1.255 Annual Technical Conference mobile dispensaries and medical camps. Pakistan Association of Petroleum Geoscientists for an 0.400 International Conference 4 PPL runs a fully equipped Sui The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Pakistan for 0.100 Field Hospital (SFH) at SGF Chartered Accountant Students’ Conference since the early 1960s. The hospital provides free-of-cost Tabani School of Accountancy for Gold Medal 2013 0.090 medical facilities to a large Society of Petroleum Engineers (SPE) NED Chapter 0.044 number of local patients, in for a student’s participation in a conference addition to PPL field staff. SFH is SPE-NED Chapter for Switch Energy Awareness 0.050 equipped with latest medical Programme facilities, including two operation Pakistan Petroleum Limited TCF for literacy homage to Balochistan 0.100 theatres, blood bank with regular Shaheen Karachi Grammar School as annual donation 0.025 blood donation drives to meet Department of Geology, University of Peshawar for 0.300 the needs, and laboratory, students’ magazine delivery room with fetal heart National Centre for Excellence in Geology, University 0.100 monitor and infant incubator as of Peshawar for a conference well a cardiac care unit with Mohammad Ali Jinnah University for Excellence Award 0.025 heart monitors and defibrillator. Ceremony The hospital also has a 24-hour Society of Economic Geologists and Mineral 0.400 emergency ward to cater to Technologists, Department of Geology, University of trauma and accident patients. Karachi for International Conference on Energy Resources 4 Fully-equipped mobile medical Academy Bazyafat for publication of a book 0.120 dispensary (MMD) regularly visit ENTECH Pakistan for Engineering Exhibition at 0.500 more than 15 villages/ locations International Engineering Congress around SGF, Kandhkot and Institute for Business Administration for a mega event 0.100 Mazarani fields on a weekly/ bimonthly basis to provide free Professional Education Foundation for Carnival 2014 0.100 healthcare facility to locals Hamdard Institute of Management Sciences for 0.250 residing in the area. Business Transformation Training Approximately 100 to 150 Government Girls Primary School (GGPS) & 3.831 patients are reached on a daily Government Boys Primary School, Mastala for 5.538 basis through each MMD. The construction of school building dispensary refers cases for Construction of boundary walls for GGPS Mastala 3.635 further investigation and and Government Girls High School, Dhong treatment to SFH in Sui and Government Girls Elementary School, Adhi for 1.498 relevant taulka hospitals in construction of an academic block Kandhkot and Mazarani. Government Girls Primary School, Shakal Khan, Eshani, 2.500 4 PPL constructed, furnished and Barkhan for construction of an academic block equipped a 50-bed PPL Public Government Primary School, Rasool Bakhsh, Chachar, 2.271 Welfare Hospital (PPL PWH) in for construction of an academic block Sui Town with an investment of over Rs. 350 million on the land provided by Government of Balochistan (GoB), who is also responsible to run the facility, to 10 cater to a large number of unreached local patients. The hospital has necessary facilities, UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress including gynaecology and obstetrics, emergency and operation technology treats usually early theatres. The out-patient faculty of PPL PWH started functioning stage tumours. Rs. 5 million was in December 2013 and caters to over 300 patients on a daily provided during 2013-2014 to basis. PPL is also in the process of hiring 10 specialists and will JMPC as a first tranche of the bear their service cost. Moreover, the company will also provide donation. medicines worth Rs. 10 million on an annual basis to PPL PWH. 4 In order to further ongoing efforts 4 PPL provides free medicines to Rural Health Centre, Sui on a for treatment and rehabilitation of monthly basis. drug addicts, PPL committed to 4 PPL holds bi-annual free-of-cost surgical eye camps around its support treatment of 50 patients operational areas in Sui, Adhi, Kandhkot, Mazarani, Chachar annually for a period of three and Hala fields for treatment of ophthalmic diseases. Eye years at Model Addiction camps are organized in partnership with Al-Shifa Trust Eye Treatment and Rehabilitation Hospital. Besides, PPL also holds need-based free-of-cost Centre of Anti Narcotic Force (ANF). The first and second medical camps for epidemic diseases such as scabies. tranches of Rs. 2 million each 4 PPL adopted Marie Adelaide Leprosy Centre’s Triple Merger was provided to ANF during Centres at Turbat and Panjgur in Balochistan and Kandhkot in 20132014 and 2013-2014. The Sindh in 2005 for four years. The company further committed company further provided Rs. 3 to support these centres for another four years until 2013-2014 million to ANF for awareness at a cost of nearly Rs. 11 million. The centres extend free-ofraising about adverse effects of cost diagnosis and treatment for leprosy, blindness and drug addiction through theatre tuberculosis to local communities. Pakistan Petroleum Limited and camps in interior Sindh, 4 To strengthen research for prevention and early diagnosis of especially close to PPL’s Thalassemia, PPL is supporting the District Government Badin producing assets. in Sindh to develop Thalassemia Diagnostic, Prevention and 4 PPL provided state-of-the-art Research Centre (TDPRC) at Thalassemia Care Centre. The equipment worth Rs. 10 million company has allocated Rs. 13 million for construction, to Murshid Hospital and equipment and development of laboratory and library for Healthcare Centre to replace the TDPRC. During 2013-2014, nearly 65 percent construction ageing ones for providing quality was completed. services to incoming patients. 4 The company committed to provide treatment for 50 cancer 4 To support viable community patients annually, starting 2013-2014 up to a period of three healthcare projects and services, years, belonging to PPL’s producing assets around PPL has provided donations/ Balochistan and Sindh, at Jinnah Postgraduate Medical Centre sponsorships to various (JPMC) through CyberKnife Robotic Radiosurgery technology. institutions/ initiatives, including A cutting-edge non-invasive and painless process, CyberKnife the following: Institutions/ Initiatives Spending during April 2013March 2014 (Rs. in millions) Poor Patients Aid Society, Civil Hospital for 0.300 annual donations Accident and Emergency Foundation, JPMC for 0.100 annual donation Karawan-e-Hayat, Karachi for annual fundraising event 0.200 Pakistan Foundation for Fighting Blindness for 0.350 fundraising events Pakistan Association of the Blind for White Cane Day 0.100 Sui Southern Gas Company Women Association 0.010 for awareness raising on breast cancer Welfare Society for Patient Care for fundraising event 0.300 The Lahore Hospital Welfare Society for fundraising event 0.450 JPMC for construction of Tuberculosis Ward 5.000 (second/ last tranche) Make a Wish Foundation for terminally-ill children 0.150 11 Basic Health Unit, Jamshoro for an ambulance 0.100 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Enhancing Livelihood Opportunities Infrastructure Performance Development PPL realizes that changing the fate of marginalized communities is better addressed through creating livelihood Performance options on a sustainable basis. The company has invested PPL recognizes that provision of substantially in engaging people, both men and women, in meaningful, durable earning livelihoods through sustained sources of income. infrastructure is a key to development and sustained 4 The company has set-up a Women Welfare Centre (WWC) economic growth, especially in since 2006 in the FG Public School’s premises, Sui to provide the far-flung areas of Pakistan. skill learning opportunities for young local women who could not The company’s business takes it complete their formal education and are interested in enhancing to the remotest and usually the their income potential. So far, over 300 women have benefitted disadvantaged areas of the from the centre, which was initially run by Pakistan Army. Later, country, where it has focused on PPL constructed and furnished a purpose-built facility for WWC developing infrastructure and at a cost of over Rs. 32 million within the TFGS premises and civic amenities not only for its provided equipment and material together with operational cost. own use but also for local The centre also has a day care facility for participant mothers to communities. look after their children while they attend classes. The new facility is being run by Taaleem Foundation, a renowned civil 4 The company has recently Pakistan Petroleum Limited society organization working in Balochistan. constructed a four-km. kacha road connecting to main Sui4 PPL is extending infrastructure and maintenance support for Kashmore road at a cost of Rs. Technical Training Centres (TTCs) in Sui and Daultala since the 16.5 million. The road is being 1990s. The courses offered at these centres include automobile, used by locals residing in New electronics, carpentry, welding and plumbing. Besides, PPL is Shaikh and Haji Adal colonies in supporting 15 top graduating students of TTC-Sui to pursue Sui town as a safe and diploma level studies in recognized polytechnics across the convenient route. country through provision of scholarships on an annual basis. To date, 43 students have benefitted from the scholarship since 4 PPL provides free-of-cost gas 2009. 10 more scholars for 2013-2014 will soon be added to the and water supplies to over 40000 list of beneficiaries. residents of Sui town and villages around SGF. An average 4 In 2011, the company established Women Vocational Training of 4 to 5 MMscfd free gas is Centre (WVTC) in Mastala near its Adhi Field to facilitate provided at an approximate interested women to increase their income potential by learning annual cost of Rs. 390 million. new skills. The centre is run by Behbud Association of Pakistan, Besides, more than two million a non-governmental organization. PPL constructed and gallons of drinking water is furnished the facility and committed to provide resource material pumped daily to Sui town and operational expenses for three years at a cost of Rs. 7 through Khewali Pumping million. The centre focuses on training women in tailoring, Station situated 55 km. away embroidery and cooking. Besides, WVTC also runs a basic from the town at an annual cost adult literacy programme for participants. A play area with a of about Rs. 180 million. trained baby sitter is also available within the centre’s premises to facilitate participating mothers. To date, over 350 women from 4 Due to line losses and pilferages surrounding communities have benefitted through WVTC. on the PPL water supply line, the Sui town residents’ needs were not fully meet. To address the Institutions/ Initiatives Spending during April 2013March 2014 issue, PPL in partnership with GoB, who is the major (Rs. in millions) Human Development Foundation 0.020 stakeholder in the project, has Society for Human Resource Management Forum for 0.100 undertaken a new water supply National Human Resource Development Conference system for the town. With a Pakistan Society for Training and Development for 0.200 contribution of Rs. 135 million, Annual Learning Conference the company is funding the Master Trainers’ Training for TTC-Sui staff 0.600 construction of trunk lines, overhead tanks, storage tanks, 12 pump houses and pumping UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress machinery together with provision of independent 4 During the 2010 floods, PPL not electrification system for operating the pumping station. only provided relief to affectees 4 To provide free-of-cost potable water to Ghaibi Dero (GD) town but also allocated Rs. 50 million and its surrounding villages near Mazarani Gas Field, PPL for rehabilitation of affected runs a water supply scheme using a bowzer facility since communities. To this end, the 2010. As the area is prone to frequent underground water company is implementing the pollution, the potable water is brought from a safe source, rehabilitation programme in some 25 kilometres away from town, and stored in two storage Kandhkot near its producing field tanks built in the centre of GD from where it is collected by in partnership with a local civil nearby communities. Over 3000 people are benefitting from society organization. the facility. The company provides maintenance, supply and Development initiatives are salaries at an annual cost of about Rs. 2.7 million. planned at three UCs in Taluka Kandhkot, District Kashmore, 4 After successful installation of pumping machinery and laying focusing on infrastructure of pipeline, PPL has completed work on the potable water development/ repair of supply scheme near Fateh Khan town in District Dera Ismail educational, healthcare, Khan with an investment of Rs. 3 million. The scheme benefits agricultural and water supply over 7000 town residents. facilities together with training of 4 The company developed a water supply scheme to address locals. So far, RCC pipes, link water scarcity issues faced by locals in District Washuk, roads and hand pumps have Kharan, Balochistan on a voluntary basis. With an investment been installed in target UCs at a of nearly Rs. 15 million, the scheme caters to 13 villages. The Pakistan Petroleum Limited cost of over Rs. 10 million. development work involved drilling of water bores, installation 4 To support earthquake victims of of pumping machinery, construction of pump room and storage Balochistan that hit parts of the tanks together with laying of pipelines. province in 2013, especially 4 As per its commitment to install 50 deep hand pumps in two District Awaran, PPL’s Board of phases to address water shortages in villages of Union Directors approved Rs. 40 million Councils (UCs) Jungshahi and Jamphir in District Thatta, for relief initiatives. Among this, Sindh adjacent to its exploration block, Jungshahi, PPL Rs. 10 million was donated to installed 29 hand pumps between 2013 and 2014. During the ‘Prime Minister’s Balochistan first phase, 21 hand pumps were installed between 2012 and Earthquake Relief Fund 2013’ 2013. PPL spent Rs. 8. 60 million for the initiative. while the remaining amount was used for distributing over 10000 food bags and 540 tents amongst affected local population in District Awaran. Post-disaster Relief Performance In times of national emergencies, PPL has always provided support to victims of disaster-hit areas through substantial donations in cash and kind. Moreover, the company also invests in long-term rehabilitation of affected communities. 4 PPL established and operationalized a Rehabilitation Centre in Bagh in 2006 for the October 8, 2005 earthquake victims, needing prostheses and orthoses treatment. The centre is managed by Chal Foundation and extends physiotherapy and counselling services for physical and psychological management of the disability besides provision of limbs to affectees. Since 2010, PPL has created an endowment fund worth Rs. 24 million to support the centre’s operational cost for three years. 13 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Social Welfare Performance The company has formulated a diverse, need-based social welfare policy. With a minimum pre-tax profit of 1.5 percent, PPL’s CSR initiatives go well beyond obligatory requirements to support the disadvantage communities. To ensure optimum on-ground implementation and impact, PPL works through government, local civil society organizations and local communities. 4 The company won the Pakistan Corporate Philanthropy Award instituted by the Pakistan Centre for Philanthropy for nine consecutive years from 2004 to 2012. 4 To support organizations delivering social welfare, healthcare and other services to the needy, PPL has given generous donations to the following: Institutions/ Initiatives Spending during April 2013March 2014 (Rs. in millions) World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF), Pakistan for Earth Hour (EH) 2014 0.150 WWF Pakistan for tree plantation campaign 0.100 Institute of Cost and Management Accountants of Pakistan for a seminar 0.020 Pakistan Petroleum Limited on Mutual Fund SPE, Pakistan Chapter for Golf Tournament 0.100 Sufystical for musical performance 0.030 Citizen Police Liaison Committee for annual donation 0.200 National Academy of Performing Arts for various shows 0.245 Pakistan Institute of Corporate Governance for PICG Conference 0.250 Rahim Logistics for Inter-firms Table Tennis Championship 0.030 SPE NED Chapter for annual dinner 0.035 Distinguished Secretaries’ Society of Pakistan for 42nd Anniversary Gala 0.015 SGS Pakistan (Private) Limited for a summit on Asset Integrity Management 0.500 Hissar Foundation for a conference on Water Management 0.200 Islamabad Cricket Club of the Blind for a cricket tournament 0.100 Karachi Flames Football Club and Academy for a team tour 0.050 Capital Publications (Private) Limited for a supplement 0.500 for Roundtable Conference on Energy Crises Karachi Boat Club for Chinna Regatta 2013 0.150 Sindh Rural Support Organization for craft festival 0.100 Petroleum Institute of Pakistan for launch of Energy Outlook 0.140 New World Concepts for Women Leaders Conference 0.200 Pakistan Society for Training and Development for Women Business and 0.100 Leadership Conference Institute of Business Management for Spring Festival 2014 0.050 The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Pakistan for CFO Conferences 0.600 Floral Art Society of Pakistan for National Flower Show 0.150 All Pakistan Music Conference for Annual Music Festival 2014 0.150 British Women Association for grand charity bazaar 0.025 Deputy Commissioner, Kashmore, for a flower show 0.300 Rizq Foundation for upgrading a roundabout in Karachi 0.200 Project Management Institute Karachi, Pakistan Chapter for 0.010 International Project Management Day Pakistan Association of the Blind for a cricket tournament 0.100 14 Sindh Welfare Association of the Deaf for a cricket tournament 0.030 Principle 2 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Pakistan Petroleum Limited COMMITMENT PPL is highly committed to conducting its business in accordance with the highest ethical and legal standards. 15 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 4 PPL requires its employees to maintain an environment free ETHICS from prejudice, harassment and disruptive activities. 4 In compliance with Oil & Gas ACTIONS Regulatory Authority’s directives to implement ‘Protection Against Harassment of Women at Adherence to Highest Corporate Values Workplace (PAHWW) Act 2010’, the company took the following Performance measures: PPL’s vision, mission and values are testament to the • Circulated brochures on salient importance the company places on corporate ethics. As features of the Act, including such, the company expects its employees to adhere to the instructions on compliance, to following core values: all employees. 4 Recognizing that leadership, empowerment and accountability • Company’s harassment policy are essential for corporate success was prominently placed on the 4 Pursuing the highest standards of ethical behaviour and PPL website and portal. integrity • A three-member committee, 4 Considering people as the most important resource including a women staff, was Pakistan Petroleum Limited 4 Valuing creativity and innovation constituted to address staff grievances. 4 Committing to excellence in all spheres of performance 4 Awareness sessions for staff 4 Advocating team spirit and work were organized on PAHWW Act 4 Respecting environmental imperatives and striving for its 2010 and PPL’s harassment conservation policy. 4 Any suspected violations or actions that create hostile or offensive work environment Code of Conduct such as sexual harassment or insensitive comments Performance concerning gender, religion, Ethical commitments and values remain the centre piece of race, disability or age are PPL’s Code of Conduct, compliance to which is mandatory promptly reported to for all employees. management that ensures 4 The Code of Conduct for directors and employees were appropriate actions in line with revisited by the Board of Directors in line with the changes in Standard Operating the Code of Corporate Governance of Securities and Procedures. Exchange Commission of Pakistan. The revised Code of 4 Violations of the Code of Conduct, which was disseminated across PPL for compliance, Conduct are viewed seriously further stresses on professionalism from directors and and have often resulted in employees. disciplinary actions and, in some 4 All incoming employees and trainees sign and submit an cases, led to termination of undertaking to ensure clear understanding and acceptance service. and uphold the company’s Code of Conduct. 16 Principle 3 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Pakistan Petroleum Limited COMMITMENT We acknowledge and respect rights to freedom of association and collective bargaining. We are committed to addressing issues, problems and grievances proactively to regulate the company’s operations with dignity of labour, minimization of animosity and fostering a relationship of trust between management and workers. 17 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 Industrial Relations ACTIONS 4 The office bearers of the trade union enjoy freedom to discharge their legal responsibilities without any interference from management. 4 All terms and conditions of employment of workers are Freedom of Association reviewed bi-annually and discussed in a friendly Performance environment with CBA. After bilateral negotiations, a The company believes in the freedom of opinion and handsome increase in wages expression of all stakeholders and seeks to ensure a and other allowances are paid to congenial and equitable working environment as per law: them through settlement. 4 The company complies with the Industrial Relations Act, wherein 4 Policies on salaries and employees are free to join any trade union of their choice. allowances as well as other 4 PPL has a registered trade union, Pakistan Petroleum Workers benefits such as medical, leave Union, of which most workers are members. and travel are duly discussed and finalized with the CBA every two years. 4 The Collective Bargaining Pakistan Petroleum Limited Collective Bargaining agreement is concluded through Performance bilateral negotiations. The company management and Collective Bargaining Agent 4 The company has not witnessed (CBA) work towards creating a cordial working environment any strike, legal or illegal, or for workers at all field locations. lockout during the last five years. 4 The CBA together with stewards and union members, 4 No cases of unfair labour coordinates with management to improve working conditions practices have been filed by the and redress job-related issues. union. 4 Negotiations of the Charter of Demands are always settled 4 The company provides special amicably with CBA representatives. leave to CBA union/employees for appearance in court cases, if 4 Initiatives for change are undertaken by incorporating the it is party to disputes. union’s suggestions to ensure hassle-free implementation. 18 Principle 4 Business should support the UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5 Business should support the effective abolition of child labour. Pakistan Petroleum Limited COMMITMENT PPL supports abolition of child labour and elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour in its areas of operations or by any of its business partners and contractors. 19 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 Employees 4 Either party can terminate employment contracts within the notice period. 4 Exit notice period for workers is 30 days and for management, ACTIONS professional and technical staff is 90 days. Procedure for Preventing 4 Exit interviews are taken to solicit feedback and institute corrective Under-age Employment measures, if necessary. Performance The company strictly forbids child labour and actively prevents hiring under-age workers. Record of Checking 4 All PPL permanent workers are in the adult person (18 years Minimum Wage Rate and above) category, in accordance with the law. 4 To prevent under-age hiring, the ages of all workers are Against Regulated confirmed through national identity cards, birth certificates, Amount educational certificates or Form ‘B’ issued by the National Database and Registration Authority. Pakistan Petroleum Limited Performance The company keeps its wage policy in line with governmental directives to ensure fair corporate governance. Procedure for Preventing Forced Labour 4 All workers in the company (both permanent and contract) are Performance employed above the minimum The company follows strict procedures to prevent forced wage rate as specified by the labour. government and paid competitively in accordance with 4 Employment agreement clearly states terms and conditions of market norms. service, voluntary nature of employment, freedom to leave and any conditions associated with departure or cessation of work. 4 Employment agreements do not violate any human rights or labour laws. 20 Principle 6 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Pakistan Petroleum Limited COMMITMENT PPL is committed to providing equal opportunities for employment as well as growth without any discrimination on the basis of race, sex, religion, language, social origin, birth or other status. 21 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 ACTION Recruitment 2 ACTIONS Employees Equal Employment Opportunity Enabling working conditions for Performance diversified workforce PPL’s employment policy provides equal opportunities for employment and discourages all forms of employee Performance discrimination. As a leading employer and 4 PPL is an equal opportunity employer and provides equal responsible corporate citizen, opportunity to women employees. PPL provides an enabling 4 Women employees are placed at various levels in the environment for professional organization, ranging from non-management to senior growth, with equity, security and management positions. human dignity, irrespective of 4 The company employs men and women employees under gender or religion. Pakistan Petroleum Limited standard screening processes based on merit and job 4 PPL has a diversified workforce suitability. and does not discriminate on the 4 There are equitable career paths and opportunities for women basis of race, colour, gender, employees. religion, disability or family status in recruitment, training or 4 To further emphasize the equitable role of working women and advancement of its employees. address their issues at workplace, the company celebrates the International Women’s Day and International Working 4 Minorities are given special Women’s Day. Dedicated sessions are organized for women holidays in accordance with their employees to increase awareness about their role and religious festivals to ensure an responsibilities and address their issues. open and moderate culture and environment across the company. Career Plan: No Discrimination in Staff Promotions Performance 4 Hiring and promotions are done on merit, professional performance and qualification. 22 Principle 7 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Pakistan Petroleum Limited COMMITMENT PPL is committed to environmental conservation by complying with National Environmental Quality Standards (NEQS). 23 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 ACTIONS Environmental Management compliance with methodologies recommended in relevant studies, legal requirements and company's HSE standards to address local environmental issues together with meeting stakeholders’ expectation, including environment, wildlife and forest authorities. Health, Safety and Environment 4 All PPL-operated fields are registered with Federal EPA Performance 4 PPL’s HSE Policy recognizes its management’s under Self Monitoring and commitment to the health and safety of its employees, Reporting Programme for contractors and visitors and ensuring environmental monthly testing through external conservation in all company operations. The policy was laboratory and reporting of revised in 2012 to provide further emphasis on ‘embedding emission parameters against green practices throughout its business activities to ensure NEQS. sustainability’. The policy also stresses on proactive HSE risk management, complying with local HSE laws and maintaining communication with all stakeholders. The policy is displayed at prominent locations at head, regional and Pakistan Petroleum Limited Environmental Aspect field offices and can be accessed through the company’s website: http://www.ppl.com.pk/content/policies Impact Analysis 4 Environmental management has been given a top priority in running business operations. PPL has a well-defined HSE Performance Management System developed in line with internationally 4 The company has devised recognized ISO 14001― Environmental Management Environmental Aspect Impact System (EMS) and Occupational Health and Safety Analysis (EAIA) procedure for all Assessment Series (OHSAS) 18001. The system provides operational activities at its fields/ continuous assessment and monitoring against standard exploration blocks in line with parameters to ensure the highest level of safety and international EMS and OHSAS minimal damage to surrounding natural environment. standards. EAIA helps in 4 PPL is an active member of Pakistan Petroleum Exploration proactively identifying and and Production Companies Association and participates in its evaluating potential environmental HSE committee meetings. These meetings bring together hazards and taking appropriate representatives of leading oil and gas companies and provide precautionary control measures to a forum to discuss latest industry practices, use of mitigate impacts. technology and benchmarking in HSE management system. Precautionary Environmental Studies Measures Performance Performance 4 Initial Environment Examination (IEE) and Environment 4 Noise monitoring and abatement Impact Assessment (EIA) studies are consistently is ensured for safe working undertaken for all development initiatives, including drilling environment in high noise areas. and seismic operations and projects, in compliance with For this, enclosures, sound Pakistan Environmental Protection Act, 1997. IEE/ EIA aim barriers and PPE are provided, to identify potential environmental impacts at development as appropriate. sites and advise mitigation measures accordingly. These 4 To control accidental leakage, studies are submitted to relevant provincial Environmental adequate control arrangements Protection Agencies (EPA) for approvals. Once approved, such as barriers and spill control IEE/ EIA provide a benchmark for regular internal and kits are available at all external monitoring against suggested mitigation measures. operational areas. Besides, 24 4 Independent Environmental Monitoring is carried out for designated teams are trained to seismic and drilling operations in environmentally sensitive handle incidental spills. areas through reputed specialized consultants to ensure Principle 8 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Pakistan Petroleum Limited COMMITMENT PPL ensures proactive acceptance of its responsibility and accountability for environmental imperatives with a focus on operational excellence. The company recognizes that operational excellence cannot be achieved without embedding HSE considerations in business decision making processes. Therefore, PPL remains committed to raising environmental awareness among staff, suppliers and dealers for encouraging eco-friendly practices. 25 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 Awareness Raising 2 Environmental Responsibility ACTION ACTIONS Enhancing Environmental Awareness Eco-friendly practices Performance Performance 4 Awareness raising sessions and training with a focus on PPL is moving towards ecoenvironment and sustainability are regularly held to apprise friendly practices to minimize staff on emerging issues. In addition, HSE safety talk, alerts damage to natural resources and bulletin boards are effectively utilized to promote through its operations to support conservation. company’s commitment towards 4 ‘Sustainable Energy Management’ was promulgated in 2011, sustainability. The following green as part of corporate HSE procedures, to implement energy practices are adopted by PPL: conservation at all fields. Initially, baseline data for 4 Light-Emitting Diode (LED) consumption pattern at each field was collected. Since then technology is used in several significant improvement has been achieved against each existing projects instead of Pakistan Petroleum Limited year’s bench mark for conserving electricity, gas, fuel and conventional bulbs. The water resources as well as waste generation. technology is promoted for all 4 Water and energy conservation campaigns are regularly new projects and expansion organized at all fields, involving awareness raising sessions activities. LEDs has many and dissemination of relevant resource material among staff. advantages over incandescent Besides, HSE week and international days such as World light sources, including lower Environment Day are regularly celebrated, through special energy consumption, longer sessions and activities, to foster conservation efforts, green lifetime, improved physical practices and safe working culture. robustness, smaller size, and faster switching. 4 PPL offices and fields have been declared ‘No Smoking Zone’ and separate smoking areas are designated for smokers. The 4 Tree cutting is avoided during non-smoking policy is displayed in all departments and seismic activities and site locations. restoration is simultaneously carried out for even minor 4 PPL is a corporate member of the Pakistan Chapter of World removal of flora/ vegetation Business Council for Sustainable Development. The company through green teams. works with partners to encourage local organizations to adopt business practices based on sustainable development 4 Tree plantation campaigns are principles. undertaken at company-operated fields and exploration assets to 4 PPL is a corporate member of leading environmental off-set emissions and improve organizations, including WWF, and participates in relevant ambience. events and campaigns. The company has been sponsoring EH since its inception in Pakistan by WWF in 2010. For the current 4 For all drilling operations, wateryear, all company locations observed EH with unnecessary based mud, which is known for lights switched off during the given time. The company is an compatibility with natural soil, is associate of Karachi Water Partnership and supports water preferred over oil-based mud conservation initiatives led by key civil society organizations, that requires special treatment including Hissar Foundation. for disposal. 4 Biodegradable explosives are used during seismic surveys. 4 Electronic communication together with duplex printing is promoted to reduce paper usage. 26 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Evaluation of HSE Performance Performance 4 The HSE Executive committees at field and head office, comprising field and senior management staff, regularly evaluates activities at various company locations, provides feedback and monitors compliance. 4 Internal audits of departments/ fields are carried out in line with annual HSE audit plans to assess implementation of HSE Management System and performance. In addition, external audits are also carried out to verify compliance to ISO 14001 EMS and OHSAS 18001 certifications. HSE inspections, spot checks and suggestion forms are utilized with participation of all staff in accordance with the guidelines provided in HSE Management System for eliminating hazards. 4 13 fields and facilities, including Kandhkot, Adhi, Mazarani and Chachar fields, Sui Field Gas Compressor Station, Sui Production, Sui Field Engineering, Sui Stores, Sui Hospital together with Drilling Operations, Design and Construction, Pakistan Petroleum Limited HSE and Projects departments have been certified for ISO 14001 EMS and OHSAS 18001. While Sui Purification is also certified for OHSAS18001. During 2013-2014, Exploration Department was recommended for ISO 14001 EMS and OHSAS 18001 certification. 27 Principle 9 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Pakistan Petroleum Limited COMMITMENT PPL believes in the use of emerging environmentfriendly technologies, especially for new projects, to reduce its carbon footprint. 28 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 Environment-friendly Technologies waste and oily sludge recovered from operations. Moreover, composting of food waste is also carried out. 4 Emissions from all equipments at ACTION company facilities are controlled through in-house maintenance Waste management and programmes and end of pipeline emission control solutions. 4 Process water is contained in Performance ponds lined with pit line for evaporation. Alternatively, waste The company seeks to minimize adverse environmental water evaporator and forced impact of its operations through the use of innovative draft evaporation systems are technology. Besides, PPL is focussing on adopting/ also utilized for treating effluent embedding environment-friendly technology in all new water in order to eliminate soil project designs. and ground-water contamination. 4 PPL has a well-defined waste disposal and management 4 A pilot project for waste water procedure, which is effectively implemented across the treatment using an company. This includes waste segregation at source, unconventional method minimization, recycling and reuse, safe handling and disposal ‘Constructed Wetland Pakistan Petroleum Limited of hazardous waste as per standard environment-friendly Technology’ was initiated at procedures. Mazarani Gas Field. The project 4 Effective arrangements such as landfill and incinerators are is closely monitored for possible employed for safe disposal of waste, besides acquiring implementation on a larger services of specialized contractors for disposal of hazardous scale. 29 Principle 10 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Pakistan Petroleum Limited COMMITMENT PPL is committed to eliminating corruption through implementation of ethical codes and policies that govern business operations and relationships with external stakeholders. 30 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 ACTIONS Employees 2 ACTION External Interface Code of Conduct Credible Disclosure of Information to Performance Investors and The company has zero-tolerance for all forms of corruption, including bribery and extortion. Stakeholders 4 All employees are required to sign the Code of Conduct at the time of joining. Performance 4 All employees are forbidden to give or receive any bribes or 4 PPL ensures transparency in other payments intended to influence business decision or business transactions and rejects compromise fair judgment. any business practice, which may deem improper. 4 No employee can give money to obtain business for the company or receive money for giving company business to an 4 All financial reports are properly external agency. audited by external auditors. Pakistan Petroleum Limited 4 All employees are forbidden to accept gifts from suppliers, 4 Quarterly briefing on financial contractors, dealers or competitors, who have or wish to have a statements is given to business relationship with the company. management. 4 Rumour mongering and gossiping is strictly prohibited. 4 Meeting of PPL’s Board of Directors is held on a quarterly basis. 4 All employees are required to declare their assets on a yearly basis. 4 Media/ press briefings and interviews are given on demand. 4 Consultative meetings with CSR partners are held for social development initiatives. Corporate Governance 4 The company ensures timely Performance payment of taxes. 4 Checks such as annual declaration 4 PPL promotes fair business practices and ensures compliance of assets, notifying the company in with regulatory and legal requirements. case of receipt of gifts above a 4 The company uses internationally acceptable accounting certain value, hospitality and standards to maintain transparency. potential conflicts of interest are in4 All funds, assets, receipts and disbursements are properly built into the system to preempt recorded in the books of the company. corruption. 4 The company complies with regulations of the Security and 4 Similar checks and balances are Exchange Commission of Pakistan. built into organizational processes, 4 Signed statement of compliance is included in the company’s governing procurement, materials annual reports. and personnel in accordance with the Manual on Delegation of 4 No incident of corruption has been reported in the company. Authority and Public Procurement 4 All business units are analyzed for risks related to corruption. Regulatory Authority, a public sector 4 Regular checks by Internal Audit Department are carried out for entity to monitor procurement in a all departments to ensure compliance with company procedures transparent manner. and ensure course correction, if required. 31 4th Floor, PIDC House Dr. Ziauddin Ahmed Road P. O. Box 3942, Karachi-75530 UAN: +92-21-111-568-568 Tel. Nos: +92-21-35651480-89 Fax Nos: +92-21-35680005 & 35682125 Email: info@ppl.com.pk Website: www.ppl.com.pk
