Sustainability 2013 Report Contents 1. FLSmidth – an overview of 2013 4 2. CEO statement 8 3. FLSmidth facts 10 4. Focus areas – progress made a. Health, safety and environment 14 b. Compliance 20 c. Respecting people and diversity 24 d. Responsible sourcing 30 e. Environmental impact 34 5. The four divisions a. Customer Services 36 b. Material Handling 42 c. Mineral Processing 48 d. Cement 56 6. An overview 60 About this report The 2013 Sustainability Report describes the FLSmidth Group’s efforts in relation to Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and includes the FLSmidth Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact. The scope of this report is the entire FLSmidth Group. The case stories in this report have been selected because they represent the areas in which we have made significant progress during 2013 regarding the company’s sustainability efforts. The first large part of the report describes progress within the FLSmidth focus areas, which are closely related to our business conduct. The second part of the report consists of case stories about our technological and innovative progress, supporting our vision of delivering technology that create sustainable value for our customers and thereby also for their societies and the environment. The FLSmidth Sustainability Report is aligned with our Annual Report, which is targeted at investors, and is therefore structured according to the company divisions. The consequence of adopting a divisional structure as opposed to a market structure is that some of the case studies in this report are placed within the division where they organisationally belong although they could also have been grouped with a different industry. The reason is that many of our product and research activities relate to more than one industry, which underlines our strategy of being a One Source supplier to both the cement and mineral industries. The reporting period is 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2013. 2 FLSmidth An overview of 2013 2013 was characterised by several important developments for FLSmidth, both in the market and within the organisation, and those directly linked to our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) efforts are the subject of this 2013 Sustainability Report. Perhaps the most prominent among them has been renewed emphasis on cultivating a company-wide culture of safety. To bring this about, management has placed safety firmly at the top of FLSmidth’s agenda in every business and social context. This section introduces key changes within our organisation and highlights some of the most important milestones we have achieved during the year. 4 FLSmidth: Sustainability Report 2013 FLSmidth – An overview of 2013 New leadership The 2013 report at a glance In May 2013, FLSmidth welcomed Thomas Schulz as the new The word “sustainable” takes centre stage in FLSmidth’s statement Group CEO. Under his leadership, safety – already a priority for of its strategic intent “…our customers’ preferred full-service FLSmidth – has been revitalised as a decisive aspect of our business. provider of sustainable minerals and cement technology”. But it Ambitious new targets have been set, and the organisation is doesn’t rest there. FLSmidth’s commitment to sustainability has committed to achieving ever higher levels of excellence in safety long translated into actions both at global and local levels in both across functions and geographies. behaviour, technology and solutions development. In fact, last year’s sustainability report included a large amount of information The appointment of the new CEO has also brought changes to the and case studies that clearly demonstrate how this intent has organisation at Group Executive level. A new position of Group evolved into sustainable initiatives and programmes. Executive Vice President of Human Resources, with Virve Meesak in the role, places Human Resources at the table with Group The 2013 Sustainability Report continues this approach, including Executive Management. The move is designed to further strengthen updates on last year’s case studies where relevant, and presenting FLSmidth’s people management and performance culture. new studies that show the extent of FLSmidth’s commitment. Progress made in relation to FLSmidth’s technologies and solutions While new leadership is always accompanied by new perspectives is included in the business division sections of this report. and fresh focus areas, our company’s longstanding commitment to responsible and sustainable business conduct stands firm. In fact, FLSmidth also continues to report on a consistent set of focus this commitment has never been stronger – or more important to areas determined to be vital to the company. Under each of these ensuring the long-term success of the company. sections, we follow up on progress made toward the targets listed in the 2012 report. The safety and people management facets of our business was not the only areas strengthened at FLSmidth during the past year. A general health check of the group has taken place, with the aim of ensuring that the success built during the first 130 years of existence will continue well into the future (for more information, see Interim Report Q2 2013 on flsmidth.com). That success, we believe, will be a direct consequence of uniting the group, and of embracing and emphasising FLSmidth’s strong corporate culture and heritage. This culture rests upon the company’s three corporate values – competence, responsibility, and co-operation – and they have proven their worth over more than a century and connect directly to today’s safety and social responsibility agendas. Our values make it the clear duty of all FLSmidth employees to take responsibility to cooperate with each other and with our business partners, and to make full use of existing competencies while continually working to acquire new ones. Part of the work to ensure FLSmidth’s future prospects has required organisational adjustments to fit the current market situation and reductions in the workforce during 2013. Letting valued, and competent people go is a tough decision, and entails a certain responsibility for their welfare. The company has done its utmost to ensure that these former employees leave under the best possible conditions, enabling them to move to new phases of their careers and lives. 6 Group – CEO Statement 2013 highlights Welcome to the 2013 Sustainability urge us to take care of each other and to be resistant to unethical business practices. With these values as our guiding principles, CSR Report. This report is FLSmidth’s annual will continue to be on top of our business agenda and thereby ensurupdate on the progress we make in relaing that responsible business practice is integrated into the way we think, behave, and lead. This strong set of values is of utmost importion to our sustainability and Corporate tance to FLSmidth and to our stakeholders because we as a company Social Responsibility initiatives demonare selling our competences with a focus centred on our people. strating our continuous commitment to Developing through changing times the UN Global Compact. 2013 was a year of many changes for FLSmidth and our employees, and a year full of preparations for the future. Part of that prepaBefore anything else, we start with safety. It is our united responration has been to ensure that FLSmidth meets the needs of its sibility, which means that it is the responsibility of each and every stakeholders, and that we run our business with particular focus on one of FLSmidth’s employees to facilitate healthy and safe working sustainable business conduct. conditions for our colleagues and for those who use our products and services. We are committed to excellence in safety by ingraining By “sustainable”, we mean operating in a way that provides our own a health, safety and environment mindset into our culture and, above company, our customers and the world around us with the possibility all, by always keeping safety as our top priority. of quality in life and business and in a way that also secure the needs of future generations. We believe we can do that by focusing our We can still improve our safety competence, confirmed by the numefforts in the areas where we make a real impact, such as delivering ber of accidents and injuries during 2013. It is, therefore, also with technology and services that focus on health, safety and the environthe deepest regret that we must report 2 fatal accidents during 2013. ment, and by acting as a reliable partner and a responsible employer. Such accidents are tragic and unacceptable, and they show that ensuring safe working conditions is an area that demands our outmost The environment as a product driver attention – no matter what we do and where we do it. We have to Climate change and environmental concerns are high on the agenda learn from them, and to ensure that they are not repeated. for FLSmidth and the industries with which we work. Consequently, our focus on research and product development is an essential To build a strong safety culture and to improve on our safety compeelement of ensuring that we continue to deliver technology that tence, we have launched a number of initiatives throughout 2013. helps to minimise the environmental impact from the processes and We launched a new Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) policy that production it forms part of in the cement and minerals industries. At communicates our ambition of excellence in safety. In support of the the same time, this technology must be safe for the people who build new policy, we held a “Safety Week” to make sure that everyone it and for those who use it. working at FLSmidth is aware of safety as our top priority, and to increase employee safety competence throughout the organisation. This report will take you through a number of cases where we show how we live our vision and strategy of being “…our customers’ Ensuring that safety stays on top of mind is a part of the FLSmidth preferred full-service provider of sustainable minerals and cement commitment to CSR and builds on our company culture of being technologies” to build our next 130 years of business. a responsible employer, corporate citizen, and a reliable business partner. FLSmidth is a Danish company with a global outlook and our Thomas Schulz company culture is built on a strong heritage and a set of values that Group CEO, FLSmidth & Co. A/S 8 FLSmidth: Sustainability Report 2013 7.6 hours of safety training per employee (5.7 hours per employee in 2012) LTIFR = 3.9 (4.7 in 2012) First ever women mentoring programme 464 employees trained in Responsible Sourcing e-learning (885 in 2012) First batch of 19 students pass the certificate course at FLSmidth supported Community College in India Thomas Schulz 2 fatalities (1 in 2012) Group CEO 10.5% female managers (9.2% in 2012) 83,000 tonnes CO2 (82,000 tonnes in 2012) 9 FLSmidth facts Who we are What we do FLSmidth is a leading supplier of equipment and services to the To our global customers in the minerals and cement industries, global cement and minerals industries. FLSmidth supplies eveFLSmidth supplies everything from engineering, single machines rything from single machinery to complete cement plants and and complete processing plants, to maintenance, support services mineral processing facilities, including services before, during and and operation of processing facilities. Our core strengths are our after construction. market-leading product range, our ability to implement, manage and maintain projects, and our unmatched operation of minerals Our vision is to be our customers’ preferred full service and cement processing plants, worldwide. ­provider of sustainable minerals and cement technologies. Through years of innovation and experience, FLSmidth has develFLSmidth offers world-class products, facilities and systems, backed oped a vast global pool of specialist engineering resources that is by tailored consultancy and support services. Our wealth of know­ unique within our market. We focus on copper, gold, coal, iron ledge and resources means that we are able to provide one source ore, fertiliser minerals and cement, and are a one source supplier of solutions for even the most challenging requirements, worldwide. products, solutions and services for these industries. FLSmidth invests heavily in developing new solutions to meet the We offer comprehensive, flexible and global services. With ofimportant future energy and emissions challenges of our customers. fices in more than 50 countries and service centres in our primary regions, we are on site to help customers with every stage of their FLSmidth has over the past 130 years developed a business operational processes, from strategic planning to overcoming every­ culture based on three fundamental values: competence, day challenges, as well as facility lifecycle management. responsibility and cooperation. FLSmidth in numbers More than 15,317 Presence in Revenue of 130 years of employees more than EUR 3,610 million FLSmidth history worldwide 50 countries in 2013 10 FLSmidth: Sustainability Report 2013 How we are organised FLSmidth is present in more than 50 countries and has major project FLSmidth is divided into four divisions: Customer Services, and technology centres in Denmark, the USA, Germany and India. Material Handling, Mineral Processing and Cement. The company is headquartered in Valby, Denmark, and employs 15,317 people worldwide. Main office legal entity Business locations FLSmidth Centre office Country office Product office Sales/service office/service Supercenter Customer Material Mineral Cement Manufacturing/foundry/warehouse Services Handling Processing R&D/test centre, O&M office/O&M site, IT services EUR 56 million 10.5% of all invested in research managers and development are women in 2013 11 Our approach in short At FLSmidth, we have built on 130 years The FLSmidth CSR Board The CSR Board was established in 2010 and has quarterly of history in our approach to sustainable ­discussions about our strategy and development opportunities. business conduct, also referred to as The members of the CSR Board are: ­Corporate Social Responsibility. Thomas Schulz, Group CEO Fundamental values Virve Elisabeth Meesak, Group Executive Vice President, > Competence Global Human Resources > Responsibility Olli Haavisto, Senior Vice President Group Supply Chain & Quality > Cooperation Ole Bak, Senior Vice President O&M Vision Pernille Friis Andersen, Head of Corporate Communications We will be our customers’ preferred full service provider of & Investor Relations ­sustainable minerals and cement technologies. Jeppe Kromann Haarsted, Global Compliance Manager Definitions Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR): The term covers our Ann-Katrine Havris Lundgaard, Group CSR Manager selected focus areas, defining our approach to responsible business behaviour and sustainable business development from the perspective of our own company and from the industries we operate within. The FLSmidth CSR Policy Based on FLSmidth’s over 130 years of existence and our corporate Sustainable technology: Our approach to research and product values – competence, responsibility and co-operation – the company development, with the highest attention to environmental challenges has formed a culture around respecting the individuals and helping related to energy consumption, emissions levels and water scarcity. to protect societies and the environment. The history and commitment to being a responsible company provided the framework for the Strategy FLSmidth CSR policy, published in 2008. It is FLSmidth’s CSR strategy to have our CSR initiatives linked with and supportive of our business strategies. We keep on Wherever we operate around the globe, FLSmidth is committed strengthening our CSR efforts with the aim of creating value for our to supporting our employees and partner companies. We always stakeholders e.g. by continuously improving our health, safety and strive to adhere to a set of policies, including the Code of Business environment (HSE) competences, delivering sustainable technology, Conduct, Human Resources Policy incl. Diversity Policy on Gender and by respecting and developing people. and HSE Policy, which have laid the foundation for our CSR policy and practice. 12 FLSmidth: Sustainability Report 2013 At FLSmidth, we aim to align CSR with business operations as part With around 15,000 people employed globally, ensuring good and of our global business strategy. Having signed the UN Global Comsafe working conditions is of utmost importance to FLSmidth and pact in November 2008, FLSmidth committed itself to supporting the to our stakeholders. This is relevant to secure the future success of United Nations’ ten principles regarding human rights, labour, envithe company, and only by acting responsibly, developing people ronment, and anti-corruption as well as reporting on progress made. and offering them equal opportunities, are we able to be an employer of choice and secure the right talent. Materiality The objective of FLSmidth’s CSR activities is to align and support Being in compliance – legally and ethically – is essential to the business strategy and therefore it is essential that a given CSR FLSmidth, because corrupt business practices is damaging to our activity is material to our business. Some areas have been material business and the societies we operate in. With around 8,000 to the company for many years and some are becoming increasingequipment suppliers globally, minimising supply chain related risks ly relevant, either due to changes in our business or due to changes is important both in relation to HSE, human rights, and ethical in the world around us. Dialogue with our stakeholders keeps our business conduct standards, and also in relation to improving the focus on the most relevant areas where we as a company have quality of supply. an impact, directly or indirectly (see below – Stakeholder dialogue illustration). Stakeholder dialogue FLSmidth serves a large variety of stakeholders with many different Work related injuries and fatalities are key challenges to our interests and agendas. Ultimately, engaging with our stakeholders industries and it is a topic of utmost importance to FLSmidth. Safe helps us make sustainable decisions and solutions. At FLSmidth, working conditions is an imperative focus area, however, it also we define our stakeholders based on whether they are affected holds great challenges which is why we are focusing on continuin some way by our activities and operations, be it as customer, ously improve our competences both in relation to healthy and safe employee, investor, business partner or society in general. working conditions for our employees and also for those who use our products and services. FLSmidth pursues a strategy of continuous and open dialogue with its stakeholders in order to enhance transparency and trust while In the same way, issues such as energy consumption, emissions, maintaining a high standard of sustainable approaches to operaand water scarcity – with a specific focus on how to reduce the tions and partnerships. For more information and examples of use of natural resources – are global drivers that influence our stakeholder dialogue, see flsmidth.com. industries and our company. The focus on how to reduce the environmental impact from operations is consequently high on our innovation agenda. The environmental footprint of our own operations has increased as the number of operating entities has grown over the years, and this is currently an area where improvements will be made. Stakeholder dialogue Industry peers Customers Competitors Suppliers Universities Business Employees Trade organisations partners Trade unions Media and press Students FLSmidth Governments Society & Investors / Analysts environment shareholders NGO’s Rating institutes 13 Focus areas Health, safety and environment Excellence in safety The policy’s core principles are as follows: Safety above all – all injuries and unhealthy conditions can Health, safety and environment is our be prevented united responsibility. A healthy and safe Competence and Cooperation – the key is to know how to work safely, and to share this with colleagues working environment is our obligation Environment – know the environmental risk and deliver to each other. When we work with HSE-quality products colleagues and with our customers we As a global engineering company, competence is at the core of everything FLSmidth does. Its central role in the company’s culture should do it the safest way possible, enables FLSmidth to deliver quality products and services, also in because the safest way helps us to proterms of HSE capabilities. Therefore, the company continuously invests in ensuring high safety competences among its employees tect each other. through training. – Thomas Schulz, Group CEO Aiming for zero injuries FLSmidth has reviewed its target for the lost time injury frequency A new HSE Policy rate (LTIFR) i.e. injuries with lost working time, and maintains the In 2013, FLSmidth adopted a new health, safety and environshort-term target of 3.0 for 2015. The decision to continue Cembrit ment (HSE) policy, reflecting the essential role of HSE in ensuring a as a business means that, with the current safety level, we cannot sustainable ­FLSmidth for many years to come. The new policy has expect to be able to improve the target more in the short term. increased focus on our core values of competence, cooperation However, the 2015 target should be seen only as a milestone on the and responsibility, and will lead the way for a continually safer and way to zero injuries, which is the ultimate goal set under our new more environmentally responsible company. HSE policy. With the policy in place, and its broad communication during 2013, the next phase of our HSE programme roll-out can The new policy states that FLSmidth is committed to excellence now begin. From 2014, the HSE programme will include implemenin safety by integrating an HSE mind-set into the company’s tation of our HSE management system worldwide. The roll-out will culture and, above all, by maintaining safety as a top priority. It include special focus on improving internal reporting of all incidents is FLSmidth’s responsibility to facilitate healthy and safe working – a pre-requisite for incorporating higher levels of HSE competence conditions not only for its employees, but also for those who use within the organisation. The ambition is to develop a stronger HSE the company’s products and services. Customers expect and rely on culture, where safety is a natural part of what we do every day. the company to deliver excellence – also when it comes to safety. FLSmidth believes that complying with health, safety and environ”Let’s join forces” – and improve our safety mental standards and seeking best practices in everyday work also competences forms the best basis for a productive environment and the highest In 2013, Group Executive Management decided that FLSmidth possible quality. should host an annual event focused on safety. This event, called 14 FLSmidth: Sustainability Report 2013 15 Focus areas – Health, Safety and Environment Safety Week, should take place at all FLSmidth locations and include addition, housekeeping, use of personal protection equipment and activities involving all employees. It is clear that the engagement of all general safety awareness and HSE management are assessed. employees is key to this new initiative. If all employees become safety agents we can move our safety culture to a new and higher level. Therefore, during 2013, 28 HSE audits were conducted globally by Group HSE staff and our regional HSE managers, resulting in audit The first Safety Week took place in 2013, and was dedicated to reports and action plans. general safety training with focus on our new HSE policy, first aid, and relevant local safety activities. To help motivate our employees, Each audit comprises both the physical and the management part: campaign material was developed that not only described the new facilities, equipment and internal workshop layout; and the HSE HSE policy, but also supported the event with information regardmanagement system. The outcome of the audit is a report containing causes of injuries and how to avoid them. The slogan of the ing all major findings as well as an action plan with descriptions of week was “let’s join forces”. all necessary improvements required in order to comply with legal requirements as well as internal FLSmidth standards. Employees in more than 20 countries participated in the events held during the safety week. Feedback received during the week To ensure continual HSE improvements and to promote HSE on showed that it was a good opportunity to keep extra focus on the local agenda and motivate our production units to always safety and that many employees received knowledge that can be think safety, annual audits at our locations will be continued in used both at work and at home. 2014. With many minor, specialised production facilities, there is a need for sharing best practice and ensuring that employee safety Increased focus on production units becomes a top priority. During 2012 and 2013, FLSmidth grew through acquisitions and, correspondingly, the amount of in-house production units has Fatalities and injuries in 2013 increased significantly. In order to support the relatively higher Sadly, in 2013, FLSmidth was hit by two tragic accidents that cost number of in-house production units at FLSmidth, an internal HSE two of our employees their lives. In one of these unfortunate audit programme has been launched by the Group HSE departincidences, a staff driver died following a traffic accident in Africa ment. The goal of the audit programme is to promote and ensure in connection with an FLSmidth operation. Traffic continues to be better HSE conditions for all in-house production by sharing best a particular hazard in many countries, and FLSmidth will maintain practices and developing HSE competencies within each unit. The focus on this by ensuring recruitment of the right drivers, providing focus of the programme is on helping each unit to identify highcontinuous training in safe driving, and making sure that the right risk and unhealthy work conditions including general accident vehicle is chosen for the transport. risks, machine safety, electrical safety, noise, and emissions. In Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) 2011 2012 2013 Customer Services 1.7 4.3 4.3 Material Handling 3.3 3.4 5.1 Mineral Processing 3.3 8.7 5.2 Cement 3.7 2.3 1.7 Group n.a. 0.3 0.1 Cembrit 28.8 21.8 17.2 FLSmidth 4.2 4.7 3.9 16 FLSmidth: Sustainability Report 2013 The second fatality occurred at one of FLSmidth’s Supercenters, For example, at FLSmidth Australia’s Bassandean, Perth, manufacwhere a worker lost his life after an accident during screen mainturing facility, some of the workshop’s machinery was either aged, tenance. The accident should never have happened, and a general or had been imported without living up to Australian and best need for improved HSE competence and management has been practice standards. identified at the location. FLSmidth is making every effort to ensure that the specific job instruction is revised, that the general HSE manLocal workshop supervisors, assisted by the local HSE officer, took agement system is also revised and implemented, and perhaps most the initiative to make sure that the machines were upgraded to importantly that the safety culture at the location is strengthened. appropriate safety standards. The first machine to receive upgrade attention was an older powered roller. A risk assessment was As part of driving a strong safety culture, it has been decided conducted and the results compared against Australian regulations that participants in the cash incentive plan for 2014, will have a for this kind of equipment. The result formed the foundation for personal safety target supporting the overall group safety target upgrading the machine so that it could fully comply with today’s – and in case of any fatality, the safety bonus will be zero for all requirements. At the same time, general instructions for the use of participants at all levels. the powered roller machine were compiled, with particular focus on safety. Utilising safety synergies Pfister India Initiatives like these lay the foundation for improvements needed Transweigh India (now Pfister India) is a production facility acquired in the long term to ensure that all of FLSmidth’s machines and in October 2011 by FLSmidth. The company employed 300 emequipment comply with the company’s HSE standards in addition to ployees at the time, all of whom, following the acquisition, were current local regulations. to be covered by FLSmidth’s HSE standard. However, a number of challenges were identified after the acquisition, including aging 2013 – A positive trend in injuries equipment, poorly maintained facilities and very little space. These In general, FLSmidth experienced a positive development in number factors were regarded as crucial obstacles to reaching a satisfying of reported injuries in 2013. After a negative development in 2012, HSE standard at the Transweigh site. mainly due to acquisition of companies, the trend for 2013 is again back on the right track with a reduction in total number of injuries. In spite of an ongoing effort to improve working conditions at The most significant improvements have been seen at Cembrit and the former Transweigh facilities, the way forward to ensure better in the Mineral Processing division which were the areas with the health, safety and environment (HSE) conditions appeared when highest numbers in 2012 (see page 16). With respect to the lost the opportunity came to move production facilities to FLSmidth’s time injury frequency rate (LTIFR), the overall result for 2013 was existing Bawal Haryana site outside New Delhi. 3.9 and thus below the 2011 result. It is a positive development towards our aim of zero injuries. However, we will need to enforce Moving the production facilities made it possible to get synergies continuous efforts and strong initiatives to reach that target. from the modern production facilities at Bawal. The workshop benefits from the already established safety organisation, with an Since many locations are rather small and fortunately only experiHSE staff to conduct training and implement health and safety ence few injuries, it can be a challenge to improve the culture of procedures, and to monitor HSE conditions. Together with the learning from injuries. Therefore, it is important that the respective most up-to-date technical installations, far better conditions were locations include “near miss” and hazards reporting in the continucreated to prevent injuries. ous effort of learning and making improvements. Consequently, that type of reporting is one of the initiatives for 2014 both in Upgrading workshop safety terms of number and in severity of the incidents seen in connection An engineering workshop is home to a variety of potentially hazardwith our own manufacturing sites but also in relation to operations ous machines, including lathes, grinders, milling machines, and older at our customer sites. semi-automatic equipment. Typically, this type of machinery has a long working life, and requires periodic upgrading including ongoing incorporation of any new improvements in safety protection. FLSmidth works to develop the safety of such facilities by focusing on knowledge of the risks, and on making sure that this knowledge is transferred to workshop users via appropriate instructions and training. Because, as simple as it may sound, greater competence in safety equals better safety. 17 Focus areas – Health, Safety and Environment Safety data: 2011 REPORT 2012 REPORT 2013 REPORT Safety training hours per employee 2.5 5.7 7.6 Follow up on targets and initiatives: TARGETs AND INITIATIVES 2013 ACTIVITIES 2014 TARGETS HSE certified O&M sites 3 O&M locations were certified in 2013. Certifying 1-2 O&M locations Two in Egypt and one in Chile according to ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 Safety target into managers cash Targets for training and near miss reportA safety target will be included in the cash incentives ing have now been included in managers’ incentive plans for all participants. In case incentives of any fatality in 2014, the safety bonus will be zero for all participants at all levels. Group HSE audits at FLSmidth 28 audits conducted in 12 different Conduct one HSE audit of each production locations countries worldwide site every year. Approximately 30-35 audits in 2014 to be conducted by the Group Safety organisation General safety awareness “Safety Week” was conducted and To keep safety on “top of mind”, the majority of employees were engaged safety week will be made an annual event, in safety events. next time in 2014. All employees will participate in general safety training and other safety events HSE policy, living the policy New policy published in 2013 and comFocus on growing internal safety compemunicated trough the common global tence through learnings from near miss. company event “Safety Week” Using the HSE policy as starting point for creating of more internal HSE awareness HSE management Development of group operating Roll out minimum requirements for HSE policies HSE management in 2014 in terms of operating policies 18 Focus areas Compliance A framework for excellence rules apply in practice. As a result, a pocketbook is being developed as a guide to the Code of Business Conduct, explaining the The Code of Business Conduct enshrines rules in plain language and including questions and answers. the FLSmidth Group’s commitment to Speak up business ethics, integrity, credibility and An increase in the number of corruption concerns and requests for the preservation of our long term repuguidance raised internally during 2013 has emphasised the need to strengthen FLSmidth’s existing speak-up policy, providing a more tation, defining what is expected of the formalised approach and report intake function. FLSmidth Group’s directors, executives, In response, FLSmidth will in 2014 launch a whistleblower hotline officers and employees at all levels in one that will enable employees to report any concerns online or by phone in their local language seven days a week, around the clock, globally applicable framework. and regardless of location. – FLSmidth Code of Conduct Of paramount importance to this initiative is the development of a formalised procedure for corporate investigation of reported cases. Stepping up compliance In our view, one of the most important issues in compliance is to In 2012, FLSmidth established the basics of a compliance regime. assure employees that the cases they report will be taken seriously, A comprehensive Code of Business Conduct was developed and a and that investigations are carried out in a professional manner dedicated Compliance Department was established. Now, FLSmidth which respects the rights of all involved, whether they are the acis ready to raise its compliance efforts to the next level. cused or the reporting party. The new Group Executive Management has increased its involveStrengthening export controls ment in compliance, and its individual members act as change Given the nature of our business, FLSmidth buys and sells goods agents throughout the organisation. This has resulted in a number globally, and we are, therefore, used to complying with complex of concrete initiatives as described below. international trade regulations and restrictions. The company ensures, for example, that its goods and services are not being sold Assessing corruption risk to problematic entities anywhere in the world. FLSmidth also takes In 2013, FLSmidth conducted a global, company-wide corruption responsibility for ensuring that the company complies with governrisk assessment. This assessment included in-depth interviews with mental regulations at national and regional levels. more than 100 key employees from some 35 countries. The results of the risk assessment will guide future compliance initiatives, not In order to ensure compliance, it is important to determine whether only in terms of priorities, but also by helping to ensure that politrade with any of the individuals, companies, organisations or cies properly address the challenges faced by employees every day. business partners, FLSmidth encounters, is restricted. For this Among many other things, the risk assessment’s results illustrated purpose, the company has purchased screening software that the need for strengthening controls, and underlined the imporallows it to screen potential new customers, suppliers and other tance of third-party due diligence. The assessment also demontrading partners via an online, ad-hoc screening system. If matches strated the need to better explain how anti-corruption policies and occur, the problem can be effectively solved by using alerts and es20 FLSmidth: Sustainability Report 2013 21 Focus areas – Compliance calations. The system is updated daily and, when warranted, more checks within the organisation. During the year, the company’s systematic and frequent screening of the customer and vendor global export control processes received a very positive report from master data can be undertaken. the Danish authorities. The next phase of the software will be the incorporation of an Next steps automated screening process in which this system will be inteIn 2014, compliance efforts will concentrate on two topics: monigrated with our upcoming global ERP system, making screening toring and business partners. The implementation of compliance transaction-based. In a third phase, FLSmidth will implement standards at country offices and legal entities within the FLSmidth longer-term strategies for product-specific controls by incorporatGroup will be monitored through a number of compliance reviews. ing export licence determination processes in ERP. Moreover the company will significantly develop and strengthen due diligence procedures for third parties such as agents and In 2013, FLSmidth conducted the first export control review of distributors. an F­ LSmidth entity. In connection with this review, the company implemented methodologies for performing export control spot Follow up on targets and initiatives: TargetS and initiatives 2013 activities 2014 targets Increasing awareness and under­ Ongoing in-person dilemma training Publication of a handbook explaining standing of the rules for employees the Code of Business Conduct in plain language Establishing an internal compliance Finalisation of the training of trainer Strengthening of the internal compliance organisation sessions globally organisation First compliance review of an FLSmidth Compliance review of two to three entity to help strengthen compliance FLSmidth entities procedures locally Encouraging employees to seek Speak up policy launched Establishment of a global whistleblower advice and speak up hotline Training 74% of all current employees (globally) Extensive in-person training of majority of started and/or completed the Code of at-risk employees Business Conduct e-learning course Export control process Technical implementation of our screening Rollout of the software within FLSmidth software Group activities Re-design of the export control processes Implementation within the organisation worldwide Roll-out the export control policy and trainContinue the training of the nominated ing & education of the organisation export control employees and the export control awareness in the organisation 22 FLSmidth: Sustainability Report 2013 Focus areas Respecting people and diversity People at the core FLSmidth, and it acknowledges that only when developing, training and leading its people will the company be able to achieve its busiThe competencies of our employees are ness objectives. of strategic importance to us, and we Global leadership development strive to help our employees to reach their FLSmidth considers leadership to be key to the creation of longfull potential, excellent performance and lasting and sustainable results for all stakeholders. Leadership sets the standards for performance, defines and shapes the culture, and success. To this end, we spend considerdetermines the future of the company. able resources on continuing education To date, apart from a number of group level initiatives, leadership and training of our employees, enabling development has mainly been conducted as a regional or local matter. Going forward, the execution of group strategy, implementation the individual employee to continuously of an ambitious efficiency programme, and the general enhancement increase his or her employability and value of FLSmidth’s performance culture call for a more common, globally aligned approach to leadership and leadership development. to FLSmidth. – FLSmidth HR Policy In the beginning of 2014, FLSmidth will be launching a global leadership development initiative that reaches out to participants at all locations. People are the foundation of our company. Consequently, employee considerations play an important part in FLSmidth’s sustainability foA Leadership Pipeline Transition-based concept has been chosen as cus – either as a separate topic or as an integral part of related topics. the backbone for a common approach to leadership, acknowledging that leadership in different roles adds value in different ways, By incorporating a working environment that supports the welland requires different skills, allocation of time and work values. being of employees while fostering their development, FLSmidth believes it is on the right path as an employer. There are, of course, The leadership development initiative, under the heading of “Leadalso areas that will need to be improved upon, and processes that ership Transition Training”, is structured around three programmes: can be optimised. But progress is constantly being made towards • Leading others ensuring the best working conditions and development opportuni• Leading leaders ties for all employees. • Leading a business unit or group function HR moves up All of the programmes focus on the individual manager’s job In 2013, the HR area at FLSmidth, which encompasses employ­objectives, and the related core skills required to achieve high ees, their working conditions, and employee development and performance in the role together with his or her team. performance was strengthened. The area received a seat in Group Executive Management when Virve Meesak, FLSmidth’s new ExecuA total of 23 training sessions in different locations have been tive VP, Human Resources, joined the company in September 2013. planned with 460 participants in total. The first of these will be This development reflects the important role that people play at launched in the first quarter of 2014. Training will be carried out 24 FLSmidth: Sustainability Report 2013 25 Focus areas – Respecting people and diversity in close cooperation between FLSmidth’s HR function and an exterFLSmidth’s stated objective is to align with the UN Guiding Princinal supplier, with the objective of building an internal capacity for ples on Business and Human Rights and the OECD Guidelines for training in the future. Multinational Enterprises. The leadership development initiative planned for 2014 is just A number of activities have been initiated to reach this objective, the first step in a wider strategy to build a global and systematic starting with a review, conducted in 2012, of the company’s apapproach to leadership in FLSmidth. When fully implemented, the proach to integrating human rights management and due diligence strategy will make it possible to integrate leadership assessment, processes into its working procedures. succession planning and development initiatives. The 2012 review brought an overview of the areas where FLSmidth Reviewing compliance has an impact, and helped to shed light on potential risks of being As a company that is represented in many countries around the implicated in human rights violations. Further, the review laid the world, following up on policies and working procedures requires foundation for work conducted throughout 2013 and which will constant vigilance. To support this vigilance, FLSmidth conducts a continue in 2014-2015. compliance review every second year, reviewing employment conditions, working standards and regulations, including health and To set the foundation for a revitalised effort and to ensure that safety, as well as other CSR-related initiatives and policies. everyone at FLSmidth is aware of our responsibilities as a business, a separate Human Rights Policy has been published. The policy In 2013, the company conducted the latest compliance review. All underlines the company’s commitment to respect human rights in legal entities were asked to complete questionnaires to gather relall its operations. It lays out the responsibilities for operations and evant data about human resources, health and safety, overall CSR projects, ensuring the mitigation of risks related to company activiapproach, and code of business conduct. The questionnaires were ties to avoid becoming complicit in human rights violations. completed in the third quarter of 2013, and an assessment of the responses has subsequently been conducted. Where needed, direct In early 2014, the policy is communicated to all business leaders at follow-up with a business unit has been undertaken to ensure that FLSmidth. To follow up on the policy’s implementation, assessment corrective action plans are initiated and implemented. tools and leadership training will be the focus of 2014. The review’s human resources section focuses on specific areas Gender equality where constant compliance awareness is of key importance to A diverse workforce has always been an essential part of the FLSmidth FLSmidth’s business. Such areas include, but are not limited to, culture – and something the company believes is a requirement for intellectual property rights, confidentiality clauses, taxation, and meeting customers’ needs. Supporting and demonstrating respect working hours. Also reviewed is compliance with corporate policies for a diverse and equally represented workforce is imperative to governing, for example, social media or close personal relationFLSmidth’s leadership approach, and it is an integrated part of its ships. These efforts are aimed at ensuring the integrity of the business system. business by removing conflicts of interest and other inappropriate influences on decision-making. The compliance review also intends With specific focus on gender diversity, a number of initiatives were to make sure that employees’ rights to equal opportunities and fair announced and implemented during 2013. The FLSmidth Board of treatment are adequately implemented. Directors announced a separate target of reaching 25% female members of the Board of Directors by 2016. When setting the target and Human rights by the end of 2013, the amount of women on the Board of Directors was 16.6%. “The FLSmidth Group embraces and respects internationally recognised human rights and seeks For the remaining management team and management levels, the to avoid complicity in human rights violations”. FLSmidth Board of Directors and Group Executive Management already in 2011 announced a company target for part of the diversity The FLSmidth Human Rights Policy agenda on gender: By the end of 2014, at the latest, the aim is to When it comes to human rights due diligence, FLSmidth already achieve a minimum of 10% female managers globally. When setting has several policies and working procedures in place. For example, that target, FLSmidth had 7.2% female managers globally and by the human rights are already dealt with as part of existing programmes end of 2013, there were 10.5% female managers, thus the target of covering health, safety and environment (HSE), responsible sourcminimum 10% female managers by 2014 had been reached. ing, human resources, business ethics (compliance programme). All of these topics are addressed in separate sections in this report. 26 FLSmidth: Sustainability Report 2013 A new target for female managers will be evaluated by the Board of Human resources data Directors and the Group Executive Management in early 2014 and will subsequently be communicated. Age distribution In 2013, a new policy on gender diversity was launched to support 6% the overall objective of increasing the amount of female managers 22% <30 years 15% 30-39 years and enlarging the pipeline of female employees and candidates for 40-49 years managerial positions. 50-59 years 23% >59 years This new policy explains FLSmidth’s commitment to gender diversity 33% at all management levels and includes procedures and initiatives that will lead the company to reaching the target of increasing the amount of female managers and employees in general. Length of service Awareness of target and following up on progress towards the target is one side of the increased focus on gender equality. Part of 19% < 2 years 28% the equation is also to understand the major reasons why, currently, 2-4 years women are not more heavily represented in the management group. 5-10 years >10 years Linked to this is the question of why FLSmidth struggles to attract 29% more female candidates for its managerial positions. 24% One of the initiatives to support the gender equality agenda that were introduced in 2013, is the first-ever FLSmidth Women Mentoring Programme which was launched at the office in Valby, Denmark in Job function June 2013. Technical and engineering Mentoring programmes in general are not a new development to Non-technical 46% FLSmidth and are used in various forms and locations, but it is the 54% first time to work with a group of female mentees separately. Among the main objectives of this programme is to create a space where female employees can express their ambitions, be challenged in their views, and learn from their assigned mentors and from their peers. At the same time, FLSmidth, as a company, gains an opporGeographical distribution tunity to learn more about how female employees view their career 10% opportunities in the company, and what real or perceived obstacles Denmark may stand in the way for achieving greater gender diversity in the 17% USA 41% management group. When the programme was kicked off in DenIndia mark, 20 local female participants were selected and matched with Germany an internal mentor. Australia 23% 5% 4% Other Once the 12-month pilot programme is over, the aim is to transfer the programme to other locations, enabling the organisation to benefit from the knowledge gained, and providing a continuously Gender improving tool to drive the gender equality agenda on a global scale. 14% Men Women 86% 27 Focus areas – Respecting people and diversity Follow up on targets and initiatives: TargetS and initiativeS 2013 activities 2014 targets Employee development initiatives P erformance management concept refined to All employees to receive a Performance and provide clearer link to expectations of employDevelopment Review (PDR). All managers and ees in different roles. 86% of employees employees new to PDR to receive training. slotted into role profiles that define expecEach entity to consider their level of maturity tations in terms of level of accountability, in conducting performance management, responsibility and competency. A process and identify development activities and track tool to enable all employees has been the progress Performance Development Reviews (PDRs). Performance management training and supporting materials have been developed for the launch of PDR 2014 P rocess defined for reporting total amount of Continue to report on total amount of training training days for all employees days and make corrective actions when required T raining for specialists, project managers and  ontinue conducting training to support the C managers defined, designed and/or delivered specialist, project manager, and manager based on audit of needs. For example, there career-paths in more countries were 13 deliveries of Module 1.1 of the Crossfunctional training for specialists, involving 248 specialists in six delivery hubs, where the average quality was rated as 5.32 on a 6-point scale. Another example is that leadership transition training was defined and designed for delivery in regional hubs in 2014 Employee survey There was a follow-up on action plans throughContinue to follow-up on action plans. out the year, corrective actions were taken ­Evaluate whether it is appropriate to conduct as appropriate and support was provided to a new survey in 2014 and if so, what type of ­address corporate focus areas when required survey to use Compliance review Compliance review conducted for all legal Continue working with corrective action plans entities. Responses have been evaluated and corrective action plans have been developed when needed Diversity A new Diversity Policy on Gender was Follow up on the implementation of the new published and communicated to all business gender diversity policy and the requirements entities. The policy is published on the set out in the policy ­external FLSmidth website The FLSmidth Board of Directors announced a target of 25% female members of the Board of Directors by 2016 (in 2013, 16.6% female members) Several pilot projects to increase the number Continue working with the FLSmidth of female managers and employees were Women Mentoring Programme in Denmark initiated in Denmark. Those projects are the and the employer branding project. Use the FLSmidth Women Mentoring Programme and learning points to implement similar projects a project related to our employer branding in a number of other locations profile in Denmark The number of female managers increased Continue following up on the number of from 9.2% in 2012 to 10.5% in 2013 (total female managers and keep reporting on the for all management levels) and thereby, the numbers for both Board of Directors and company target of minimum 10% female management. Evaluate and communicate a managers in 2014, was achieved. new target for female managers. 28 FLSmidth: Sustainability Report 2013 Focus areas Responsible sourcing Improving through dialogue has a standardised supplier assessment and approval process that has been successfully implemented across FLSmidth’s major FLSmidth’s approach to responsible entities, including China, India, Europe and the USA, with over sourcing is to include social, environ30 supplier assessors appointed and trained to support this new global process. mental and ethical aspects into its procedures for evaluating and qualifying A new part of the process is now included for assessment and approval of new suppliers, which is an analysis of the risks involved its suppliers, and into ongoing relations in forming a specific business partnership. It is not only the quality management systems and technical capabilities of the supplier, but between FLSmidth and its suppliers. also their commercial standing, their product realisation methodThis means that FLSmidth is working ologies and their attitude towards sustainability. to ensure that its suppliers appreciate Sustainability within the supply base is critical to the ongoing and respect ­FLSmidth’s commitment to success of the FLSmidth Responsible Sourcing Initiative. Approximately 50% of the elements studied during an on-site assessment sustainability and CSR. of a new supplier are dedicated to sustainability, including human – FLSmidth Code of Supplier Conduct rights, forced labour, freedom of association, child labour, discrimination, corruption, safety and the environmental aspects. Sustainability of new suppliers Evaluating existing suppliers FLSmidth’s “One source” strategy sparked an opportunity to For FLSmidth, incorporating sustainable business principles into the ­review the process of assessing and approving new suppliers supplier assessments is important because the renewed focus on areas around the world. The review paved the way to setting new such as HSE standards among suppliers, is used as a foundation for standards for such processes, and forms part of the FLSmidth fostering a closer relationship with the existing supply base. Responsible Sourcing initiative. In 2011, FLSmidth initiated a project to address sustainability in The process review concluded that new suppliers should be asthe supply chain, a project that has now reached a turning point. sessed and approved in a standardised way across all FLSmidth The evaluation of existing suppliers in relation to human rights, entities. It also concluded that assessing new suppliers purely labour rights, environmental and anti-corruption issues has been a with regard to their quality management system (QMS) and learning experience for all parties involved. technical capabilities yielded partial value; in fact, suppliers need to be assessed in a more holistic manner if they are to As FLSmidth entered into a dialogue with suppliers about sustainbe considered sustainable for business. ability, the company gained valuable new insights. One of the most important of these insights was that a clear majority of suppliers To act upon these two key conclusions from the review, a multiwere already in compliance with FLSmidth’s own principles on cultural, cross-functional team was charged with implementing sustainable business conduct. necessary changes. Due to the efforts of the team, FLSmidth now 30 31 Focus areas – Responsible Sourcing The FLSmidth supply base is truly global, and evaluations have been FLSmidth’s own belief about the effects of HSE on long-term busicarried out at major technology centres in locations from Valby, ness viability, and is further evidence that, for today’s companies, Denmark to Chennai, India. Given this wide geographic distribuquality and sustainability go hand in hand. In future, new suppliers tion, large variance in the evaluations and the answers to the to FLSmidth will also be evaluated on how well they perform in self-assessment questionnaire was expected. But this was not the HSE aspects. case. A clear trend among the answers that FLSmidth received from the suppliers was that suppliers are governed by strict regulations The sustainability dialogue with FLSmidth’s supply base has also in the countries where they are located. Suppliers generally live up revealed that the company’s suppliers are keen to learn more to these regulations, thereby also complying with FLSmidth’s own about sustainable business conduct. For many of them, focusing requirements for responsible business conduct, according to the on sustainable business practices beyond compliance with regulaself-assessment questionnaire. tion is a relatively new area, and therefore also a learning process, but FLSmidth has found a general willingness to progress and to Another important learning was that if a supplier emphasises improve performance. health, safety and environment (HSE), this emphasis is often reflected in the quality of the products supplied. This underlines Follow up on targets and initiatives: TargetS and initiativeS 2013 activities 2014 targets Training of employees in C  lass-room training of relevant employees Train more employees in connection with Responsible Sourcing procedures was conducted in two new locations continuous implementation of the Responsible Sourcing procedures 4  64 employees have taken the Responsible Sourcing e-learning course in 2013 (885 in 2012) Implementation of CSR assessment Implementation of procedures in one Continue conducting CSR assessments of procedure for existing suppliers, additional location existing suppliers including sending out the CSR self  onducting CSR self assessment with C  eview if changes are needed to the R ­assessment survey to new suppliers additional 28 suppliers CSR assessment procedures for existing suppliers E valuated 520 supplier assessments in total (year 2012 and 2013) Introducing new global procedure P rocedure for approval of new suppliers C  ontinue implementation of the new for approval of new suppliers has been rolled out in major entities global procedure including training of targeted groups  SR requirements were included in the C entry requirements for potential new suppliers 3  0 train-the-trainers have been trained in the new FLSmidth standard for supplier assessment 32 Focus areas Environmental impact Increased environmental Consolidation of activities from 2011 report – 2013 report focus with synergies In 2013, FLSmidth adopted the new health, safety and environ100,000 ment (HSE) policy, which replaced the previous Environmental 82,000 83,000 79,000 policy. Before developing this new HSE policy, it was assessed that 80,000 there are many potential synergy effects from combining health 60,000 & safety with environment in a joined policy, especially in relation to implementation and execution of the policy. One example of 39,800 37,400 40,000 34,000 these synergies is the great number of similarities in management systems and reporting for the two areas. 20,000 The introduction of a new HSE policy has brought increased focus 0 2011 2012 2013 on having the appropriate environmental management setup. Scope 1+2 Scope 3 Consequently, in FLSmidth we are currently in the process of developing a global environmental management system (EMS). The expectations are that we will be able to increase our reporting FLSmidth’s carbon footprint in 2013 amounted to 83,000 tonnes scope next year to include more environmental indicators than CO2 CO2 reported from scope 1 and scope 2. The figures from 2013 emissions e.g. waste, water and energy usage. show an increase of 1% compared to 2012, but a decrease in the amount of CO2 per employee. 34,625 tonnes CO2 is derived from Cembrit’s production of fibre cement, which in 2012 amounted to 39,325 tonnes CO2. CO2 footprint compared with business growth: 2011 CDP report 2012 CDP report 2013 CDP report Tonnes of CO2 scope 1+2 79,000 82,000 83,000 CO2 scope 1+2 in relation to total revenue 3.6 3.3 3.1 CO2 scope 1+2 in relation to number of employees 6.0 5.5 5.4 CO2 scope 3 (business travel) 34,000 39,800 37,400 CO2 scope 3 in relation to total revenue 1.5 1.6 1.4 CO2 scope 3 in relation to number of employees 2.6 2.6 2.4 34 FLSmidth: Sustainability Report 2013 The four divisions Customer Services Supporting sustainable operations FLSmidth’s Customer Services division When scarce gas supply affects production lines, output levels decline or, at worst, reduce to zero when fuel supplies cease. continues to improve training, health, Furthermore, when the fuel supply is re-established, the process of and safety. This creates better organisaheating up and ramping up production requires additional energy, negatively impacting energy KPIs (Key Performance Indicators). tions that can run plants with fewer people, greater professionalism, and Despite the gas shortage, however, FLSmidth was able to consume less energy than the targets stipulated in the fuel and lower attrition rates. power contract. Performance like this – even in the face of challenges beyond Operation & Maintenance FLSmidth’s control – is a result of the optimisation process that Wadi El Nile Cement Company has been ongoing since the company assumed O&M responsibility In April 2010, FLSmidth signed an Operation & Maintenance (O&M) at WNCC. agreement with Wadi El Nile Cement Company (WNCC), taking full responsibility for the production and maintenance of the latter’s The optimisation process focuses on three key areas: 6,000 tpd cement plant at Benisuef, Egypt. The scope included • Train and develop the competencies of the plant technical and staffing with all technical and managerial personnel, daily operamanagerial staff. Technical and leadership courses have been tions, and sourcing of spare parts and consumables. planned and implemented via FLSmidth Institute • Enhance the chemical composition and burnability of raw mateFLSmidth’s competencies and best practices have been applied rials by utilising the expertise of quality control departments and throughout the production line from the raw material crusher to FLSmidth R&D cement dispatch. Currently, some 250 technicians and engineers • Fine-tune and improve the performance of plant assets in terms are employed at the plant, which has just ended its second year of throughput and energy consumption. of production. The alliance with Wadi El Nile has been a success in terms of environmental performance, despite significant challenges The optimisation process and the more sustainable O&M solutions, in Egypt. demonstrate both FLSmidth’s commitment, and its ability to deliver on that commitment. When entering into an O&M agreement, contractual performance targets are set with the customer. If annual targets are not met, National Cement Company a penalty is incurred. On the other hand, if targets are exceeded, National Cement Company (NCC), based in Cairo, Egypt, is a typically in the form of higher production or lower energy conleading local manufacturer. As of January, 2014, 18 months of the sumption, a bonus is released. seven-year O&M agreement signed with the company on 25 June 2012, have passed. The 2012-2013 period has been a challenging one for Egypt. Besides political unrest, the country has experienced a general When entering into the contract, FLSmidth expected to meet chalshortage of gas which has impaired many industries, including the lenges on several fronts: Safety, environmental impact, capacity cement industry. build-up, and reaching suitable production levels. At the time, 36 FLSmidth: Sustainability Report 2013 37 The four divisions – Customer Services FLSmidth had approximately three years of experience of performThree years later, the project is still moving forward and ties are ing O&M services at other plants in Egypt, and has applied that strengthening. To date, 33 engineers have graduated from the experience to ensure a proven business system and operational Helwan University partnership programme. Of these: procedures for NCC. • 11 students have been hired by FLSmidth. 4 in production, 3 in electrical, 3 in mechanical and 1 in material management. Since then, special attention has been given to the important aspect • 9 are still in the military of safety so as to reduce incidents involving injury to an acceptable • 10 are working in related industries like Orascom, middle level, and to live up to global FLSmidth standards. Extensive training east engineering & contract, power system project, electricity has been conducted in order to proactively curb the high LTIFR (Lost company etc. Time Injuries Frequency Rate) among plant employees. • 3 are in between jobs. Bringing the plant’s equipment into reliable operating condition On 5 December, 2013, the promotional event of the Cement En– a key requirement for meeting O&M targets, including sustaingineering Postgraduate Diploma sponsored by DANIDA at Helwan ability KPIs – necessitated heightened levels of activity in all plant University was launched. departments. Personnel, mainly from FLSmidth but also from NCC, performed a wide variety of tasks often working to demanding The Cement Engineering Postgraduate diploma degree will start deadlines. Despite this added pressure on the working environthe next academic year February, 2014, with minimum 16 students. ment, FLSmidth managed to maintain the LTIFR level in the initial phase and, in a relatively short time, reduce it for our employees. Vellore Institute and the Indian Society of Technical Education In 2012, a partnership was formed between FLSmidth Institute, An upgrade project including FLSmidth equipment is presently Vellore Institute for Technology (VIT), and the Indian Society of being implemented for one of the NCC production lines. Once Technical Education (ISTE), enabling us to grasp the opportunity to completed, the second production line will be similarly upgraded, ensure sufficient skilled labour for FLSmidth’s projects in India while raising production capacity from 2 x 3,800 tpd of clinker to 2 x simultaneously empowering the local workforce. 5,200 tpd. In parallel, FLSmidth O&M is implementing a refurbishment project addressing equipment which is outside the scope In July, 2013, all 19 individuals from the first batch of community of the upgrade project. With the two projects completed, plant college students successfully passed the Certificate Course in indusreliability will increase and both production and environmental trial technology. Of these 19 students, 10 had expressed interest in performance will significantly improve. joining FLSmidth’s Operation and Maintenance site, and seven have been employed by Coastal Gujarat Power Limited (CGPL), Mundra Developing stakeholder competencies in Gujarat. More are expected to join the site early in 2014. Other With more than 130 years of cement industry experience, and students, having developed new skills and confidence through spurred on by FLSmidth’s corporate value of acknowledging and this partnership, have enrolled in graduate-level courses and are adopting responsibility in relation to its stakeholders, FLSmidth recogexpressing interest in pursuing further education. nises that it has an opportunity to positively develop talents amongst its stakeholders. All students were meticulously evaluated, passing both a written and an oral examination, including two papers on mechanical and The Helwan partnership electrical disciplines followed by an oral exam on the content of In 2007, when the first O&M contract was signed, demand for the industrial internship. engineers in the industry was growing steadily. Few new engineers, however, were graduating, leaving an unfilled employment opIn addition to the chance to develop their technical skills, the portunity for the local workforce. To close this skills gap, FLSmidth students also received a basic course in English communication. initiated a public-private partnership with the Helwan University in Before enrolling in the course, they were only able to speak their Egypt. The aim of the partnership was to improve the quality and native tongue. After graduation, the students were able to conquantity of graduates interested in working in the cement industry. verse in English – a great accomplishment and another valuable When the project kicked off, the cement industry was growing skill for their future. steadily and the future for qualified engineers looked promising. It was therefore clear that educating qualified engineers for the ceThe second batch of community college students, numbering 10 ment industry would benefit the industry in general, FLSmidth and in all, began their studies in August, 2013, and are currently in the the community. process of developing their skills. With the benefit of the first year’s 38 FLSmidth: Sustainability Report 2013 experiences, FLSmidth Institute and its two educational institution new flash calciner system for producing SCMs based on calcined partners have been able to fine-tune and improve the programme. clay, which has unique benefits compared with other technology Student feedback contributed strongly to this improvement prooptions. With advantages such as improved design, minimal movcess. Currently, FLSmidth Institute is striving to extend the commuing parts, and improved process control, the calciner system lowers nity college programme to address a range of requirements from energy consumption and plant maintenance costs compared with the community, the industry, and our customers. traditional kiln technology, simultaneously ensuring a more uniform product with higher reactivity and thus allowing a larger potential Supplementary Cementitious Materials substitution degree in the final cement. Low-cost, minimal greenhouse gas and high productivity Global demand for cement is expected to double by 2050, presentNew ideas – put into practice ing a clear environmental challenge. In response, FLSmidth and Transforming ideas into practice – and cooperating with a broad customers have a responsibility to develop alternative cement types range of stakeholders – reflects the company’s fundamental values. that can be produced with lower CO2 emissions and lower clinker These principles are perhaps nowhere more fittingly applied than in content. Only with such alternatives will it be possible to meet the the development of SCMs. market’s needs without increasing greenhouse gas emissions. While the cement industry is used to mixing traditional chemisGiven FLSmidth’s vision of being its customers’ preferred supplier try with high-tech equipment, doing things in new ways – and of sustainable minerals and cement technologies, rising to this particularly with new ingredients – can raise concerns such as: Will challenge is a natural cornerstone of our endeavours. the proportions of the cement still be the same? Is the colour the same? What about product quality in early strengths of blended One of the alternatives for the cement industry is known as Supcements? What investments are required for first-movers? plementary Cementitious Materials (SCMs). This term encompasses materials with cement-like properties that can be used to replace Putting such concerns at ease is a necessary step along the way clinker in cement. Some of the most common SCMs are natural to transforming the idea of SCMs into widespread commercial and synthetic pozzolan, fly ash and slag. SCMs can improve the practice. Despite continuing strong interest in several cement marenvironmental impact of cement production without compromising kets the first sale of an industrial scale calcination plant for SCM product quality, while lowering costs into the bargain. manufacturing is yet to come. Clay is a widespread resource in the world, and it can be used in To this end FLSmidth is heading a research and development prothe production of synthetic pozzolan. FLSmidth has developed a ject under the Danish National Advanced Technology Foundation 39 The four divisions – Customer Services along with two universities and a cement producer as partners. In advantages to this approach, one of which is the potential to parallel with this project, FLSmidth has built a number of facilities create safer working conditions at a purpose-built facility that are to produce calcined clay. The smallest of these is a bench-top calinherently more controllable than those of a working industrial ciner. The largest, located at the company’s R&D centre, is a threesite. At present, the Supercenter concept is still relatively new, and storey-high pilot plant with all the necessary production capacity we are carefully monitoring safety conditions and key indicators for large-scale concrete testing. to maximise practices around, for example, the safe transport and handling of customer equipment arriving for repair. Concerns regarding the early strength of blended cements are being addressed by another research project. Fortunately for our To date, Supercenters have opened in the following locations: customers, this is already beginning to show promising results. Santiago and Antofagasta, Chile; Perth, Australia; Arequipa, Peru; Research shows that the performance of blended cements with Delmas, South Africa; and Tucson, United States. An additional calcined clay is comparable to, and even better than that of other centre is planned for the South Gobi Desert area of Mongolia in blended cements using, for example, fly ash. the near future. Contrary to traditional SCM systems, FLSmidth’s flash calciner system During the inauguration event, held at FLSmidth’s Delmas, South is able to produce a grey and black product – something that has Africa Supercenter facility, Romy Martin, Director of FLSmidth’s been demonstrated to several customers with great success. service centre programme remarked: “Applying and living safe methods and practices is of paramount importance in all that we To address the most pressing concerns with SCM technologies, do. While preparing for this event today and others like it, my first FLSmidth has developed a mobile SCM plant, with a capacity of question is always: ‘What more can we do to ensure that everyone 5 tpd, that can easily be fitted into three 40-foot containers and is safe?’ This theme will run through everything you will experience shipped to customer sites. The mobile plant is fully integrated and today and onward into our continuing operations.” self-sustainable. With its simple setup and operation, it is easy to integrate into the customer’s production. An obvious advantage of The company is especially proud that, during the 270,000 manthe system is that it allows customers to gain hands-on experience hours it took to construct the Delmas facility, no lost-time injuries of the new technology, to start using locally available raw materials occurred and the facility’s impressive safety record has continued and to prove the impact on their final product to their customers. since opening its doors for operations. FLSmidth will continue to work towards bringing this exemplary level of safety to all existing Controllable environments for greater safety and planned Supercenters. FLSmidth Supercenters and Service Centres For FLSmidth, safety is about preventing injuries, compliance with Unfortunately in October, FLSmidth experienced a fatal accident applicable laws and regulations, and continuous improvement at their Santiago, Chile service centre facility. Special care and related to safe processes and policies. All of these elements concounselling has been given to the young victim’s family and other tribute to conducting business in a manner which endeavours to colleagues who were present in this facility, on that day. A full maintain a safe working environment for our employees, as well as investigation is ongoing, and FLSmidth intends to implement all for others visiting or working at the company’s service facilities. specific corrective actions associated with this incident, at all of its service centre locations. Increasingly, FLSmidth’s customers are finding it imperative that their operations, and those of their suppliers, are conducted in a manner that can be considered safe. By doing so, they maintain a “social licence to operate”. As a supplier to the cement industry for the past 130 years, FLSmidth has built a long tradition of focusing on safety in all of its operations. The recent opening of several large service centres around globe strives to uphold that tradition. The new Supercenters are designed to shift specific customer service tasks that otherwise would have been performed at the customer’s site to a geographically close location. There are many 40 The four divisions Material Handling Achieving a sustainable advantage Key business challenges for today’s • New, optimised and modular filter solutions, DuoClean™ DC2 and DC8 filters for higher efficiency, reduced transportation mining and mineral processing industry costs and reduced capital investment include reduced ore quality, deeper ore • The market’s fastest high-voltage controllers for optimum utilisation of electrical power bodies and tighter environmental con• The unique Coromax® pulse system for capturing fine particustraints on existing and greenfield mining late matter harmful to people from coal-fired power plants and sinter machines in the iron and steel industry operations. These trends increase the • Advanced gas suspension absorber, the FLS®-GSA for efficient removal of SO2, HCl, mercury, dioxins and furans need for material handling,and mineral • The CataMax™ catalytic solution, which extensively reduces processing equipment, since more mateemission of dust and organic hazardous pollutants • Long bag technology that sets a new industry standard and rial must be moved and processed per ton reduces equipment footprint and weight. of finished product – all with lower emisCoromax® pulse systems reduce emissions in China sions and reduced water consumption. FLSmidth has a clearly stated duty, driven by its values, to act responsibly toward the company’s stakeholders. As the preferred Reducing plant emissions supplier of sustainable technologies, therefore, the company has a FLSmidth’s air pollution control experts are committed to helping responsibility toward its customers to help them comply with strict customers reduce emissions by developing and refining innovative environmental regulations. clean air technologies. These technologies enable customer plants to operate at maximum capacity while complying with regulations, Most recently, but not for the first time, FLSmidth has had the protecting employees and protecting the surrounding environment. opportunity to live up to that responsibility in China, where the country’s coal-fired power plants are now required to comply with The ability to develop such technologies is primarily due to the fact tougher new regulations governing emissions. that FLSmidth can draw upon the largest R&D facility in the industry, as well as the experience and insights gained from an extensive The customer is the Shenzhen Energy Company, one of the main installed base of over 8,000 installations worldwide. These assets power generation companies based in Shenzhen, Guangdong. enable the company to quickly move from idea over prototype to FLSmidth will install a total of 36 Coromax® pulse systems at the comfinal product, and they streamline development of a commercial pany’s Shajiao and Mawan power plants, which will enable it to meet solution that can minimise customers’ impact on the environment. the new emissions requirements. The new high voltage supplies will replace the existing DC power supplies on electrostatic precipitators FLSmidth’s unique competence in air pollution control is reflected (ESP) to improve the efficiency of removing even fine dust particles. in its products: • The use of Computerised Fluid Dynamics (CFD) to design filters With the Coromax® pulse system, both harmful fine particulate for the best possible performance emissions and power consumption will be reduced substantially, • Advanced gas and dust distribution systems resulting in a even in high-resistivity dust applications. Now in their fourth significant decrease in the amount of compressed air required generation, these compact systems have been shown to reduce to clean filter bags – reducing power consumption and ESP dust outlet emissions by up to 50%, cutting power consumpextending filter bag lifetime 42 FLSmidth: Sustainability Report 2013 43 The four divisions – Material Handling tion by up to 30% in high-resistivity dust applications. In fact, Right-sizing mechanical components Coromax® technology is one of the few technologies available that Over the years, FLSmidth has built strong customer relationships, can effectively fulfil the demands of the new Chinese legislation. a result of the company’s focus on getting closer to the customers. These now enable us to improve our products’ environmental CataMax™ catalytic solution – a new and proven performance together with our customers, while making the technology for cement plants products even safer to handle. Sizing of mechanical components is In early 2012, FLSmidth launched a state-of-the-art technology for an important project now underway at FLSmidth’s Wadgassen facilair pollution control. The new solution introduces one-step polluity that contributes to these aims, and which demonstrates clear tion control for the cement industry, enabling customers to reduce benefits from our customer relationships. their Total Hydrocarbons (THC) emissions, and especially Organic Hazardous Air Pollutants (OHAPs), below the required limits of the When it comes to improving the efficiency of machinery, both in American National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant terms of production performance and sustainability indicators, regulation. This development is of particular interest in the USA, determining the right sizing for each component can yield useful where NESHAP (National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Polgains. Arriving at the appropriate scale and improving efficiency can lutants) regulations outline stringent requirements for the emission significantly improve safety, reduce costs and ease management for of hydrocarbon components from cement plants. our customers. Equipment such as stackers, reclaimers, and belt conveyers are sized based on long term experience and assumptions. Over the past year, FLSmidth has worked intensively to test a solution that can live up to these requirements. Today, the CataMax™ Any sizing project benefits from close customer cooperation, catalytic solution is commercially available, and triple pilot tests at enabling FLSmidth to monitor the performance of machinery in two different cement plants have proven its efficacy. different real-world applications around the globe, and providing valuable input for improvements. Typically, such projects also Rather than replacing a plant’s main filter, the CataMax™ catalytic require a large degree of cooperation and sharing of knowhow solution is an add-on installed by FLSmidth during, for example, a within FLSmidth, too. regular maintenance shut-down. The Material Handling division has been charged with developing SMARTpaq™ solution reduces emission in the pulp and a measurement-validated sizing approach for the company’s equippaper industry ment under difficult operating conditions such as extreme cold. Today, electrostatic precipitators (ESPs) are the most commonly used type of air pollution control equipment for the pulp and paper At this stage, the basic measurements of power consumption, industry. At the same time, however, many recovery boiler ESP torque movements and forces have been recorded and are presentplants acknowledge the need and opportunity to achieve further ly being evaluated. Initial insights into machinery behaviour have emission reductions. been gained, and values for friction factors have been determined. These results will enable FLSmidth’s designers to size the company’s One such plant, located in Indonesia, recently took steps to address machines to be more competitive, and to further develop its prodthis opportunity, awarding FLSmidth an order for a SMARTpaq™ ucts to handle higher capacities with improved safety design and ESP upgrade. lower risk for customers. A SMARTpaq™ upgrade consists of three elements: anti-sneakage More efficient waste material removal plates, specially designed electrodes and 3-phase high voltage supplies. The removal of waste material presents huge costs for most l­arge-scale The solution advances emission performance for our customers by: open pit mines. And, as the mine grows, so does the cost of hauling • Eliminating sneakage of dust past the collection system, ensuroverburden from deep inside the pit to waste dumps above. ing 100% utilisation of the installed collecting area • Providing optimised capture of dust particles, significantly imFLSmidth® dual truck mobile sizer proving electrode performance FLSmidth’s Dual Truck Mobile Sizer (DTMS) is the world’s first fully • Optimising power consumption to improve dust collection (a mobile truck dump station – and it assists open pit mines to reduce smooth high voltage curve shape allows a significant increase in both costs and emissions. the average voltage applied to collect the fine particles). In a typical open pit mine, an entire fleet of large haul trucks is The SMARTpaq™ solution is a flexible solution that allows pulp needed to transport waste material from each excavation bench. and paper plants to upgrade ESP recovery boilers with a relatively With every new level dug, the mine deepens and trucks need to short time for installation, bringing improved sustainability within travel further to reach waste dumps at the surface. Vehicle emiseasier reach. sions climb, as do vehicle maintenance, fuel consumption, tire usage, spare parts requirements and so on. 44 The four divisions – Material Handling The DTMS is unique in that it interfaces directly with rear dump companies. The company’s track record of installing efficient pipe trucks. It works in a similar way to a large, mobile, shovel-fed sizing conveyors around the world helped to secure this project. station, but with the added benefit of truck haulage to ensure flexibility and efficiency. Additionally, using a shiftable face conveyor Engineering excellence and a mobile overland hopper, a mine can achieve a highly mobile After the order was placed, there were challenges and critiques system, and a considerable reduction in its fleet of haulage trucks. from many Indian industries that opposed the introduction of pipe conveyors, since trough conveyors had been the preferred method Obviously, keeping the number of trucks to a minimum greatly refor many years. duces exhaust emissions. Furthermore, the system ensures that the majority of hauls are carried out on a flat grade within the pit. This FLSmidth overcame all challenges, illustrating its engineering brings emissions levels down even further as trucks use far more capabilities at the design, testing and construction stages. Every fuel when hauling on an incline. Depending on configurations, the component of the system was critically examined based on applicaelectric drives of the entire system can produce anywhere from a tion and was sourced from globally renowned suppliers to ensure a 40 to 80% reduction in carbon emissions compared with the typireliable operating system. Close cooperation with FLSmidth’s global cal diesel engines of a haul truck fleet. engineering and technology teams made this possible. A complete DTMS system brings major operational savings and reFLSmidth used a number of engineering tools, such as computaductions in emissions to open pit mines. Moreover with a reduced tional simulation techniques for belt design and the testing of the fleet of trucks servicing multiple benches, mines can achieve a belt at FLSmidth’s Wadgassen location for collapsibility and stiffness. more flexible, mobile and productive operation. Drive controls were custom-built and variable frequency driven for a smooth start-up sequence to ensure the success of this system. The NTECL Project: Transporting more material over difficult and environmentally The entire conveyor system was checked for dynamic analysis and sensitive terrain audited for all critical components. This included a discrete element India implemented a five-year plan to remedy its issue with power defimodel for designing chutes at transfer points to achieve the life cits – which are over 20% at times of peak demand – and in an effort expectancy of the belt and smooth material flow. The system was to meet the power requirements, the country’s National Thermal Power also provided with adequate safety interlocks to prevent surge loads Corporation (NTCP) adopted a multi-pronged growth strategy to set up from the preceding system for smooth operation and an accidentjoint ventures with state electricity board power stations. free working zone. NTECL is such a project and coal for the power station is received Project execution from the Ennore port and conveyed to the plant, crossing creeks, During execution, FLSmidth adopted several unique approaches, fishing habitats, sea backwaters and a main railway line that connot only in design but also in construction, fabrication and belt nects two major cities. The specifications drawn up for the coal installation. These included pulling the belt and installing the entire conveying system had options to traverse the 4.5km stretch by length in one go by pre-splicing for full length, which saved more trough, totally enclosed conveyor or by pipe. than three months on the schedule. Construction activities had faced many challenges from the start, including casting foundaThe conveying system was conceived in order to unload coal from tions in seawater-logged areas, crossing local fishing hamlets and capsize and panamax vessels and transport it to the power station protecting existing vegetation in line with an unloading of 4,000 tph to the crusher house located inside the plant. This warranted an efficient system with a reduced The entire project was handled locally by the FLSmidth India team, environmental footprint. and the project was trial commissioned in 2013. FLSmidth initiative The NTECL Pipe Conveyor Project is a classic example of FLSmidth’s Overcoming challenges that were unthinkable even 10 years ago engineering excellence and its innovative approach and quality execubecame a reality in 2006 when the pipe conveyor concept was tion. This forerunner approach has created a global benchmark resultintroduced in India. Through FLSmidth’s collaboration with the cliing in demand for environmentally clean material handling systems. ent and high level of expertise, meeting the Indian power industry’s need for efficient mega power projects with greener development By opting to use a pipe conveyor, NTECL gained optimal power paths and reduced CO2 emissions was easily achievable. consumption per ton of coal conveyed, upheld land requirements and created a dust-free environment. This system was commisFLSmidth was the frontrunner in this project, standing out against sioned in 2013, just as global ports began looking for the faster competition from conventional conveyor and pipe conveyor turnaround of ships. 46 The four divisions Mineral Processing Delivering tomorrow’s solutions The challenges of FLSmidth’s customers to efficiently interact. Stone is also delivered to the cassettes in a more uniform distribution and in counter-current to the hot kiln are our opportunities, naturally shaping gases, increasing the efficiency of preheating and pre-calcining. the solutions we offer. Miners face a “The MCP technology is a novel approach in an industry that has range of challenges, including safety, been somewhat stagnant for many years,” says Michael Prokesch, increasing raw material and energy costs, FLSmidth Global Manager of Process Design. “The technology is primarily geometry-based and derives from prototype R&D testing decreasing head grades, complex minat FLSmidth facilities. Test results counter conventional design assumptions, thus enabling radical design changes which have eralogy, water scarcity, difficult environresulted in significant operational improvements.” mental permitting, increasing project In short, the MCP Preheater features superior heat transfer and capex requirements, and the retirement can operate for longer periods of time without requiring mainteof industry experience. We have sustainnance. The MCP Preheater saves 55 kcal/kg of lime produced over FLSmidth’s previous preheater model, which is 6%. This equates able solutions to meet these challenges. to approximately 7,000 tons/year less CO2 emitted for each plant where the equipment is installed. It also saves 4 gigawatt-hours (GWh) of electricity annually per plant, which equals 5%. Reducing CO2 emissions and energy ­consumption “These features make the MCP a vast improvement over previous FLSmidth Multiple Cassette Preheater ® and competitive models. In addition, the configuration of the MCP Lime is a mineral utilised in many of today’s environmental, chemicassettes enables us to easily configure preheaters to easily retrofit cal and industrial applications including steel manufacturing, condifferent kiln sizes and configurations,” says Prokesch. struction, and soil stabilisation. It is an additive to asphalt, and a key ingredient for plaster and mortar. Lime is derived from naturally “This technology provides a competitive edge for FLSmidth in the occurring limestone through burning and calcination processes, for pebble lime industry. It also gives us a state-of-the-art device to which FLSmidth provides specialised pyrometallurgical equipment. consider for new applications that will allow us to develop a strong platform in new areas of pyrometallurgical equipment supply. We In response to industry pressure for improved performance, better are now busy adding new features that will offer further operatechniques and the reduction of subsequent CO2 emissions during tional benefits to our customers.” the pyrometallurgical stages of lime processing, FLSmidth recently developed the Multiple Cassette Preheater (MCP™). 600m3 SuperCell™ Flotation Cell In the mining industry, after material has been through crushers and The MCP™ Preheater offers improved heat transfer with reduced ball mills, it is pumped into flotation cells whose function is to recover power consumption, reduced stone degradation and lower buildthe required product, such as copper or platinum. Installing one largup potential. Thanks to the unique geometry of the MCP Preheater, er cell instead of several smaller ones decreases the total cell footprint hot gases leaving the burning kiln are drawn equally around the required to accomplish the same throughput and efficiencies. full circumference of each cassette, or chimney, for solids and gas 48 FLSmidth: Sustainability Report 2013 49 The four divisions – Mineral Processing What was unthinkable just 10 years ago, has become reality Improved safety in maintenance work today. Concentrators are now being designed for a capacity of FLSmidth® “Top Service” TS Gyratory Crusher 200,000tpd, and have become the new trend in flotation plant One of the first steps in mineral processing is to crush or reduce design. Instead of a large number of cells per row, the average rock from the mine into smaller rocks that can be handled more concentrator has between five and seven cells. easily throughout the rest of the production process. As the modern world’s appetite increases for products created from minerals Economies of scale are forcing flotation cells to keep getting bigger and mining operations, crushers have had to become larger and – and more efficient. Until recently, the FLSmidth 300 series Super® more sophisticated in order to handle the massive volumes of rock Cell™ flotation machine, developed in 2009, was the largest in the pouring through them. world with a capacity of 300-350m³. In 2011, FLSmidth decided to take this product line to the next level and started the development Crushers work continuously to feed the plant. When one fails or process of a new generation of flotation cells. needs repair, or just regular maintenance, it usually requires not just heavy equipment, but also the placing of workers in precarious FLSmidth has now introduced the revolutionary 600 Series Supersituations beneath the crusher to effect its return to normal operaCell™ flotation machine, the new record-holder in competitive size. tion. Time is money, and the costs of halted production can run Its cell volumes of 600-660m³ compensate for increasing concentrainto millions of dollars while repairs and maintenance are carried tor throughputs and subsequent residence time requirements. out. With the need to quickly get crushers back online to resume feeding the rest of the plant, safety challenges have now become a The new SuperCell™ flotation machine provides for a larger univermajor concern for mining companies. sal tank that is the largest and most efficient flotation cell available. It also comes with optional mechanisms that can offer lower To help alleviate some of these concerns, FLSmidth developed the energy consumption than smaller cells. “Top-Service” (TS) line of gyratory crushers. This innovative crusher is engineered from the ground up with safety and maintenance in Customers are quick to take up new, larger flotation cells. Demand mind. Its key distinguishing feature – one which differentiates the is primarily driven by economic considerations and lower per-cell TS-Gyratory Crusher design from other gyratory crushers – is that maintenance requirements, making these enormous machines the TS machine is designed to be serviced and maintained comhighly desirable on today’s market. Already, in fact, five major minpletely from the top, with the aid of an overhead crane. ing houses are inquiring about these new cells. During repair or inspection operations, the TS crusher’s assemblies In addition to new, large-throughput plants, these cells are espeare removed from above through the crusher feed opening instead of cially attractive in a situation where there is limited room for expanfrom below through the discharge bin. The advantage from a safety sion in existing large-capacity plants. perspective is that maintenance personnel can access the assemblies without entering the discharge bin. This effectively removes the risk FLSmidth’s row of 5 x 600m3 cells will have an equal residence of injury from falling debris, working in confined spaces and eliminattime to its nearest competitor’s row of 6.6 x 500m3 cells, allowing ing the risk from noxious gasses or harmful dust inhalation. for a comparatively lower cost and footprint, and continuing the company’s market leadership. The design of the TS crusher doesn’t just mean easier and safer maintenance, it also translates into more cost-effective and more Each SuperCell™ flotation machine can be supplied with a combiflexible foundation designs. Plants that take advantage of the nation of three rotor-stator configurations: design and keep spare part inventories on site are able to swap out • Standard the entire assembly in a single shift. • Low-energy • High-energy With 24 TS crushers sold and five in operation the advantages of this machine in terms of safety and maintenance are clear. For unThis ability to customise the SuperCell™ flotation machine’s design scheduled maintenance requirements, the TS-Gyratory Crusher has yields the optimal flotation environment for each customer’s apbeen shown to save 25 hours of maintenance time per strip down plications. and rebuild operation. Assuming that it usually takes a team of five to work the extra 25 hours and this on average happens three FLSmidth will install and test the first of these new SuperCell™ times a year, then the TS crusher saves 375 man-hours. Therefore flotation machine providing the world’s largest flotation cell at the personnel has a reduced exposure to the safety hazards of the Robinson Mine, Robinson Nevada Mining Company, KGHM working around heavy equipment, when compared to the equivaInternational. The 600 Series SuperCell™ will be used as a rougherlent bottom service design machine. scavenger in the copper flotation circuit. 50 The four divisions – Mineral Processing Reducing dust emissions in aluminium tion faces the task of how best to deal with the waste materials, ­processing or tailings. The tailings contain substantial amounts of water and Möller® Direct Pot Feeding System need to be treated and dried before the remaining material is Since the modern aluminium industry began, the world has proplaced back into the environment. duced about 800 million tons of the metal, with approximately 73% of it still in use today. With its huge array of uses, and fuelled FLSmidth continues to develop thickening and filtration technoloby growing urban populations, the demand for aluminium is on gies that enable mining customers to increase their water recovery, the increase. FLSmidth provides products to cover more than 50% as well as to maximise the dryness of the cake from tailings in the of the equipment needs of a complete alumina plant, from the mining process. bauxite mine to refinery equipment as well as material handling equipment for aluminium smelters. To understand how these technologies contribute to sustainable mineral processing, it is necessary to outline the process itself. One part of the alumina process involves smelting of the alumina Once the minerals have been successfully removed from the ore oxide to extract the aluminium. This is accomplished using a large during the processing stages, the tailings are fed into sedimentanumber of electrolytic cells, often referred to as pots. These pots tion tanks, known as tailings thickeners, to settle the remaining apply an electrolytic process with an internal cathode and anodes solids and separate them from the water used during the process. to capture the molten metal. The tailings are then normally fed into tailing ponds where any excess water is allowed to evaporate or dissipate back into the soil. The filling of pots is a batch process, requiring most smelters to use cranes to fill the raw material into each electrolytic cell from above. A traditional tailings pond takes up a large area of land and The resulting inefficient dumping causes dust emissions, loss of requires a great deal of maintenance and monitoring. Such ponds product, and an unclean environment. carry a heightened risk for affected water to seep into the groundwater, despite precautions taken to protect the local environment. To solve this problem and completely eliminate the escape of dust, The large surface area of the pond also means that it will claim a FLSmidth provides continuous and fully automated alumina feeding higher percentage of precipitation. technologies incorporating the Möller direct-pot feeding system. Highlights of this technology include low feeding velocity with FLSmidth’s paste thickener equipment minimises these problems little wear on equipment, and the elimination of moving control by increasing the underflow solids concentration, and reducing devices. Both features do much to reduce maintenance costs. The the amount of water sent to the tailings pond. The additionally use of low pressure fans and blowers further facilitates low energy captured water from FLSmidth’s paste-thickening procedures can consumption, and the system is self-regulating, which enables easy be re-circulated in the plant. operation and immediate oxide delivery. For even more effective tailings management, FLSmidth pressure FLSmidth is currently refurbishing a state-owned aluminium smelter filters are installed after the tailings thickeners, increasing the efin Venezuela with this advanced pot feeding technology, and will ficiency of squeezing moisture from the remaining tailings to create be upgrading a total of 400 electrolytic pots at the site. In 2012, a filter cake that typically contains less than 15% moisture. Tailings FLSmidth was awarded a contract for a pot feeding system serving can then be stacked and compacted by FLSmidth conveying and 444 pots in the world’s longest pot room greenfield installation in spreading equipment in multiple lifts per pad, taking up less than Abu Dhabi in the United Arab Emirates, which is presently in the half of the area of a tailings pond. start-up phase. “More companies want a dry cake that they can stack,” says Todd Tailings management, water recovery, Wisdom, Director of Filtration Products at FLSmidth. “In response, and environmental reclamation we have developed the largest automatic filter press in terms of Thickening and filtration capacity per machine.“ Water scarcity is a growing challenge for the world at large, and for the mining industry, as many ores are mined in remote locations FLSmidth’s AFP-IV™ minerals pressure filters are installed at the end or in arid climates. of the mineral processing line to assist in the recovery of water for re-use in the process. FLSmidth’s newly designed Colossal™ filter The role of water in mineral processing is a crucial one. Rock is press has been engineered to be twice as wide as previous filter crushed into fine particles, then water is added to create a slurry, presses to efficiently capture even more water for recirculation at which is then fed through equipment to extract the valuable ores. the plant. Once the metals are recovered from the slurry, every mining opera52 FLSmidth: Sustainability Report 2013 The filtered dry tailings concept means a mine site is able to To fill the order, FLSmidth will supply technologies for crushing, operate with much less external water compared with similar milling, flotation, thickening, filtering, cycloning, pumping and auconcentrator plants. Thus, dry stacking has proven to be the safer tomation, as well as regrind mills and material handling conveyors and more sustainable option, not only for the mine site, but for and feeders. Additionally, FLSmidth will procure auxiliary third-party neighbouring communities too. Local community acceptance is a items for the plant on behalf of the customer, and provide erection highly important business factor for mining customers, who often supervision, start-up and commissioning services. find it difficult to secure water rights for their operations. The copper concentrator will have a capacity of 5 million tons of The dry stacked tailings have the benefit of being highly reusable, ore per annum. The equipment provided by FLSmidth will ensure and can be contoured to allow the stacks to blend in with the local higher energy efficiencies and improved process performance, landscape. The area can then be replanted with a native seed mixture which translate into reduced environmental impact. as operations continue. This supports and speeds up the environmental reclamation process and expedites the re-vegetation of the The Atacama Desert surrounding landscape. Upon completion, the dry tailings storage pile Another example of where FLSmidth helps its customers to coneventually blends in with the local terrain and surroundings. quer and make the most of harsh environments is Chile’s Atacama Desert, where new mining projects use seawater instead of fresh When combined, our thickened paste and advanced filtered dry water. The driest desert in the world, the Atacama is composed stack tailings technologies make for a far more environmentally mostly of salt lakes, sand and felsic lava. Because the majority of friendly mining site. the Atacama Desert mining projects are located at high altitudes, pumping seawater to the mines is costly and complicated. Harnessing resources in extreme environments A large plant currently under construction in the desert will use Kazakhmys PLC FLSmidth’s high-density thickener equipment to help dewater tailWhen a mining company in Kazakhstan needed fast start-up, ings. Here we are supplying design and engineering services, as ­efficient operation and reduced environmental impact, it turned well as process equipment for the copper and molybdenum plant. to FLSmidth. On completion, the plant is expected to process approximately 105,000 tpd of primary and secondary copper ore. FLSmidth’s The company, Kazakhmys PLC, recently placed a contract to have thickeners will be an important part of the plant’s tailings manageFLSmidth design a copper concentrator, and to supply all of the ment water conservation system. process technology for a plant to be built at its Bozshakol copper mine. The mine is 220 kilometres (about 150 miles) north of the Best practices in minerals testing capital city of Astana, which has the distinction of being the secOur facilities in Salt Lake City, Utah, are designed in accordance ond coldest capital city in the world. with Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design (LEED) standards. The building designs incorporate important features such as energy The extremely cold winter temperatures, often lower than -40°C, savings, water efficiency and CO2 emissions reduction, and improved require FLSmidth to carefully plan and adapt all plant and equipindoor environmental quality have been considered in the design. ment designs to cope with this harsh environment. While still challenging, the task is made somewhat easier by our ongoing The facility’s Minerals Testing & Research Centre treats all laboraexperience of designing equipment for a mine near the Mongolian tory solutions before releasing them into the municipal drainage city of Ulaanbaatar – the coldest capital city in the world. system and the environment. Any hazardous materials are of cause isolated and properly disposed of through licensed waste hanFLSmidth won the contract for many reasons, including the comdling companies. Our laboratory information management system pany’s ability to integrate all of its new and legacy equipment, the supports sample receipt, tracking, and final proper disposal of the ability to provide all engineering disciplines, and access to metalremaining samples. lurgical testing and ore characterisation laboratories. Fugitive dust and fumes are a particular challenge in any minerals “Our customers can get everything they need directly from processing laboratory. In order to protect the FLSmidth employees FLSmidth, with all services managed under one roof,” said Guy working in the laboratory, our facility uses a central dust collecCarraux, FLSmidth Global Director, Concentrator Extended Scopes. tion system and fume extraction hoods to capture dust and fumes “That’s why the execution schedule can be compressed, saving immediately. Selected labs use high vacuum systems to facilitate time and money.” cleanup and to ensure dust capture in particularly difficult applica53 The four divisions – Mineral Processing tions. A number of portable systems are available to control unique Pumps are used in all areas of a mining plant. For example, they dust and fume generating events, when our main systems may help to transport slurry through the processing equipment and prove inadequate. reroute recycled water for use in other parts of the plant. Because pumps are continually in motion and are a vital part of keeping the To minimise the environmental impact even further, FLSmidth has plant operating, it is important that everything possible is done to gone beyond a single-tier approach to wastewater management and reduce their power consumption while increasing pump wear life. installed a pre-treatment facility. All lab drains pass through the pretreatment plant virtually guaranteeing that all liquid leaving our laboThe patented design and features of the Krebs® millMAX® have ratories meets the expectation of the local water treatment authority. been proven to generally improve wear life by 50 to 100%, resulting in substantially less environmental waste. This increase in Reducing SO2 emissions from coal and oil wear life is achieved together with a reduction in power consumppower plants tion, generally in the 15 to 20% range. At a readymix plant, the FLSmidth® FGD Scrubber Blowdown System customer noted that it achieved a significant reduction in the use of Today’s electric power plants face the difficult challenge of reducdiesel fuel as a result of the increased efficiency and lower power ing gas emissions while maintaining safety and profitability. Sulphur consumption of its installed millMAX dredge booster pumps. dioxide (SO2) emissions are a natural by-product of coal or oil-fired boilers. To reduce these emissions, Flue Gas Desulphurisation (FGD) was introduced as a way to convert SO2 contained in the flue gas into gypsum by adding lime or limestone in a wet scrubbing system. Although the equipment needed to perform gypsum separation is only a small part of the power plant’s overall capital investment, FLSmidth’s solutions play an important and necessary role in meeting regulatory requirements, simultaneously turning the plant’s SO2 gas emissions into a safe and potentially useful by-product. The final gypsum product can be used in several applications, primarily in the production of wallboard, or as material for cement, roadbase and structural fill. It is also a stable material that is suitable for disposal by landfill. FLSmidth has led the development of technology for thickening and dewatering SO2 scrubber sludges since the introduction of FGD. During that time, an extensive database has been compiled, documenting slurries from all major scrubbing processes. FLSmidth continually works with utilities around the world to optimise the performance of both scrubbing and waste handling systems, and to develop more efficient production technologies. Using less power for water and slurry ­transport Krebs® millMAX® pump As mining companies aim to lessen their environmental impact and build more sustainable plants, they look to FLSmidth for new innovative ways to reduce water and power consumption, increase water conservation, and develop better water recycling techniques. The FLSmidth Krebs® millMAX® Pump is presently being installed at mining installations around the world to help our customers meet these aims. 54 The four divisions Cement Creating a win-win situation Environmental sustainability is curThrough projects like these, FLSmidth has developed and finetuned its ability to work with the engineering and commissioning rently a key topic for the cement indusof new energy-efficient technologies installed at cement plants. try, creating new market opportunities. R&D developments related to SCM production through flash Production of cement causes emissions, calcination of clay have made major progress in 2013. However, which naturally creates a demand for industrial experience with SCM is still limited to slag grinding, the use of fly ash, and the use of natural pozzolans in cement. emission reduction. Energy is also one Alternative fuels of the largest costs of running a cement As energy costs rise and environmental regulations tighten, alternaplant. If energy consumption is reduced, tive fuel co-processing is more relevant than ever. As a provider of sustainable solutions, FLSmidth offers a range of services and both costs and CO2 emissions are redusupport for alternative fuels, plus years of hands-on experience ceed, too. It’s a win-win situation. with related equipment. Arabian Cement Company Integrating sustainability Recently, the Arabian Cement Company (ACC) invested in a new During 2013, the three FLSmidth business areas known as Alternaproject, simply called the Alternative Fuels Project, that will enable tive Fuels, Waste Heat Recovery and Supplementary Cementitious one of the kiln lines at its Ramliya plant to be fed with various Materials (SCM), which had previously been supported by a dedicattypes of alternative fuels. Waste material from Cairo will be used to ed Sustainability Development department in the Customer Services generate heat, neatly solving constraining challenges for both ACC division, were broadly integrated into the FLSmidth organisation. and for the city. The Ramliya pyro processes will accept two types All of these areas continue to be important growth drivers in the of waste, the first being paper, plastic and textiles, and the second cement and minerals industries, and their integration is designed to sewage sludge from waste water treatment plants. maximise long-term benefits for both FLSmidth and its customers. The Alternative Fuels Project consists of a reception and storage Each of the areas represents a key technology, all of which share building, a shredder for preparing the fuel, buffer storage, an a common benefit of reducing the CO2 footprint associated with extraction and conveying system, and finally a dosing system for each ton of product produced. Typically, they also reduce the cost feeding material into the calciner. The extraction and feeding sysof production, and provide reduced or more flexible dependence tem is fully automated, and can be operated from a central control on specific sources of energy and natural resources. room in the same way as other equipment at the plant. Alternative fuels capabilities and experience have been further This installation was commissioned in December 2013 and once developed through FLSmidth involvement in a number of projects installed and operating, ACC expects to be able to substitute at cement plants that partly replace fossil fuels with refuse-derived approximately 20% of the fossil fuel presently used for its producfuel. In addition, two projects are enabling FLSmidth to gain experition line. ence with lime kilns that are to be 100% biomass-fired. To date, two Kalina™ Cycle Waste Heat Recovery systems have been supOperation at Ramliya has been outsourced to FLSmidth through an plied – with commissioning in progress. O&M contract. This approach provides ACC with the best possible 56 FLSmidth: Sustainability Report 2013 The four divisions – Cement assurance that any challenges arising from the use of alternative STAR Cement fuels will have minimal impact on clinker and cement production Another front runner in sustainable cement production is the and quality. At the same time, FLSmidth will monitor emission STAR cement plant at Ras Al Khaimah in the United Arab Emirates, levels, ensuring that they are as low as possible – and below operating with exceptionally low costs. The plant is an FLSmidth­established limits. supplied 6,850 tpd clinker production line. The ACC plant is among the first cement plants in Egypt to begin Commissioning was initiated during late autumn 2013 on STAR using alternative fuels on a larger scale, and is expected to demonCement’s 4.8 MWe waste heat recovery project. The project utilises strate a win-win case with reductions in the use of fossil fuels, as excess clinker cooler air to make the plant even more energywell as lower production costs. efficient. FLSmidth is proud to contribute to the plant’s continuous improvement by delivering sustainable cement technologies. Waste heat recovery Soaring fuel and electricity prices, coupled with increasingly adRe-designing for lower impact verse effects on the environment, are driving cement producers to Bringing heat exchangers to the next level explore new, energy-efficient technologies to integrate into their Air-to-air heat exchangers are large, heavy machines. In fact, they cement plants. Waste Heat Recovery (WHR) is one such technology, are so big that they require special shipment from assembly point turning waste heat from the cement production process into usable to site. Using specialised transport is associated with heavier envielectricity. ronmental impact, too, compared to conventional transportation in container ships. A task for FLSmidth’s designers and engineers, In 2011, FLSmidth re-initiated the promotion of waste heat recovtherefore, has been to re-design the company’s heat exchanger so ery projects, enabling our customers to decrease operating costs that it could be transported using conventional means. and reduce dependency on external energy supplies. Since then, we have leveraged close relationships with two of our customers to The result is an improved heat exchanger design that comprises commission two projects during 2013 – one in Pakistan and one in pre-assembled modules and fans, making it both easier to transthe United Arab Emirates. port and faster to install at the site. The modules are designed to fit into conventional 40-foot containers, which improves transportDG Khan ability and lessens environmental impact. In 2011, FLSmidth obtained an order for a 8.6 MWe waste heat recovery plant with DG Khan in Khairpur, Pakistan. The project In fact, the lightweight design of the new heat exchanger yields a utilises both preheater gas and excess clinker cooler air from the number of important benefits beyond its reduced impact on the enFLSmidth-supplied 6,500 tpd clinker production line. vironment. For example, the re-designed heat exchanger is safer to install, since the machine itself consists of far lighter modules than The project encountered multiple challenges, all of which were the previous design. Furthermore, smaller modules do not have to resolved through the joint efforts of DG Khan and FLSmidth and, in be lifted as high in the air, again improving installation safety. the autumn of 2013, the first generation of power was achieved. One of these challenges was that the new sub-supplier from the power plant sector was reluctant to visit the site because of the security situation in Pakistan. Perseverance and close cooperation between FLSmidth and DG Khan, however, won the day, ensuring that a competitive and innovative waste heat recovery solution will be up and running as planned. The gains for the plant’s operating budget, and for the environment, will indeed be significant. The resulting fuel-free power production is slightly less than the electricity consumption of the core pyro line. Previously, this electricity was generated using diesel engines. The savings achieved on heavy fuel oil will amount to approximately 14,000 tons of fuel per year. 58 An overview SOCIAL NUMBERS 2011 REPORT 2012 REPORT 2013 REPORT EMPLOYEES 13,204 15,900 15,317 GENDER – % FEMALE EMPLOYEES 16 15 14 GENDER – % FEMALE MANAGERS 7.2 9.2 10.5 EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT (satisfaction rate) 71 72 N/A SAFETY – LTIFR 4.2 4.7 3.9 SAFETY TRAINING HOURS (per employee) 2.5 5.7 7.6 FLSMIDTH SITES AUDITED (HSE AUDIT) 12 28 ENVIRONMENTAL NUMBERS 2011 REPORT 2012 REPORT 2013 REPORT SCOPE 1 – CO2 (TONNES) 23,000 27,550 24,050 SCOPE 2 – CO2 (TONNES) 55,900 54,450 58,950 SCOPE 3 – CO2 (TONNES) 34,000 39,800 37,400 ECONOMIC NUMBERS (EURm) 2011 REPORT 2012 REPORT 2013 REPORT REVENUE 2,952 3,338 3,610 PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 193 175 (105) 60 FLSmidth: Sustainability Report 2013 61 An Overview UN Global Compact Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of HSE section page 14 internationally proclaimed human rights People section page 24 Responsible sourcing section page 30 Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses HSE section page14 People section page 24 Responsible sourcing section page 30 Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the People section page 24 effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Responsible sourcing section page 30 Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour People section page 24 Responsible sourcing section page 30 Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour People section page 24 Responsible sourcing section page 30 Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment People section page 24 and occupation Responsible sourcing section page 30 Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Customer Services section page 36 environmental challenges Material Handling section page 42 Mineral Processing section page 48 Cement section page 56 Environmental impact section page 34 Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Customer Services section page 36 responsibility Material Handling section page 42 Mineral Processing section page 48 Cement section page 56 Environmental impact section page 34 Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally Customer Services section page 36 friendly technologies Material Handling section page 42 Mineral Processing section page 48 Cement section page 56 Environmental impact section page 34 Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Responsible sourcing section page 30 including extortion and bribery Compliance section page 20 62 63 FLSmidth & Co. A/S Vigerslev Allé 77 DK-2500 Valby Denmark Tel.: +45 36 18 18 00 Fax: +45 36 44 11 46 corppr@flsmidth.com www.flsmidth.com CVR No. 58180912 © FLSmidth 2014. All rights reserved. FLSmidth, the FLSmidth Logo, DuoClean, Coromax, FLS, CataMax, SMARTpaq, SuperCell, Möller, AFP-IV, Colossal, Krebs and millMAX are trademarks of FLSmidth A/S or its affiliates. Other names may be trademarks of their respective owners. This document makes no offers, representations or warranties (express or implied), and information and data contained in this brochure are for general reference only and may change at any time
