2012 Sustainability Report AECOM Contents Projects About this report 1 Olympic Games: From London to Rio 8 Global reporting initiative sustainability Transforming the urban fabric of Singapore: reporting guidelines 1 Sustainable Development Framework, Planning & Sustainability report management 1 Design for Marina Bay and Greater Southern Waterfront in Singapore 10 Purpose and Core Values 1 Financing San Francisco’s Urban Forest 10 Fiscal Year 2012 Highlights 2 Taizhou Bridge: Minimizing impact 11 A message from our Chairman and CEO 4 Redefining Luxury Retail Plaza 11 Perspectives from our chief sustainability officer 5 Making adaptation easier: Climate Resilient Profiles Overview 6 Masterplanning 12 Our approach to sustainability 6 Largest stormwater runoff recycling in the U.K.: Our product and social responsibility 7 North West Cambridge water recycling project 12 People 14 Development of major solar farms, U.K. 12 Governance 14 Creating connections: Pike and Allen Streets Engaging the right people 15 Center Malls 13 Acting ethically and with integrity 16 Going beyond reducing GHG emissions 13 Keeping people safe and maintaining Circle Interchange in Chicago 16 the environment 17 Sydney Park Stormwater Harvest 19 Bringing diversity to the forefront 18 A new trend in development: Beijing Tongzhou Environment 22 Downtown Master Plan and Sustainability Greening our operations 22 Guidelines 20 Carbon footprint 24 Masdar Siemens HQ Building 20 Economy 27 Tuvalu Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency Unit 21 Enhancing shareholder value 27 ECO-Asia 21 Social responsibility 29 ADAPT Asia-Pacific program 21 Focusing on the outcomes 29 AECOM House, Auckland Sustainable development and social priorities 30 (Five Green Star Office Design Rating) 23 Awards 31 Asia: Collaborate and transform 23 Our memberships 32 Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) releases its 2012 global cities report 25 Strategy and analysis 33 Mitigating landslide risks in Hong Kong: Report parameters 33 Effect of change in rainfall 26 Governance, Commitments and Engagement 33 Gautrain Rapid Rail Link System 26 Economic 33 Innovation in India: The Leela Hotel, Environmental 33 Eco Commercial Building, and 3M R&D Centre 28 Human rights 33 Broadcasting House — a new era in media design 28 AECOM receives APEGBC’s Sustainability Award 32 11 Color rings represent types of capital 8 21 9 Economic 23 26 19 10 21 Natural Social 11 12 13 This is an interactive PDF, to read more or watch a video click the Human 12 28 Guide to page numbers for cover icons throughout the report project photo descriptions associated with the story. 2012 Sustainability Report 1 About this report Purpose and Core Values AECOM’s global sustainability report demonstrates how we AECOM’s global team of experts is united by a common manage the complex relationships of financial, natural, purpose: to create, enhance and sustain the world’s built, human and social capital. A broad mix of project profiles natural and social environments. Dedicated to this purpose, features integrated solutions for some of the world’s most AECOM’s long legacy of excellence in engineering, design and complex challenges in a variety of the company’s sectors. program management is consistently driven forward by our set of Core Values, which define who we are, what we do and This report covers AECOM’s fiscal year ending September 30, how we do it. Sustainability is a framework through which we 2012. Our 2011 report was issued during May 2012. The 2012 integrate our values to benefit our clients. report does not replicate any previously used information. It includes details of AECOM’s direct operations, those we Integrity acquired, and others still in the process of integration. We are honest and ethical in everything we do. We keep our commitments and treat others with mutual respect and trust. Global reporting initiative sustainability Employees reporting guidelines Our employees are our most valuable and valued resource; This is AECOM’s second sustainability report in which we they make our success possible. We respect and encourage reference the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability our employees’ ideas, diversity and cultures. Reporting Guidelines. A comprehensive GRI Index is included at the end of this report. We self-assess this review to GRI Clients Application Level C. Our success is measured by the success of our clients. AECOM sets the industry standard for client service; We are Sustainability report management passionate about solving clients’ problems and exploring new opportunities with them. The report was developed by AECOM’s sustainability, legal and corporate communications teams. It is AECOM’s second Excellence companywide report, and while it is not considered to be an We strive to achieve excellence in all areas of our business integrated report, in the coming years, we intend to review the — technical, operational and administrative. We pride future of our reporting standards to actively provide the most ourselves on bringing outstanding results to everything we do. relevant information to AECOM’s growing stakeholder base. Innovation Creativity, exploration and imagination are key to our business approach. We continually look for new, creative or better ways to provide our expertise in all dimensions of our work. At AECOM, sustainability means Agility helping clients, society and our We embrace change, flexibility and adaptation in a rapidly evolving world. We strive to anticipate changes in market drivers and enterprise address complex work with our clients and employees to adapt to those changes. challenges by managing financial, Safety We are committed to maintaining a safe, healthy workplace for our employees by preventing injuries to people and damage to natural, social and human capital facilities, property, equipment and the environment. to work together to advance Growth Living and executing these Core Values every day will result in human progress with less risk. growth, which drives our business and enables us to invest in and create opportunities for our employees. 2 AECOM Fiscal Year 2012 Highlights Water For People awards AECOM Society of American Military Engineers global sponsor status recognizes AECOM’s small business program The designation recognizes companies The Society of American Military Engineers recognized that raise more than US$100,000 per AECOM with the “Large Business Award” at the organization’s year for the non-profit organization. Small Business Conference in Maryland, United States. The AECOM has raised more than award recognizes outstanding small business subcontracting US$480,000. The organization supports performance in support of U.S. Department of Defense programs. resources, sanitation facilities and hygieneeducation programs in developing countries. AECOM Chief Operating Officer Jane Chmielinski honored for contributions to transportation AECOM makes Newsweek magazine’s Green industry Rankings list for fourth-consecutive year Jane Chmielinski was honored by the Conference of Minority AECOM landed at number 162 on Newsweek magazine’s Green Transportation Officials (COMTO) as one of the United States’ Rankings list. The rankings include the top 500 U.S. most inspirational women executives who are advancing the companies and are based on environmental footprint; country’s transportation industry. Jane is among 13 women reporting practices; and management, including policies, executives from the public and private sectors who received programs, initiatives and targets. the award at the COMTO event — Celebrating Women Who Move the Nation. Australia New Zealand supports the Red Cross The geography donated AU$50,000 (approximately US$50,850) AECOM’s safety leadership recognized in to the Healthy Baby, Healthy Communities program in Hong Kong Australia. The program provides peer support and education to The company was named Champion in the Architect-Consultant pregnant women and mothers, as well as early childhood category in the 2012 Safety Leadership Awards program. outreach support and education services. Australia New Zealand donated NZ$10,000 (approximately US$7,743) to The awards were jointly presented by the Hong Kong Families and Schools Together. The program works with at-risk Construction Industry Council and The Lighthouse Club. children and their families in New Zealand to strengthen family Judges described AECOM as being the most comprehensive functioning and cohesion, build social with the strongest leadership they have seen since the connections and reduce social isolation. awards program started three years ago. Both charities are associated with the Red Cross, which Australia New Zealand has supported for a number of years. During FY12, AECOM donated more than $1 million in community and disasterrelated initiatives. 2012 Sustainability Report 3 Partnering with the Carbon Disclosure Project AECOM wins master plan design contract for The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) is an independent, the 2016 Rio de Janeiro Olympic and Paralympic not-for-profit organization that works to reduce greenhouse Games, launches worldwide sports group gas emissions and drive sustainable water use by AECOM’s master plan for the project focuses on business and cities. AECOM volunteers its approximately 300 acres of land in the district of Barra de expertise in data analysis, Tijuca, southwest of Rio. It includes three phases: the Rio communications and visualization Olympic Park area during the 2016 Games, a transition plan techniques to support the CDP in and the final position showcasing the site in legacy mode producing its 2012 cities report. The after 2016. After the Games, the facilities will be renamed as report will analyze the responses of the “Olympic Training Center” and be used to discover and more than 70 large cities to CDP’s annual develop new sporting talents. reporting process. Australian government named AECOM AECOM again named one of the “World’s Most Employer of Choice for Women Ethical Companies” AECOM has been named one of the World’s Most Ethical The Australian government’s Equal Opportunity for Women in Companies for 2012 by the Ethisphere Institute. the Workplace Agency (EOWA) has named AECOM in Australia an Employer of Choice for Women. AECOM is one of three professional technical consultancies and 125 overall employers selected to be recognized this year. 4 AECOM A message from our Chairman and CEO I am delighted to share with you our second global -In New York City, a new World Trade Center is taking shape, sustainability report, “Complex problems. Integrated and we are proud to be the construction manager for many solutions.” At AECOM, our commitment to sustainability aspects of the project, including One World Trade Center, compels us to help clients, society and our enterprise to 3 World Trade Center, 4 World Trade Center and 7 World address complex challenges. We manage financial, natural, Trade Center, as well as the site’s transportation hub, social and human factors as we work together to advance vehicle security center and retail component. Additionally, human progress with reduced risk. As a global company with we created the comprehensive site and streetscape design more than 45,000 employees, we are driven to create, for the World Trade Center district. enhance and sustain the world’s built, natural and social environments. -In Asia, we are spearheading the largest new construction project in Beijing, which will be a new model for sustainable We empower our people to make the right decisions. urban development in China. Coined as a low-carbon Therefore, we take great pride in being recognized as one of metropolis, the Tongzhou New City project will be home to the “World’s Most Ethical Companies” by the Ethisphere one million residents and a thriving central business district. Institute for three consecutive years. -In Australia, we developed an integrated design process for the Sydney Park Stormwater Harvesting Project. With the During 2012, much of the world continued to face little or no overall objective of integrating the human, environmental economic growth, along with increased natural disasters such and engineering design requirements, AECOM provided a as hurricanes, earthquakes and droughts, which presented design that improves water quality and provides flood challenges for many companies. However, AECOM continued mitigation for the city’s residents. to sustain our industry leadership and helped solve some of the world’s most complex challenges. As you read through -In the Middle East, AECOM is consulting on the world’s this report, you’ll see some of these innovative solutions, as largest greenfield port development project, in Doha, Qatar. well as the progress that we’ve made in our own operations The country is currently in the midst of a construction — along with areas where we will continue to improve. boom, fueled by a growing population and a government strategy for the long-term sustainability of its As a visionary company with an incredibly diverse set of skills, non-hydrocarbon sector, including a more efficient seaport. we have the opportunity to work on some of the world’s most exciting and challenging projects: There is no doubt that the world is rapidly evolving. This report demonstrates how we are helping communities and clients -In London, for example, we provided an integrated adapt to this change while improving our own operations. approach to delivering a sustainable legacy for the 2012 Olympic Games. I thank you for your continued support of our great company as we provide best-in-class, integrated solutions for a sustainable future. Best regards, John M. Dionisio Chairman and CEO 2012 Sustainability Report 5 Perspectives from our chief sustainability officer Last year, in our first global sustainability report, we Internally, during 2012, we found more efficient ways to meet highlighted some of the innovative and integrative measures and communicate, consolidated office space and implemented that AECOM believes are necessary to meet the highly green purchasing policies across much of our business. complex needs of our clients. Viewing sustainability as a framework for analysis and decision-making is as much about Looking to the years ahead, major challenges are shaping our leveraging opportunities for our clients as it is about work and our clients’ operating contexts. These include: minimizing their risks. -Climate adaptation and greenhouse gas mitigation -Growing population and changing demographics As we broaden our understanding of sustainability across all -Availability of energy, water and food of our business lines and geographies, we are seeing deeper -Urbanization engagement among our employees with AECOM’s mission. Our people have always been concerned about the world’s big I am happy to report that we have made progress on all of challenges: climate change, poverty, environmental damage AECOM’s sustainability objectives during the last year. Our and sustaining Earth’s natural resources. 2012 saw continued growth, both organic and through acquisition; development of engagement in our communities around the world, and we broader and deeper skills; commitment to ethics, shared many successes with our partners at The Red Cross, sustainability and safety; and movement into new markets Habitat for Humanity, Engineers Without Borders, and Water are continuously being evaluated for improvement. Our for People to name but a few. leadership is building an enterprise that will be able to manage sustainability and improve conditions for human In addition to these great philanthropic outreach projects, our development around the world for our clients. employees continue to see more possibilities for collaboration and innovation among our operations to meet clients’ needs. The human purpose is not to prosper during the short term. It They are reaching out to colleagues from many disciplines, is to succeed for the long term. Sustainability is the essence cultures and geographies, to address the issues they really of what we do, so that meeting short-term needs and care about, recognizing that these often are the same achieving long-term success become possible. concerns that confront our clients around the world. Regards, AECOM is more focused than ever on helping our clients be successful in the most sustainable ways possible. We engage with our clients about risk and reward, short-term investment versus long-term gain, and the opportunities to enhance social, environmental and human capital while adding to the Gary Lawrence bottom line. Vice President and Chief Sustainability Officer Click to view more. 6 AECOM Profiles Overview The projects featured in this report reflect our commitment to We aim to better understand our clients’ needs in order to create, enhance, and sustain the world’s built, natural and ensure that they have more enduring choices. At each stage of a social environments. From winning the master plan design project, we consider our obligation to helping our clients contract for the 2016 Rio de Janeiro Olympics and Paralympic optimize the value returned on their investment by using scarce games to working on numerous aspects of New York City’s resources wisely and efficiently, and reducing waste. World Trade Center — AECOM projects continue to solve some of the world’s most complex problems. In order to accomplish this goal, we are moving to broaden our sustainability analyses to include value creation and brand Our global network of more than 45,000 professionals work to protection prior to making a decision. As we look forward to lead AECOM as a sound corporate citizen and, through next year, four major imperatives are shaping our work and integrated solutions, we are able to achieve positive our clients’ operating contexts: sustainablility outcomes. -We continue to lead the way in urging governments and Our approach to sustainability enterprises to consider the imperative of adapting to climate change and mitigating greenhouse gas emissions. In At AECOM, sustainability is defined as helping clients, society this effort, we have designed a series of tools to help with and our enterprise address complex challenges by managing analyses and have implemented successful adaptation financial, natural, social and human capital to work together plans in various countries around the globe. Commissioned to advance human progress with less risk. by the World Bank, AECOM provides consultancy services for climate change adaptation for the water supply and Through this robust risk-management framework, AECOM sanitation sector in Vietnam and China. The Asian recognizes that the actions we take today to address global Development Bank also selected AECOM to provide climate, poverty, environmental and other issues shape the technical assistance to strengthen the capacity of the Lao future of our planet. People’s Democratic Republic to cope with climate change. AECOM continues to build and support a culture that -As the global population continues to increase, and to age, empowers and engages our employees to enthusiastically the design and transformation of urban places to better solve problems and accelerate our progress toward serve diverse populations is an increasingly urgent concern. sustainable business innovation in a way that places us ahead AECOM is working to create livable urban places that will of our competition. Rather than considering sustainability as serve the world’s future needs — by delivering projects a separate service, we provide our clients with integrated such as the sustainability action plan for Lee’s Summit, solutions in highly sustainable ways. Simply put, we help our Missouri, United States, which was honored by the clients and communities manage and reduce risk. Mid-America Regional Council as one of its Sustainable Success Stories of 2012. 2012 Sustainability Report 7 -The energy-water-food nexus is the defining challenge of our time. This is an area where AECOM’s integrated approach to analysis and problem solving is critical to sustaining economically viable cities and ensuring an adequate supply of power, water, food security and carbon reduction for a growing population. In this effort, AECOM developed a city-wide reduction assessment tool for the City of Ventura, California that allows combinations of various systems to be tested for the lowest cost pathway as well as city-wide carbon reduction targets. -With recent developments in technology and the imperative to reduce energy consumption and waste, we are broadening our understanding of the notion of logistics to now include goods, services, information, ideas and populations collectively. Pacific Gas & Electric, which serves most of Northern California, United States, is conducting an in-home monitoring pilot program to reduce energy consumption. With AECOM’s recommendations, this pilot program has demonstrated an average savings of 20 percent. PG&E in-home monitoring pilot program — Gary Lawrence average savings: AECOM Vice President and 20% Chief Sustainability Officer Our product and social responsibility Proposal Planning Execution Closure -Consider project risks, -Prepare method and -Review contracts to -Mobilize project team including Safety, Health approach confirm obligations & Environment (SH&E) -Establish project plan -Project approach fulfilled risks describing all details for review -Financial closure -Review and approve delivery and assigning -Implement project -Seek client feedback sub-contractors responsibilities management elements, -Review team -Review contract terms -Meet with client including SH&E performance and conditions and develop strong -Quality check -Share lessons learned -Prepare, verify, approve communication deliverables and submit proposal arrangements -Verify deliverables -Review and learn from -Authorize for issue -Set up project in selection outcomes internal financial system 8 AECOM PROJECTS Olympic Games: From London to Rio Click to view more. AECOM’s involvement in the London 2012 Olympics project community centers, sporting amenities and mixed-use dates back to 2003. The preferred site site emerged from economic opportunities. studies looking at the potential for urban regeneration of the 1,500-hectare area at the southern end of the Lea Valley, one We also provided building services consultancy on the of the U.K.’s poorest areas, and yet only five miles from Olympic Park’s futuristic Basketball Arena (below), the central London. And after the games, the legacy for London world’s largest temporary sports venue. Approximately serves as the creation of a well-served, well-connected urban two-thirds of the building materials and internal features district based around a new park. can be reused or recycled. AECOM designed a master plan that secured London’s bid for the games and placed long-term urban regeneration of the Lower Lea Valley as its primary driver. This master plan vision for the Olympic Park was created simultaneously with an idea of how the site would look in its post-games legacy as a new district for London designed around a park. The concept was to design in reverse order of future first, with the staging of the games as an event on route to completion. For every £1 spent on the London Olympic project, at least 70 pence (70 percent) remains invested in the legacy. We are honored to be involved with the Olympic and Paralympic Games having helped the city transform the Lower Lea Valley, which has been one of the United Kingdom’s poorest areas, to a viable area that gives the valley 35,000 new homes, 50,000 new jobs, schools, health care facilities, 2012 Sustainability Report 9 PROJECTS This successful sustainable plan in London led to AECOM winning the international competition to design the master plan for Rio’s Olympic Park. “Having stood in the middle of the London Olympic site back in early 2004, looking down at a rubbish-littered river and desolate industrial landscape, it is incredible to stand on the same spot today and witness the transformation,” says AECOM’s Bill Hanway, an architect and one of the lead designers of London’s Olympic Park. Uniquely, Hanway is also leading the master plan design for Brazil’s 2016 Olympic Park in Rio de Janeiro. AECOM is the only company to achieve this Olympic double — designing consecutive master plan visions for the games. The company has also provided a wide range of additional services, including cost, program and supply chain management. Click to view more. Click to view more. 10 AECOM PROJECTS Click to view more. Click to view more. Transforming the urban fabric of Singapore: Financing San Francisco’s Urban Forest Sustainable Development Framework, Planning As part of its long-term sustainability goals, the city and & Design for Marina Bay and the Greater County of San Francisco (City) seeks to maintain and expand its urban forest for generations to come. However, San Francisco’s Southern Waterfront in Singapore street trees face serious challenges, including a fragmented Singapore’s Urban Redevelopment Authority (URA) system in which the City maintains 40 percent of street trees, commissioned AECOM for a sustainable development and property owners must maintain the remainder. In this framework, planning and urban design for Marina Bay, the study, AECOM explored various options for expanding island’s new business and financial district, as well as the resources to better maintain and augment street trees by adjacent Greater Southern Waterfront (GSW). shifting the care for all street trees to DPW. By presenting a series of options for carbon reduction, Through thorough economic analysis of current and projected AECOM helped inform the client’s decision making process in costs, AECOM determined that a municipal street tree program cost-effective sustainable urban planning in addition to would provide net benefits to San Francisco residents. If providing the client with the customized tool for future funded through a special assessment or parcel tax, a program development. In addition, through the process of designing that expands the urban forest by over 50 percent would result the framework, the client was able to engage with other in annual savings to property owners when compared to government agencies with AECOM’s facilitation to arrive at current costs incurred for maintenance, sidewalk repair and calculated targets for individual energy, water, ecology, claims for sidewalk falls. The study found that such a program transport and waste targets that the whole Singapore would allow the City to reduce maintenance costs by as much government could strive towards. as 50 percent through economies of scale and proactive care, while relieving property owners of any maintenance This project puts AECOM in a strategic position as a thought responsibility and liability. In the study, AECOM included a leader in promoting sustainability development in Asia. number of additional findings and recommendations to improve both the health and efficiency of a municipal street tree program, while maximizing savings to property owners. Financing San Francisco’s Urban Forest recently won the Award of Merit for Focused Issue Planning from the American Planning Association, California Northern Section. 2012 Sustainability Report 11 PROJECTS Redefining Luxury Retail Plaza Location: Mumbai, India The Plaza Worli is a high-end luxury retail development promoted by the prestigious Bombay Realty group of Mumbai. The three-acre project is located in the heart of the upmarket district of Worli in Mumbai. The scheme is dynamic in its design response allowing Bombay Realty to deliver an innovative and sustainable, yet cost efficient alternative to the typical covered mall approach with an air conditioned space. The courtyard creates a more distinctive and flexible solution as part of the commercialization strategy for this space. AECOM’s design brief was to provide an intimate and luxurious setting for this project which would set new standards for retail plazas in India and internationally. The design approach centers on a series of iconic canopies, their sculptural forms providing shade, and forming the signature style of this development. Water features, green walls, fascia and vibrant planting are crafted into a contemporary design redefining the Plaza as a destination in itself. A minimal palette of complementary materials is proposed — dark local granites, reflective steel, and lush greenery — to create a classically Click to view more. European influenced space, but with an avant-garde and playful twist that responds to the local context. Taizhou Bridge: Minimizing impact Location: Jiangsu, China Click to view more. Given AECOM’s contribution to the success of Sutong Bridge in Jiangsu Province, China, AECOM was commissioned by the Jiangsu Provincial Yangtze River Highway Bridge Construction Commanding Department, Taizhou, in Jiangsu, as the consultant for the design optimization of Taizhou Bridge. The state-of-the-art design aimed to minimize impact on river hydraulics and ecology through reducing the number of bridge supports in the water and providing two main navigation channels to facilitate ship movements. Our role AECOM worked on the project to help pioneer world-firsts in bridge engineering: -To implement a management system with the three major international standards of quality, safety and the environment. -To use a patented centralized bridge deck drainage system to mitigate the risk of polluting the waterway. -To align and navigate clearances of the structure to minimize nearby water intakes and water source areas, from farmland, existing roadway networks and existing irrigation, drainage and flood control systems. Through its involvement in this prestigious project, AECOM has begun to shape current thinking and steer future trends of Indicative render bridge engineering around the world. for illustrative purposes only. 12 AECOM PROJECTS Making adaptation easier: Climate-resilient Master planning Location: London The materials used in building urban areas tend to absorb more heat radiation and as such, our city centers are considerably warmer than surrounding areas. This is known as the Urban Heat Island Effect and can pose a myriad of challenges for residents, businesses and visitors. For example, higher temperatures can cause essential infrastructure to overheat and breakdown. Similarly it can also have serious health consequences for vulnerable people. However, vegetation absorbs less heat, releases cool moisture through evapotranspiration and can also provide shade. Retrofitting urban green spaces, such as the AECOM-designed green roof on Whitworth Art Gallery, into our existing cities is, therefore, important to help reduce urban temperatures. Additionally, AECOM has carried out five research projects for the UK government to examine how the master planning process can better include climate change adaptation measures by analyzing real projects with the client group. As Click to view more. part of the research, we modeled the effect of vegetation on local microclimate as well as the effect of future rainfall patterns on local flooding and water quality. Largest stormwater runoff recycling in the U.K.: North West Cambridge water recycling project Location: Cambridge AECOM is working to deliver an innovative and note-worthy sustainable development for the University of Cambridge. The project uses AECOM’s international expertise to create a holistic approach to water management. AECOM has provided masterplanning, landscape design, sustainability and planning services over the last 10 years for the University of Cambridge’s new development, which includes 3,000 new homes, 2,000 student beds, research facilities and retail and commercial areas. The homes on the site are aiming to meet the Code for Sustainable Homes Level 5, requiring a reduction in potable water use to 80 liters per person, per day. Ultimately, this concept has never been Click to view more. achieved on a large scale before in the U.K. Development of major solar farms, U.K. AECOM was involved in the development management and sourcing of investment for four of the largest solar photovoltaic (PV) farm installations in the U.K.: -Wilburton, Cambridgeshire -Chittering, Cambridgeshire -Marston, Lincolnshire -Hawton, Nottinghamshire In today’s society, solar farms continue to have a profound impact on innovation, profitable growth, society, and wildlife. Through planning consenting, grid connection and source investment, services were provided to Abbey Renewables and Click to view more. Lark Energy. Funding was provided by Lightsource Renewable Energy and Octopus Investment. 2012 Sustainability Report 13 PROJECTS Click to view more. Creating connections: Pike and Allen Streets Going beyond reducing GHG emissions Center Malls Location: New York City Location: New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg’s Office of Long Term Planning and The reconstruction of the Pike and Allen Streets Malls creates Sustainability would like to extend its green initiatives beyond connections between the upland, the city and the East River the PlaNYC goal of a 30-percent reduction in greenhouse gas Waterfront as a piece of the East River Waterfront Framework (GHG) emissions by 2030 to an 80-percent reduction by 2050 Plan. The malls are flanked by bikeways with a central citywide. pedestrian path and greenway corridor. These linear parks, created for the City of New York Department of Parks and AECOM provided technical expertise and local knowledge to Recreation, include a continuous bikeway and walkway through ensure that the technologies being considered are an expansion of the center malls, by taking out two underused appropriate to meet the ever changing needs of New York. lanes of vehicular traffic. Plazas and open space at certain AECOM also developed innovative policy mechanisms to help strategic intersections provide rows of seating and planting in ensure that the technological “levers” proposed can be a neighborhood where such space is hard to come by. efficiently implemented. AECOM’s economic impact analysis of both the 30x30 and the 80x50 goals which analyzed This project reduced impervious surface in four pilot blocks construction, operations and maintenance, and long-term by 37,500 square feet, and a stormwater catchment area in productivity benefits accruing to the city’s economy including filtration beds, which accommodates 90 percent of the city’s personal income and regional productivity helped the city annual storm events. The project considered material better understand the long term benefits of these policies. selection, treatment of stormwater and increased tree canopy coverage to reduce the impact of heat in the city. 14 AECOM People Board of Directors Chairman and CEO As a global firm operating in more than 140 countries around the world, AECOM’s business is about people: our people, President COO clients, investors, suppliers and communities. That’s why our focus on people drives much of our success as Chairman’s Advisory Board we move toward being recognized as the true global leader of professional services by our clients, the place to grow Architecture; Building Engineering; professionally by employees, and a valuable investment by Construction Services; our shareholders. Design + Planning; Economics; Energy; Capabilities Environment; Government; Mining; And our commitment to integrity is part of the organizational Oil + Gas; Program Management; DNA that has enabled AECOM to become an industry leader. Program, Cost, Consultancy; While AECOM’s vision for a more sustainable future drives Transportation; Water much of our work, including the foundation of how we operate as a company. These fundamental commitments are visible in the everyday practices of our people. Whether through the services we provide or our volunteer efforts in the community, Africa, Americas, Asia, we live AECOM’s Purpose: to create, enhance and sustain the Geographies Australia and New Zealand, world’s built, natural and social environments. Europe, Middle East Governance AECOM is a publicly listed (New York Stock Exchange: ACM) provider of professional technical and management support Architecture, Engineering + Planning, services for public and private sector clients in more than 140 International Development, Logistics, Government countries around the world. Services Operations + Maintenance, National Security Programs, We are governed by a 12-member Board of Directors, which Program Management ensures the company maintains its position and reputation as an ethical leader. There are eight members of the Board who Communications, Ethics + Compliance, are independent Directors. Finance + Accounting, Human Resources, Information Technology, Click here to learn more about AECOM’s governance. Corporate Integrated Management Systems, Services Legal, Risk Management, Safety, Health & Environment, Security, Sustainability, Training + Development 2012 Sustainability Report 15 PEOPLE Engaging the right people operates with a high level of integrity when dealing with clients We realize that, through effective stakeholder engagement, and vendors. This intense commitment to integrity will help AECOM also provides benefits to society and creates shared AECOM better sustain a high-performance culture. value in areas such as efficient use of resources, better living We realize that adapting to change is an essential part of our and more-satisfying working places. continued success. In today’s digital age, companies are judged in part by how they interact with their stakeholders on social We are continuously evaluating our existing framework to ensure media. In 2012, for example, we expanded our social media our economic, social and environmental efforts best serve our presence by launching three new Facebook pages — AECOM customers, employees and business partners. Our internal and Technology Corporation, AECOM and Corporate Social external stakeholders see a strong sustainability strategy as Responsibility and AECOM and Sustainability — to provide our significant to our long-term business success. To help support employees, friends, family members, customers and vendors our robust sustainability strategy, during 2013, AECOM created a with a platform to engage and share news stories, photos, strategic partner sustainability assessment agreement, which videos and ideas. will survey our business partners on their sustainability efforts. The accompanying table outlines our key stakeholder groups, AECOM also continually reaches out to its clients to obtain how we engaged with them and related key topics. critical feedback in order to better understand their needs. It is clear in our minds that our clients’ success is the sole In an effort to solicit internal feedback on our sustainability determinant of our success. More sustainable outcomes will reporting, we worked to conduct a series of executive leadership make them more successful. In addition, our shareholders interviews and a brief online employee survey. This process and investors are also engaged through our annual meeting of helped us to focus on the topics that are most important to stockholders, quarterly earnings calls, analyst day and issues of sustainability. AECOM’s employees are some of our participation at investor and analyst conferences. As a global most important stakeholders, and their voices are crucial to company, we understand the important work of many ensuring that sustainability is embedded throughout our non-government organizations. AECOM has worked with NGOs organization. such as the Carbon Disclosure Project on complex carbon issues facing the world today and gained their valuable Employees also play a critical role in helping us meet our feedback and knowledge on some of the issues and targets. Most recently, we unveiled the results of the 2012 challenges facing our world today. Global Employee Survey, in which 10,163 respondents offered constructive feedback. AECOM achieved a 78.8-percent Throughout the year, we listen to our stakeholders, and participation rate for the Americas. According to the survey, 82 actively respond to their concerns, which helps us evaluate percent of all respondents revealed that they believe AECOM our progress and brings us closer to achieving our goals. Stakeholder Methods of Key groups engagement topics Clients Interviews -Incorporating sustainability in project delivery -Measurable outcomes -Understanding stakeholder needs Employees Surveys -Environmental performance -Ethical business practices -Implementing sustainability into our projects -Sustainability in AECOM operations Stockholders Annual Meeting of Stockholders, -Financial performance Quarterly earnings conference calls, -Critical business practices Letters/communications to Board members and committees -Corporate social responsibility Government Workshop -Leading by example and interviews -Environmental performance -Addressing community needs NGOs/Academia Interviews -Ethical communications and business practices -Incorporating sustainability in project delivery Partners (suppliers, Interviews -Financial performance joint ventures and -AECOM’s sustainability policy subcontractors) -Ethical business practices -Corporate social responsibility 16 AECOM PEOPLE Acting ethically and with integrity As a publicly listed (New York Stock Exchange: ACM) provider of professional technical and management support services for At AECOM, we will not compromise our ethical principles or public and private sector clients in more than 140 countries integrity to achieve success. In fact, we are driven by a around the world, AECOM is governed by its 12-member Board strongly-held culture of integrity that is built on mutual trust of Directors, which ensures the company maintains its position and respect between our people, clients and communities. and reputation as an ethical leader. There are eight members of This commitment is exemplified by AECOM’s designation as the Board who are independent directors. one of the “World’s Most Ethical Companies” by the Ethisphere Institute during 2013. This prestigious award In 2013, AECOM’s compliance and ethics program was also reflects the leadership commitment that AECOM exhibits awarded the coveted “Overall Governance, Compliance and throughout our global operations. Ethics (small to mid-cap)” award as part of Corporate Secretary magazine’s fifth-annual Corporate Governance Awards Andrew Hable Civil Engineer Andrew, a civil engineer in Chicago, Illinois, United States, was named a finalist in the New Faces of Engineering program by the American Society of Civil Engineers. Throughout his career, Andrew has demonstrated his personal and professional commitment to improving lives through engineering. Click to view more. Most recently, Andrew served as the lead for dynamic stormwater management modeling of approximately seven Circle Interchange in Chicago miles of trunkline storm sewers, ranging in size up to eight AECOM has signed on to a two-year contract with the Illinois inches high, along with two pump stations with a total capacity Department of Transportation (IDOT) for engineering studies of approximately 90,000 gallons per minute. Moreover, within as part of a planned major reconstruction project in the heart an accelerated schedule, Andrew developed and analyzed of Chicago. various alternatives in close coordination with a large project team to work toward a proposed drainage design. Through the Under the contract, the team will identify the scope of implementation of a detailed dynamic model, the project team improvements, potential cost and construction schedule for was able to understand the existing deficiencies in the system the reconstruction of the city’s Circle Interchange. The and the impacts of alternatives to provide major drainage interchange carries more than 400,000 vehicles per day. improvements at and around Chicago’s Circle Interchange. During 2010, the U.S. Federal Highway Administration and the American Transportation Research Institute identified the From 2007 to 2009, he volunteered in a Peace Corps interchange as the No. 1 bottleneck among highways crucial engineering program, living and working in rural Panama. He to the nation’s freight transportation system. worked with locals, oversaw budgets, trained and managed project coordinators and facilitated the planning and construction of a community’s first safe drinking water system. Andrew holds a Masters degree from the University of Cambridge in Engineering for Sustainable Development. Click to view more. 2012 Sustainability Report 17 PEOPLE TRIR LTIR improvement improvement 24% 50% program, which recognized the work and contributions of our As a global company operating in more than 140 countries, we compliance and ethics programs during 2012. are constantly revising and updating our programs to adhere to ever-changing regulatory standards and requirements. Our Our foremost Core Value is “Integrity” because we believe that Policy Statement establishes and maintains a framework for our ethical performance forms the foundation of our success. our overall SH&E program, which is founded on 12 guiding This is reflected in our Code of Conduct. Every AECOM principles: risk management, resources, leadership, employee, officer and director is required to thoroughly read compliance, involvement, sustainability, training, industry and understand AECOM’s Code of Conduct and its application leaders, working with others, performance, assessment and to our business responsibilities and to confirm that reporting. Our commitment to these principles drives us to commitment in writing. Essentially, our Code addresses proactively incorporate our safety standards into everything AECOM’s professional, ethical, financial and social values, we do. At the same time, we focus on integrating innovative and manifests our commitment to our clients, shareholders, techniques throughout the numerous regions in which we partners, and the communities in which we live and work. operate, and our trained safety leaders ensure that this Core Ultimately, our Code governs our daily conduct and protects Value remains a priority everywhere we operate. our reputation. More information about the Code can be found on our website at www.aecom.com. Our safety and health performance is measured by two principal metrics: AECOM also has an established Global Ethical Business Conduct Policy, which was launched to formalize Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR): The total number of accountability and provide guidance to ensure ethical work-related incidents that result in injury and or ill health business conduct through compliance with applicable requiring medical attention beyond first-aid, restriction of anti-corruption laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt work activities and/or absence from the workplace in order to Practices Act, the OECD Anti-Bribery Convention, the recover. This number is then normalized to provide a rate of Prevention of Bribery Ordinance under Hong Kong’s occurrence per 200,000 hours worked. Thereafter, the Independent Commission Against Corruption, the Corruption resultant rate is used to measure the frequency of all workof Foreign Public Officials Act in Canada, the U.K. Antirelated injuries/illnesses. bribery Act, and the Criminal Code Act in Australia. The policy addresses AECOM standards and compliance Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR): The number of work-related practices, and provides tools that can help detect and incidents that result in injury and/or ill health and absence prevent suspected violations. Furthermore, AECOM provides from work for one or more days. This number is then a variety of training and development opportunities to normalized to provide a rate of occurrence per 200,000 hours employees to reinforce our Core Values, the Code of Conduct worked. The resultant rate is used to tabulate the relative and other compliance requirements. severity of work-related injuries/illnesses. Keeping people safe and maintaining As stated in our Safety Core Value, our ultimate goal is zero work-related injuries and incidents. We understand that it is the environment important to provide our stakeholders with interim targets to Safety is a fundamental part of our DNA. We see safety as a assure we maintain constant and steady improvement and Core Value embedded in our culture — from how we work inside focus throughout our regions. While we did not achieve our the office to every decision we make on a project site. To us, it ultimate goal during fiscal year 2012 (FY12), we did, however, means maintaining a healthy, vibrant workplace and ensuring continue to show strong improvement as compared to our that we protect our people and preserve facilities, property, baseline year of FY10 as shown below: equipment, and the environment. -TRIR improvement of 24 percent We understand the foundation of creating a safe work -LTIR improvement of 50 percent environment. Our trained professionals are dedicated to operating, and maintaining, our projects in a safe and In the wake of sociopolitical unrest that has gripped many efficient manner that is beneficial to residents, the nations, AECOM has designed comprehensive travel environment, and society at large. management safety and security systems that are used to ensure that our employees remain in a safe zone, if needed, 18 AECOM PEOPLE Employee Survey participation rate 82% when they are travelling or working abroad. One thing is certain, however, we are always listening to our During 2012, we achieved many safety excellence awards and employees. The thoughts and feelings of all our people are certifications from clients and credible industry organizations. It equally important and can help us create a better AECOM. is through our proactive SH&E teams that we have created a safe Last year, we conducted a Global Employee Survey, which and sustainable setting for our people. These professionals are achieved a 82 percent participation rate. responsible for implementing robust SH&E programs and supporting the use of SH&E tools that both educate AECOM Some of our employee networks are: employees about safety, and equip them with the necessary safety prevention knowledge to help them make the right -America’s Women’s Leadership Collaborative; decisions. Some of these tools include the behavioral program -LGBT (lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender) + Allied titled “Safety for Life,” online training needs assessments, Chatter Group; and online training management systems, online Safe Work Method Statements (SWMS), and the positive incentive reward card, -ANZ Working Parents Group. which recognizes and rewards proactive safety behavior. In 2012, we received many accolades that represent our commitment to fostering a culture of inclusion: Bringing diversity to the forefront -Top-ranked U.S. Engineering and Construction Company in At AECOM, we realize that a diverse group of people can bring the Human Rights Campaign’s 2013 Corporate Equality fresh ideas to help address many of the world’s most complex Index (CEI) for second straight year; challenges. Over the years, we have built a solid workforce that consists of dedicated professionals who come from -Pacific Gas and Electric’s (PG&E) 2011 Supplier Diversity richly diverse backgrounds and who continue to contribute Leader of the Year; significantly to AECOM’s business, innovation and growth. -Women’s Transportation Seminar International’s Employer of the Year; We strive to have our organization reflect the overall internal talent pool, external labor market and communities -Named “Best Diversity” company by readers of Diversity/ that we serve. It not only supports our Core Values, but is Careers in Engineering and Information Technology central to a robust, collaborative work environment that magazine; and enhances the overall AECOM experience for our employees, -Received the Diversity Leadership Award at the annual clients and stakeholders. Women’s Transportation Seminar — Los Angeles Chapter’s (WTS-LA) luncheon for our commitment to developing and For us, diversity expresses itself in many different ways sustaining Diversity and Inclusion programs in the — age, gender, race, nationality, language, culture, marital workplace. status, sexual orientation, religion, belief or creed, education, disability and experiences. With employees in more than 140 As an equal opportunity employer, AECOM maintains a work countries worldwide, we strive to maximize the potential of environment that is free of discrimination and harassment. Our this diverse group by embracing uniqueness and creating an Good Working Relationship policy prohibits any conduct that opportunistic and inclusive work environment where everyone displays discrimination, sexual harassment, workplace feels respected and valued. harassment, victimization, bullying or vilification. Our officers, management and supervisors at all levels are responsible for Our diversity initiatives have allowed us to continuously ensuring that the spirit and intent of this policy is embedded attract and retain top talent in our workforce. Through a into everything we do. Each employee has the responsibility to myriad of educational and professional growth opportunities, treat every colleague or applicant for employment with respect performance-based incentives, and other competitive and in a fair, non-discriminatory manner. benefits, we have managed to strengthen our human capital and build a solid workforce with a mosaic of professional and technical skills. 2012 Sustainability Report 19 PEOPLE Click to view more. Sydney Park Stormwater Harvest Client: City of Sydney, Australia An integrated design process was adopted for the Sydney Park Stormwater Harvesting Project. The overall objective Felicity Briody was to integrate the human, environmental and engineering Water resources engineer design requirements to create a response that provides social, environmental and economic functions. In essence, to improve the water supply and health of the aquatic Felicity Briody, has been named one of the Australian environments within Sydney Park’s wetlands, AECOM Financial Review’s (AFR) 100 Women of Influence, under the designed a stormwater harvesting and treatment system. The category of Young Leader. Felicity was recognized for the complexity of the storm water harvesting process has been Power of Engineering (PoE) program, which she co-founded. seamlessly integrated with the adjacent existing wetland It was initially a joint initiative by Women in Engineering environment to improve water quality and provide flood Queensland and the Queensland Government Office for mitigation and amenity for users. Women, supported by AECOM and Queensland University of Technology, and is now a standalone not-for-profit Engineering interventions within the bioretention system have organization. “Engineering is not just about mathematics and been dispersed and concealed within natural forms, creating hard hats — engineers have the power to shape the world a landscape setting instead of a hard-edged engineering they live in, and both innovation and creativity are imperative response. The project demonstrates a high level of technical to creating solutions and ultimately changing the world,” said skill integrated with appropriate planting, the sensitive use of Felicity. “With 2012 having been Engineers Australia’s Year of materials such as recycled brick to reflect the site’s history the Regional Engineering Team, it remains fitting that we and the art interpretation of the “perch posts,” a safe rousting educate as many students outside of metropolitan areas for water fowl. about the possibilities this career offers.” 20 AECOM PEOPLE A new trend in development: Beijing Tongzhou Downtown Master Plan and Sustainability Guidelines After years of rapid urbanization, Beijing is responding to community pressures caused by an increasing population, stressed infrastructure and change in climate, by implementing a monumental sustainable redevelopment program in the region’s Tongzhou District, shown at left. Beijing’s government is developing 48 square kilometers of brownfield land just southeast of the capital city. Described as the largest new construction project in Beijing — Tongzhou New City will be the home to one million residents and a central business district envisioned as a thriving center of commerce, hub of creative capital, and cultural exchange. Through the use of the Sustainable Systems Integration ModelTM (SSIMTM) to guide the land planning process, Tongzhou New City is expected to achieve a 20-percent carbon footprint reduction from current conditions. AECOM’s proprietary model, SSIM, provides a quantification methodology that integrates land use, infrastructure and building principles with cultural values, allowing the development team to evaluate and compare the cumulative impact of alternative design scenarios. In Tongzhou, the result is a low-carbon metropolis that will set new standards for development worldwide. Click to view more. Masdar Siemens HQ Building Location: Masdar City, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates Click to view more. AECOM is engaged as the design and site supervision consultants for the Siemens HQ building in Masdar City, an emerging clean-technology cluster located in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. Consisting of 21,695 square meters of office space, AECOM’s sustainable design includes the testing of various outdoor thermal comfort strategies using advanced simulation techniques such as energy modeling, computational fluid dynamics, daylighting simulations, which will, in turn, drive and integrate an innovative design process at different scales in relation to wind, daylighting, floorplate efficiency and public realm integration. The project was awarded the 2012 Architectural Review Future Office Award by MIPIM, an international property group, in recognition of its innovative thinking. Currently, the project is in line to achieve a LEED Platinum rating and most likely Estidama 4 Pearls. 2012 Sustainability Report 21 PEOPLE Click to view more. Tuvalu Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency Unit To the local population of 11,000, living on nine low-lying islands about 620 miles north of Fiji, the supply of diesel for power generation is not only costly but also unsafe and Click to view more. environmentally risky. AECOM worked with the Tuvalu Electricity Corporation (TEC) for 18 months to outline a master ADAPT Asia-Pacific program plan for the conversion of the power generation from diesel to At AECOM, we strive for success. Under the ADAPT Asia-Pacific renewable energy. A total of US$55 million of funding would program, we are working to establish a fully functional and be required for generation equipment, inverters, batteries self-sustaining adaptation project, preparation facility that and grid management systems. will support preparation of specific projects and build the capacity of the region’s governments to independently access The US$420,000 project focused on planning, institutional climate adaptation funds. AECOM implements the project on development, project management and capacity building. behalf of the U.S. Agency for International Development. The highlight of the project was the Prime Minister of Tuvalu A major barrier exists to the rapid mobilization of adaptation committing his nation to the concepts of the master plan at the funds, which is the lack of a common platform for fund Rio+20 Conference in June 2012. managers and project proponents to explore possible projects, learn from each other, and identify capacity strengthening needs. Essentially, ADAPT Asia-Pacific aims to strengthen the capacity of government agencies in target countries to prepare and implement climate change adaptation projects. ECO-Asia We are working closely with The United States Agency for International Development (USAID) in Asia to improve sustainable potable water delivery, so that existing utilities can expand their services into depressed and peri-urban areas. ECO-Asia has improved access to water and sanitation for more than 95,000 people. 22 AECOM Environment Greening our operations Asia: In our Hong Kong Shatin office, reducing waste of all types is a priority. Staff members switch off computer power Our aim is to reduce the environmental impact of our operations and lighting after work. Moreover, all employees are by conserving energy, water and other resources throughout our encouraged to use recycled paper and minimize the use of global operations. paper cups. Air-conditioning is being closely managed to save electricity and reduce environmental impact. We are working to roll out new and comprehensive initiatives to help reduce costs as well as conserve paper, ink and Americas: AECOM’s office in Arlington, Virginia, United energy. During fiscal year 2012, we piloted green printing States, received Energy Star certification for greening its practices in many offices around the world that provide a operations. The work consisted of adding lighting sensors, consistent approach to monitoring our sustainability extensive paper-recycling efforts, florescent light bulb performance. This process is currently being implemented in recycling, low-flow toilets and urinals, faucet sensors, green every office in 140 countries companywide during fiscal years cleaning practices, green pest management, direct digital 2013–2014. Furthermore, we are working with a document controls (DDC) for heating, ventilation, and air conditioning solutions company to develop an innovative system that (HVAC) electronics recycling, and water meter monitoring. reduces costs and embraces these best printing practices. As part of this partnership, AECOM has a set of printing Africa: Our operations in Africa have implemented water guidelines that focuses on paper use as well as the reduction conservation (dual flush toilets), energy conservation (light of toner and ink. timers, water heaters), recycling (paper only), and a unique transportation program by which staff members are urged to We surveyed our top 50 largest offices and currently are use the Gautrain and Metro Train stations and the easy access certified in LEED, BREEAM or energy star rated in 19 of those to a bus network. office buildings. We aim to ensure that our buildings and our employees adhere to the applicable requirements and reduce Europe: We are always looking for ways to have a positive our environmental impact. That’s why AECOM’s global impact on our environment. In Europe, the building housing operations have approximately 250 of AECOM’s 450 offices Davis Langdon, an AECOM subsidiary, achieved BREEAM worldwide being ISO14001 certified. Certification classification of “excellent” for taking a holistic approach to going green. Some of the efforts included Following are highlights of how we have aligned our green recycling paper, water reduction, and installation of lighting initiatives globally: sensors for AECOM employees. Australia and New Zealand: We launched ”Sustainability Week” — activities and events developed to educate and gain feedback from employees about sustainability initiatives at work. We conduct regular behavioral energy audits of all employees to establish baseline performance and cut back energy costs. The building at 2 Victoria Avenue in Perth (below), Western Australia, achieved a 6 Star Green Star design — Office as Built v2. 2012 Sustainability Report 23 ENVIRONMENT Click to view more. Asia: Collaborate and transform AECOM’s fully integrated planning, design, and management capabilities are proven to make cities and regions better by advancing strategic thinking and human progress. Through integration and collaboration practices, AECOM builds resilient structures around the globe. More specifically, AECOM is working with the Hong Kong Boundary Crossing Facilities, China Merchant Real Estate and the Singapore Environment Council to help promote sustainability throughout the regions. Click to view more. Collaborate: Jingshan Sustainable Creative Park in Guangzhou AECOM House, Auckland (Five Green Star AECOM is helping China Merchant to develop a landscape design that will not only provide open spaces for office Office Design Rating) workers to enjoy, but will help manage stormwater through Auckland, New Zealand integrated Water Sensitive Urban Design features. The Environmental responsibility within AECOM landscape will collect, clean and store urban stormwater, mitigating flood risk on the site and reducing water demand. In October 2012, local AECOM employees moved into a new The China Merchant Real Estate, for example, is looking to home on Mahuhu Crescent in Auckland, New Zealand — a design a sustainable and creative park for offices and retail beautifully designed building that successfully achieved a Five spaces in its future headquarters. The group envisions a Green Star Office Design and Built rating by the New Zealand “world-of-art” green headquarters tower, retail street areas, Green Building Council. The Five Green Star rating confirms an international-brand hotel, a large-scale international that AECOM House has achieved “New Zealand Excellence” in convention center, and a sports plaza, together with other sustainable design, construction and maintenance. supporting facilities. Employees at AECOM House are encouraged to explore Transform: Singapore’s Environment Eco-Establishments sustainable ways of traveling to work through access to Initiative Rideshare, the creation of designated parking spaces for The Singapore Environment Council (SEC), an independent motorbikes and bicycles, and the distribution of transport non-government organization (NGO), wanted to transform its Discovery Passes so staff can experience the ease of getting to current structure of certification, criteria and audit protocols work by bus, train and ferry. The full shower, locker and towel for various types of establishments (i.e., office, school, food service facilities available in AECOM House further support our court, hotel and community center) in accordance with commitment to promoting healthy lifestyles and making active international environmental guidelines such as ISO14001 in modes of transport more accessible to all staff. order to target specific organizations. 24 AECOM ENVIRONMENT Carbon footprint Data availability varied widely by source. For most of our employees and offices, detailed records were readily With a global economy powered largely by fossil fuels, the available for fleet vehicle fuel consumption, car rentals, and amount of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas commercial air travel. Because we lease our office space, we equivalents in the atmosphere continues to increase. rarely pay utilities directly, and usually share buildings with other tenants; therefore for most offices we estimated fuel Like many of our clients, AECOM is committed to managing and electricity use based on square footage and heating and the carbon footprint of our own operations in addition to cooling degree days obtained from nearby airports. working with clients to find opportunities to reduce their greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Since AECOM provides consulting services and does not manufacturing a product, we have normalized our emissions Our GHG inventory based on the number of employees. During fiscal year 2012 Building on earlier efforts by some of the firms that have our global headcount averaged 45,000. Our emissions joined AECOM, during 2011, AECOM developed a partial footprint is 4.5 Metric tons of CO2e per employee. inventory of its GHG emissions, focusing on 78 of our largest offices as well as business air travel, which was the major Initiatives and accomplishments source of the total emissions estimated in 2011. For 2012, our As the largest contribution of the company’s carbon footprint goal was to develop a more complete carbon footprint came from sources such as business travel, purchased analysis and investigate goals for reducing emissions. The electricity, office heating and fleet vehicles, we are continuing 2012 inventory is AECOM’s first effort to conduct a to work to reduce travel and consolidate office space, as well comprehensive companywide assessment of the Green House as develop green purchasing policies and leases, which place Gas emissions that result from the company’s operations. It is sustainable practice requirements on the building’s leaser. In consistent with the Voluntary Reporting Protocol developed addition, we assessed our top 50 offices to determine by the World Business Council for Sustainable Development whether they met building certification standards such as and the World Resources Institute. Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) or Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment The 2012 inventory focuses on emissions of CO2e (CO2, CH4, Method (BREEAM). It was determined that 19 offices met and N2O) and includes Scope 1 emissions, which are direct building certification standards. emissions from our offices and fleet vehicles; Scope 2, which are emissions from the generation of purchased electricity; and Scope 3 emissions due to employee business travel. Emissions were calculated or estimated using readily available data. Appropriate proxy values were used when desired data was missing. Scope Emissions Source Metric Tons CO2e Pct of AECOM total Primary data* Estimation internal 1 Fleet vehicle emissions 18, 371 10% 90% +/10% 2 Office electricity 67, 688 37% 30% +/30% 3 Staff business air travel 71,053 39% 95% +/20% 3 Staff business ground travel 25,732 14% 50% +/20% Total CO2e emissions 182, 844 100% 82% +/20% *Percent of staff for whom primary activity data was available to calculate emissions. Where primary data was not available, proxy data was used to infer activity levels. 2012 Sustainability Report 25 ENVIRONMENT Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) releases its 2012 global cities report In 2012, AECOM partnered with the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), an independent, not-for-profit organization that works to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and drive sustainable water use by businesses and cities. AECOM volunteered its expertise to provide data analysis, communications and information design for the CDP Global Cities 2012 report, making the incredible depth and breadth of information more accessible. Through encouraging cities to report both their attitudes to climate risk and their approach to mitigate and adapt to climate change, the CDP and AECOM hope to spread best practice and spur more climate action by cities globally. Click to view more. Measurement for Management CDP Cities 2012 Global Report Including special report on C40 Cities Written by Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Report analysis and www.cdproject.net information design for +44 (0) 207 970 5660 Carbon Disclosure Project by cities@cdproject.net 26 AECOM ENVIRONMENT Mitigating landslide risks in Hong Kong: Effect of change in rainfall Location: Hong Kong The effect on rainfall due to climate change has been a much debated topic for many years. In Hong Kong, the frequency and intensity of heavy rainstorms is expected to rapidly increase. The climate in Hong Kong is forecasted to become hotter and wetter in the next 100 years. The Hong Kong Observatory predicts that the frequency of extremely wet years (annual rainfall above 10 feet) will increase, from three extremely wet years in the period 1885–2008 to 10 extremely wet years in the 21st century. A team of AECOM engineers and specialist released a paper in 2010 that addresses the growing issues of excessive rainfall risks. However, AECOM is continuing to actively monitor the occurrence of landslides in Hong Kong under its current LandsLIDE Investigation Consultancy with the Geotechnical Engineering Office. Between 2010 and 2012, there have been no incidents of landslides, but looking ahead, the paper analyzed data and forecasted risks based on landslide frequency and magnitude relationships. Click to view more. Gautrain Rapid Rail Link System Gauteng, South Africa With a significant increase in car ownership and road traffic, South Africa needed to reassess its transportation infrastructure to ensure it met the needs of its increasing mobile population. The development of the Gautrain Rapid Rail Link System in South Africa changed the preferred transportation choice in South Africa towards a more environmentally friendly form of public transport. AECOM’s innovative sustainable development performance monitoring on the Gautrain Rapid Rail Link System translated political objectives into contractual obligations and set a new benchmark for how major infrastructure projects should be managed in South Africa. It ensured that the project effectively addressed sustainability — making a major contribution to the socio-economic development in South Africa as well as introducing a system sensitive to the environmental impact on the region. AECOM provided a range of sustainable services for the project, including overseeing one of the largest Environmental Impact Assessment’s (EIA) ever undertaken in South Africa Click to view more. and an analysis of impacts on geology, air quality, ground and surface water, and land use. 2012 Sustainability Report 27 Economy Enhancing shareholder value Avenue Subway and Eastside Access projects. In total, these massive efforts will represent about $30 billion in A Fortune 500 company, AECOM generated revenue of $8.2 infrastructure investment. And our project management billion during the 12 months ending Sept. 30, 2012. We are expertise allowed us to win the master planning for the 2012 proud to be recognized in Engineering News-Record’s 2012 Top London Olympics and the 2016 Rio Olympics as well as the 500 Design Firms rankings, where AECOM is ranked #1 overall program management for Crossrail, Europe’s largest civil four years in a row. And, for four consecutive years, Newsweek infrastructure project since the construction of the Chunnel. included AECOM on its U.S. Companies Green Rankings list. With more than 45,000 employees operating in more than 140 Our operating success is built on effective decision-making, countries, we also recognize that long-term growth is based which continues to position us well for the future. For fiscal on a solid reputation of ethics and integrity in our dealings year 2012, our revenue grew 2.2 percent from US$8.0 billion to with our clients and employees. US $8.2 billion, and our backlog expanded 3 percent from US$15.6 billion to US$16.0 billion. Our operational and financial success is fostered by our commitment to good corporate citizenship as well as Between fiscal years 2013 and 2015, we plan to reduce our communities and the environment. At the core of our real estate footprint by 20%, which translates to about $40 operations, we strive to make the right investments to satisfy million in annualized savings by 2015. the growing needs of our clients, which leads to better corporate performance and enhanced shareholder value. At Outlook for the future AECOM, we understand the need to deliver growth while At AECOM, we understand the need to sustain our growth creating value for our clients and for our shareholders, many while creating value for our clients, shareholders and of whom are our employees, who hold about 15% of our stock. employees. It is our responsibility to ethically grow our earnings and return maximum value to our shareholders while AECOM’s strength also lies in our geographical diversity. balancing environmental and social value. During FY12, we During fiscal year 2012, AECOM continued to expand our encountered periods of economic instability, and although geographic presence and the resources needed to better this had an adverse effect on some of our business segments, serve our global clients. During 2009, we were joined by a it helped define who we are as company. Against this Moscow-based firm that offered services complementary to backdrop, we remain committed to further intensifying our our own in order to create a regional foundation in Eastern client focus, streamlining our internal processes and Europe that would augment local client relationships, effectively managing our costs. construction management capability and our Russian marketplace expertise. Now, a few short years later, this For additional information about operational and financial region is one of AECOM’s fastest-growing markets. performance, please refer to our annual report for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012, filed with the U.S. Securities Despite economic challenges in Europe and the United States and Exchange Commission. during the past several years, our vision and diversified growth strategy have allowed us to remain a major player in the transportation, facilities, government services, and energy markets. For example, our deep transportation expertise helped us secure key roles on the New York Second 28 AECOM ECONOMY Innovation in India: The Leela Hotel, Eco Commercial Building, and 3M R&D Centre Client: The Leela Group Innovation lies at the heart of everything we do. It is through innovative and creative ideas that AECOM helps drive technology growth throughout various economies. The Leela Group is a premier hotel group in India that established its flagship green building prior to the start of the Commonwealth Games in 2010 with the construction of the Leela Hotel. This prestigious building is regarded as New Delhi’s first LEED Platinum Hotel. Through an integrated project delivery approach, AECOM played a crucial role in the luxury hotel’s sustainability success where different disciplinary teams discussed and resolved issues to achieve overall sustainable excellence in the design of the building. This project achieved a Platinum rating under LEED-India NC rating system with the following green elements: Click to view more. -50 percent energy savings over ASHRAE 90.1-2004 base building. Broadcasting House — a new era in -Use of a Combined Cooling Heating and Power (CCHP) media design system. Over a decade ago, the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) -100 percent waste water treatment done on site. took on its biggest challenge to date, to make its iconic -Maximum usage of daylight resulting in reduced lighting loads. central London building, the 80-year-old Broadcasting House, fit for the digital age. The world’s largest broadcaster turned to AECOM as lead building services consultant to take on the technical challenge of restoring and expanding its ageing landmark. The scale of the upgrade was immense. The result is a triumph in sustainability in a high-demand environment, which has earned the BBC the world’s first BREEAM Excellent rating for media design. The renovation is expected to save the BBC £736million (US$1.1 billion) over a 20-year period. Click to view more. 2012 Sustainability Report 29 Social responsibility Focusing on the outcomes hundreds of initiatives that positively affect where we live, work and beyond. In addition to donating our expertise, hard AECOM is committed to fulfilling its purpose in a way that is work and care, AECOM donated more than $1 million to not only economically profitable for the enterprise and our communities around the world. shareholders, but recognizes that everything we do has a social and environmental impact. Beginning in 2014, we will Educating our future: We are dedicated to enhancing global benchmark our efforts against international standards, and engineering and science resources through training, education, have already signed the U.N. Global Compact and set a scholarships, internships, participation in associationreporting framework around The Global Reporting Initiative. sponsored events and academic engagements as well as delivering education to urban and under-served communities. We believe that, by aligning our business values, purpose and Across the company, we are nurturing future engineers and strategy with the social, environmental and economic needs stars through funding AECOM scholarships, to mentoring our of all our stakeholders, we create a competitive advantage for youth through Architecture Construction Engineering (known our company, while embedding responsible and ethical as “ACE”) Mentor, giving them real-world challenges to solve . business policies and practices in everything we do. During 2012, AECOM contributed more than $1 million towards the education of our youth around the world. Community engagement is the core of our CSR program. AECOM and our employees have a long history of contributing Alleviating poverty and disaster recovery efforts:Everyone to society and the environment by supporting pro-bono, should have access to basic human needs. Through local and philanthropic and charitable activities in the places where we corporate supported efforts, we provide support for postwork and live, as well as in under-served communities. Social disaster recovery and long-term alleviation of conditions of responsibility is the foundation of our commitment to work poverty. From fighting hunger with local drives in our towards continuous improvement and responsible neighborhoods and volunteering at soup kitchens, to management of the economic, environmental and social providing drinking water in El Pital, El Salvador, which brought impacts of our activities. running water to every home, to our partnership with the International Red Cross/Red Crescent/American Red Cross in The creation, coordination, maintenance and management of helping to support life through the donation of blood. In our CSR strategy are the responsibility of the Chief Corporate addition to pro-bono services and thousands of volunteer Officer, with the support of the Global CSR Steering hours, AECOM has given more than $144,000. Committee and regional representatives. Supporting a healthier world:We understand the importance of AECOM focuses its pro-bono and charitable contributions in promoting and protecting the health and wellness of our the following five strategic areas: employees and our communities around the world. From our corporate wellness program in the Americas to dozens of local Strengthening our communities: Working to create better health-related events which supports the research in finding a opportunities for everyone, we support initiatives that make a cure for the many ailments that we face today, AECOM has visible, positive and material impact in the places where we matched our employees efforts and donated more than $377,000 work and live. We have hundreds of stories of how our during 2012. employees positively affect communities around the world. From providing our neighbors with a safe place to live through Protecting our planet:Our employees are dedicated to Habitat for Humanity to giving children with special needs a making the world a better place. We think we should also help healthy and safe environment to play, we have supported protect and enhance the natural capital we work so hard to make better. That’s why we are committed to conserving environmental resources and modeling sustainable practices, through activities such as planting and preserving trees; Far left: Catarina Portugal, urban cleaning rivers, lakes and shorelines; promoting clean air; and designer, volunteers with children in supporting diversity of wildlife. Nothing can replace human Ghana as part of Sabre Trust. energy, and in addition to volunteer hours, AECOM donated Video link: AECOM has a long history of more than $132,000 to protecting our planet. post-disaster recovery work across the Americas and around the world. For more information, please read our CSR review. 30 AECOM SOCIETY Charitable donations in 2012* AECOM’s 10 key contributions Environment Other 1. United Way $132k $127k 2. International Red Cross & Red Crescent Disaster Key contribution spend: $144k 3. March of Dimes $1,440,501 4. YMCA/YWCA 5. ACE Mentor Program TOTAL FY 2012 CSR spend: Community $1m+ 6. Academic Alliances (such as Clarkson $3,614,825 Professional University, Villanova University and $738k University of Queensland) 7. Engineers Without Borders 8. Professional Affiliations (such as Health Association of the State Floodplain $377k Education Managers, Consulting Engineers Canada $1m+ and the American Water Works Association) 9. Maasai Wilderness Conservation Trust *Total includes matched donations from individuals; 10. Memorial Scholarship Association however it includes only those parts of the company on its common financial system at the time. Sustainable development and social priorities AECOM has a constant drive to be the leader in our industry. The same holds true for our CSR efforts around the globe. As AECOM’s 2012 employee and company donations to charitable the company’s program grows, we will not only strive to be and philanthropic organizations globally totaled more than one of the largest contributors to our communities, but we US$3.5 million. Our employees logged thousands of volunteer aspire to be the best. hours with our CSR partner organizations in more than 100 countries, such as Engineers Without Borders (EWB), the Red Cross, Water for People, among many others. Read more about our partnerships on AECOM.com here. Top: AECOM volunteers partner with the American Red Cross for Superstorm Sandy relief. Far left: John Daza, AECOM bridge engineer, working with ACE Mentor Team 19 in New York City. Middle: Water for People thanks AECOM. Right: Ross Gordon Engineers Without Borders video. 2012 Sustainability Report 31 Awards At AECOM, we take pride in what we do and as a result, we The building engineering practice in Singapore was awarded the have received many accolades for our environmental and “International Award for Asia” from the KNX Association for its sustainability contributions. This reflects how our integrated lighting-management system on the AECOM Asia Square project. solutions allow us to better solve complex problems. The The Hong Kong Development Bureau awarded our civil following is a selection of some notable awards: engineering group the coveted “2012 Skyrise Greenery Merit Global Award (Planning/Research Projects)” for the design and build Named one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies for 2011, traffic improvements to Tuen Mun Road Town Centre Section. 2012 and 2013 by the Ethisphere Institute. The U.S. Green Building Council recognized our building AECOM is a “global sponsor” of Water For People — recognizengineering team in India with the “LEED India Platinum ing more than US$100,000 raised per year for the non-profit Certificate” for its work with Delta India Electronics. organization. Europe AECOM is a “global platinum sponsor” of Engineers Without We once again received the Gold Award for health and safety Borders — committing to charitable and in-kind donations of management from the Royal Society for the Prevention of US$100,000 annually. Accidents. Financial Times named AECOM among its Best Workplaces. Celeste Morgan, director for sustainability, was named one of Building magazine’s “Top 50 Rising Stars in Sustainability.” Engineering News-Record magazine ranks AECOM no. 1 design firm. AECOM was named the “2012 Building Services Consultancy of the Year” by the Chartered Institution of Building Services Careerbliss.com named AECOM as one of the top 10 compaEngineers. nies dedicated to making its employees happy. AECOM was named “U.K. National Champion” at the 2012– Americas 2013 European Business Awards. Won the “Overall Governance, Compliance and Ethics (small to mid-cap)” and in Corporate Secretary magazine’s fifthDavis Langdon, an AECOM company, was named “2012 annual Corporate Governance Awards program. Consultant of the Year” by the British Institute of Facilities Management. David Weight, a sustainability consultant for Davis Langdon, an AECOM company, was awarded the “2012 James Watt Paul Woods, technical director, building engineering, was Medal” by the Institute of Civil Engineers. named the “2012–2013 Champion of the Year” by the Combined Heat and Power Association. Thirty-one AECOM projects were named in ReNew Canada magazine’s “2012 Top 100 Infrastructure Projects in Canada.” Middle East AECOM’s design for the expansion of the American Hospital, David Forrester, FCIM, senior mining engineer, was awarded a in Dubai, won the first place award in the Health care category fellowship from the Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy at the International Interior Design Association Northland and Petroleum. chapter FAB Awards. Australia and New Zealand AECOM’s Msheireb Heart of Doha master plan received the AECOM directors Dr. Mark Gibbs and Donna Lorenz, along with overall “Best Future Project of the Year” award at World CSIRO economist Olivier Thebaud, were awarded the Engineers Architecture Festival 2012. Australia G.N. Alexander Medal for Hydrology and Water Resources at the “2012 Hydrology and Water Resources Symposium.” Siemens’ Headquarters in Masdar City, United Arab Emirates, for which AECOM provided building engineering and commerAsia cial management, has won the following: The Office of Corporate Sustainability received the “Merit Award for Sustainable Development” from the Royal Institute -Middle East Architects Awards “Sustainable Project of the of Chartered Surveyors. Year 2012.” -Middle East Architects Awards “Commercial Project of the Year 2012.” -International Property Awards Arabia “Best Office Architecture Award 2012.” 32 AECOM ADDITIONAL SUPPORTING DATA Click to view more. AECOM receives APEGBC’s Sustainability Award Employee numbers as of September 30, 2012 The Association of Professional Engineers and Geoscientists of BC (APEGBC) honored its 2012 President’s and Project Awards Americas 25,198 recipients in Victoria, British Columbia, Canada, on October 26 and 27, 2012. AECOM received accolades from the Association at Asia-Pacific 12,022 its annual conference by receiving its sustainability award for Europe, Middle East and Africa 8,580 the Wastewater Treatment and Disposal Systems Upgrade for Global total 45,800 the City of Cranbrook, British Columbia. APEGBC’s Sustainability Award recognizes a project that demonstrates a Explanatory note commitment to, and understanding of, the concept of Americas total includes employees working for our sustainability. government services group, who may be based outside the Americas. The project work involved improving treated wastewater quality, building capacity for the next 25 years of growth, replacing failing infrastructure with high-efficiency systems that limit environmental damage, preserving archeological sites, and maintaining and improving the sustainability features of the systems within approved budget. Our memberships -California Climate Action Registry -National Association of Flood & -Canada Green Building Council Stormwater Management Agencies Membership education plays a critical -Catalyst (NAFSMA) role in evaluating the success of our -Clean Energy Council -National Council for Air and Stream sustainable outcomes. The quality of -Community Business Diversity & Inclusion Improvement (NCASI) our work is reflected through our ability Asia Network -National Water Resources Association -Conference of Minority Transportation -New Zealand Green Building Council to leverage the best ideas while keeping Officials (COMTO) -Society of American Military Engineers up with industry trends. We are proud -Construction Management Association of (SAME) to be official members of the following America (CMAA) -Sustainable Remediation Forum (SURF) organizations: -Corporate Wetlands Restoration -U.S. EPA Green Power Partner -AHC Corporate Affiliates Group Partnership -U.K. Green Building Council -American Council of Engineering -Design Build Institute of America (DBIA) -U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC) Companies (ACEC) -Design Professionals Coalition -U.S. Business Council for Sustainable -American Membrane Technology -Energy Efficiency Council Development Association (AMTA) -Engineers Without Borders -Water and Urban Development, Asia -American Public Transit Association (APTA) -Global Carbon Capture and Storage -Water Design Build Council -American Public Works Association (APWA) Institute -Water Environment Federation (WEF) -American Road and Transportation -Green Building Council of Australia (GBCA) -Water Environment Research Foundation Builders Association (ARTBA) -International Audit Protocol Consortium (WERF) -American Water Works Association (AWWA) (IAPC) -Water Services Association of Australia -American Water Works Research -International Association for Public (WSAA) Foundation (AWWArf) Participation (IAP2) -WateReuse Association (WRA) -Association of Metropolitan Water -International Association of Public -WateReuse Foundation Agencies (AMWA) Transport (UITP) -World Environment Center -Association of State Dam Safety Officials -International District Energy Association -World Association for Waterborne (ASDSO) (IDEA) Transport Infrastructure (PIANC) -Association of State Floodplain Managers -International Ozone Association -World Business Council for Sustainable (ASFM) -International Water Association (IWA) Development -Australian Green Infrastructure Council -National Association of Clean Water -World Environmental Council (AGIC), Foundation Members Agencies (NACWA) -Women’s Transportation Seminar (WTS) -Australian Water Association (AWA) 2012 Sustainability Report 33 GRI INDEX Strategy and analysis Economic 1.1 Letter from Chairman and CEO John M. Dionisio, EC1-EC4 Annual report (p. 17, 95), Enhancing shareholder Perspectives of CSO Gary Lawrence value 1.2 Fiscal Year 2012 highlights, Our approach to Environmental sustainability, Enhancing shareholder value EN4 Carbon footprint 2.1-2.9 Governance, Annual report (p. 6) EN5-EN7 Greening our operations, Carbon footprint 2.10 Awards and recognition EN13 Projects EN16EN18 Carbon footprint Report parameters EN26 Our approach to sustainability 3.1 Fiscal year 2012 ended Sept. 30, 2012 EN28 Greening our operations 3.2 Fiscal year 2011 ended Sept. 30, 2011 3.3, 3.6-3.9, Labor practices and decent work 3.11 About this report, Carbon footprint LA1 Additional supporting data 3.4 Phone 213.593.8000 LA2-LA6; LA9-LA12; 3.5 Engaging the right people, Our approach to LA14 Not reported sustainability LA7-LA8 Keeping everyone safe and maintaining the 3.10 Annual report (p. 2) environment 3.12 GRI Index LA13 Bringing diversity to the forefront Governance, Commitments and Engagement Human rights 4.1 Governance Society 4.2-4.3 Governance, Annual report (p. 116) SO2; SO4 Annual report (p. 16, 12) 4.4 Engaging the right people 4.6 Acting ethically and with integrity Product responsibility PR1 Our approach to sustainability, Our product and 4.8 Purpose and Core Values, Social responsibility social responsibility 4.9 Governance, Our approach to sustainability PR5 Engaging the right people, Our product and social 4.10 Governance responsibility 4.11 Purpose and Core Values, Our approach to sustainability 4.12 UN Global Compact, Social responsibility 4.13 Memberships 4.14-4.17 Engaging the right people About AECOM AECOM is a global provider of professional technical and management support services to a broad range of markets, including transportation, facilities, environmental, energy, water and government. With approximately 45,000 employees around the world, AECOM is a leader in all of the key markets that it serves. AECOM provides a blend of global reach, local knowledge, innovation and technical excellence in delivering solutions that create, enhance and sustain the world’s built, natural and social environments. A Fortune 500 company, AECOM serves clients in more than 140 countries and has annual revenue in excess of $8.0 billion. More information on AECOM and its services can be found at www.aecom.com. HEADQUARTERS 555 South Flower Street, Suite 3700 Los Angeles, California, U.S.A. 90071-2300 T 1.213.593.8000 Printed on recycled paper V.01 ©2013 AECOM. All Rights Reserved.
