UN GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2014 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT I am pleased to confirm that Albatros Travel still supports the principles of the Global Compact with respect to all areas of concern. This Communication on Progress express our intent to advance those principles within our sphere of influence and particularly where we can make a difference. Albatros Travel will make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to share this information with our stakeholders and others of interest, using our primary channels of communication. Unfortunately much of the work we initiated in our last Communication on Progress has been on hold because of structural changes. This is visible for all areas of this report. It is important to state that we take our responsibility very seriously and we have delegated the responsibility of our CSR development and strategy to a new employee. Sincerely yours, Ariel Zlotnik CEO, Albatros Travel A Travel Company with Conscience, Care and Courage Albatros Travel values and respects the dignity of the individual and strives to preserve the world’s cultural and environmental diversity. It is our ambition to be industry leaders in this respect and we set high standards for ourselves and our business partners within; social, environmental and economic sustainability in line with UN Global Compacts principles for social responsibility. We want to be an inspiration to others and demonstrate how we operate responsibly as a profitable business. By prioritizing social responsibility we seek to attract the best employees and give our customers the opportunity to travel responsibly. HUMAN RIGHTS Vision We are aware that our operations have an impact on many people’s lives and therefore our impact on people is at the heart of our concern. We support the right to freely participate in the cultural life of the community, as facilitating our guests’ access  PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should to and knowledge about other peoples’ cultural life is an important part of our busisupport and respect the protection of ness. Responsible tourism creates the opportunity for indigenous peoples to continue internationally proclaimed human their traditional lifestyles in relatively remote areas with only little adaptation to modrights; and ern economy and culture. However visiting indigenous communities without free, prior, and informed consent and continued dialogue can have an adverse impact on the  PRINCIPLE 2: make sure that they human rights and create rapid unwanted change. In similar ways, visiting places of culare not complicit in human rights tural significance can lead to unintentional disadvantages to local community. abuses. Progress Since our last Communication on Progress, we have identified some elements of high risks, which we intend to address Impact on the local communities The locals are affected by tourism, especially in developing countries. We need to focus on those who have the low-income jobs in tourism dependent businesses and those who have no direct connection to the industry, but whose daily life is somehow negatively impacted by tourism. Child Labour Child labour will always be a risk in the tourism sector because there are so many low wage seasonal jobs. Customer safety Accidents occurring while travelling are a possible adverse impact on the health of our guests. Travelling always involves the risk of accidents, especially in less developed countries with poor infrastructure and lack of traffic regulations. Albatros Travel demands high safety standards from suppliers however safety regulations are not always abided by and thus need our constant awareness. We already have knowledgeable and experienced tour leaders, but we will strengthen our performance further by educating within human rights. In compliance we intend to establish a due diligence processes on all aspects of our sustainability platform, enabling us to identify, prevent and mitigate any adverse impacts on the core principles for human rights, the environment and anti-corruption. Results Albatros Travel see great potential in a cross-sector collaboration involving both local communities, NGO’s and travelers on new sustainable solutions for general improvement of our products. We recognize the right of everyone to work in an environment where individual dignity is respected, and will not condone any form of discrimination or harassment. Our focus on Human Rights and the risk of creating adverse impact has resulted in a long-term strategy and we will continue to improve our dialogue with the local community in order to develop sustainable methods to conduct our activities. All our tours are conducted by experienced tour leaders that have a special insight into local conditions and this way we ensure decent working conditions locally. Furthermore, we are able to make sure that all cultural encounters are done in the right spirit so that there is no negative impact on local society. Albatros Travel wishes to be precautionary and formalise our stand point on the matter of child labour. This will be included in our “Code of Conduct” which is under development and will be visible on our web page before the next COP.  PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should LABOUR uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the Vision right to collective bargaining; Given that we are in the travel business, we accept that the respect for diversity and meeting of cultures is in our line of responsibility and as a result of our core-operations  PRINCIPLE 4: the elimination of all we will, inevitably, see a meeting of different cultures. When we talk about the ethical forms of forced and compulsory ladimension of travel, first priority is treating people with equality and respect. This apbour. plies to both the people we work with and the people in other parts of the world whose land, neighborhood and homes we are visiting. There is both an economic di PRINCIPLE 5: the effective abolition mension i.e. ‘fair trade’ and a cultural diversity that must be considered. of child labour; and  PRINCIPLE 6: the elimination of Progress discrimination in respect of employOur staff, producers and tour guides have great experience and expertise in many of the countries in which we work. Our representatives generally speak the local language, ment and occupation. which brings us a high level of experience and knowledge enabling us to empower our vision and meet our principles. We find that there are many opportunities for combining our commercial interests with our ethical considerations, and we see no contradiction between the two goals. This specialist knowledge about local cultures and conditions helps to ensure that cultural encounters take place in the spirit that we want them to take place in i.e. an equitable one. Results We want to formalize our vision through our Code of Conduct and demand that suppliers must not only assure that they respect our aversion against child labour but also the respective country's labor laws with special emphasis on minimum wages, working hours and union participation. ENVIRONMENT Vision There are environmentally friendly alternatives in all branches of tourism and we have a great opportunity in showcasing our dedication towards environmental sustainability by documenting and reporting on these activities. It is our responsibility to make sure our manufacturers and travel guides monitor and report on given situations so that we can adjust our business towards a more sustainable environment. Unfortunately, there are numerous examples where environmental solutions are being used as an excuse for poor quality. Albatros Travel would like to emphasise that we will not compromise on quality. Environmental measures must go hand in hand with quality. This is our vision.  PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should Progress support a precautionary approach to Albatros Travel has assessed, and will continue to assess, the environmental impact of environmental challenges; new activities and our production. As of now, we monitor and map the energy consumption at our office in Copenhagen. We have also chosen to replace all paper for  PRINCIPLE 8: undertake initiatives printing with FSC certified recycled paper as soon as our current stock is depleted. It is to promote greater environmental reour practice to educate and train employees at company locations in environmental sponsibility; and awareness.  PRINCIPLE 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmenResults Albatros Travel installed timers on ventilation, which has shown savings on the contally friendly technologies. sumption of electricity and heating. During the first year, electricity consumption per employee decreased by 30%.  PRINCIPLE 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, ANTI-CORRUPTION including extortion and bribery. Vision As a travel agent, who provides services all over the world, we operate in countries where there are significant risks of unregistered workers, kickbacks, local ticket sharks and corrupt border police. Many of these elements relate to informal practices that are hard to change and require a long-term industry initiative to do so. Progress Albatros Travel will not work against any laws, nor take part in bribery or other unwholesome practices that are contrary to the ‘UN Code of Conduct’, to which we are signed up. We do not maintain off-the-books accounts, and any contribution to bribery and corruption is unacceptable. Internal controls are in place in order to prevent this. Furthermore we do not offer or accept gifts, besides normal gifts related to anniversaries, birthdays etc. Results Albatros Travel has identified no major adverse impacts on anti-corruption. We have initiated the development of an anti-corruption policy, which will include the aforementioned. This policy will be visible and available at www.albatros-travel.dk by the end of 2014. AECO The association was founded in 2003 and has since become an important organization repPROJECTS resenting the concerns and views of arctic expedition cruise operators. AECO is dedicated to managing responsible, environINTRODUCTION mentally friendly and safe tourism in the Arctic and Masai Mara in Kenya was the first destination of Albatros Travel strive to set the highest possible operating standards. and the reason we became a travel agency. Masai Mara sparked our focus on socially responsible business behavior. The Karen Blixen Camp was initially a project intended to be carried out and managed by the local community, but over time it beCONTRIBUTIONS came evident that we would have to engage ourselves and take a We offer both individual travelers and organizations lot more responsibility. This influenced our entire way of thinking the chance to make financial contributions to local as a travel agency and a business. projects, the value of which we have assessed in order that any donated money has the intended effect. All With Karen Blixen Camp and our focus on social responsibility we work Albatros Travel does in this area will always be learned a key lesson – it is an ongoing process and the saying funded by the company and never by an external “Rome was not built in a day” is quite pertinent. source. First we try to get the basic systems to function – when we succeed at this, we can focus on other aspects such as sustainable technology, preservation of nature, working conditions, education and sustainable development. FOREST SCHOOL In August 2012 we opened a forest school designed to teach the local youth in sustainable management of forestry. The school offers education in Information Technology and language classes to all employees. We acknowledge these as important competencies for developing a sustainable future for the local community. This project was facilitated in cooperation with Danida. CONSERVATION OF HERITAGE The hunter-gatherer Penan in Sarawak, in the Malaysian part of Borneo is one of our projects. Albatros Travel has supported Penan’s in Borneo for more than twenty years and it started as support in documentation of their battle against the destruction of their last remaining forests, and their way of life. Later we RED LAHU VILLAGE initiated support within medical care and food supply. It all culFrom 2013 selected Albatros Travel groups have visitminated with a village project where two large houses was built ed Red Lahu Village in northern Thailand. The activities for one of the last nomadic groups of the Penan’s who had to include insights in villagers' daily activities such as craft abandon their traditional nomadic lifestyle, due to the logging of production, market visits, tea picking and roasting. the rainforest. This is also one of the reasons we are changing to During visits our guests will have the opportunity to FSC certified paper at our headquarter. buy crafts and coffee directly from coffee producers, which will help to generate income for residents beyond the payment Albatros Travel offers.
