C.C. Brun Entreprise A/S C.C. Brun Entreprise A/S was established in 1947 and has gradually developed to become a professional, modern construction company with about 120 employees. General Period covered: From: October 2013 To: October 2014 Statement of continued support by the chief executive officer To our stakeholders I am pleased to confirm that C.C. Brun Entreprise A/S reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions, to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. During 2014, we engaged the services of an external consultant to help us with managing our CSR work. CSR management at C.C. Brun follows a three step strategy of identification and assessment of risks, definition and implementation of the measures needed and communication of the CSR work to stakeholders which include our suppliers, customers and our local society. The risk assessment covers the Global Compact areas described above related to our operations. An action based on the findings is drawn up by the end of each year and it defines the initiatives for the following year. We are committed, to constantly develop ourselves in a society that values and emphasises environmental and social responsibility. We strongly believe that actions promoting and improving the environment and social conditions are a part of C.C. Brun’s responsibility. It is important for us to work with suppliers and business partners that share our views on promoting sustainable and socially responsible principles in their daily operations. C.C. Brun is presently working on some very exciting projects and these are described on our web site http://www.ccbrun.dk/igangvaerende-sager/ Sincerely yours Kristian Lind Managing Director Human rights principles: Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and goals C.C. Brun’s policy is in line with principles 1 and 2 as described above. We expect that all suppliers and subsuppliers comply with the universal declaration of human rights. Our overall goal is that human rights violations are eliminated throughout our operations. We assess the situation regarding human rights through a questionnaire linked to a mandatory work environment evaluation and the inputs from our employees are discussed in the internal meetings. Assessment of the specific situation and either the preventative or the remedy actions are then put in place. Implementation and measurable results All employees are informed of their rights and the expectations of the company when they start work and a handbook is handed to them so they can refer to it. The employees are made aware of such issues as policies and procedures, rights about salary, absence, sickness, accident cover, holidays, responsibility areas etc. Each employee is also provided with an employment contract stating all the conditions. They are also given a copy of the various company documents describing such issues as salary, transport, work hours, time lists, emergency provisions etc. We have developed an action plan that includes focus areas, our goals, measures and how to implement these measures, the responsible persons for various activities and deadlines for these activities. The focus areas include: 1. Environment and climate issues 2. Work environment 3. Human rights 4. Customers 5. Business ethics and anti-corruption 6. Support to the local community and Charity organisations During last year, work in the human rights area has focussed on the evaluation of the present procedures as described above and identifying the risk areas within the present procedures. The work in this area showed that we needed to address certain areas and an action plan for 2015 describes the management of human rights and in particular three focus areas. The first area is the need for more knowledge regarding human rights issues. It is planned to provide specific information through our internal channels and through other means such as planned workshops, courses etc. The second area concerns the input/complaints area and here, we will introduce a system for inputs and intend making human rights and other CSR issues a regular part of our agenda at our internal meetings The third area concerns our suppliers and here we are in the process of formulating our “responsible purchasing policy” and a document which will be used to undertake due diligence of our suppliers in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. This document includes requirements on human rights issues and covers principles 1 and 2. We make sure that our new employees understand their rights through our information channels and documents that they receive upon work commencement. C.C. Brun commits to developing our relationship to both our employees and to our local communities over the next year. We support our employees and their family’s participation in local sport activities. Labour principles: Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Assessment, Policy and goals C.C. Brun respects people’s rights to have employee representation, including their right to join associations and we do not tolerate harassment. We expect that suppliers comply with C.C. Brun requirements. Regarding forced, compulsory and child labour which C.C. Brun does not tolerate. C.C. Brun is committed to providing equal opportunities in employment and to avoiding unlawful discrimination in employment or to our customers. Implementation and measurable results One of the problems in recent years has been the influx of foreign workers from lower salary countries, which led to the misuse of workers. All employees at C.C. Brun are treated equally no matter of origin. We follow and accept our responsibilities under all related Danish legislation and have procedures in place such as sight inspections to monitor sub-contractors and suppliers. C.C. Brun sites are open for third party inspection from government authorities and or from industry associations. All employees without discrimination to occupation are given the opportunity to attend both personal and work related courses aimed at building their professional and personal skills. We have for example conducted the following courses: • A two day course on working environment for all employees • One day course on team building for all employees • First aid course for 40 people • Follow up first aid course for 26 people • Relevant certificate courses (Crane, truck, etc.) for 45 people We make it very clear that child labour is not tolerated and we ask our material suppliers to comply with our code of conduct and to demonstrate compliance. We provide information documents for our employees regarding their working conditions and workers rights and other labour issues. We have established a safety committee that is active up to 2016 at which time a new committee will be re-elected. We expect our “responsible purchasing policy” to be finalised by the end of this year. This document includes requirements on labour issues and covers principles 3, 4, 5 and 6. Environment principles: Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, Policy and goals Our goal is to reduce environmental impacts throughout our operations and our environmental policy is based on prevention, reduction and responsible waste management. Implementation and measurable results Due to the nature of our business, resource use and recycling are central to reducing environmental impacts. We have therefore Procedures regarding on-site waste management that are built on prevent, recycle, reuse and dispose responsibly. Waste management has been in place in the construction industry for many years because it is an activity that is commercially viable especially in demolition projects. When recycling of waste is not possible, C.C. Brun has procedures for disposal of materials carrying hazardous chemicals, asbestos or any other such materials. Developed and Implemented waste sorting procedures at our own premises. Sorting is carried out according to municipality and the waste receiving company’s requirements. This is carried out practically by placing the required waste bins where they are needed. Procedures on minimising of waste and recycling such as returning waste to producers where possible. Insulation left overs for example are returned to the companies. C.C. Brun engages in close dialogue with stakeholders regarding sustainable solutions and new environmentally friendly technologies that cover the cycle from the contract/design stage to the final construction and disposal phase. Regarding energy reduction initiatives at our headquarters, we have installed light sensors to reduce electricity, procedures for optimisation of heat sources and are in the process of changing our vehicle fleet to more fuel -efficient models. We are evaluating the products we use in our premises continuously with the aim of eventually using only products certified with official Ecolabels where available. Our forthcoming “responsible purchasing” document covers principles 7, 8 and 9 Anti-Corruption principles: Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, Policy and goals Our policy states clearly that we do not tolerate corruption and bribery. Implementation and measurable results Procedures in place regarding anti-corruption: Employees are required to consult with management in case of gifts that are considered unusual or gifts representing a value that is beyond “normal”. They are also required to consult with management regarding offers of travel, meals, excursions or similar events We reject “Black” or undeclared work. We inform our stakeholders about our views regarding corruption. Our forthcoming “responsible purchasing” document covers principle 10. Comments: Communication of our CSR work to both our employees and our stakeholders is important and we have the following means of communication and procedures in place: We produce a news booklet “CCB Nyt” which has grown to become a major communication platform, which is published four times a year and is distributed to our employees and our stakeholders We also update our web site with news We conduct internal meetings that include: Management meetings every two weeks General meetingsall employees twice a year Communicate through project managers one-to one meetings with key stakeholders on a weekly basis Actively use social media such as Facebook Organisation C.C. Brun Entreprise A/S Direktion Entreprisedirektør Projektledere Formænd Maskinførere Kristian Lind Jan Stysiek Erling Flyvbjerg Finn Madsen Kloaklæggere Jørgen Christensen Frank Nielsen Betonsjak Benjamin Pedersen Kim Rehne Pedersen Tømrersjak Sekretær Flemming Christensen John Christensen Birgith Nielsen Martin Mortensen Anders Niekrenz Brian Mejlholm Brian Pedersen Byggeledere Jakob R. Ivarsen Adm / Økonomi Ronnie Hansen Bitten H. Petersen Brian Aarestrup Tanja Rosenkvist Kim Zachariassen Brolægger Brolæggersjak Lene Katana Emil Hellum Niels Nielsen Tilbud Servicearbejder Maskinsnedkeri Palle Knudsen Per Rasmussen Servicearbejde Kim Wiik Materiel / lager Lastbil med kran Jan Madsen Materieludlejning Maskinservice Smedeformand Smede Jesper Vive Nielsen Værkstedsarbejde Ekstern montage
