Communication on Progress – Swedbank Background Community engagement and social responsibility are two core elements of Swedbank´s history. Swedbank’s biggest benefit to society is achieved by helping our customers. Our broad customer base and strong local presence means that our success depends on the development of society. We have the greatest chances of achieving results in areas where our core expertise can contribute to resolving important challenges that engage our customers and employees. Besides doing everything a full-service bank does, only better and more efficiently, the key to our identity and business strategy is to offer banking services for the many and engage in the communities where our customers live and work. We focus our engagement on areas where we have special expertise and where we, together with our customers and partners, can make a difference. Swedbank has integrated sustainability consideration in core processes such as corporate lending, payments, supply chain and investments and we are reporting our results, progress and planes within the field of sustainability in our Sustainability report. The report is based on Global Reporting Initiative and all indicators in the report are linked to the ten Global Compact principles hence, the different aspects of the Communication on Progress are easily found in our sustainability report. Commitment to UN Global Compacts 10 principles Community engagement and social responsibility are part of Swedbank´s history. We are convinced that a bank can never be stronger than the society in which it operates. Our greatest benefit to society is in being a stable bank that genuinely supports sound and sustainable growth, for customers, shareholders, employees and society in general. Swedbank´s sustainability ambitions are in line with the 10 principles of the UNGC and Swedbank will continue its support of the United Nations Global Compact. Michael Wolf Our sustainability strategy Swedbank’s strategy for sustainable banking starts with the way we do business. Swedbank contributes to the financial infrastructure that is essential to a well-functioning society. We are and will remain a secure bank that does not jeopardize our own existence or the stability of the financial market through excessive risk taking. The work we do to promote a sound and sustainable economy is integrated in our business model in three main areas: Financial sustainability, Social sustainability and Environmental sustainability. By integrating these areas in the bank’s daily operations, we believe we can play an important role in contributing to sustainable development in the markets where we are active and in society as a whole. Sustainability is integrated in to our core processes as described below: Our way of working and results During 2013 we carried out a stakeholder dialogue and a materiality analysis in order to identify our focus areas within the field of sustainability. We maintain a continuous dialogue with customers, employees, investors and suppliers in this area. Decision-makers, opinion leaders and not-for-profit organizations are also stakeholders with which the bank discusses its operations and society’s development. As a result of our materiality analysis we have confirmed that our way of working, since 2011, when we did put further efforts in to our sustainability integration within core processes such as credits, purchase, investments and payments are well in line with the outcome of our materiality analysis. The result of Swedbank’s materiality analysis is described below: Focus and progress Our focus has been on integrating sustainability aspects in our central processes and development of a group wide framework for governance. This maintains our way of working with sustainability. Below you can see our focus areas more in detail and also follow our progress for social, economic and environmental sustainability:
