CSR REPORT 2013 Communication on Progress 1 2 Foreword DLG plays an important part as both a buyer and a supplier of raw materials, crops and feedstuffs in the first link of the food production chain, and DLG is also made up of a number of food companies. Inherent in this role is our responsibility to guarantee food safety, which requires DLG to maintain focus on all links of the value chain. In DLG, we have adopted a strategy stating that we intend to achieve a turnover of 8 billion euro by 2016. We are already close to our target in our 2013 financial statements with a turnover of 7,9 billion euro. DLG wishes to generate growth through acquisitions and by entering into partnerships in Denmark and abroad within our three principal areas: farm supplies; vitamins and minerals; and service & energy. As we continue to grow abroad, our corporate social responsibility (CSR) becomes an object of keener focus. The number of suppliers and customers is steadily increasing, and it is important for us to comply with key principles of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption, because we wish to do this as a business and because, in our view, the fact that we are a corporation with almost 8.000 employees means that we have social responsibility. Our occupational safety and health procedures exemplify an area where there is always room for improvement, despite our enormous efforts and continuous focus. This is evident in our occupational injury statistics where over the past 18 months we have unfortunately witnessed two tragic fatal accidents. This is deeply regrettable and emphasises the importance of having continuous focus on improving our safety procedures across the group. It is essential that we constantly seek to improve and emphasise safety at the workplace to avoid accidents in general and severe accidents in particular. In 2012, we joined the United Nations Global Compact, which is an international initiative comprising ten principles focused on responsible business operations. As part of the UN Global Compact, DLG works to implement the principles within human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption in the group’s day-to-day operations. At the same time, DLG undertakes to actively communicate the group’s CSR activities and results in an annual Communication on Progress (COP) report. This is the first COP in which we publish our goals and initiatives in a combined report, at the same time that we describe where we wish to proceed over the next year. That said, DLG’s involvement with CSR is nothing new. We have been involved with CSR activities for years. The new aspect of these efforts is that we are now focused on systematising and coordinating these efforts across the group, and this CSR Report is part of these efforts. In so doing, we have launched a process in which we seek to create a general view of the most significant CSR initiatives within the group and of how we deal with them. This year’s focus has been on developing an overarching CSR Policy for the group. The next step is for the individual business areas to work to understand their most significant CSR challenges and to stipulate precise targets for what they wish to achieve in the years ahead. We are very pleased with the fact that the publishing of this report means that we have launched a more systematic effort to improve DLG’s corporate social responsibility. Lars Sørensen Kristian Hundebøll CFO CEO 3 About DLG DLG has around 8,000 employees, 3,000 of whom work in Denmark. Germany is the Group’s largest single market. The DLG Group is also one of Europe’s biggest exporters of Germany is also biggest in terms of number of employees: malting barley, seed grain, feed, milling grain and oilseed There are some 3,800 employees in our German subsidiaries rape. In addition, via its associated companies, DLG is (HaGe Kiel, team AG and Deutsche Vilomix). involved in activities like the processing of crops and vegetables. Being a Group, DLG has many different parts to play: DLG supplies farmers with feed from its own factories, seed DLG has its own chain of retail outlets – Land & Fritid – where grain, fertilizer, agricultural lime, crop protection products DLG sells and provides advice concerning products in the and fuel for daily operations. In addition to farm supplies, areas of home & garden, pet products, telecom and much group activities include seed grain, plant protection more besides. products, vegetable products (including fruit and potatoes for catering), the retail trade, telecommunications, pot DLG Business Model: plant sales, etc. DLG’s business flow DLG services and supplies farmers and buys farmers’ crops. FOOD Production and sale of crops and vegetables EXPORTS CROP PRODUCTION Seed grain Fertilizer Crop protection Farm machinery SERVICE & ENERGY CROPS AND VEGETABLES Oil, fuel and energy Grain Telecom, insurance and Oilseed rape FARMER Concept Grain alarms Certification Land & Fritid DIY markets LIVESTOCK NUTRITION Feed solutions Vitamins and Minerals FEED DLG’s most important business areas are farm supplies; vitamins and minerals; and service & energy. 4 LIVESTOCK NUTRITION CROP PRODUCTION CROPS AND VEGETABLES SERVICE & ENERGY Feed compounds Seed grain Grain Telecommunications Feed supplements Crop protection Oilseed rape Energy Premix Fertilizer Crop processing Insurance Amino acids Farm machinery Foodstuffs Retail operation DLG a.m.b.a. Land & Fritid team AG (51,2%) pr. 31.12. 2013 HaGe Kiel (54%) Svenska Foder Svenska Foder DLG Tele (50%) Scandinavian Farmers (50%) TNM (15%) Agro Supply (50%) GASA BØG (82%) Calcialment (75%) Kongskilde Industries DanGrønt Products Dangødning (35%) DLG FOOD DanHatch (50%) Dankalk (56%) DANESPO (50%) Deutsche Vilomix DataLogisk (70%) DANESPO food (50%) DLG Vet (50%) European Crop Protection (46,5%) DLG Food Grain European Agri Trade (28%) European Fertilizer (47%) European Freeze Dry (90%) Fodermix Sejet Planteforædling (75%) GASA Nord Grønt (50%) Nagro (52,8%) Lammefjordens Kartoffelskrælleri Nomus (50%) Lammefjords Grønt (91,4%) Stormøllen A/S (70%) Pure Oil (50%) Tjørnehøj Mølle Samsø Syltefabrik Vitalys (90%) Vitfoss Danæg (30%) DLG is an independent legal entity. The company’s name is “Dansk Landbrugs Grovvareselskab a.m.b.a.”. The company is a cooperative society with limited liability (a.m.b.a.) and is domiciled at the Axelborg office building in Copenhagen. The objects of the company are: a. to provide members with farm supplies of the best suitable quality; b. to process and sell the cash crops of the members; c. to assist members with services and auxiliary aids of any kind; d. to work for the benefit of agriculture in general, with a view to securing the best possible production finances for its members by conducting activities in Denmark and abroad. The table shows an overview of DLG’s subsidiaries and associated companies, specifying DLG’s ownership percentage in the individual companies. 5 Our CSR approach We believe that our CSR efforts provide the best results when we focus on areas that create the most value for our most important stakeholders, customers, owners, employees and suppliers – and for DLG as a business. In other words, our CSR efforts support our business and help us to achieve our strategic goals. DLG’s CSR approach is driven by three fundamental principles: • The CSR effort must be strategic, meaning that our activities must be relevant, take account of stakeholder needs and consolidate our business. • We must maintain continuous focus on what is the most significant. As a result, our CSR efforts must have the greatest impact on our market position and be crucial for our ability to run a profitable business in the long term as well. By contrast, we also recognise that areas in which we exert lesser influence can have a great impact on our business and our stakeholders. • Therefore, we must always weigh the pros and cons. • CSR efforts must be consistently planned as part of our practical day-to-day operations in respect of the diversity of DLG’s business areas. In this way, we realise that not all CSR topics are equally relevant in the various business areas of the DLG Group, and that our efforts to systematise our work must also accommodate the diversity within the organisation. For instance, focusing on the volume of energy we use in production processes and to operate our farm-supplies division is crucial because it helps us to reduce costs for the benefit of both the environment and our customers. Similarly, responsible supply chain management is important as we see significant CSR-related challenges inherent in our procurement of raw materials, vitamins and minerals, etc. 6 DLG supports the United Nations Global Compact throughout the system so that each business unit can DLG joined the UN Global Compact in 2012. In 2013, DLG incorporate these values in its part of the DLG Group. focused on setting out an internal framework for a valuecreating effort to implement the ten principles of the Obviously, these three areas of focus are nothing new in UN Global Compact. To become more systematic, we DLG. We are already working in all areas, but our efforts launched a CSR strategy process in 2013 which generally moving forward consist of systematising, documenting and enhances the relevance of our CSR efforts. Among other coordinating our efforts across the group. For the time being, things, this means that we have focused on finding a CSR efforts are rooted in the DLG Group Management. common intra-group understanding of the importance Going forward, the goal is to embed CSR more broadly of CSR and on ensuring a practical approach to the work. across the group. Accordingly, the goal for 2014 is to set up The description of the various areas of our CSR efforts can a CSR steering committee made up of representatives from therefore be traced directly back to the four areas of the various areas within the organisation and the business. focus stipulated in the UN Global Compact. Our efforts in 2014 will include the initiation of wider Systematic approach and coordination dialogue with our stakeholders concerning the CSR risk As part of the process, DLG conducted a large-scale scenario as perceived by DLG and which is communicated analysis of the CSR area in 2013, based on workshops, in this report. internal interviews, an evaluation of existing efforts, etc., to define relevant CSR risks and opportunities and Part of the integration and implementation of the CSR determine the most important CSR areas in relation to strategy will require ongoing dialogue with stakeholders the nature and scope of our business. to find the most practical way to incorporate CSR into our day-to-day group operations. In addition, our CSR efforts Based on this analytical effort, three overarching areas of must be juxtaposed with customer and market demands CSR focus have been singled out as the most critical for to link our efforts to the expectations and demands made the group during the strategy period leading up to 2016: on DLG. Food safety and quality Responsible supply chain management Energy The four focus areas in the UN Global Compact • Businesses should support and respect the protection In 2014, we expect to adopt an overarching consolidated of internationally proclaimed human rights. CSR policy based on the three areas of focus listed above. • Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective Integration into the business bargaining,the elimination of all forms of forced and In keeping with DLG’s three overarching principles – which compulsory labour, and the the effective abolition of describe our CSR approach as strategic, significant and child labour. practical – it is crucial to closely link our CSR efforts to DLG’s • Environment – Businesses undertake initiatives to overarching business strategy and to stakeholder demands promote greater environmental responsibility. on and expectations of us. Both parts help to ensure that • Anti-Corruption – Businesses should work against our company creates value in the long term. This should corruption in all its forms including extortion and be understood to mean that a more integrated approach bribery. to CSR that takes account of external expectations and market requirements for our business could have many commercial advantages. This could be in the form of better risk management, greater product innovation, more highly motivated employees, lower costs and a stronger CSR profile as perceived by our most important stakeholders. We believe that an integrated CSR approach could also strengthen the rooting of DLG’s various business units. Broad embedment is not achievable by a large international group in the short term, however. This is long journey which in some instances also involves new procedures and solutions. Such things take time. Therefore, we are convinced that DLG’s CSR efforts comprise an ongoing process that needs be implemented step by step – not in one fell swoop. But the fact that the management has defined goals and values enables us to begin the communication process 7 About this report our goal in 2013 of integrating the CSR efforts across the This is DLG’s first CSR report in which we give an account group, nor did we carry out the practical implementation of the group’s CSR priorities and present examples of we are working towards. This takes time in a large group activities and data in this area. With the report, we wish to like DLG. give our stakeholders a clear idea of the challenges and opportunities identified in relation to the CSR efforts and Therefore, DLG’s 2013 report does not provide the to show how we are dealing with them. “complete picture” of all CSR activities and results in the group. On the other hand, the report is structured to The report describes DLG’s most significant CSR activities for highlight a series of efforts in business areas that, in our 2013. Over the year, DLG got off to a good start with the view, are the most important for the CSR area in question. integration of group-wide CSR efforts aimed at creating In the description of our efforts relating to energy, we base a general overview of activities and data for the whole our work on energy management and energy optimisation group. We realise that this work takes time, and that this in supply and farm supplies, as this is where DLG’s influence year it will not be possible for us to provide a complete is greatest. To illustrate the part of the business from which overview of all the challenges pertaining to CSR. the example originates, a small figure to mark the business area concerned is inserted in the top corner. Report structure The purpose of the report is to provide a true and fair view of the process we have been through and to present the specific steps taken to ensure that we are dealing with CSR-related challenges in ways that enable us to operate a successful business in the future as well. Based on the CSR strategy and the policy efforts initiated, we did not achieve Finance Corporate support functions IT Marketing LIVESTOCK CROP PRODUCTION CROPS & SERVICE & ENERGI HR VEGETABLES NUTRITION Communication Supply DLG FOOD R&D Quality Group divisions Accordingly, a series of topics that are significant to the view, are important for DLG to focus and report on. For this business, our stakeholders and our industry are emphasised purpose, we have also described DLG’s activities in each in the report. The report provides an overarching picture of of the four areas of the UN Global Compact: human rights, the three areas of focus (food safety and quality; energy; labour, the environment and anti-corruption. and responsible supply chain management) which, in our 8 The outside world and stakeholders Scope of the report The 2013 CSR Report was prepared without directly involving The report covers most of DLG’s business, basically all external stakeholders. Naturally, we are engaged in onof DLG a.m.b.a., and the subsidiaries in which DLG has going dialogue with stakeholders in various forums, but this controlling interest, defined as companies which DLG dialogue does not systematically relate to CSR. Our most owns either directly or indirectly. Associated companies important stakeholders are defined as customers, owners, in which DLG does not have controlling interest are not staff members and suppliers. As a company, we experience covered by the report. that the outside world generally and increasingly expects responsibility and integrity to be important aspects of The companies subject to the particular focus of this running a successful business. We expect the same things report are: of our own activities. Therefore, we acknowledge and take note of the expectations we encounter, and we wish DLG a.m.b.a, including Food Oil to accommodate them in the best way possible. The CSR DLG’s food companies, i.e. “DLG Food” Report is part of rendering these efforts visible. DLG Service a/s The Vilofoss Group HaGe Kiel Svenska Foder AB These specific companies have been selected because they are the biggest subsidiaries and are key to achieving the targets in the 2016 Strategy. A complete overview of all DLG entities is provided on DLG’s website www.dlg.dk/om-os. Comments or questions? Please send them to dlg@dlg.dk This is our first CSR Report and we will continuously work to include more and more entities in our reporting. Our goal in 2014 is to include team AG and Gasa Bøg Group in the CSR Report as well. Team AG is DLG’s second-largest company outside Denmark and is a key element of the Service & Energy business area. Gasa Bøg Group is DLG’s commercial undertaking for plant and flower products. Reporting principles In compiling the report, we were inspired by the overarching, recognised principles of CSR reporting. Among other things, we designed the report to describe and relate to the larger context of sustainability in which we operate, the completeness of the report, materiality and the balance of the report contents. We are aware that we have yet to achieve our goal, particularly in relation to the comparativeness of consolidated group data, which is also a significant aspect of good CSR reporting practices. In 2014, we will continue working to prepare joint accounting principles for CSR data to be used in the report, including data for energy, staff, supply chain management, etc. 9 quality Food safety and quality edible crops like vegetables and feedstuffs fed to livestock. Requirement for the certification of the food production This involves ensuring top quality throughout the food process production chain from farm to fork. DLG seeks to comply at all times with current laws and regulations, including in the area of food. Every DLG As a supplier and buyer of raw materials, crops and feed process must at all times ensure and maintain the highest for agriculture and the food industry, DLG gives top priority food safety standards possible. to food safety and high quality. This is crucial for maintaining our position as a responsible producer of food and feed. To safeguard our food safety processes, DLG has adopted an intragroup policy stipulating that all food entities in Society’s keen social focus on food safety and quality DLG must be certified to relevant food safety standards. requirements imposed on raw materials also mean that Generally speaking, the certifications must ensure that we, regardless of which link in the food chain we are part of, we as a company, have a systematic process in place and risk being held liable if something goes wrong. For this reason, that we have the requisite control mechanisms; we are also we are keenly aware in DLG of our big responsibility and required to work on these aspects on an ongoing basis. As that this field involves enormous financial and reputational a result, the certifications will help us to maintain that DLG risks for any food company that is unable to maintain the always supplies safe, high-quality food products for the requisite levels of quality and food safety. benefit of customers and end users. Feed production requirements DLG’s most important certifications in the areas of feed, In relation to managing the quality of our vitamin, mineral crops and DLG Food and feed compounds used in our food production • ISO 22000: international standard for feed and food processes, DLG has a number of similar quality certifications safety. in place. These international certifications focus on ensuring • GlobalGAP (Good Agricultural Practice): a quality high quality and feed and food safety, and are audited by and certification system for primary producers, in this third parties on an ongoing basis case primarily raw materials like fruit, vegetables, berries and potatoes for the retail sector and their Food processing at several DLG food entities. To support a high level of food safety, DLG’s food companies have adopted a food safety policy as part of our • BRC standard: British food safety standard. BRC is quality assurance: usually required in the processing industry in markets both in Denmark and abroad. Our B2B customers • to produce safe foods that do not harm consumers; require this certification, as they typically supply • to produce foods that comply with the law and with • Markets and customers operating in the British current regulations and practices; market and on international markets. • to ensure that production facilities and buildings are • FSSC22000: a food product standard for the food presentable and meet current hygiene regulations and processing industry. requirements and live up to customer expectations; • GMP+B3: Dutch standard for feed and food safety • to ensure that all companies are certified to a food required by farm-supply customers in Europe for product standard; trading with crops and feedstuffs. • to ensure that all suppliers are approved according to • RedCert: documentation standard to certify that current risk assessment policy. crops are sustainable in relation to the production of bio-energy. Should any situations arise where the foods produced can be associated with a food safety risk – for whatever the • QS (Qualität und Sicherheit): German feed reason – all DLG Foods companies have procedures in standard. place for recalling products in accordance with national • ISO 9001: standard for quality management, used in law and as part of the quality assurance manuals pursuant Sweden, in particular. to the food safety certification schemes on which they • FamiQS: quality management system used in the base their work. area of vitamin and mineral feed compounds. 10 Results in DLG Food in 2013 A Quality and Food Safety Manager was engaged in 2013 to focus particularly on food safety in DLG Food. The aim is to adopt and implement common policies and to increase knowledge sharing in this area. FOCUS GOING FORWARD IN 2014 DLG Food focuses particularly on knowledge sharing across food companies, which includes a training course planned to be held for managers in charge of quality and production. The managers will receive training in continuing focus on supply chain management and evaluation of suppliers, complaints processing and new food safety legislation. Results for feed in 2013 In the feed area, DLG decided to provide financial support to a Danish-led food secretariat (ISO/TC 34/SC17) to ensure the central position of Danish interests in the development of international standards in the area of food safety under the ISO system. DLG has actively contributed to ensuring that the secretariat sets feed production standards under the auspices of ISO, to supplement ISO 22000. 2014 FOCUS In 2014, DLG will actively take part in drawing up the standard with an expectation that an ISO standard for ensuring food and feed safety in the feed production process will exist in 2015 and no later than in 2016. Concurrently with this, DLG a.m.b.a. and DLG Food are taking part in the audit process for the ISO 22000 standard to ensure that the contents are updated as much as possible in relation to DLG’s business areas and market expectations. DLG’s livestock nutrition unit also takes part in a FEFAC task force on sustainability in feed production processes. The purpose of this task force is to obtain a common European description of sustainability criteria and common minimum requirements for documenting feedstuff sustainability. 11 quality Responsible supply chain management As a food company, DLG wants to be in control of the sustainable soy meal that meets a wide range of production company’s value chain. This involves strengthening the requirements, including requirements on environmental group’s management of risks related to having to deal with sustainability, child labour and the use of pesticides in the an increasingly complex international chain of suppliers. production process. In relation to our purchases of soy meal, we also require suppliers to live up to our charter, which Both in Denmark and abroad, there is intensifying focus on comprises a number of points, one of which is accession ensuring that companies have a higher degree of control of what takes place in the company’s supply chain and in relation to the company’s suppliers. DLG has also noted this DLG’s charter for soy suppliers expectation in its interaction with customers and business • The supplier must accede to the UN Global partners. Compact; • The supplier does not accept child labour; At the same time, responsible supply chain management is • The supplier must uphold employees’ freedom of a crucial area of focus for DLG because we are increasingly association as regards trade unions; internationalising our business and, as part of this process, we are experiencing a sharp rise in CSR-related risks in • Raw materials from areas of rainforest felled after terms of our value chain. Therefore, it is also important to 24 July 2006 will not be accepted; manage our risks. Going forward, our responsible supply • The supplier must have a policy stipulating that the chain management activities will primarily be based on use of pesticides complies with local law as well as establishing a general view of the group’s many suppliers. with the Stockholm and Rotterdam Conventions. Concurrent with DLG’s increasing internationalisation, we see a growing need to implement a more systematic approach to DLG’s supplier collaboration. For instance, we purchase a larger share of goods than previously abroad, including in China and the rest of Asia, Eastern to the United Nations Global Compact. The charter criteria Europe and South America, where the challenges in have already been signed by our suppliers for 2014. relation to labour rights, environmental impacts and quality DLG is a member of the national task force for responsibly assurance may differ from those in Denmark. Our focus on produced soy and palm oil set up by the Danish Minister responsible supply chain management is an active way for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries. The purpose of the task to meet this challenge. force’s work is to find common solutions across sectors and industries for acting responsibly in respect of soy and palm Certifications and supply chain management oil imports. A declaration of responsibility for soy and DLG Food works with risk-based supplier selection, certified palm imports to Denmark must be prepared before suppliers, self-assessment forms and supplier audits. The 1 March 2014. intention in the long term is also to use an improved supplier evaluation process. As with soy meal, DLG purchases palm oil for use in the production of feed for agriculture. To stay better informed Purchasing raw materials of developments in the palm oil industry in South-east Asia, DLG a.m.b.a.’s policy for raw-materials purchases is that DLG joined the organisation “Roundtable on Sustainable at least 90% of our suppliers must have a certified quality Palm Oil” (RSPO) in 2012. RSPO gathers interested organisations management system in place to cover the goods from different sectors of the palm oil industry to develop purchased by DLG, of which as large a share as possible and implement global standards for sustainable palm oil. must be GMP-certified (Good Manufacturing Practice). The most important principles on which the certification is In 2013, DLG succeeded in buying more than 90% of its based are transparency, labour rights, the use of the best raw materials for its Danish production from this type of cultivation methods available, environmental protection, certified supplier. The percentage of GMP-certified protection of the natural environment and long-term goods was around 75%. financial planning. DLG is responsible for buying roughly half of Denmark’s soy DLG is also a member of “Roundtable for Responsible meal, most of which is used as pig feed. Soy meal is an Soy” (RTRS), through the sector organisation FEFAC which important feed-production ingredient, comprising 15–20%, organises food companies in Europe. The principles and and constitutes a large share of DLG’s combined production. criteria behind the certification are based on five themes: From 1 January 2013, DLG and a number of other food statutory compliance, responsible labour conditions, producers, including Arla, Danish Crown and the Danish responsible relationships with adjacent areas, Agriculture and Food Council, have undertaken to buy environmental propriety and good agricultural practices. 12 Purchases of vitamins and minerals Did you know that one-third of all daily commodities DLG’s vitamin and mineral activities are gathered under contain palm oil? the brand Vilofoss. Only raw materials that are approved Palm oil is unavoidable. It is included in many of our in the EU are purchased for the production of vitamins daily commodities, such as shampoo, baby food, ice and minerals. This means that in this area DLG’s suppliers cream, cosmetics, candles, detergents and much provide a “gatekeeper” function if the ingredient comes more. Palm oil is an ingredient in almost a third of the from a third country. As part of quality management, we goods found in the supermarket. DLG uses palm oil follow this up with control analyses by using the HACCP as a fat in the production of animal feed. Most of system in areas where we see the greatest risks. Denmark’s palm oil is imported from Malaysia and Indonesia. Hazard Analysis Critical Control Points is a system for ensuring food quality throughout the production chain. Source: RSPO http://www.rspo.org/file/Denmark%20taenk_t134_009-WEB.pdf The system builds on identifying the microbiological, chemical and physical risks in the raw materials, identifying particularly critical steps of production, processing, and packaging, as well as the subsequent establishment of control points in the production process. The challenges of purchasing soy and palm oil Each of the some 200 raw materials used in vitamins and In recent years, commerce involving soy and palm minerals is approved according to a fixed procedure: the oil has risen high on the international agenda due to assessment of familiarity with the business, the raw material’s a number of incidents showing how the production product information and nutritive properties, its safety in of soy and palm oil can harm the environment and relation to animals and humans, and whether the raw human beings. material is appropriate for use at the factory (e.g. in relation to dust and odours). Media and scientists have presented examples of how the production of soybeans in South America involves FUTURE-ORIENTED FOCUS great health risks for the local populace where an In 2014, DLG will focus on further developing our supplier increasing number of people are affected by various system to improve our ability to mitigate risks. forms of diseases and deformities. In addition, the rainforest is being felled to make room for soybean fields, which harms flora and fauna and negatively affects carbon emission accounts. Particularly in Asia, valuable rainforest has also been felled and the habitats of endangered animals have been wiped out to plant new palm oil plantations to meet our rising need for palm oil for daily commodities, etc. 13 Supply Energy A systematic approach to the energy area is important Energy-efficient production to the business as part of our efforts to reduce DLG’s The production of farm supplies is a core area of DLG and environmental impact. At the same time, a targeted requires the infusion of large volumes of energy. Therefore, focus on reducing the company’s energy consumption it makes commercial sense to endeavour to become as can strikingly reduce costs. energy efficient as possible, as this benefits both the environment and our customers. DLG is a major player on a highly competitive market, which is why it is crucial for our business to be as resource DLG’s overarching energy targets are to achieve savings -efficient as possible. At the same time, it makes sense for of at least 2% p.a. for the consumption of specific energy DLG to focus on the Group’s energy costs, as our production in the production process. In 2013, we achieved this target processes are very energy intensive. DLG promotes energy in DLG Production in Denmark by, among other things, management and energy efficiency across the group, implementing 28 projects focused on energy efficiency whereas efforts vary within the individual business areas and that achieved a combined 2.1% reduction in the subsidiaries. The examples below are examples particularly consumption of specific energy. focused on DLG a.m.b.a., HaGe and Svenska Foder, which are the Group’s biggest subsidiaries. As part of DLG Supply Specifically, energy consumption in 2013 showed a 1.3% Group which notably comprises DLG a.m.b.a., HaGe and reduction in electricity consumption and a 2.2% increase Svenska Foder, these entities are relevant; also, the entire in heat consumption. This equates to a slight increase of DLG Supply organisation has implemented relevant energy 0.2% for 2013, compared to the 2012 energy consumption, management systems and launched activities aimed at which should be seen in relation to the use of the ingredients achieving big energy savings. included in the various types of feed compounds and in relation to the number of feed compounds produced at Overall, the Group focuses on two areas in which our the factories. impact is greatest: production and transport. In 2013, therefore, DLG worked to further boost integration in In the area of farm supplies in 2013, DLG focused on relation to the actual planning of production and streamlining production processes and implementing LEAN transport, to ensure that production takes place as at feed factories in Denmark. The aim was to achieve a close to the customer as possible to reduce the combined production capacity increase of 15% for all consumption of energy associated with both Danish feed factories. The LEAN process is largely based production and transport. on active knowledge sharing and staff involvement, and regular white-board meetings are a tangible way to follow Energy management and certifications up on our energy reduction targets. So far, the process has The purpose of DLG’s energy policy for the production of documented a capacity increase of 10% for 2013 and, farm supplies is to reduce the environmental impact and, based on these results, the LEAN process will also be at the same time, reduce costs relating to DLG’s energy introduced to the rest of the Supply Group in 2014. consumption. To contribute to DLG’s sustainable development in the best possible way, the group objective is to be The Aarhus feed factory halved the amount of energy used innovative in using resources, while minimising wastage for cooling feed compounds by adjusting the revolutions at the same time. We do this specifically by improving in the refrigerating units’ fans. The energy saved equates energy efficiency and by using the best technology to the average annual electricity consumption of 120 possible, always under consideration of official households. requirements and customer demands on product quality. Eleven energy-efficiency projects were carried out at DLG’s factories under DLG Denmark and HaGe for the HaGe’s feed factories in Germany in 2013, for a combined production of farm suppliers are certified and audited reduction of 560,000 kWh/year. This equates to the annual according to the energy management standard ISO 50001, consumption of electricity of 110 households (comprising which means, among other things, that DLG has developed two adults and two children). an energy policy and set clear energy-efficiency targets and that we are measuring the results on an Most energy reductions were achieved by modifying and ongoing basis. Svenska Foder’s production facility is adapting production planning and by reducing energy similarly certified to the ISO 14001 Environmental consumption by means of improved energy monitoring. Management Standard. In so doing, HaGe saved a total of 6.4% on its consumption of specific energy. 14 Supply Transport and logistics HaGe’s oil mill re-uses heat In the transport area, the Supply Group focused on energy HaGe’s oil mill saved 198,000 kWh/year, for instance, and fuel consumption, as in 2012. In 2012, the Supply Group by using and recycling heat from air compressors. replaced 42% of its lorry fleet in Denmark with lorries with Whenever new electric motors are needed, HaGe greater cargo capacity. In 2013, an additional 35% of purchases highly energy-efficient electric motors, DLG’s fleet were replaced with higher-capacity lorries with which translates into annual savings of 25,000 kWh. additional effects expected in 2014. In collaboration with the group’s lorry supplier, DLG’s drivers receive measurement equipment, as well as training and individual advice, also aimed at ensuring eco-friendly driving habits. Lorries with this equipment installed achieved savings in 2013 of In 2013, Svenska Foder carried out 17 energy efficiency around 7% per kilometre driven, while conveying about projects involving the replacement of its current installations 15% more tonnes of cargo at the same time with more energy-efficient lighting, air compressors and motors in its production processes. The biggest single investment was the replacement and refurbishment of its factories’ pellet presses. Pellet presses are used to press One Touch Only reduces total consumption of resources feed into small pellets, the typical form for livestock feed. In 2013, DLG worked on a new method called One The replacement and refurbishment of this machine resulted Touch Only, which involves collaborating closely with in savings of 20% for the specific pellet milling process. The customers to minimise transports of grain and other total specific energy consumed by Svenska Foder shows a agricultural commodities. The aim is to reduce DLG’s 2.5% increase from 2012 to 2013, which is due to increased transport costs, reduce total consumption of resources heat consumption and reduced electricity and generally strengthen the company’s competiconsumption. tiveness. The potential savings are enormous, because DLG Denmark conveys a total of nine million tonnes on the roads every year, and is one of top three companies in Denmark in terms of conveyed volumes. Factories sell district heat and save At Svenska Foder’s factory in Hällekis, Sweden, the In 2012, the target for grain was to reduce the company’s energy costs have been reduced over “transport factor” by 7%, or roughly 200,000 tonnes several years by replacing the factory’s gas-fired boiler for 2013. This target was achieved with a reduction with a wood-chip-fired boiler instead. of around 300,000 tonnes in 2013. The target defined for 2014 requires the transport factor to be reduced The factory is located on the outskirts of Hällekis, in further, equating to 200,000 tonnes. Götene Municipality, which purchases “surplus heat” from Svenska Foder to supplement its own heat One Touch Only benefits both the bottom line and production. The municipality benefits from this the environment. Minimising transport minimises energy arrangement as, instead of having to invest in its own consumption and carbon emissions. We need to lower district heating plant, the municipality can pay Svenska our staff costs during the harvest season, and we Foder to produce the extra district heating it needs. experience virtually no wastage. At the same time, Svenska Foder makes money from the arrangement as the factory receives payment for the wood-chip-fired district heating it produces and at the same time produces enough surplus energy to meet the factory’s own energy needs. The Hällekis factory not only saves money from this arrangement by being self-sufficient, but also earns money by supplying energy to the local community. 15 FUTURE-ORIENTED FOCUS The expectations for 2014 are that we need to introduce a common target of achieving energy savings of 2% at the Supply Group’s feed factories, and we also expect that further streamlining of the production process in continuation of the implementation of LEAN at our German and Swedish feed factories. In the area of transport, the 2014 target is to maintain the streamlining measures for fuel consumption by replacing the rest of the lorry fleet in DLG Denmark. Innovation that reduces greenhouse gas emissions In 2014, Vilofoss will focus on its carbon footprint and will begin to develop a feed product that can help to reduce the production of methane by ruminants. 16 17 18 Communication Anti-corruption DLG seeks to comply at all times with legislation, regulations and relevant provisions in the countries in which we operate. This is a prerequisite for DLG’s ability to be a responsible player. Corruption is unacceptable in DLG. It is not part of our way of doing business, and it is our view that our employees must neither use nor accept corruption. This position is emphasised by our accession to the UN Global Compact which encourages businesses to “work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery”. Future-oriented focus At present, DLG does not consider corruption to be an area of great risk to our business. This assumption is based on the fact that DLG presently and primarily operates in Scandinavia and Northern Europe, which are defined by Transparency International as low-risk countries in terms of corruption. Obviously, however, the more international our group becomes, the greater the contact DLG will have with high-risk countries. Therefore, the area of anti-corruption is expected to have growing significance for the group going forward. In 2014, we will accordingly work to develop a set of guidelines at group level in this area. 19 Employees and OSH DLG has almost 8,000 employees, all of whom contribute to initiatives, all of which revolve around prevention. The our ability to run a successful, efficient company. Creating initiatives include health insurance and physical check-ups a healthy occupational environment is a crucial factor in for our employees, a stop-smoking course, fruit schemes, this context. To DLG, this involves both the prevention of workplace assessments and follow-up, as well as the occupational injury and illness and at the same time possibility of being advised by an occupational therapist. the creation of a social environment which promotes employee job satisfaction and motivation every day. DLG a.m.b.a. also launched the project “DLG on the Move” in 2012, where all hourly-paid workers, primarily Work in agriculture and production involves greater risks males, employed in operations and production processes, than many other types of sedentary employment. Therewere offered 15 minutes of free training during working fore, it is crucial for DLG to maintain a safe and healthy hours. The project runs over the next three years and is occupational environment for our employees at all times. supported by the Fund for Better Working Environment and We do this on a continuous basis through prevention Labour Retention (Forebyggelsesfonden) in the amount activities and information associated with employee of 740,000 euro. There is particular focus on hourly-paid safety, working environment and health. workers as they often carry out a wide range of physically demanding tasks that can lead to disabilities and other Occupational safety and health problems. Focusing on motivation and physical activity is In spite of our efforts, we experienced two tragic deaths therefore a way to reduce wear and increase general job at our workplace, one in late 2012 and the other in 2013. satisfaction. The project’s success criteria include reducing One of the deaths involved an occupational accident employees’ sickness-related absence, increasing the daily during the readying of a lorry, and the other involved an level of activity and increasing general well-being and job occupational accident when the employee concerned satisfaction. entered a shaft after which he was tragically asphyxiated due to a lack of oxygen. The status of the project in 2013 is that a training of trainers process has been carried out three times, with participants This type of accident should not occur in DLG. These coming from the entire DLG organisation. Today, around accidents have therefore intensified our already strong 200 employees are registered with the programme and focus on creating a safe working environment for our train either on a daily basis or regularly. The initiative will employees. One of our reactions was to strongly impress continue in 2014 with new training provisions in new on our staff that at least two employees must take part in departments and subsidiaries. any task where this is required in relation to the risk present. Even if almost all occupational accidents are accidental, FUTURE-ORIENTED FOCUS all employees must always wear the protective equipment The effort expected in 2014 will be to strengthen the and aids placed at their disposal for the carrying out of procedures relating to reporting near-miss accidents. any given task. It has been pointed out DLG employees This area will be specifically strengthened by implementing must never carry out a task in which they risk life and limb a new system to make it easier and more accessible for – regardless of the good intentions behind their actions. employees to register near-miss accidents than previously. In relation to the specific situations relating to the two unforAnother area of focus for 2014 is to reorganise DLG tunately fatal accidents, we have strongly emphasised the a.m.b.a.’s OSH organisation to make it more dynamic. safety procedures for the tasks involved at the white-board meetings regularly held at our factories. As a result, the OSH organisation will conform to the business structure to a greater extent, which should Besides the two deaths, we registered 19 occupational make it easier to reach all employees. accidents in DLG a.m.b.a. in 2013, which led to 216 days of sickness-related absence. The occupational accidents Diversity registered range in severity from a cut finger to a broken In 2013, the Danish Parliament adopted a law obliging shoulder. We are continuously focused on ensuring large Danish companies to make an active effort to employee safety and health by preventing accidents include more women in their executive circles. DLG is and absence, and thus on ensuring employees’ physical also systematically working to comply with this challenge. and social well-being on the job. At the same time, we endeavour to plan work processes so that we promote Diversity is an important parameter in a growing, competitive employee motivation and efficiency in everyday tasks. company. It is a matter of attracting and retaining a large Our LEAN processes are an example of how we have pool of talent and having the right skill-sets in place. Theresucceeded in improving working processes and instilled fore, in DLG’s view, it is important to increase the number greater motivation at the same time. of women in the Committee of Representatives of representatives, board of directors and other managerial levels, Promoting health and exercise and to make diversity an important area of focus in both DLG a.m.b.a. is involved in a number of public health Denmark 20 HR and the rest of the group. ensure that DLG is moving towards the general goal of Increase the number of women among the owners and, having more women in managerial positions. In 2013, thus, on the board we launched a series of supportive initiatives intended Out of DLG a.m.b.a.’s 29,000 owners, 1,224 are women. to increase the likelihood that more women will assume According to the Danish Agriculture and Food Council, the managerial positions within DLG. These initiatives cover percentage of women owners roughly corresponds to the things like our collaboration with CBS Executive concerning percentage of women who are self-employed farmers: 9%. a talent programme for women; our focus on recruitment Today, roughly 20% of the students at agricultural schools procedures; increased information about managerial opporand qualified farmers are women. tunities at in-house staff meetings; frequent communication about initiatives in this area in the staff newsletter and on In the future, the number of women farmers is expected to the intranet; and intensified focus on managerial opportuincrease which will also increase the recruitment base for nities in annual job appraisal interviews. the elected bodies of companies in the agricultural and food industries, including DLG. We are obviously aware of DLG completed a talent programme in early 2013 which this in relation to the target figure. included a number of women participants. In 2014, we will interview these women to identify any barriers to The company’s board of directors totals 11 members, management positions. elected from DLG’s council of representatives, which has 133 members. Having more women in management and In our general efforts with prospective managers, we will board positions – the executive level of DLG – primarily focus on processes in 2014 aimed at providing managers requires the infusion of a higher percentage of women with the skill-sets for coping with tomorrow’s challenges. employees into the company and not least into DLG’s We aim to have 50% of the participants in these courses council of representatives. At present, the council of be women. representatives has no women members. Efforts going forward 2018 target figure for DLG’s board of directors In 2014, all job appraisal interviews will include intensified Based on an assessment of the recruitment base, DLG has focus on women in management, so that women emadopted a target figure of one woman out of nine board ployees have to discuss with their immediate supervisor members (not including staff representatives). whether they have any wish to become a manager, and whether there are any challenges preventing this, which Elections will be held in 2014 in which each of the six the employee herself or her supervisor can help to reduce. electoral areas will focus on electing at least one woman. It is not expected, however, that one of these elected It is important to DLG that women in management remains representatives will be elected to the board already in an area of focus and that the topic is continuously in focus, the same year. both in Denmark and the rest of the Group. For this reason, DLG will continue to publish articles on this topic in the 2014 Our goal is to have one woman elected to DLG’s board of issues of DLG’s staff newsletters and on the intranet. For the directors no later than the 2018 election. same reason, women in management will be a topic at staff meetings in 2014. Target figure for DLG’s management DLG also adopted in 2013 that at least one member of the Gender breakdown for all employees and at group management must be a woman no later than 2018. management level This target was met already in the last half of 2013, when DLG’s first woman group manager, responsible for HR and DLG a.m.b.a. and Service Communications, joined the group management. Men 68% Women 32% DLG management (a.m.b.a. and Service) Development of target figures for retail divisions and Men 75% Women 25% subsidiaries The goal in this area for 2014 is that individual target figures HaGe need to be prepared for the six retail divisions in Denmark Men 73% Women 27% and for the individual subsidiaries. The target figures HaGe management must be prepared in dialogue and collaboration with Men 75% Women 25% the respective local managers to ensure the best possible rooting of these efforts. Svenska Foder Men 60% Women 40% Recruitment in DLG Svenska Foder management DLG is also widely focused on recruitment procedures. Men 86% W. 14% Therefore, statistics are kept concerning the gender breakdown for the hiring of new employees and promotions to 21 22 Recapitulation of initiatives in the 2014 CSR Report General • Stakeholders: wider dialogue with our stakeholders; stakeholder analysis. • Drafting of common accounting principles for CSR data in the areas of energy, staff and supply chain management. Food and Feed • Food: knowledge-sharing across the food companies in focus; training courses for staff responsible for quality and products at the individual companies; training in supply chain management and evaluation of suppliers, etc. • Development of an ISO standard for feed production as part of the feed-production/ revision of the 22000 standard. Responsible supply chain management • Focus on further developing the company’s supply chain management system to better mitigate future risks. Energy/climate • Further savings on energy consumption, implementation of joint target of 2% at Supply Group feed factories. • In the area of transport, the 2014 target is to maintain the streamlining measures for fuel consumption by replacing the rest of the lorry fleet in DLG Denmark. • Climate: reduce the carbon footprint of feed production processes: develop feed which can reduce methane emitted by ruminants. Anti-corruption • Anti-corruption guidelines. Occupational environment • Strengthen the procedures relating to the reporting of near-miss accidents. • Reorganise the OSH organisation: make it more dynamic and conform more to the business structure to make it easier to reach all employees. Diversity • Women on the board of directors: elections to the council of representatives in May 2014, where women are expected to be elected; the goal is to have one woman elected to DLG’s board of directors no later than the 2018 election. • Women in management: target figures for women in retail departments and subsidiaries need to be drafted; the aim is that half of the participants in DLG’s management training processes are women. Focus on women in management in job appraisal interviews, staff meetings and staff newsletters. 23 The DLG Group is one of the biggest agricultural companies in Europe and is currently owned by 29,000 Danish farmers. In less than a decade, DLG has grown from a co-operative society operating solely in Denmark into an international group of 40 subsidiaries in over 20 countries. DLG now generates most of its turnover abroad. 24
