United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014 Financial Report 2013 Financial Report 2013 of NRW.BANK Contents 2 Corporate Responsibility 38 Report on Public Corporate Governance 49 Report of the Supervisory Board 50 Management Report 86 Balance Sheet 90 Profit and Loss Account 92 Notes 128 Cash Flow Statement 130 Equity Capital 131 Reproduction of the Auditor’s Report 132 Responsibility Statement 133 Members of the Advisory Board for Housing Promotion 135 Members of the Parliamentary Advisory Board 136 Members of the Advisory Board 140 Organisation Chart 142 NRW.BANK at a Glance Financial Report 2013 1 Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility As the development bank for the state of North RhineWestphalia, NRW.BANK is committed to the principle elements of its corporate mission in its corporate of corporate responsibility. For the Bank, this is a mission statement. responsible, transparent and ongoing process involving Rules on compliance and money laundering not only its customers but also its employees and prevention are integral elements of NRW.BANK’s society at large. In this context, the Bank believes that business processes. They are designed to help the economical, ecological and social dimensions of the Bank prevent corruption, bribery and money sustainability are inseparably linked. laundering. In addition, NRW.BANK has installed binding regulations for the confidential treatment NRW.BANK’s Annual Report for 2004 was the first to of information, e. g. company and business secrets, incorporate a report on the Bank’s sustainability perby its employees. formance, since then the report has been continuously To safeguard its competition-neutral status, expanded. The performance indicators presented in NRW.BANK complies with the principle of this chapter are for NRW.BANK’s two head offices in non-discrimination. Düsseldorf and Münster and cover the years 2011, 2012 When commissioning third parties, NRW.BANK and 2013. will pay attention not only to cost-efficiency but also to environmental protection, energy Based on the “Principles of Corporate Responsibility at efficiency, female promotion and social aspects NRW.BANK”, the Bank reports on its sustainability in accordance with applicable legal regulations. approach in five blocks. Each of the sub-chapters refers To confirm its sustainability targets, NRW.BANK to these principles and starts with an extract from them. will verify their attainment at regular intervals and join national and international initiatives or sign the voluntary commitments developed by 1 Living up to Our Corporate Responsibility such initiatives. For instance, NRW.BANK has signed the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, the Finance Initiative of the United NRW.BANK considers sustainability to be a Nations Environment Programme as well as the ­central guiding principle and a key criterion in German Diversity Charter. taking decisions on business policy. This credo is NRW.BANK reviews its day-to-day work pro­ reflected in all phases of NRW.BANK’s corporate cesses in light of sustainability-related aspects. activities, starting from its strategic and business The Bank will continue to improve the sustainpolicy decisions to the shaping of its range ability of its business activities and make the of products and services down to the implemen­ progress achieved measurable wherever possible. tation of specific financings, its capital market Focal points of these efforts include the integraactivities and its offering of consulting services. tion of sustainability-related issues into departOne of the essential cornerstones of the sustainmental tasks, products, guidelines and processes ability strategy pursued by NRW.BANK is as well as the integration of sustainability aspects transparent and responsible treatment of its into the credit and investment processes. owner, customers, employees and its stakeholders NRW.BANK publishes regular reports on the at large. NRW.BANK lives up to this commitment further development of its internal guidelines as based on its Public Corporate Governance Code. well as its activities in the individual areas and In addition, NRW.BANK has defined the core the progress achieved. 2 Financial Report 2013 In its statutes (see Section 5, para. 1) and the Act on 1.1.2 Equal Opportunities and Principle NRW.BANK (see Section 3, para. 1), the Bank describes of Non-discrimination the importance of sustainability for its work as the With a view of ensuring a fair and good working development bank of North Rhine-Westphalia as follows: environment, NRW.BANK attaches great importance to “NRW.BANK has been commissioned by the governpromoting mutual respect and avoiding discrimination. ment mission to support the federal state and its Equal opportunities and the principle of non-discrimimunicipal corporations in meeting their public tasks, nation play an important role when it comes to particularly in the fields of structural, economic, social “Assuming Social Responsibility for Employees”. and housing policy and carry out and administer They form part of both the Principles of Corporate development measures in compliance with the benefit Responsibility and of special internal guidelines. regulations of the European Union. In this regard, it is guided by the principle of sustainability.” 1.1.3 Compliance Compliance with statutory and regulatory provisions As a general principle of bank-wide importance, is an integral element of NRW.BANK’s processes and sustainability is also incorporated into the strategy of organisation. The Compliance Department, as part NRW.BANK. of the Risk Management unit, is the central body that is responsible for all compliance-related tasks. In Moreover, the Bank’s “Principles of Corporate Responaddition, the Bank has appointed a Compliance Officer sibility at NRW.BANK” define the framework for the to handle the respective functions. The latter reports Bank’s approach to sustainability – with regard to directly to the management and is not bound by general processes, its customers, its employees, climate instructions in performing his tasks. and environmental protection and corporate citizenship. They also reflect the particularities arising The Compliance Officer’s tasks include coordinating from the Bank’s public mission: as a development all measures aimed at preventing money laundering, bank, NRW.BANK is subject to the “Verständigung II” terrorist financing and other criminal acts, addressing agreement. It operates in the banking sector in nonoperational risks, developing and implementing a discriminatory manner and cooperates closely with the risk-mitigating overall concept, advising and supporting banks in North Rhine-Westphalia. the management in all compliance-related issues as well as annual reporting. Compliance-related issues are When it comes to implementing the strategic objectives, addressed in accordance with the Minimum Requireit is important to incorporate sustainability in the ments for Risk Management (MaRisk) and the German Bank’s internal processes. In order to put sustainability Securities Trading Act (WpHG). into practice in its day-to-day operations, NRW.BANK has formulated a set of internal guidelines for its own A detailed internal set of Compliance Rules as well as business activity; needless to say, the Bank also fulfils regular mandatory training for all employees are the respective legal requirements. designed to raise employees’ awareness for compliance and play an important role in the development bank’s 1.1 Statutory Framework and Internal Regulations preventive approach. 1.1.1 Labour Standards and Human Rights Compliance with human rights and with the labour standards that are applicable in Germany as well as the rejection of child and forced labour is a matter of course for the Bank and is laid down in NRW.BANK’s Principles of Corporate Responsibility. Financial Report 2013 3 Corporate Responsibility 1.1.4 Data Protection Accordingly, the Bank places orders which exceed the As a matter of course, NRW.BANK is committed to EU limits in accordance with the Construction Contract handling information in a responsible and confidential Procedures (Part A) as well as the Regulations on manner and has laid this down in its internal written ­Contract Awards for Public Supplies and Services instructions. Compliance with data protection (Part A) and the Regulations on Contract Awards for and banking secrecy regulations is mandatory for Independent Professional Services. Before placing all employees. orders worth € 25,000 or more, the Bank additionally performs an audit in accordance with section 8 of The Bank meets its statutory training obligations the North Rhine-Westphalian Anti-Corruption Act towards its staff by means of online instructions on (KorruptionsbG). This way, the Bank can rule out bribery, data protection and information security. fraud, influence peddling, restrictive agreements and other forms of corruption. 1.1.5 Money Laundering Prevention To prevent money laundering within its sphere of Environmental aspects have been integrated into influence, NRW.BANK has implemented various the Bank’s procurement processes for office materials. measures; the development, updating and implemen­ In the fiscal year 2013, NRW.BANK participated in tation of internal principles, appropriate businessa supplier’s internal sustainability competition. In this specific and customer-specific safeguarding systems context, the office materials used as well as the and controls play an important role in this context. procurement and logistic processes were analysed in terms of sustainability. NRW.BANK placed second For this purpose, the Bank has appointed a Money in the competition. Laundering Officer who regularly informs, advises and trains the staff on a preventive basis. In addition, the Apart from employing individuals with disabilities, Money Laundering Officer prepares a bank-wide annual NRW.BANK commissions workshops for the analysis of the Bank’s exposure to money laundering handicapped to provide such services as washing and risks and reports directly to the Managing Board. cleaning, at its locations in Düsseldorf and Münster. The Bank thus lives up to its responsibility towards Mandatory online training for all employees takes place society in this area as well. regularly, at least every three years, and rounds off the Bank’s money laundering prevention activities. 1.1.7 Public Corporate Governance Code NRW.BANK’s amended Public Corporate Governance1.1.6 Sustainable Procurement Code, which has been updated following the code In the context of the procurement processes for of conduct of the state of North Rhine-Westphalia, was construction, delivery and other services, aspects of adopted by the Bank in 2013. It came into force with environmental protection, energy efficiency as well effect from January 1, 2014. as social issues such as female promotion, the balance of work and family life or the prohibition of child labour For many years, the Bank has implemented trans­ are binding requirements within NRW.BANK on parency and responsibility in its dealings with its target the basis of the Act against Restraints of Competition groups. When the Public Corporate Governance Code (GWB) and the prevailing wage law for public procureof NRW.BANK came into force on January 1, 2006, ment (TVgG-NRW). NRW.BANK was one of the first public-sector companies in Germany to officially commit itself to this standard of corporate governance. 4 Financial Report 2013 1.1.8 Freedom of Association and Right to For this purpose, NRW.BANK has established a Collective Bargaining sustain­ability audit within the framework of the Based on the North Rhine-Westphalian State Staff “Launch of New Products” process. In 2013, every Representation Act, the Bank’s staff council represents promotion product was again checked for sustainabilitythe interests and needs of the employees of NRW.BANK. related risks as well as for compliance with the Principles The staff council monitors compliance with applicable of Corporate Responsibility before being launched or laws, regulations, collective bargaining agreements and expanded. labour agreements and again informed the employees at the annual staff assembly in 2013. The past fiscal year saw NRW.BANK add a new capital market product to its range; in November 2013, the Being a public-law institution, NRW.BANK is subject Bank issued its inaugural “Green Bond“ with a total to the collective bargaining agreement for the privatevolume of € 250 million and a term of four years. sector and public banking industry and implements the collectively agreed results for its employees under 1.3.1 NRW.BANK.Green Bond 2013 collective agreements. This is also done to a great To fulfil its tasks as a development bank, NRW.BANK degree and voluntarily for employees not covered by funds itself through issues in the international capital collective agreements. market in accordance with its investment and funding strategy. 1.2 Initiatives and Memberships In accordance with its Principles of Corporate In contrast to its usual bonds, which are also used to Responsibility, NRW.BANK also contributes to tasks implement social and economic promotion objectives, identified outside its own business activity. Since the proceeds from the NRW.BANK.Green Bond 2013 2009, the Bank has been a member or signatory of the were exclusively used for a pre-defined environmental following initiatives: purpose, measures implemented in North Rhine-Westphalia in the fields of “water” and “energy”. German Diversity Charter UNEP Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) A clear emphasis has been placed on the field “water”, UN Global Compact more specifically the renaturation of rivers and water management. The field of “energy” is covered by In 2013, NRW.BANK was additionally active in various projects from the NRW.BANK.Effizienzkredit and associations, e.g. as an ordinary member of the NRW.BANK.Elektromobilität promotion programmes. Association of German Public Sector Banks (VÖB) and the European Association of Public Banks (EAPB) and as a guest of the North Rhine-Westphalian Banking Energy 19% Association (Bankenvereinigung NRW) and the Cooperative Association of the Rhineland and Westphalia (Rheinisch-Westfälischen Genossenschaftsverband). 1.3 Sustainable Products In keeping with its principles, NRW.BANK continuously optimises its business activities with a view to sustainWater 81% ability. In this context, the Bank focuses on incorporating sustainability aspects in its promotion products. Financial Report 2013 5 Corporate Responsibility To implement the idea of sustainable investment in a for projects in water management, energy efficiency, responsible manner, the Bank conducted an internal renewable energy and electric mobility […]”. Another selection process, in which promotion projects were precondition was that only promotion projects accepted identified and marked for investment. These projects in the calendar year 2013 would be financed with the selected are now clearly assigned to the NRW.BANK. proceeds from the bond. Green Bond. A total of 76 projects were financed with the help of NRW.BANK promised investors that it would “invest an NRW.BANK’s Green Bond: amount equal to the net proceeds of the Notes in loans Field Topic Number of projects funded Promotion volume Water River renaturation 42 141,614,491 € Water Water management 9 60,130,211 € Energy NRW.BANK.Effizienzkredit 21 46,197,000 € Energy NRW.BANK.Elektromobilität 4 2,060,040 € Another objective was to make a contribution to 1.4 Stakeholder Dialogue im­prov­ing water quality and reducing carbon emissions. NRW.BANK maintains an open and regular exchange This was done with the help of the Green Bond, whose with its stakeholders. NRW.BANK’s most important proceeds were used, for instance, to facilitate the stakeholders with regard to corporate responsibility are: construction of four photovoltaic systems, the erection of eleven charging stations with a total of 26 charging Employees Guarantor points for electric vehicles and the replacement of vehicles by more environmentally-friendly models. Customers Sustainability Rating Agencies Other measures funded by the bond include the acquisition of more energy-efficient industrial machines Investors NRW.BANK Initiatives/NGOs and the change to more resource-efficient production processes. Suppliers Media ... The proceeds from the Green Bond were also used to support the renaturation of the River Emscher. They helped to finance the construction of a total of Trusting communication forms the basis for the more than 70 kilometres of sewage canal, with whose cooperation and coordination with the state of North aid fresh and used water are separated. An additional Rhine-Westphalia. This also applies to the development environmental benefit is afforded by the rainwater of new and the expansion of existing promotion products collection and processing facilities erected in this with the aim of supporting the North Rhine-Westphalian context, which support the natural water cycle in an government’s social and infrastructural measures as area with a high proportion of sealed surfaces and well as its energy and climate protection targets. help to reduce flood peaks. As a matter of course NRW.BANK has committed Specific project examples funded by the bond, backitself to providing its stakeholders with transparent ground information and the documentation for the information about its corporate responsibility. The NRW.BANK.Green Bond 2013 can be found on the Bank’s annual financial report is the most important Internet at www.nrwbank.com/greenbond. instrument for this communication. 6 Financial Report 2013 In keeping with its commitment to transparent communi­ In addition, the “Energy” topic again defined the cation, the Bank additionally publishes corporate framework for several activities and events such as responsibility information in a sustainability portal on the NRW.Symposium on “Decentralised energy supply: its website. In the past fiscal year, the Bank added potential, financing, experience”. a new page about its Green Bond programme to this portal for sustainable investors. The “Values” image campaign launched by the Bank in 2013 also addresses the sustainability issue and 1.5 Responsible Marketing underlines that responsibility is an important value Purchases of supplies and the awarding of contracts for the Bank. for marketing services are also subject to NRW.BANK’s sustainable procurement guidelines – in compliance 1.6 Sustainability Ratings with the provisions of the TVgG-NRW – thus covering As in previous years, NRW.BANK again obtained good important aspects of corporate responsibility. sustainability ratings from specialist agencies such as Sustainalytics GmbH and oekom research AG as well as NRW.BANK has laid down written rules for the from imug Beratungsgesellschaft für sozial-ökologische confidential treatment of customer information also Innovationen mbH. with regard to its marketing activities. Accordingly, NRW.BANK does not use typical sales-oriented The latter rated the Bank with regard to its sustainadvertising measures based on customer data such as ability performance and its commitment to corporate letters or mailings; instead, customers may only be responsibility. Social, governance and environmental addressed individually by their account manager within aspects are increasingly being considered in the the scope of the regular customer service. The Bank’s assessment of capital market issuers in addition to Data Protection Officer is involved in all dialogue-based the traditional financial performance indicators. marketing measures based on customer data. Oekom research AG awarded NRW.BANK a “C” rating The Bank’s advertising materials are also geared to on a scale from A+ to D-. The additional “Prime” rating sustainability; for instance, the Bank has introduced classifies the Bank as a sustainable investment. In the environmentally-conscious items, which are made, for Sustainalytics sustainability rating, the NRW.BANK instance, from renewable, biodegradable or recycled improved its score from 61 to 64 points of 100 possible materials. points and made 72nd place. For imug NRW.BANK is rated in the upper quarter of the six rated national development banks. Sustainability Ratings imug oekom research Sustainalytics Rating Positive Prime No. 72 of 350* * Above the peer group average. Financial Report 2013 7 Corporate Responsibility 2 Designing Sustainable Promotion for Clients Sustainable behaviour is a central objective of NRW.BANK’s business model. It determines the structure and scope of the Bank’s promotion and NRW.BANK provides its financing and advisory development offering. services creatively, competently and responsibly for the benefit of businesses, municipalities and In terms of contents, NRW.BANK’s promotional the people in North Rhine-Westphalia. offerings are divided into three fields of promotion: In accordance with its sustainability strategy, “Seed & Growth”, “Development & Protection” NRW.BANK specifically promotes and funds proand “Housing & Living”. These form the core of jects and programmes designed to improve living NRW.BANK’s promotion strategy and at the same time conditions, social development as well as environdenote the target areas. A total of nine promotion mental and climate protection in North Rhinethemes represent three fields of promotion while at Westphalia. In its capacity as the development the same time outlining the focal promotion points bank for North Rhine-Westphalia, NRW.BANK of the Bank. Each promotion product is assigned to a specifically supports investments which take promotion theme. the North Rhine-Westphalian economy and infrastructure forward. The Bank uses part of The expansion and refinement of the product portfolio its own income for its promotion activities. are driven by the promotion policy principles adopted NRW.BANK’s promotion activities are geared to by the Board of Guarantors and NRW.BANK’s funding projects of proven economic viability promotion strategy, which builds on these principles. while taking its customers’ interests into account Both facilitate the consistent and sustainable developand paying particular attention to environmental ment of the promotion business taking into account protection needs. Projects with unacceptable the political guidelines of the North Rhine-Westphalian environmental impacts or unacceptable negative government. The Bank and the state government jointly impacts on social development are excluded aim to create sustainable promotion and development from NRW.BANK’s support to the extent that solutions for the economy, the municipalities and the such exclusion is permissible within the legal people in North Rhine-Westphalia. framework under which NRW.BANK operates. The free provision of monetary and non-monetary resources for the promotion business – referred to as Promotion Services Provided by NRW.BANK Infrastructure SME Municipalities Se Start-ups ing e d L iv & & owth Housing Gr Exports Housing ev tio D n elo pme tec Environment/ nt & Pro Education Climate/Energy Innovation 8 Financial Report 2013 “Förderleistung“ – is an integral element of the Bank’s With regard to new promotion business, the successful promotion strategy. This “Förderleistung” is composed trend of the previous year continued in 2013, when of interest rate subsidies, risk assumptions and free NRW.BANK committed promotion funds totalling services and provisions, e. g. advisory services for € 9.2 billion, which was only 2.9% below the record customers and support services for multi­pliers and level of € 9.5 billion of the exceptional year 2012. house banks. The chart below shows a breakdown of the promotion volume by fields of promotion: Distribution Channels in % Promotion Volume by Fields of Promotion in % Other banks 8 Cooperative banks 10 Development & Protection 16 Direct business Housing & NRW savings 42 Living 52 banks 40 Seed & Growth 32 Target Groups in % 2.1 Seed & Growth Small and medium-sized enterprises are the Private 21 backbone of the North Rhine-Westphalian economy. The product range in this field of promotion covers Commercial 39 the entire life cycle of a company – from the start-up to Municipal 40 the capital supply in phases of growth and support in difficult situations to the financing of takeovers of existing companies. At € 2.9 billion, the very good promotion result of the To fund its promotion activities, NRW.BANK also uses previous year (€ 2.8 billion) was once again exceeded funds made available to it by KfW Bankengruppe, in the past fiscal year. The increase in new credit Rentenbank, the European Investment Bank as well as volume was primarily related to the promotion themes the Council of Europe Development Bank (CEB). “Start-ups” and “Exports”. In the “SME” theme, NRW.BANK again reached the very high level of the previous year. Financial Report 2013 9 Corporate Responsibility The Bank’s promotion programme with the highest To externally strengthen their equity capital, small and volume in this field of promotion, the NRW.BANK. medium-sized enterprises preferably use mezzanine Mittelstandskredit, again dominated the Bank’s capital. NRW.BANK grants mezzanine capital in the pro­motion activities in 2013. The number of companies form of two coordinated products: benefiting from promotion funds under this programme increased by 10.2% on the previous year. Under this The NRW.BANK.Mittelstandsfonds provides programme, 5,204 North Rhine-Westphalian enterprises mezzanine capital that can be individually received interest-subsidised loans for investments and structured in the form of dormant shareholdings working capital in a total amount of € 1.5 billion in 2013 from € 1 to 7 million. It is targeted at enterprises (2012: 4,723 recipients; € 1.5 billion). focusing on the flexible adjustment of internal cash flows and a stronger orientation towards the The NRW.BANK.Universalkredit remained an additional characteristics of classic equity capital. cornerstone of SME promotion: Under this programme, By contrast, the NRW/EU.Investitionskapital is the Bank extended development loans totalling funded from the European Regional Development € 551.2 million in 2013 (2012: € 486.2 million). Fund (ERDF) and by the state of North RhineWith freely selectable maturities between three and Westphalia and provides standardised mezzanine ten years, this loan meets the recipients’ demand capital in the form of subordinated loans at very for greater flexibility and is a meaningful complement favourable conditions. to the NRW.BANK.Mittelstandskredit. At € 20.8 million, commitments remained at a high To give small and medium-sized enterprises access to level in 2013 especially for the NRW.BANK.Mittel­ development loans even if they can furnish only limited standsfonds. collateral, NRW.BANK successively expanded its range of liability releases over the past years: Support for business start-ups is one of the main economic development tasks of NRW.BANK. The Bank For small and medium-sized enterprises as defined nurtures start-up activity in North Rhine-Westphalia by the EU, NRW.BANK additionally offers a 60% predominantly through its NRW.BANK.Gründungs­ “EIF liability release“ version of the NRW.BANK. kredit, which offers interest-subsidised loans for startMittelstandskredit. In offering this product, up entrepreneurs. In 2013, 2,026 start-up and growth NRW.BANK and other state development banks projects with a total volume of € 398.3 million (2012: draw on a back-up guarantee underwritten by the 1,719 projects; € 335.7 million) were supported by this European Investment Fund (EIF) and funded from programme. the Competitiveness and Innovation Framework Programme (CIP) of the European Union. The NRW/EU.Mikrodarlehen, a programme funded by With the NRW.BANK.Mittelstandskredit and the the ERDF and the state of North Rhine-Westphalia, is NRW.BANK.Universalkredit, an optional 50% targeted specifically at micro start-ups with funding liability release to the benefit of the house bank is needs of up to € 25,000. Given that these micro loans available. This liability release partially frees are unsecured, they are also suitable for unemployed the house bank from its liability for servicing the individuals setting up their own businesses, thereby development loan towards NRW.BANK. supporting their reintegration into gainful work. 45 start-ups benefited from the Bank’s support under this Alternatively an 80% default guarantee from programme in 2013. Bürgschaftsbank NRW may be applied for under both programmes. 10 Financial Report 2013 Seed capital – equity capital in conjunction with 2.2 Development & Protection entrepreneurial support of the founders – is required, The products offered by NRW.BANK in the field of in particular, by enterprises launching innovative and promotion “Development & Protection“ support investtechnically new products and services in the market. ments aimed at protecting environmental, climate and NRW.BANK promotes such start-ups through its energy resources and drive innovation. These promoNRW.BANK.Seed Fonds, which provides regional seed tion themes have clearly gained importance for society. funds with capital for investments in newly established This change of paradigm – which is not least reflected technology-oriented businesses. This way, NRW.BANK in Germany’s nuclear phase-out – requires active promotes investments by private investors. support. This field of promotion also includes the “Education” theme as a fundamental success factor for The increasingly complex economic interrelationships the future development in North Rhine-Westphalia. mean that over and above the provision of funding there is a need for targeted information on available promoThe volume in the field of promotion “Development & tion funding as well as specific advice for individual Protection” was increased continuously not least due funding recipients. In the past years, NRW.BANK to the fact that NRW.BANK expanded the range of own responded to this need by expanding its advisory services products. At € 1.5 billion, the promotion volume in into a central pillar of its range of products and services. 2013 was up by another 7.6% on the very good level The existing range of services – ­promotion advice, of the previous year. Accounting for € 1.3 billion, funding advice and the service centre – again attracted “Environment/Climate/Energy” is the promotion theme lively demand in 2013. In view of the relatively easy with the highest volume in this field. availability of credit, the advisory services continued to focus more on forward-looking and cost-oriented The NRW.BANK.Effizienzkredit was introduced in options for company funding and on improving October 2011 to support projects aimed at energy communication with external lenders. savings and energy efficiency. This loan represents a new promotion approach adopted by NRW.BANK, since the Bank makes access to promotion funds conditional Promotion Volume “Seed & Growth” on the achievement of certain minimum requirements. by Promotion Themes and in € Million This offering is characterised by a simple application process, a large choice of maturities and liability 3,000 releases for house banks. 41 34 485 423 2,500 Launched in 2010, the NRW.BANK.Elektromobilität 21 2,399 2,388 programme provides low-interest financing for research 286 2,000 and development projects that fall under North Rhine2,075 Westphalia’s ”Electric Mobility Masterplan“. 1,500 The following new products pursuing environmental or 1,000 climate-related objectives were introduced by the Bank in 2013: 500 The NRW/EU.KWK-Investitionskredit offers 0 particularly favourable lending rates for corporate 2013 2012 2011 investments in the retrofitting and extension of SME Start-ups Exports existing combined-heat-and-power plants and in the construction of new CHP plants. Financial Report 2013 11 Corporate Responsibility Under the NRW.BANK.Energieinfrastruktur proPromotion Volume “Development & Protection” gramme, investments in the energy infrastructure by Promotion Themes and in € Million such as power generating plants, energy storage capacity and the construction or maintenance 2,000 of grids are eligible for promotion. The Bank offers both annuity and instalment loans for maturities 1,500 60 76 15 between three and 30 years, which can be flexibly 149 1,000 1,331 1,198 94 adjusted to the requirements of the individual projects. 911 500 At € 59.8 million, the volume in the “Education” theme clearly exceeded the prior year level (2012: € 15.1 million). 0 NRW.BANK supports municipal investments in the 2013 2012 2011 creation and maintenance of child day care facilities by Environment/Climate/Energy Innovation Education granting access to the federal programme IKU-KfWKITA Ausbau. 2.3 Housing & Living In the “Innovation“ promotion theme, the NRW.BANK. NRW.BANK’s products are designed to improve Innovationskredit is available to small and mediumhousing and living in North Rhine-Westphalia. In this sized enterprises generating annual sales of up to context, (social) housing promotion plays an important € 500 million. The Bank extends loans up to a maximum role, as it ensures the availability of affordable quality amount of € 10 million, with an optional release from housing. In addition, a well-functioning society depends liability for loans of € 125,000 and more. In the past fiscal on comprehensive public services, which means that year, the Bank extended loans totalling € 46.2 million local authorities require suitable financial resources under this programme. and an appropriate infrastructure. The meaningful integration of these tasks contributes to future-oriented Through its two NRW.BANK.Venture Funds, NRW.BANK urban development. The aim is to ensure the integrated has, for many years, made co-investments in young, promotion of housing and urban environment. innovative North Rhine-Westphalian enterprises. These This means that the promotion activities in the individual equity financings mostly take the form of an open promotion themes (Housing, Municipalities, Infra­ minority investment of between € 0.5 and € 5 million, structure) should be mutually related and be combined with the Bank aiming for an investment period of even more strongly to support the structural developno more than seven years. In the past financial year, ment of a city and its neighbourhoods. At € 4.8 billion, NRW.BANK’s commitments in this field totalled the promotion volume again reached a high level in € 6.4 million. the past fiscal year. “Municipalities” at € 2.8 billion and “Housing” at € 1.4 billion were again the largest promotion themes. Another task of NRW.BANK is to be a reliable partner to the municipalities in North Rhine-Westphalia. To secure and support the proper functioning of the North Rhine-Westphalian municipalities, the development bank again offered the NRW.BANK.Kommunalkredit to municipalities in 2013. To fund infrastructure projects undertaken by municipalities, municipally-owned 12 Financial Report 2013 companies and municipal cooperatives, NRW.BANK The NRW.BANK.Breitband programme finances additionally provides two coordinated programmes, investments designed to build up a technologynamely NRW.BANK.Kommunal Invest and NRW.BANK. neutral, state-wide broadband supply in North Kommunal Invest Plus. Rhine-Westphalia. The focus is on the procurement and installation of glass fibre cables. As the revenue In addition, NRW.BANK also supports the municipalities limit was abolished in 2013, larger companies with competent advice. In this context, the Bank may now also take advantage of the promotion regularly provides the municipalities and municipallyprogramme for measures aimed at expanding owned companies with information about the various the broadband network. Also, the fixed interest credit programmes and assists them with regard to period may be extended to a maximum of 30 years issues of inter-municipal cooperation as well as municipal in individual cases. NRW.BANK thus offers special activity concepts. support for long maturities, which commercial banks are often unable to offer. A smoothly functioning infrastructure is a precondition for economic growth in a region. To cover the respective In 2013, NRW.BANK’s various social housing promotion investment requirements in order to maintain and programmes again helped to create affordable housing expand the infrastructure in North Rhine-Westphalia, for lower income target groups. In addition, the Bank it is often necessary to mobilise private capital. The aims to improve the condition and the energy efficiency NRW.BANK.Infrastruktur programme offers private of the housing stock and to align existing housing investors an opportunity to fund social and technical resources with the requirements of demographic change. infrastructure projects at favourable terms. In the The focus is increasingly shifting to conversions and past fiscal year, the Bank complemented the instalment refurbishments of existing buildings. The contents of loans granted under this programme by an annuity the promotion programmes are based on the annual repayment structure, which primarily benefits companies Housing Promotion Programme drawn up by the state making long-term infrastructure investments thanks of North Rhine-Westphalia, which operationalises to the predictable and steady repayment of the funds. the guidelines of the promotion policy into specific promotion conditions. Moreover, NRW.BANK provides customised structured finance products to support infrastructure projects. The promotion loans for owner-occupied housing Besides these broad-based general offerings, the Bank are extended directly to the promotion beneficiaries, expanded and improved its product portfolio for the who file an application with the responsible municipal promotion of selected infrastructure projects in the and city authorities. All told, the Bank provided the past fiscal year: following loan volumes in the year 2013: € 335.7 million for the construction of rent and tenancy-controlled Under the new NRW.BANK.Baudenkmäler flats; € 90.8 million for the purchase and construction programme, which was launched in 2013, the Bank of owner-occupied housing and € 38.4 million for supports investments in the preservation and the reduction of barriers in existing housing units as restoration of historical monuments and buildings well as the construction of nursing homes. deserving preservation in North Rhine-Westphalia. In this context, the Bank’s promotion of existing housing will be expanded through the additition of a new module dedicated to the renovation of owneroccupied monuments and residential buildings worth preserving. Financial Report 2013 13 Corporate Responsibility Besides its own promotion programmes, NRW.BANK 3 Assuming Social Responsibility for Employees provides access to federal grant programmes for privately financed housing construction and for the improvement of energy efficiency through refurbishNRW.BANK is a forward-looking and socially ments and new construction projects. The resulting responsible employer under public law. reduction in CO2 emissions makes an important The Bank is especially committed to a respon­ contribution to safeguarding an intact environment sible human resources and training policy for future generations. as well as to fair dealings with all employees. NRW.BANK complies with international standards In addition, NRW.BANK closed a € 100 million global – such as human rights, the UN Convention loan with CEB in 2013. The funds will be used for social on the Rights of the Child for the protection of housing promotion purposes. children against exploitation (Art. 32) as well as the rejection of forced labour – as well as with national laws and labour standards. The right of Promotion Volume “Housing & Living“ all employees to organise and the active support by Promotion Themes and in € Million of statutory co-determination play an especially important role in this context. 5,000 712 A s part of its corporate responsibility, NRW.BANK 635 689 attaches great importance to avoiding dis­crimin­ 3,124 4,000 ation. The Bank’s “Fairness at Work” convention 2,787 2,383 not only prohibits all forms of discrimination 3,000 within NRW.BANK but also describes measures to prevent discrimination and defines rules 2,000 relating to employees’ right to file complaints. 1,801 For NRW.BANK, fair dealings with its employees 1,000 1,419 1,462 also means creating a corporate culture in which partnership and cooperation, openness, mutual 0 respect and esteem are values that are endorsed 2013 2012 2011 by all. Together with dialogue-oriented processes, Housing Municipalities Infrastructure these values lay the basis for a positive and productive working climate. For NRW.BANK, assuming responsibility for its employees means creating an attractive working environment, e. g. through high job safety, modern health management and regulations supporting a good balance of work and family life. 14 Financial Report 2013 3.1 Securing Junior Staff A s a modern development bank, NRW.BANK For NRW.BANK, securing junior staff means training believes that the functional and social skills of its own junior staff. In keeping with this objective, the women are indispensable. The Bank therefore Bank has, from the very beginning, offered all trainees aims to give women at all levels equal profeswho completed their training with good results sional opportunities and to take this into account a perman­ent employment contract. To ensure the also with regard to the exercise of mandates and optimum deployment of former trainees, it is important the Bank’s investments. The Bank’s family-friendly that the training matches the requirements of the policy is also designed to give men the possibility specialist departments. This has regularly been reviewed to achieve a better balance of work and family and, over the course of ten years, led to changes in life and thus helps to take equal opportunities at the number of trainees as well as to changes regarding work forward and to stabilise them. the contents of the vocational training. For instance, While there can be no doubt that a positive the Bank introduced an additional qualification in working environment is conducive to high per­ banking operations for the “office communication formance and excellent achievements, the most assistant” training or coordinated the accreditation important preconditions are good qualifications of a Bachelor course focusing on “Banking & Finance“ as a basis to start from, as well as possibilities in cooperation with the FOM University of Applied for further development. This is why NRW.BANK Sciences in Düsseldorf. attaches top priority to excellent vocational training, constant further training and individual development. In this context, the Bank respects Hired Trainees 2013 the individual potential, needs and interests of its employees, which is not least reflected in its Bachelor of signing of the “German Diversity Charter”. Science 2 Office Communication Assistants 11 Bachelor of Arts 7 The knowledge, commitment and performance of the staff are important factors which underpin the long-term success of the Bank’s business activity. The strategic objectives of the Bank’s Human Resources activities therefore include winning and retaining These developments not only increase the attractive­ qualified employees and preserving their skills and ness of the vocational training offered but also benefit performance to ensure that NRW.BANK can the Bank. The outcome is in line with NRW.BANK’s successfully fulfil its tasks as the development bank aim of winning motivated and qualified junior staff of North Rhine-Westphalia now and also in future. for the Bank: From this overriding goal, the Bank derives three fields of action which ensure that all activities and measures Of the 126 people trained between 2005 and 2013, support the accomplishment of the strategic objectives: 78.5% accepted the offer of permanent employment. securing junior staff, facilitating development and 87.9% of them still work at NRW.BANK. This means maintaining performance. that one in 14 employees of the Bank is a former trainee. Financial Report 2013 15 Corporate Responsibility Of the 126 people trained since 2005… 3.2 Facilitating Development Successful staff retention significantly depends on development opportunities in the form of challenging left the Bank at a tasks which allow employees to grow both professionlater date 12 ally and personally, the possibility to get to learn new topics and to assume responsibility as well as the left the Bank at prospect of higher salaries. the end of the training 27 still work for NRW.BANK offers its employees a wide range of the Bank 87 development opportunities by filling vacant positions according to the motto “internal promotion is preferable to external hiring”; this means that vacant positions are advertised publicly only if and when no suitable The ratio in the past fiscal year was similar, with 13 out candidates can be found among the employees or the of 18 trainees who completed their training accepting trainees. the Bank’s offer of permanent employment. In addition, the Bank hired three trainees who successfully Accordingly, vacant positions were mostly filled with completed their training programme. internal candidates in 2013. Only 27 positions were filled with external applicants. As a result, the situation This result and the fact that the North Westphalian regarding the filling of vacant positions was similar to Chamber of Industry and Commerce again rewarded the previous year. three NRW.BANK trainees as the best of class in their respective professions would not have been possible without the commitment shown by the 189 trainers In 2013, 147 vacant positions were filled with … in the specialist departments. Their enthusiasm for vocational training is contagious – 29 former trainees employees on a fixed-term contract who today are vocational trainers and pass their knowledge were made permanent and their experience on to present and future trainees. trainees 16 employees 14 employees returning external Given NRW.BANK’s current age structure, the aim of from parental applicants 13 “securing junior staff” will remain in the Bank’s focus. leave/leave of The Bank wants its trainees to replace at least part of absence 25 internal transfers the employees who will retire from the Bank in the 79 coming years. Accordingly, the Bank now and in the future intends to offer each year circa 20 trainee positions. The quality of the vocational training offered by In a company with largely constant staff numbers, NRW.BANK and its good reputation as a company vacant positions and, hence, development opportunities providing trainee positions – which has repeatedly been for the staff mostly arise when people leave the company. confirmed in the past ten years by eight trainees who completed their training as the best in the federal state In 2013, staff turnover amounted to 2.4%, of which and/or Germany as well as by several awards as the 1.6% were age-related retirements and 0.8% were company offering the best vocational training – is often terminations. the reason why young people opt for a trainee position at NRW.BANK. The decision to join the Bank after completion of the vocational training, however, is primarily influenced by the subsequent development opportunities offered by the Bank. 16 Financial Report 2013 As a result of the age structure of the staff – 13.3% of This future-oriented planning also includes employee the employees are 56 or older – some 100 people will interviews within the performance review process. leave the Bank in the next five years. Forward-looking At least once a year, all executives of the Bank hold an planning ensures that measures to retain know-how interview with each of their employees to provide within the Bank are taken at an early stage and that the feedback on their accomplishments and performance development opportunities arising from the retirements in the past year and to plan the tasks for next year. for junior staff are used effectively in accordance with Building on these interviews, future development the Bank’s strategic objective. opportunities and the steps required to implement them are discussed as well. Age Structure in % 21 19 19 18 18 18 18 17 15 14 14 13 12 12 12 11 11 11 10 10 10 9 9 7 7 7 6 6 6 6 3 3 3 3 2 2 2 0 up to 20 21–25 26–30 31–35 36–40 41–45 46–50 51–55 56–60 over 60 years years years years years years years years years years 2013 2012 2011 Financial Report 2013 17 Corporate Responsibility 3.2.1 Life-long Learning Over the past years, NRW.BANK has developed a Knowledge and experience are required to seize and comprehensive and constantly growing catalogue of master new challenges successfully. In this respect, seminars with regular offerings: from basic and special NRW.BANK supports its employees with diverse topics to aspects of methodological/behavioural personnel development measures. Besides seminars competence to structured, multi-part leadership training. and support in obtaining Bachelor/Master degrees and This regular offering is complemented by a large similar qualifications, these also include job rotations number of courses on current specialist topics that and other time-limited deployments. are offered demand-oriented. NRW.BANK assists employees in obtaining the For several years, NRW.BANK’s seminar catalogue above-mentioned qualifications and degrees by bearing has also included e-learning courses. So far, the focus (part of) the study and examination fees and releasing has been on regular mandatory trainings in the employees from work for exams and their preparation form of self-learning programmes and the use of online but also by organising networks and learning groups. aids and online courses in the field of IT expertise. There is great interest in this programme especially In 2013, the Bank placed a greater focus on this further among former trainees, who represent 47 of the training market and its increasingly improved course currently 61 participants. Accordingly, the highest offerings. As a result, suitable e-learning solutions in demand is for Bachelor and Master degrees. The Bank the field of methodological and behavioural competence regularly reviews the qualifications offered in the and foreign languages were added to NRW.BANK’s context of the development programme with regard to offerings. In the coming years, the different e-learning the requirements of the specialist departments and the concepts will play an increasingly important role at market situation and adjusts them where necessary. In NRW.BANK. 2013, for instance, the “Bachelor of Arts – International Management“ and “Bachelor of Laws – Commercial Compared to the exceptional year 2012 – due in great Law“ studies were added to the programme. Moreover, part to the training of almost 300 additional seminar the Bank successfully initiated the accreditation of participants for new IT applications – the number of a “Risk Management & Treasury“ Master study course participants in internal seminars declined in 2013 but in cooperation with FOM University of Applied Sciences. remained clearly above the level of 2011. In addition, NRW.BANK offers all its employees a wide range of seminars for professional and personal Internal Seminar Attendance by Topics training. Most of these seminars are held internally 1). 244 Over time this form of training has proven to be a great 1,200 286 success and has been met with a very positive response 296 422 from all employees due to the high quality of courses 900 28 offered and how pertinent they are to the Bank’s needs 168 158 and requirements. The money saved per seminar 600 62 733 658 participant has been invested in increasing the number 116 468 of participants and of internal events offered. 300 0 2013 2012 2011 Specialist Management IT Methods/Behaviour 1) I nternal seminars are all events organised exclusively for the Bank’s employees at NRW.BANK’s special request and whose contents and concepts thus closely meet the Bank’s concrete requirements and needs; such seminars may be held by in-house or external trainers. 18 Financial Report 2013 Attendance at internal specialist seminars in 2013 Ratio of Internal and External Seminar Attendance showed another year-on-year increase. Demand was particularly high for seminars addressing such subjects 100% 345 399 426 as public procurement and funding of non-governmental activities as well as typical lending-related topics 75% 1,215 1,356 such as rating and analysing enterprises. In addition, 1,068 the Bank prepared a large number of employees for the 50% implementation of the new Single Euro Payments Area (SEPA). 25% There was also a strong increase in the methodological/ 0 behavioural seminars compared to the previous year. 2013 2012 2011 This increase is primarily attributable to a new offering Internal External targeted exclusively at experienced employees aged 50 or above. This workshop series addresses topics such as knowledge, relationship, conflict and change The cost of the purely seminar-based further training management especially from the point of view of was higher than in the previous year, which was employees with long professional/personal experience. influenced by special factors, and is back at the level of The workshops also present strategies for preserving 2011. The increase on the previous year is attributable physical and mental health. In view of the high demand, to a higher number of paid seminars compared to this topic will become a permanent fixture in the prior period which saw IT seminars being led by NRW.BANK’s seminar programme. employees of NRW.BANK. Change management was another focal topic addressed A breakdown of seminar attendance by gender reflects in the methodological and behavioural seminars. This the relative shares in the workforce: 51.2% of the seminar supports managers in their respective change specialist seminars were attended by women; at 25.0% projects with the aim of expanding knowledge and the female participation rate in management seminars competences for active and successful management is also more or less identical with the percentage of individual change processes. of women in such positions. Only the methodological/ behavioural seminars were attended by a higher The number of participants in internal management percentage of women, namely 59.6%. trainings also increased in the past fiscal year. NRW.BANK’s seminar programme is generally open In 2013 the downward trend in the number of external to all employees. However, there are individual offerings seminar participants continued with a total of 345 which are targeted at certain employee groups. Late NRW.BANK’s employees attending external seminars. 2013 saw the start of a workshop series for women, as 84.9% of the participants attended specialist most of them still tend to bear the dual burden of seminars addressing special topics. As these seminars household/children and work and therefore often refrain were relevant only for a small number of employees, from moving up the career ladder. These workshops it did not make sense to organise internal seminars. aim to assist women in finding ways of organising their External seminars represented 22.1% of all seminars, professional and private lives in order that both can be which means that the ratio remained constant from enjoyed and mastered in a balanced way. Due to the the previous year. positive response from the first Financial Report 2013 19 Corporate Responsibility participants, the Bank will offer this workshop series part-time employees in such positions was higher than again in 2014. Besides the successful strategy workshop in case worker positions, where 42.8% of the women for women, which has been part of NRW.BANK’s worked part-time. programme for several years, this is the second human resources development measure which is designed to With a view to its junior staff and to securing a support women in their professional development qualified staff in the long term, NRW.BANK attaches regardless of their sphere of work. importance to creating a working environment which allows women to assume more responsible positions – 3.2.2 Equal Opportunities and Fair Working Conditions also on a part-time basis. At 59.7%, women account Since a number of years NRW.BANK has provided a for a much higher percentage of the employees aged up working environment which helps to balance work and to 35 years, whereas the percentage of men in the family life. This includes, in particular, variable working personnel aged 55 and above is twice as high as the hours as well as very flexible and personalised part-time percentage of women. schemes, alternating telework, allowances for childcare, advice and support in childcare and family matters At NRW.BANK, it is also possible for managers to work provided by an external service provider as well as the part-time. So far, 7.0% of all managers have taken availability of childcare places in cooperating institutions advantage of the possibility of reducing their working close to the Bank’s locations until the children reach hours to up to 60%. school age. In addition, the Bank encourages its female employees to push ahead with their professional The percentage of women in management positions development. continued to increase and reached 26.7% as of December 31, 2013. This is attributable, among other Over the past years the success of these offerings has things, to the above-mentioned measures and offerings, proved itself. Since the inception of NRW.BANK, the consistent consideration of women when it comes percentage of female employees in specialist and proto filling management positions in accordance with the ject management positions has increased steadily and Bank’s internal guidelines as well as the fact that today stands at 41.5%. At 47.0%, the percentage of potential female candidates were approached directly. Women and Men in Management Positions in % 25 20 19 16 15 15 11 10 7 6 6 5 5 5 4 3 2 1 0 31–35 36–40 41–45 46–50 51–55 56–60 over 60 years years years years years years years Men Women 20 Financial Report 2013 The Equal Opportunities Plan of NRW.BANK relates to of their employment is yet another sign of the Bank’s such internally published instruments and agreements fair treatment policy. One of the very few exceptions as the “Principles for Collaboration, Communication is the employer-financed company pension scheme, and Leadership”, the mission statement, the “Fairness which is available only to employees under permanent at Work“ labour agreement as well as the Human employment contracts. Where employees change Resources Planning and Development Strategy (PPES). directly from limited to permanent employment, they It describes all measures and offerings used by the are admitted to the scheme with retroactive effect Bank to increase the percentage of women especially in from the start of their employment. Apart from this, higher paid specialist and/or management positions. there are only some minor exceptions for temporary The success is measured regularly in the context of the staff employed under very short contracts. equal opportunities analysis, which is published on the Bank’s Intranet. 3.3 Maintaining Performance Balancing work and family life is a matter of concern 3.3.1 Occupational Safety and Strategic Health not only to women. In the past year, 19 men used the Management possibility provided by law to take parental leave. Good working conditions and exemplary health and Six fathers even decided to take a much longer leave safety policies form part of NRW.BANK’s corporate than the usual two months. responsibility towards its employees. For many years, the Bank has implemented this in the context of its However, equal opportunities are not only confined strategic health management system, which has been to equal treatment of men and women. Corporate expanded continuously since 2006. Today, the system responsibility also means preventing discrimination covers everything from a company doctor to a social in any form whatsoever. For this purpose, NRW.BANK worker offering confidential help to a variety of has made the “Fairness at Work” labour agreement, offerings revolving around such topics as preventive which is based on the values of the mission statement medicine, nutrition and sports. and the “Principles for Collaboration, Communication and Leadership” of NRW.BANK as well as on the For NRW.BANK, health means much more than just German General Equal Treatment Act (AGG). Besides the absence of illness. Therefore, the focus is on the the prohibition of discrimination, the labour agreement question “What keeps people healthy”? The Bank’s also includes effective measures for avoiding discrimihealth promotion activities therefore aim to promote nation. Should employees of NRW.BANK be treated healthy behaviour and to reduce avoidable strains unfairly in spite of the preventive measures taken, the on employees’ health. Bank’s Equal Opportunities Officer also serves as the designated complaint recipient as defined in the AGG. A systematic, regular hazard analysis, in which all The fact that no complaints were lodged in the past employees are asked about potentially hazardous circumyear shows that both the employees and the managers stances and stress factors at work, is an important of the Bank cultivate a corporate culture where tool to identify such strains at an early stage. The strains partnership, collaboration, openness, mutual respect identified are usually eliminated unbureaucratically and esteem are values that are shared by all. thanks to the collaboration between the persons responsible, especially the Occupational Safety Officer, The fact that benefits and offerings of the Bank are the company doctor, the staff council, the Social Officer, generally available to all employees regardless of Building Management as well as the managers and the duration of their employment contract or the extent executives. Financial Report 2013 21 Corporate Responsibility NRW.BANK has established two working groups to management system in cooperation with the staff address the health protection issue to the benefit of council, the representatives of the severely disabled, all employees. The first is the Occupational Safety the Safety Officer, the company doctor, the Social Officer Committee, which advises the Bank with regard to all and the Legal Department. The aim of this for staff occupational safety and accident prevention matters. voluntary service is to define customised measures The committee is composed of representatives of related to the specific working environment in one-onthe Bank and the staff council, who are assisted by the one talks with the people concerned. These measures company doctor, the representatives of the severely are designed to aid employees returning after a long disabled, a Safety Officer and Occupational Safety illness and to stabilise their health. The Bank attaches Officer. the necessary importance to absolute confidentiality and data protection in this sensitive process. In addition, the Health Working Group meets twice a year with the aim of advancing and refining the 3.3.2 Sabbaticals strategy health management system and deciding and As important as good working conditions may be – implementing specific measures. For 2013, the working sometimes people need to take a longer time off to group decided to organise information events and recharge their batteries to handle their jobs more preventive eyesight check-ups, recognising that “good effectively afterwards. As people tend to work longer vision” is of importance for all employees working as a result of shorter periods of school and university on computers. As always, both the lectures and the education and later retirement, the possibility to preventive check-ups were available to all employees suspend work for an extended period of time is without restriction. Due to the high demand, the becoming increasingly important. Since the second half Bank arranged additional check-ups. of 2013, NRW.BANK has offered its employees the possibility taking a sabbatical from work for a period In its annual health report, which is available to all of up to two months in addition to their regular annual employees, the Bank reports on all current occupational leave. During this period, employees benefit from health and safety measures as well as its future plans. uninterrupted social insurance cover. So far, eight employees have taken advantage of this possibility or Yet even the best preventive check-ups cannot entirely announced their intention to do so in 2014. prevent illnesses. In 2013, NRW.BANK therefore continued to optimise the post-illness re-integration 22 Financial Report 2013 3.4 NRW.BANK Personnel in Figures 2013 2012 2011 absolute in % absolute in % absolute in % Total number of employees 1,256 100% 1,258 100% 1,255 100% by sex – women 642 51.1% 642 51.0% 629 50.1% – men 614 48.9% 616 49.0% 626 49.9% by company location – Düsseldorf 847 67.4% 841 66.9% 839 66.9% – Münster 409 32.6% 417 33.1% 416 33.1% by type of employment – full time 991 78.9% 1,005 79.9% 1,020 81.3% – part-time 265 21.1% 253 20.1% 235 18.7% by function group – management 232 18.5% 228 18.1% 234 18.6% – specialists/project workers 395 31.4% 384 30.5% 371 29.6% – case workers 467 37.2% 477 37.9% 481 38.3% – secretaries 46 3.7% 48 3.8% 51 4.1% – non-commercial functions 55 4.4% 55 4.4% 56 4.5% – special functions * 6 0.5% 6 0.5% 6 0.5% – trainees 55 4.4% 60 4.8% 56 4.5% by remuneration – collective pay (incl. trainees) 847 67.4% 861 68.6% 878 70.0% – non-collective pay 409 32.6% 397 31.6% 377 30.0% Total number of trainees 55 60 56 – new traineeships 20 22 24 – completed trainings 18 20 18 – hiring ratio (unlimited) 72.2% 80.0% 77.8% Average age, total 43.1 42.5 42.5 Average period of employment 16.2 15.8 15.9 Departures, total (excl. trainees) 30 2.4% 55 4.4% 40 3.2% – due to termination 10 0.8% 19 1.5% 11 0.9% – due to age 20 1.6% 36 2.9% 29 2.3% * Exempted staff representatives, Equal Opportunities Officer, Occupational Safety Officer. Financial Report 2013 23 Corporate Responsibility 4 Climate and Environmental Protection 4.1 Basis for Reporting 4.1.1 Scope and Period of Reporting NRW.BANK’s resource efficiency and its active The eco-balance2) for the year 2013 covers the ecological contributions to North Rhine-Westphalia’s public data and the environmental impact caused by the life are an integral part of its corporate responsiactivities of NRW.BANK. The Bank operates in two bility for the present and future generations. locations, namely Düsseldorf and Münster, and has two Minimised use of resources and the utilisation buildings in Düsseldorf and one building complex in of a large share of environmentally friendly and, Münster. preferably, renewable resources are essential elements of the Bank’s activities aimed at shaping To ensure maximum data quality, the consumption a high-quality living environment. and flow data (input and output) were collected for the NRW.BANK lives up to this responsibility by period from November 1, 2012 to October 31, 2013. taking into account all resources used in its The data for the spaces, vehicles and employees are business processes. For example, the Bank aims published in the environmental report for the period to implement the state of the art whenever it ended October 31, 2013. comes to constructing or converting buildings for its banking operations. As part of its ongoing 4.1.2 Data Collection and Reference Values improvement process, the Bank also recognises The eco balance data were collected in accordance the key importance of sensitising its employees with the VfU standard and can thus be compared with to the importance of making responsible use data from companies collected according to the same of resources. standard. The basis is formed by the VfU’s revised 2005 guidelines in conjunction with the conversion factors of the 2010 update. As the development bank for the state of North Relative environmental performance indicators (perRhine-Westphalia, NRW.BANK is aware of its corporate capita consumption) are formed on the basis of the responsibility and committed to implementing the number of employees. Part-time employees are added guiding principles of the North Rhine-Westphalian up to full-time employees, and temporary employees government, according to which “sustainability is are covered for the duration of their employment. understood as the combination of social justice and Staff numbers of 1,382 for 2011, 1,348 for 2012 and economic reason with environmental responsibility”. 1) 1,347 for 2013 were taken as the basis. All people working in the buildings of NRW.BANK, including For seven years, the Bank has collected and external workers, are covered by the analysis. evaluated its environmental performance indicators in accordance with the standards of “Verein für The number of working days was fixed at 250 days. Umweltmanagement und Nachhaltigkeit in Finanz­ Kg or t, kWh, km or m³ were used as units of measureinstituten (VfU)”. These indicators form the basis for ments for all accounts of the eco-balance. NRW.BANK’s commitment to protecting and saving resources. To make this process transparent to its 4.2 Building Energy internal and external stakeholders, NRW.BANK NRW.BANK uses a highly efficient energy management publishes a detailed and transparent report on its system to provide its employees with air-conditioned environmental performance indicators. and illuminated workplaces. 1) Extract from the cornerstones of a sustainability strategy for North Rhine-Westphalia. 2) The environmental figures were collected in cooperation with Büro WiRkung from Grevenbroich. 24 Financial Report 2013 To heat its buildings, the Bank exclusively uses district NRW.BANK therefore aims to arrange the travel heat, which is one of the most environmentally friendly activity of its employees in such a way that both the forms of heating. In the year 2013, 95.3% of the demands made on successful stakeholder management Bank’s total electricity requirements was covered by and environmental aspects are taken into consideration. green electricity generated by run-of-river hydropower The travel guidelines ensure that preference is given to plants. Electricity from conventional sources was only video and telephone conferences, local public transport used for the common areas in rented buildings outside and rail travel. Where company cars are concerned, of NRW.BANK’s control, whose number increased in the Bank took advice on environmental aspects in the fiscal year. This explains the higher CO2 value in the selecting its vehicles. The average carbon emissions of greenhouse gas sources category “Electricity”. the Bank’s fleet of 78 vehicles as specified by the manufacturers amounted to 144.7 g/km (2012: 156.6 g CO2 /km), which represented a reduction by another Energy Consumption 2013 2012 2011 7.5% compared to the previous year. kWh kWh kWh Heating energy – total 4,733,010 4,892,730 5,844,450 Average Fleet CO2 Emissions in g/km – per employee/year 3,515 3,629 4,229 Electricity 170 consumption 168 – total 5,739,099 5,672,010 6,067,780 160 – per employee/year 4,262 4,207 4,391 157 150 Absolute consumption of heating energy shows a 145 decline by 3.3%, while per-capita consumption was 140 reduced by 3.1%. 130 Electricity requirements remained almost unchanged 2013 2012 2011 from the previous year. The moderate change by 1.2% is attributable to weather-related factors, which also led to a moderate increase in electricity NRW.BANK’s employees travelled a total of 4,577,575 consumption per employee. kilometres on business trips in 2013, which is equivalent to 3,399 kilometres travelled per employee. Therefore 4.3 Business Travel the total number of kilometres travelled declined by Mobility is an important success factor for a company, 4.3%, and the kilometres travelled per employee were because good contacts with customers and business down by 4.2% on the previous year. partners are important quality criteria. At the same time, mobility is also a challenge, as many environ­ Business Travel 2013 2012 2011 mental as well as social problems are attributable to the constantly growing mobility requirements. km km km Rail 955,831 985,682 993,904 Road* 2,785,373 2,811,009 2,821,636 Short-haul flights 339,565 330,178 373,483 Long-haul flights 496,806 658,344 527,722 Total 4,577,575 4,785,213 4,716,745 km per employee 3,399 3,549 3,413 * All kilometres travelled by the Bank’s company cars and rental cars. Financial Report 2013 25 Corporate Responsibility Business Travel in % Declining by another 2.7%, the consumption of printer and copier paper stayed at a commendably low level: 100 11 13 11 7 7 8 75 61 59 60 Paper Consumption 2013 2012 2011 kg kg kg 50 Total* 47,840 49,239 53,253 kg per employee* 35.5 36.5 38.5 25 21 21 21 * Printing and copier paper, excl. printed matter and envelopes. 0 2013 2012 2011 Besides the quantity consumed, the Bank also assesses Rail Road the quality of paper used with regard to their environShort-haul Flights Long-haul Flights mental impact. Car travel accounted for 60.8% of the kilometres Paper Grades 2013 2012 2011 travelled. While this represents an increase by 1.8% % % % on the previous year, the total number of kilometres Recycled Paper 4.6 6.0 4.9 travelled was reduced. Car travel thus accounted for Primary Fibre most of the kilometres travelled, followed by rail travel, Paper, ECF 1) and whose share remained constant at 20.9%. Air travel chlorine-bleached 83.7 79.0 87.7 accounted for 18.3% of the kilometres travelled, with Primary Fibre long-haul flights and short-haul flights representing Paper, TCF 1) 0.0 0.1 0.2 10.9% and 7.4%, respectively. Primary Fibre Paper, FSC2) The kilometres travelled on long-haul flights declined and PEFC 2) 11.7 3) 14.9 3) 3.1 by 24.5% on the previous year, while there was a 2.8% 1) Elemental chlorine-free (ECF), totally chlorine-free (TCF). increase in the kilometres travelled on short-haul flights. 2) Forest Stewardship Council (FSC), Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification Schemes (PEFC, ordered in 2011 only). 3) 2012 and 2013 figures incl. printed matter. 4.4 Paper Since 2012, the eco-balance has shown the paper used for office purposes including printed matter such as To make its paper consumption even more environ­ letterheads and envelopes. Annual reports, brochures mentally friendly, NRW.BANK has decided to no longer or flyers are not covered by the analysis. In 2013, use virgin fibre paper for printers and copiers – total paper consumption amounted to 57.0 t or 42.4 kg excluding business stationery and mass printings. per employee, which was down by 7.8% on total Starting 2014, recycled paper will be used instead. consumption in the previous year. 26 Financial Report 2013 4.5 Water Waste Volume 2013 2012 2011 The Bank regards water as an important resource t t t that should be protected. By installing water-efficient Waste Paper 53.6 56.1 76.6 technologies and using grey water from the air scrubDocument bers and recooling systems for its sanitary facilities, Shredding 82.3 56.6 45.3 NRW.BANK makes an active contribution to the sparing Residual Waste 108.6 113.1 117.1 use of this precious resource. DSD 3.4 3.0 3.0 Total* 247.9 228.9 242.0 Process and kg per Employee 184.1 169.8 175.1 Drinking Water 2013 2012 2011 Recycling Ratio* 56.2% 55.4% 51.6% Total Consumption 19,206 m3 19,895 m3 19,507 m3 Daily Consumption * Excl. other and kitchen waste. per Employee 57.1 l 59.0 l 56.5 l 4.7 Greenhouse Gas 4.6 Waste Greenhouse gas emissions caused by NRW.BANK’s In 2013, the Bank’s analysis again covered the following own business activity are an important performance waste types: paper (incl. documents shredded), indicator for the Bank. The calculation of the carbon “DSD or Green Dot waste” (collected recyclables), emissions per employee covers all environmentally food residues, waste fats, green waste, electrical waste, relevant consumption figures and wastes mentioned glass, residual waste, sludge from the company’s before. For the calculation, the BANK uses the latest own water treatment, fluorescent lamps, alkali and VfU conversion factors. lead batteries as well as other reaction and distillation residues. Taking all waste types into account, the The calculation does not cover carbon-free rail travel Bank produced a total of 395.7 t of waste in 2013. provided by Deutsche Bahn AG. This is equivalent to 293.9 kg of waste per employee (2012: 371.7 t total; 275.2 kg per employee). CO2 Emissions 2013 2012 2011 The increase on the previous year is mainly attributable kg CO2 kg CO2 kg CO2 to the large amount of documents shredded. Electricity 193,060 132,521 144,071 Heating Energy The following table shows the amounts of waste incl. Emergency produced exclusively as a result of office activity: Power Diesel 473,726 488,503 586,403 Business Travel 938,595 984,397 982,026 Paper 68,606 74,244 63,883 Drinking Water 14,386 14,901 14,611 Waste 88,418 85,978 91,390 Total 1,776,790 1,780,544 1,882,384 CO2 per Employee 1,319 1,321 1,362 Financial Report 2013 27 Corporate Responsibility CO2 Emissions in % In 2013, NRW.BANK’s CO2 emissions totalled 1,776.8 t, which is equivalent to 1,319.5 kg per employee. This is 100 5 5 5 slightly below the previous year’s total of 1,780.5 t and 1 1 1 4 4 3 the per-capita emissions of 1,320.9 kg. 75 53 55 52 50 26 31 25 27 0 11 8 8 2013 2012 2011 Electricity Heating Energy Business Travel Paper Drinking Water Waste Direct and Indirect CO2 Emissions at NRW.BANK in 2013 Emission Emission Emission Greenhouse Gas Sources Category 1* Category 2* Category 3* Total kg CO2 kg CO2 kg CO2 kg CO2 Electricity 193,059.9 – Renewable 64,562.5 – Market Mix 128,497.4 Heating Energy 473,725.6 – District Heat 463,835.0 – Emergency Power Diesel 8,340.3 1,550.3 Travel 938,594.6 – Rail 24,396.2 – Road 545,933.1 247,898.2 – Short-haul flights 66,215.2 – Long-haul flights 54,151.9 Paper 68,605.9 – Chlorine-bleached 65,620.3 – Chlorine-free – Recycled 2,985.6 Water 14,385.7 14,385.7 Waste 88,417.7 – Waste Incineration 87,668.5 – Special Waste 749.2 Total 554,273.4 592,332.4 630,183.6 1,776,789.4 kg CO2 per Employee 1,319.5 * Distinction between direct and indirect emissions: Direct greenhouse gas emissions come from sources owned or controlled by NRW.BANK. Indirect greenhouse gas emissions result from the business activity of NRW.BANK – their sources are owned or controlled by third parties. In accordance with the “Greenhouse Gas Protocol”, emissions are divided into three categories depending on the degree of influence exerted by NRW.BANK: – Emission Category 1: all direct emissions. – Emission Category 2: all indirect emissions produced, for instance, in the generation of electricity, steam or thermal energy sourced by NRW.BANK from external sources. – Emission Category 3: all other indirect emissions in the field of logistics, material consumption, supplies and disposal. This also includes the emissions produced by service providers or manufacturing companies and their upstream suppliers. 28 Financial Report 2013 4.8 Carbon-neutral Business Operations 5 Showing Commitment to Society When it comes to using resources and producing carbon emissions, NRW.BANK pursues an “avoidance before reduction” policy. But notwithstanding the A  s part of its commitment to society and under Bank’s many environmental management activities, its remit as a development bank, NRW.BANK not all emissions can be avoided. endeavours to shape a subsidiarity-based and project-related collaboration with its partners In 2013, the Bank therefore decided, for the first on a medium to long-term basis in order to time, to neutralise the emissions produced in the fiscal create the required continuity. The Bank strives year through climate protection projects in developing to ensure the social and regional balance of and emerging countries with the help of certificates. its activities in North Rhine-Westphalia. Reflecting its focal topic of “energy”, NRW.BANK NRW.BANK’s efforts are guided by its resolve to offset the 1,776.8 t of carbon on a voluntary basis by foster creativity and ideas as well as responsible purchasing certificates from two wind farm projects action. In this context, the Bank focuses on in India. sponsorships related to education (academic, cultural and economic) in North Rhine-West­ phalia for a young target group. In accordance with the guidelines set by the Supervisory Board, NRW.BANK makes neither direct nor indirect donations to political parties or party-related foundations. Moreover, the Bank places no advertisements in their publications. Showing commitment to public life and society in North Rhine-Westphalia is an integral element of NRW.BANK’s corporate responsibility. The Bank supports measures in accordance with its “Guidelines for Corporate Citizenship and Other Services”. NRW.BANK attaches importance to making its decisions on grants and sponsorships transparent and comprehensible. A formal internal process has been established for this purpose: every request received regarding the sponsorship of projects is documented centrally by the Bank and voted on using standardised assessment criteria. One precondition for the sponsorship of projects is that the resources made available are used for projects in North Rhine-Westphalia. The Managing Board bases its decision regarding sponsorships on a quarterly approval submission. Financial Report 2013 29 Corporate Responsibility In 2013, NRW.BANK again spent € 0.7 million on 5.1.2 “Wir haben Energie!“ Project sponsoring activities in its three defined themes, How can a school actually save or even generate energy “Science & Education“, “Art & Culture” and “Society & in future? What career prospects are offered by organiSocial Affairs”. The chart below shows a breakdown of sations in the field of renewable energy in the region the budget by themes in accordance with the requests of my school? And how can I raise awareness for energy received in the reporting period. efficiency in creative manner and sensitize people to this topic in their everyday life? 15 student groups from North Rhine-Westphalia dealt in detail with these Sponsorship by Fields in % questions. They were supported in this during the course of the competition “Wir haben Energie! Ideen. Unterricht. Innovationen“ organised by NRW.BANK Society & Social Affairs 19 and Stiftung Partner für Schule NRW. A panel of judges chose the top three project ideas and North Science & Rhine-Westphalia’s Education Minister Sylvia LöhrEducation 46 Art & mann presented the awards. The winners were the Culture 35 Leibniz grammar school in Dormagen, the Freiherrvom-Stein grammar school in Münster and the NellySachs grammar school in Neuss. 5.1.3 Universities The past fiscal year also saw the Bank continue its 5.1 Science & Education long-standing support for academic institutions NRW.BANK’s corporate citizenship is guided by its with a focus on the topics finance and housing industry. resolve to promote creativity, ideas and responsible The following institutions received an annual basic action. Within this framework, the Bank focused grant in 2013: on sponsorships related to education in North RhineWestphalia. In 2013, the following projects from  Institut für Kreditund Finanzwirtschaft the field of “Science & Education” were sponsored at Ruhr-Universität Bochum by the Bank:  Centre for Financial Research at University of Cologne 5.1.1 buddY e. V. – Forum Neue Lernkultur, Düsseldorf  European center for financial services NRW.BANK is the main sponsor of an evaluation at University of Duisburg-Essen carried out by Paderborn University for the “buddY”  Institute of Spatial Planning model project, which aims to facilitate the transition at TU Dortmund University as well as from daycare to elementary school. To counteract  Institut für Kreditwesen the adjustment problems and stress symptoms shown at Westphalian Wilhelms-University Münster by children during this phase, the project focuses on strengthening their personality and social skills and Starting 2013, NRW.BANK additionally provides longon involving the children more actively in the transition term support to two students per year at the above process. The project takes the form of qualification institutions as part of the “Germany scholarship measures, which are offered to educational staff, programme.” teachers, school principals and daycare directors in the region. The buddY practice projects are developed, implemented and evaluated by networks of daycare and elementary schools. The result of the study will be available in 2014. 30 Financial Report 2013 5.1.4 Additional Measures in the Field of “Science & Education” Organisation/Project Measures Supported Target Group Balu und Du e. V. Honorary mentoring programme designed Elementary school children from to give children the chance to develop their disadvantaged backgrounds talents and to participate in social activities Klasse in Sport e. V. Offering for the quantitative and qualitative Elementary school children optimisation of school sports at elementary schools Deutscher Kinderschutzbund Projects primarily aimed at improving the Children Landesverband NRW e. V. quality of life, security, education and health Vocational training sponsorships Bearing the cost of vocational training for Secondary school graduates since 2009 eight additional apprenticeships in service companies working for NRW.BANK Rock Your Life! Career guidance as well as individual support School children in Düsseldorf and Münster for a successful career start by honorary from socially or financially student mentors; NRW.BANK assists in underprivileged backgrounds or building and establishing the two locations difficult families Auschwitz project of Enabling a one-week trip to Auschwitz and Grade 10 class Gymnasium Adolfinum, Moers Krakow with the aim of raising awareness for democracy and against far-right values Stiftung Erinnern Ermöglichen Support of the foundation which arranges School children visits to the Auschwitz memorial for schools in North Rhine-Westphalia Arbeiterkind e. V., Honorary mentoring programme to encourage School children Berlin, Landesgruppe NRW children to study by supporting them from the from families with no or only few start of study to graduation university graduates School cooperation with Initiation of career guidance projects School children two secondary schools and two grammar schools in Düsseldorf and Münster University of Tübingen Publication on the annual conference of the Academics/housing industry “Quartierforschung” working group Financial Report 2013 31 Corporate Responsibility Organisation/Project Measures Supported Target Group TU Dortmund University, Faculty of Dortmund conference “Services of General Academics/spatial planning sector Spatial Planning Interest and Spatial Planning”, on the challenges faced by government in providing basic services to the population on a nationwide basis, taking the international context into account 3rd Schlaun competition, Sponsorship of the competition on “Standort Master students/graduates of urban Münster Düsseldorf“ designed to find solutions for planning, architecture, landscape urban planning and development planning and civil engineering Tilbury House Support of Cologne’s junior academics at Students the international debating tournament in December 2013 Münsteraner Willem C. Vis Support of junior academics during a simulated Students International Commercial legal negotiation and the negotiation finals in Arbitration Moot Vienna and Hong Kong NRW.BANK.Studienpreis Award for diploma, master and PhD theses Students “Wohnen & Stadt“ outlining feasible recommendations for action or helping to advance the promotional and structural policy concepts in North RhineWestphalia MUIMUN Arbeitsstelle English-language conference “University Students Forschungstransfer International Model United Nations (MUIMUN)“ in Münster for students from all over the world 32 Financial Report 2013 5.2 Art & Culture 5.2.2 NRW.BANK.Kunstkalender NRW.BANK’s sponsorships in the area of “Art & For the ninth time, the Bank organised a competition Culture” again focused on fostering young talent. for young photographers to design the NRW.BANK. Kunstkalender, its annual calendar. For the 2014 5.2.1 Corporate Volunteering calendar, the Bank received many very impressive In the past fiscal year, the Bank again supported entries on the topic: “This is my place! – Children and cultural events at both of its locations and made its youths in NRW”. Michaela Schäfer from Cologne placed premises available for concerts: In October 2013, first, followed by Judith Büthe from Viersen (2nd place) NRW.BANK organised for the third time in a row a and Linda Drees from Dortmund (3rd place). classical concert at its staff restaurant in Münster in cooperation with Gesellschaft zur Förderung der NRW.BANK’s 2015 calendar will be devoted to the topic Westfälischen Kulturarbeit e. V. As part of the “CHAPEAU “Humanity’s Companions – Trees in NRW!”. Classique“ concert series, last year’s concert saw young chamber musicians Bartek Duś (saxophone) and 5.2.3 Promotion of the Arts Magda Wojciechowska (piano) take to the stage. At both of NRW.BANK’s locations, 2-year exhibitions were launched in 2013, which were organised in 2013 was the fifth year which saw NRW.BANK cooperation with the local Art Academies. The Bank cooperate with the “Düsseldorf Festival“, in which the organises tours to give the interested public the chance Bank hosted two concerts in the foyer of its head office to view these works of art: in Düsseldorf. Tossia Corman, a singer from Düsseldorf, and her band as well as the French Emile Parisien  In the context of the “Gruppeneffekt” exhibition Quartet entertained the audience playing rock, pop in Düsseldorf, 15 students explore the relation­ and jazz music. ship between reality and fiction, work and play, material and idea. Some of the locationEmployees volunteered at all three concerts and served specific art projects developed by the students food and drinks to the guests. The proceeds from the of Professor Rita McBride involve properties and sale of drinks and snacks generated by NRW.BANK and employees of NRW.BANK. totalling roughly € 1,400 were donated to Städtische  The “Flamingo“ exhibition in Münster comprises Musikschule Herne for the programme “An Instrument works of art by 23 students of Professor Julia for Every Child”. The purpose of this project is to proSchmidt, who spent one term exploring the vide each child attending a primary school in the Ruhr architectural, economic and social structures area with the possibility of learning to play their favourof NRW.BANK. ite instrument. Financial Report 2013 33 Corporate Responsibility 5.2.4 Additional Measures in the Field of “Art & Culture” Organisation/Project Measures Supported Target Group Kreativwirtschaft Deutschland e. V. Purchase of a “shuttle” for the association in Children and youths from the region order to promote cultural education programmes lit.COLOGNE lit.COLOGNE event in general and the children Children and youths and youth programme offering readings for school classes in particular Musikhochschule Münster Project “Wir spielen zusammen, nicht allein!“ Children and youths (Jugendakademie) (We play together, not alone), in which highly with special musical talent from talented musicians can play music solo, the Münsterland region in groups together or together with their teachers for a period of three months Landesmusikakademie NRW Support of Landesmusikakademie NRW in Lay musicians, music teachers, musical (further) training and the promotion of school and up-and-coming musicians young talent Stiftung Westfalen-Initiative: “RockSlam” will be part of the WestfalenSlam Young rock bands from the following “RockSlam” in 2014 – a competition for talents from such regions: Münsterland, Ostwestfalenfields as music, sports, art, culture and science Lippe, Hellweg-Region, Sauerland and Südwestfalen Gesellschaft zur Förderung der Promotion of promising young artists as well Up-and-coming artists Westfälischen Kulturarbeit e. V. as concept development and organisation of cultural events in the fields of art, music and literature in Westphalia International Düsseldorf Organ Sponsorship of the 8th International Musicians/up-and-coming artists Festival Düsseldorf Organ Festival, which presents the instrument in a new light, also by up-and-coming musicians, and targets children and young adults with special concerts new talents cologne Sponsorship of the “Long Day of New Talents”, Young university graduates in which comprises exhibitions and special films, media/art, film, music/dance e. g. in the field of design, music or dance events and design Project “kunst:dialoge at Project in the context of which students of Students/artists Museum Ludwig”, Cologne art history introduce visitors to modern and contemporary art in a dialogue as part of their own education 34 Financial Report 2013 Organisation/Project Measures Supported Target Group Ruhrtriennale Support of innovative mediation formats at the Up-and-coming artists international arts festival, which focuses on promoting young talent and aims to establish the Ruhr area as an important cultural location NRW Foundation Support of NRW Foundation, which helps the Non-profit organisations, target groups to engage in the preservation of associations, groups working nature, local customs and cultural heritages on a honorary basis Kino Gesellschaft Köln NRW KINOTAG (Movie Day), where movies Diverse from NRW are presented to a broad audience in special features Internationale Kurzfilmtage Sponsorship of the short film festival and Up-and-coming filmmakers Oberhausen gGmbH support of the NRW competition especially for productions from up-and-coming filmmakers from North Rhine-Westphalia 5.3 Society & Social Affairs the Bank’s two head offices. The Bank’s employees fulfilled 68 wishes which give the children the possibility 5.3.1 Eine Welt Netz NRW e. V., Münster for shared experiences, and additionally donated NRW.BANK supports the “Eine Welt Netz NRW”, money to paediatric cancer wards in Düsseldorf and which realises projects aimed at raising children’s and Münster. young people’s awareness of our world. To meet the very high demand from schools for “on-site” deployIn addition, NRW.BANK made Christmas donations to ments, the Bank has sponsored the “Eine Welt Mobil“, the following initiatives: a van equipped with materials for school and out-ofschool education for children and youths from third  Verein für Freizeitservice und Jugendarbeit e. V. is class. The lessons give the children a “hands-on” an association which offers young parents advice impression of topics such as climate change, energy and assistance as well as a platform for exchange. consumption, fair trade, the rain forest and responsible The association used the funds to establish parents’ textile production. libraries at 14 locations in the Warendorf district.  The “Klicksonar” project of LVR-Johanniterschule 5.3.2 Christmas Activity and Donation Duisburg, which is designed to improve the During the 2013 Christmas season, NRW.BANK acoustic perception of blind school children with organised its sixth “Leuchtende Kinderaugen” charity the aim of promoting the independence and event in cooperation with various children’s homes mobility of these children. The school is responsible in North Rhine-Westphalia. Self-made stars on which for all vision-impaired children and youths in the children had written their Christmas wishes, such western Ruhr area and on the northern Lower as vouchers for the movies, the museum or the zoo or Rhine. games, were hung from two large Christmas trees at Financial Report 2013 35 Corporate Responsibility 5.3.3 Additional Measures in the Field of “Society & Social Affairs” Organisation/Project Measures Supported Target Group Police Trade Union Colouring books on the topic of “road safety Kindergarten children/primary education” school pupils Stiftung Deutsche Projects aimed at researching and treating Children KinderKrebshilfe cancer in children SOS Kinderdorf e. V. Reconstruction of a house for a newly Children established Children’s Village family with six children in Düsseldorf Bundesstiftung Kinderhospiz Dissemination and publication of the children’s Terminally ill children (institutions in North Rhinehospice concept Westphalia) Wellenbrecher e. V. Violence prevention as classroom project Children and youths KIWO Jugendhilfe gGmbH Construction of a multi-functional field Children and youths (soccer field) in Dülmen Jugend im Bund für Umwelt und Projects related to nature and the environment Children and youths Naturschutz Deutschland, Landesverband Nordrhein-Westfalen e. V. Stiftung Deutsche Addiction prevention projects, personalised Children and youths from families KinderSuchthilfe consulting and treatment services, installation affected by addiction and maintenance of meeting places for children and young people in social hotspots, leisure and vacation offerings aimed at addiction prevention as well as further training of child and youth care workers Film project at Ernst-Mach-GymnaFilm production regarding a critical topic of School children sium, Hürth our times Der Schulbauernhof Emshof e. V., Acquisition of a greenhouse School children Telgte Stiftung Deutscher Promotion of junior architects Architecture students/graduates Architekten Förderverein für die Ausund Financial support of the “Europäisches Housing industry Fortbildung im EBZ e. V. Bildungszentrum der Wohnungsund Immo­­ bilienwirtschaft” 36 Financial Report 2013 Organisation/Project Measures Supported Target Group Stiftungsfonds DiaDem – Care services for people with dementia who People with dementia and Hilfe für demenzkranke Menschen live alone and promoting public discussion of their families the consequences of dementia Düsseldorfer Drogenhilfe e. V. Support of non-material, economic and social Drug addicts and people prone to projects drug addiction draußen! e. V. Opening up perspectives in Münster with the Homeless and unemployed people help of the “draußen!“ magazine Asphalt e. V./fiftyfifty Aid for homeless people in Düsseldorf Homeless people Lebenshilfe für Menschen mit Improving the participation in society by about Mentally impaired people and their geistiger Behinderung Landesver25,000 children, youths and adults throughout families band NRW e. V. the state Deutsche AIDS-Stiftung Projects for people with HIV and AIDS People with HIV/AIDS Deutsches Rotes Kreuz, Support of the 150th anniversary of the Diverse Kreisverband Düsseldorf e. V. association, which with the help of many voluntary workers helps people in need Kölner Klinikclowns e. V. Support of the association’s work on the Children and senior citizens paediatric wards of hospitals and in homes for the elderly Bundesanstalt Technisches Hilfs­ Support of the THW, 99% of whose members Diverse werk, Landesverband Nordrheinvolunteer to provide disaster relief Westfalen (THW) Bundesverband Deutsche Tafel e. V. Food banks in North Rhine-Westphalia, People in need which collect excess food of good quality and dis­tribute it to people in need Westfälischer Heimatbund e. V. Tasks related to the regional preservation of Diverse traditional customs and cultural heritages Financial Report 2013 37 Report on Public Corporate Governance Report on Public Corporate Governance in the Year 2013 As the development bank of the state of North reflects their specific public mission and is comparable Rhine-Westphalia, NRW.BANK believes in clear and with the North Rhine-Westphalian Code. In this case, comprehensible communication of its commitment the latter Code is not applied. NRW.BANK has taken to responsible action to the public and its guarantor, advantage of this possibility, revised its own Code its investors, customers and employees. The Public and developed a set of rules that is comparable with Corporate Governance Code of NRW.BANK forms the the North Rhine-Westphalian Code. Just like the latter central basis for this aim by providing a transparent Code, NRW.BANK’s Code aims to make corporate insight into the corporate constitution, which is defined governance transparent and comprehensible, while by law, the statutes and the company’s activity in at the same time taking into account the specific practice. It serves as the benchmark for responsible public mission and the particularities of a competitioncorporate governance and control. In this context, the neutral and largely budget-independent development members of the Managing Board, the Supervisory bank under public law. Accordingly, both the legally Board and the Board of Guarantors of NRW.BANK fully framed remit of NRW.BANK and the regulations under identify with the Code. institutional law and banking supervision are taken into account. The amended Code of NRW.BANK was Since 2006, NRW.BANK has reported annually on adopted by the executive bodies in the fourth quarter the corporate governance efforts undertaken by of 2013. It came into force on January 1, 2014 and NRW.BANK on the basis of its own Public Corporate replaces the previous Public Corporate Governance Governance Code (PCGK), which reflects the specific Code. Accordingly, the report provided in the context requirements of the Bank. In conjunction with of the present Financial Report on the reporting year the report on corporate responsibility, this report 2013 is the last to be based on the previous Code dating addresses the specific requirements of NRW.BANK as back to 2005, which was repealed with effect from the development bank of North RhineWestphalia. December 31, 2013. Apart from outlining the fundamental corporate governance structures, this primarily includes a report 2 Fundamental governance structure of NRW.BANK on the existing remuneration system. The Managing Board has sole responsibility for managing NRW.BANK’s business activity. In doing so, 1 Amendment of the Public Corporate it is bound by the company’s interests under the Act Governance Code on NRW.BANK. According to the latter, the Managing In the past years, NRW.BANK continuously examined Board has to assist the federal state and its local and the consequences that arise from changes in the legal regional governments in performing their public tasks, framework relating to public corporate governance. especially in the field of structural, economic, social This includes, in particular, the refinement of the and housing policy. In this context, it must execute and respective rules for listed joint stock companies and the manage promotion measures in accordance with adoption of separate rules for public-sector companies. the EU state aid regulations. In doing so, the Managing Moreover, the state of North Rhine-Westphalia decided Board is guided by the principle of sustainability. to develop a dedicated Public Corporate Governance Code for public-law enterprises and for investments held The Supervisory Board oversees the management by the government, which was adopted by the North activities of the Managing Board and is involved in the Rhine-Westphalian government on March 19, 2013. long-term positioning of the Bank. In accordance with the Minimum Requirements for Risk Management The Public Corporate Governance Code of the state of (MaRisk), the overall bank strategy, which comprises North Rhine-Westphalia thus explicitly opens up the the business, promotion and risk strategies, is discussed possibility for enterprises owned by the government of with the Supervisory Board – following preliminary NRW to subject themselves to their own Code which consultation in the Promotion and Risk Committee. 38 Financial Report 2013 With regard to the guiding ideas determining the Moreover, the executive and controlling bodies of strat­egies as well as the principles of the business, the Bank obtain expert advice from the Advisory Board pro­motion and risk policies, the Supervisory Board for Housing Promotion and the Advisory Board of submits a resolution proposal to the Board of GuaranNRW.BANK on specific topics and issues. The newly tors. In the past year, four meetings were held by constituted Parliamentary Advisory Board held its the Supervisory Board and 16 meetings were held by first meeting in the past reporting year. the committees formed by the Supervisory Board in compliance with legal requirements; these meetings NRW.BANK‘s Public Corporate Governance Code were attended by the Managing Board. includes comprehensive requirements relating to the integrity of the Managing Board, i.e. the appropriate To ensure the efficiency of the work of the Supervisory attitude and approach to side-line occupations, Board, preliminary discussions are held in the commitinvitations and gifts that affect the way in which the tees which focus on the respective issues. The full office is exercised. Additional regulations are adopted Supervisory Board is informed about these preliminary by the Executive Committee whenever required. discussions by the respective chairpersons of the The respective behavioural obligations were also committees. Irrespective of the above, the documents fulfilled in 2013. In some cases, the advice of the Public used for discussion at the committee meetings are Corporate Governance Officer was sought. available to the Supervisory Board members that are not committee members for information purposes 3 Directors-and-Officers (D&O) Insurance upon request. As in the previous years, the D&O insurance for the members of the Bank’s executive and controlling The cooperation between the Supervisory Board bodies, which contains no deductible, was continued and the Managing Board continues to be characterised in the past reporting year. In this context, the coverage by an open and trusting dialogue in the interest of of the insurance policies was not amended materially. NRW.BANK and its guarantor, the state of North RhineNRW.BANK’s new Public Corporate Governance Code, Westphalia. The dialogue held at the meetings is which came into force on January 1, 2014, contains complemented by a close, ongoing exchange, especially requirements and recommendations regarding a between the Chairman of the Supervisory Board and deductible for the members of the Managing Board, the Chairman of the Managing Board but also between the Supervisory Board and the Board of Guarantors. the Managing Board and the Chairmen of the individual The implementation of these requirements is planned committees. for the first quarter of 2014. The members of the Managing Board are appointed 4 Continuation of the Qualification by the Supervisory Board for a maximum period of five Enhancement Measures years. In the course of the reporting year, the appointThe demands made on the qualifications of supervisory ment of Mr. Stölting as member of the Managing Board bodies are being detailed in increasingly greater was renewed for another five years. detail and, in addition to the existing requirements of the Public Corporate Governance Code and national Notwithstanding its overall responsibility as a laws, stipulated also at the level of the European Union. management body, NRW.BANK’s Managing Board is As part of the implementation of the European characterised by a clear allocation of competencies and directives (CRD IV), the German Stock Corporation Act responsibilities. The rules of procedure of the Managing was amended with effect from January 1, 2014 also Board remained unchanged in the past reporting year; with regard to corporate governance. The members of in keeping with NRW.BANK’s transparency policy, they supervisory bodies must have the knowledge, skills and are published on the website of the Bank. experience that are required to exercise their control Financial Report 2013 39 Report on Public Corporate Governance function and to assess and supervise the Managing 5.1 Remuneration of the Members of the Board. In this context, financial institutions are put under Supervisory Board an obligation to use appropriate human and financial The concept of a remuneration structure which is resources to assist the members of the Supervisory not dependent on the business performance primarily Board to take up their mandate and to allow them to reflects the underlying idea according to which the undergo further training in order to keep the required generation of profits is not the primary business expert knowledge up to date (Section 25d para. 4 KWG). objective. The remuneration of the Supervisory Board The bodies of NRW.BANK addressed this idea already and its committees consists of a work remuneration back in 2011 and adopted a qualification budget for that is unrelated to the meetings held and an additional the members of the Supervisory Board, which further meeting-related fee. As specified by the Board of details their possibilities for individual qualification Guarantors, the work remuneration and the meeting enhancement. The qualification budget may be used by attendance fee are identical within the Supervisory each member of the Supervisory Board, in agreement Board and its committees. No distinction is made with the Public Corporate Governance Officer, for between a member, the vice chairperson or the chairfurther training measures that match his or her personal person. Besides this remuneration, travel expenses requirements. The Bank thus lives up to its general incurred by mandate holders are adequately refunded. responsibility to offer the members of its Supervisory The payment of value added tax depends on the Board the possibility for ongoing qualification enhancerespective tax status of the individual members. ment. In addition, NRW.BANK arranges further training measures that specifically meet the special demands Besides the remuneration paid to the members of made on the members of the Supervisory Board. In the Supervisory Board, the members of the Board of spring 2013, NRW.BANK therefore organised a seminar Guarantors, the Advisory Board for Housing Promotion, on “bank management and bank regulation”, which the Advisory Board of NRW.BANK and the Parliamentary was tailored to its specific requirements and followed Advisory Board also receive individual remuneration by an advanced seminar on “risk-bearing capacity and on the basis of the resolution passed by the Board economic capital” in autumn 2013. of Guarantors. The respective remuneration complies with the principles above, but the absolute amount It should also be pointed out that, in analogy to the varies based on the different tasks and specific responsi­ qualification budget for the members of the Super­ bilities. visory Board, a qualification budget exists also for the members of the Board of Guarantors to give them An itemised disclosure of the remuneration received the possibility for personalised further training. by the individual members of the Supervisory Board, The first training measure for the latter was arranged the Board of Guarantors and the Advisory Boards can in spring 2013. be found in the notes to the Financial report (page 115 et seq.). 5 Remuneration Report NRW.BANK reports on the key elements of the 5.2 Implementation of the Special Requirements remuneration systems for its executive and controlling Made on Significant Institutions Pursuant to Sections bodies and its employees. This report is in keeping 5 and 6 of the “Institutsvergütungsverordnung” with the requirements of the Bank’s internal Public (InstitutsVergV – Bank Remuneration Directive) of Corporate Governance Code, the North RhineOctober 6, 2010 Westphalian Transparency Act, the Management NRW.BANK has been classified as a “significant insti­ Remuneration Act and the Bank Remuneration tution” as defined in Section 1 para. 2 InstitutsVergV. Directive (InstitutsVergV) of October 6, 2010. The Bank complies not only with the general requirements but also with the special requirements of Sections 5 and 6 InstitutsVergV as well as the extended disclosure requirements pursuant to Section 8 InstitutsVergV. 40 Financial Report 2013 These include the following aspects, which are explained provisions) and may thus serve as the basis for the in detail below: identification of those employees whose measurement of the total performance in the meaning activities have a material impact on the overall profile of the InstitutsVergV. As the net profit for the year of the Bank (“risk takers” in the context of a risk analysis) to HGB may additionally include reserves for future (point 5.2.1); determination of the Bank’s relevant result special risks arising from the banking business, these by means of a total performance ratio system to measure allowance reserves in the income statement must first the sustainability of the Bank’s total performance be neutralised to calculate the economic performance, (point 5.2.2); introduction of a deferral component and as they are not based on any specific discernible a sustainability component for the “risk takers” (point risks and thus distort the actual result for the period. 5.2.3); set-up of a Remuneration Committee (point The opposite applies when reserves are released. 5.2.4); publication of the present detailed remuneration In addition, the promotion and development funds, report in compliance with the extended disclosure which are booked in the commercial balance sheet of requirements. NRW.BANK, must be neutralised. These also act as a burden on the bottom line but are at the same time 5.2.1 Identification of the Risk Takers Pursuant an important performance feature of a development to Section 5 Para. 1 Sentence 2 InstitutsVergV of bank (in contrast to a commercial bank). This means October 6, 2010 that changes in reserves occurring in the course of In the past reporting year, NRW.BANK updated the a year, promotion and development funds spent as well written risk analysis for the identification of “risk takers” as extraordinary one-time effects outside the regular required by the InstitutsVergV. The previous year’s banking business must be taken into account as adjustidentification of the risk takers was confirmed in this ment items. The result is a total performance ratio of context. As three employees classified as risk takers the Bank which includes all income and expenses of the left the Bank without their positions being refilled, the period including income and expenses from the risks number of employees, incl. Managing Board members, that have actually materialised or are anticipated in the identified in accordance with Section 5 para. 1 respective period. sentence 2 InstitutsVergV declined to 19 as of the end of 2013. They must comply with the additional In the context of an ex-ante risk adjustment, the requirements of Section 5 para. 2 to 4 InstitutsVergV. resulting performance ratio is then extended 5.2.2 Determination of the Total Performance through the consideration of standard risk of the Bank Pursuant to Section 5 Para. 2 No. 3 costs for anticipated risks and InstitutsVergV of October 6, 2010 through the consideration of adequate interest on Introduced in 2011, the total performance ratio system the economic capital to cover unexpected default, used to measure the sustainable total performance market, liquidity and operational risks. of NRW.BANK is based on ratios which reflect the goal of sustainable performance of a development bank The ratios thus determined are the total performance while considering the risks taken as well as the capital ratios of NRW.BANK in the meaning of the Institutsand liquidity costs. The income statement (to HGB) of VergV. the past reporting year forms the basis which justifies the creation of appropriate bonus provisions. The According to Section 3 para. 4 InstitutsVergV, the actual economic performance achieved is to be used as variable remuneration received by executives shall be a benchmark. The income statement shows a result based on a multi-year assessment period. NRW.BANK for the year that reflects all realised gains and losses applies this requirement to all employees, as it makes as well as all discernible anticipated losses (imparity more sense for a development bank that operates principle). Accordingly, a result in the HGB income sustainably to assess the remuneration-relevant statement is always conservative, includes all risk performance on the basis of a multi-year period instead allowances and provisions that are necessary for lossof the result for an individual year. When weighting free valuation (itemised allowances, general allowances, the individual annual results, the current assessment Financial Report 2013 41 Report on Public Corporate Governance period should have the highest relevance, which 5.2.3 Payment Conditions of the Variable subsides over time. A weighted three-year average Remuneration Pursuant to Section 5 Para. 2 Nos. 4 is thus calculated as follows: and 5 (in conjunction with No. 6) InstitutsVergV of October 6, 2010 past reporting year 3/6 For the Managing Board as well as for all “risk takers”, previous reporting year 2/6 NRW.BANK has defined year prior to previous reporting year 1/6 a deferral period of 3 years for 60% of the These quantitative parameters are complemented by variable component pursuant to Section 5 para. 2 the targets agreed between the Executive Committee No. 4 InstitutsVergV (see C + D in chart below); and the Managing Board as well as by a qualitative pursuant to Section 5 para. 2 No. 6, these deferred assessment of the overall risk situation. Based on a amounts are subject to a malus regulation, resolution by the Managing Board, the weighted which may lead to a reduced variable remuneration threeyear average of the above total performance within the deferral period, ratios are relevant for determining the total performance a one-year period for assessing the sustainable pursuant to Section 5 para. 2 No. 3 InstitutsVergV for value increase of the Bank for 50% each of all employees. the directly granted variable remuneration and the deferred variable remuneration pursuant to Section 5 para. 2 No. 5 InstitutsVergV (see B + D in chart below). The chart below shows the distribution of the individual components: 20% A Cash variable (immediate payment) 20% 40% B Sustainability variable Granted immediately (with 1-year holding period) C 30% Cash deferral (pro-rata payment) 100% 30% Variable remuneration Sustainability deferral D determined on the basis of 60% (pro-rata payment following the objectives achieved Deferral over 3 years additional 1-year holding period) 42 Financial Report 2013 5.2.4 Remuneration Committee At its meeting on February 4, 2013, the Remuneration (“Vergütungsausschuss” Pursuant to Section 6 Committee confirmed the maximum distributable volume InstitutsVergV of October 6, 2010) on the basis of the total performance ratios I – III, the In the past reporting year, the Remuneration Commitrisk-oriented assessment of the total performance and tee of NRW.BANK again consisted of the following the objectives agreed between the Executive Commitvoting members: tee and the Managing Board. As the sustainability conditions were met and there were no reasons for a Head of Human Resources (Chairperson) malus related deduction, the Remuneration Committee Head of Capital Markets additionally recommended to the Managing Board Head of Risk Management (Vice Chairperson) and the Supervisory Board to pay out as well the Head of Social Housing Promotion deferred remuneration components that were due Head of Finance. for payment in 2013. The At its meeting on October 18, 2013, the Remuneration Committee reviewed the appropriateness of the Head of Auditing remuneration systems for the employees and the Head of Legal Managing Board of NRW.BANK for 2013 and confirmed Head of IT/Organisation/Internal Services it in its remuneration report. as well as After each of the two meetings of the Remuneration Committee, a report was submitted to both the the Managing Board member in charge of Managing Board and the Supervisory Board. risk management In accordance with Section 15 of the amended are involved in the work of the Remuneration Committee InstitutsVergV of December 19, 2013, the Remuneration in an advisory capacity in the context of their tasks. Control Committee to be established as of 2014 will assist the Supervisory Board in designing appropriate The Remuneration Committee held two meetings in remuneration systems for the members of the Managing the reporting year 2013. The Remuneration Committee Board and in monitoring the appropriateness of the performs the following tasks: remuneration systems for the employees. Monitoring of the remuneration systems of The Remuneration Committee in its present composition NRW.BANK with regard to their appropriateness will hold its last meeting in the first quarter of 2014 to and compliance with applicable regulatory finally assess the appropriateness of the remuneration requirements of the year 2013 and the payment conditions for amounts Advising the Managing Board on the appropriatedeferred from prior years. ness of the remuneration systems of NRW.BANK as well as the applicable regulatory requirements 5.3 Remuneration at NRW.BANK Reporting to the Managing Board and the Ever since its inception, NRW.BANK has, in agreement Supervisory Board on the appropriateness of the with its guarantor, geared its remuneration systems remuneration systems of NRW.BANK at least and parameters towards its promotion tasks. Against once a year; if necessary, additional reports on the background of its promotion-oriented character, given occasion the Bank bases its remuneration structure exclusively Information duties towards the Chairperson of on regionally and/or nationally used remuneration the Supervisory Board parameters. Financial Report 2013 43 Report on Public Corporate Governance In accordance with Section 5 para. 2 No. 3 InstitutsVergV with other development banks is not meaningful. of October 6, 2010, the amount of the provisions for Adjusted for the resulting effects, the Managing Board the variable remuneration to be paid out in April for the remuneration is within the range of other development previous reporting year is defined by the Managing banks. Board on the basis of a ratio system that reflects the sustainable total performance of NRW.BANK. This In accordance with the InstitutsVergV, the actual quantitative assessment is complemented by the variable remuneration of the Managing Board – similar targets agreed between the Executive Committee and to the variable remuneration of the risk takers – for the full Managing Board as well as by a qualitative the past reporting year is defined on the basis of the assessment of the overall risk situation (see information Bank’s total performance ratios, a qualitative overall under 5.2.2 above). The variable remuneration is paid risk assessment and the achievement of the complemenout only after the respective financial statements have tary objectives agreed with the Executive Committee been discussed by the Supervisory Board and adopted and limited by a cap for variable payments defined by by the Board of Guarantors. the Bank. 5.4 Consistency between Strategic Corporate The objectives agreed with the Executive Committee Objectives and Remuneration Structures reflect the special demands made on a development The necessary connection between the strategic bank and take into account that the generation of corpor­ate objectives agreed with the owner and the profits is not the main business purpose. In accordance remuneration system of NRW.BANK is ensured by with the corporate policy, which is geared to the a systematic planning and assessment process. A consustainable development of the North Rhine-Westphalian sistent top-down process ensures that the cor­por­ate economy, the local municipalities and the people in objectives are communicated to employees at the the state, the agreed objectives are divided into superdown-stream levels. For this purpose, the individual ordinate objectives to be achieved over a long to requirements derived from the strategic corporate medium term and objectives to be achieved within one objectives are documented in writing in the context of year. Both the long/medium-term objectives and the a tasks and objectives planning process at the be­­ short-term objectives are derived from the bank ginning of the year. The achievement of these objectives strategy. They reflect the “principles of the business, is reviewed in an annual feedback process and summar­ promotion and risk policy” adopted by the Board of ised in a written performance assessment. This process Guarantors and the regulatory requirements. applies equally to all employees of NRW.BANK. In the past reporting year, the variable payments for 5.5 Composition of the Managing Board remuneration the previous year were, in accordance with Section 5 The remuneration of the Managing Board is regularly para. 2 Nos. 4 and 5 InstitutsVergV of October 6, 2010, reviewed for appropriateness. For this purpose, again subject to the Bank’s sustainable total perform­ NRW.BANK participates in an annual comparison of ance. Payment of these amounts will be deferred Managing Board salaries performed by an external over a period of four years (deferral and sustainability remuneration consulting firm. In 2013, this comparison component). covered the market data of 23 of Germany’s top 30 banks, which were complemented by additional The partial amounts of the variable remuneration information taken from annual and remuneration for the reporting years 2011 and 2012 that are subject reports. Based on the total remuneration received by to the sustainability and malus arrangement reserve the Managing Board members of this peer group, the and due in April 2014 will be paid out following the remuneration received by the Managing Board of respective review and decision by the Bank’s respon­ NRW.BANK ranges between the first quartile and the sible bodies in the first quarter of 2014. median. As NRW.BANK is the only development bank in Germany that is classified as a significant institution For a detailed presentation of the remuneration as defined in the InstitutsVergV and has adjusted its received by the individual Managing Board members, remuneration systems accordingly, a direct comparison refer to page 113 in the notes. 44 Financial Report 2013 In the past reporting year, the Supervisory Board Mr. Stölting benefits from a pension commitment decided to renew the contract of Mr. Stölting with pursuant to the German Civil Servant’s Pension Act effect from July 1, 2014 and implemented the con­trac­ (Beamtenversorgungsgesetz). Depending on the tually agreed purchasing power adjustment, which number of pensionable service years, the maximum must be effected no later than three years following the pension entitlement is 71.75% of the pensionable coming into force of the contract, for Mr. Suhlrie. salary reachable at the age of 65. The pensionable salary is 69% of the fixed annual salary. The amount In the event of accident or illness and in the event of the pension in the event of invalidity depends on of premature termination or non-renewal of the the entitlement achieved as well as on the additionally contractual relationship before reaching the age of 62 agreed attributable period credited at the time the (exception: Mr. Binkowska from the age of 63), all insured event occurs. In the case of Mr. Stölting, the members of the Managing Board are entitled to the pension from the statutory pension insurance and the following benefits: pension from additional pension insurance will be counted towards the pension no earlier than from the In the event of an inability to work caused by an time they are granted. accident or illness, the fixed annual salary will continue to be paid for an unlimited time but no longer than Mr. Suhlrie benefits from a contribution-linked pension the end of the employment relationship. After the end commitment. In the context of this pension commitment, of the employment relationship, all members of the a personal pension account with a starting component Managing Board receive a life-long pension, in analogy has been set up for him, into which annual pension to the pension granted in the event of invalidity. components are paid. The pension component is calculated at an individual contribution rate on the basis Members of the Managing Board are not entitled to of 69% of the fixed annual salary. The pension account pension if the Bank terminates the employment relation­ carries an interest rate of 6%. At the time the insured ship for reasons attributable to the Managing Board event occurs, the pension capital built-up in the account member. – in the event of invalidity, plus additional components, if applicable – is actuarially converted into a pension. The members of the Managing Board are entitled to pension benefits as they reach the age of retirement After the death of a Managing Board member, their or in case of invalidity. In the event of their death their dependants receive a reduced pension. Widows dependants are also entitled to benefits. All commitreceive up to 60% of the pension. The children of the ments are contractually unforfeitable or unforfeitable Managing Board members are entitled to 20% of the by law because of the number of years served. pension if they are orphans and to 12% of the pension if they have lost one parent. Mr. Binkowska is entitled to a fixed pension taking into account pension payments from the public pension While any pension benefits paid out to Mr. Binkowska, system. In the event of invalidity and when taking Mr. Neuhaus and Mr. Stölting will be adjusted in advantage of the old-age pension, the amount of the accordance with the linear changes applicable to fixed pension is approx. 54% of the fixed annual salary pensions paid by the state of North Rhine-Westphalia, before taking into account the pension under the the pension paid to Mr. Suhlrie will be increased by statutory pension insurance. Early old-age pension 2.0% p. a. may be received from the age of 63. As Mr. Neuhaus and Mr. Stölting benefit from In the event of invalidity and when reaching the age commitments that are similar to those for civil servants, of retirement, Mr. Neuhaus benefits from a pension they are exempted from statutory pension insurance similar to those for civil-servants in Germany. This but receive benefits as defined in the North Rhinewarrants 75% of the pensionable salary, taking into Westphalian “Beihilfeverordnung” in the event of illness. account the pension from the statutory pension The expenses for the pensions of the Managing Board insurance as well as the pension from an additional members and the present values of the obligations are pension insurance. The pensionable salary is 69% of shown in the notes on page 114. the fixed annual salary. Financial Report 2013 45 Report on Public Corporate Governance 5.6 Composition of the Remuneration for Employees The chart below shows the frequency distribution for The fixed salaries and the variable remuneration are the employees not covered by collective agreements in determined according to comparable principles for 2013: all employees. Under the InstitutsVergV, the variable remuneration for the Managing Board and the Number of Employees per Bonus Cluster risk takers must be linked to the sustainable total The analysis covers 402 (384) employees not covered by per­formance; NRW.BANK applies this principle to collective agreements (excl. Managing Board) who all employees. received a bonus in 2013 (2012) for the reporting year 2012 (2011) 1). The fixed salaries are paid monthly, while the variable remuneration is paid once a year at the beginning of 319 311 the second quarter following the approval of the annual 300 financial statements by the Board of Guarantors. 250 5.7 Employees Not Covered by Collective Agreements 200 5.7.1 Fixed Remuneration NRW.BANK sets the remuneration of its employees 150 who are not covered by collective agreements in accordance with the salaries paid for the respective 100 function by comparable German banks. Since 2004, 77 67 NRW.BANK has therefore participated in a regular 50 market comparison carried out by an external 0 6 6 0 0 remuneration consulting firm. € 0 – <30 thsd. € 30 – <60 thsd. € 60 – <90 thsd. € 90 – <120 thsd. 5.7.2 Variable Remuneration 2013 2012 Based on the procedure described above, the Managing Board defines the available maximum bonus amount 1)  ote: For reasons of comparability, the chart above shows the promised N variable remuneration of the risk takers and not the remuneration for each year and its allocation to the individual departactually paid out. ments corresponding to the total of employees’ fixed salaries and the respective department’s performance. This pool model ensures that the maximum bonus 79% (2012: 81%) of the employees not covered amount defined by the Managing Board for the Bank by collective agreements received a bonus of max. as a whole is not exceeded. Each individual’s share in € 30,000 in the reporting year 2013. As in the previous the bonus pool is calculated on the basis of the amount year, the average bonus amounted to 21% of the of the fixed salary, the assessment of the achievement annual salary, while the maximum bonus amounted of objectives and the performance-relevant behaviour to € 80,800 (2012: € 78,100). as determined in the annual planning and assessment process described above. Given NRW.BANK’s function as the development bank of North Rhine-Westphalia, there is an appropriate As part of the implementation of the InstitutsVergV, relation between the fixed salary and the variable the Bank has put a cap for the variable remuneration remuneration. The amount of the variable remuneration at 40% of the total remuneration (i.e. max. two thirds rules out a significant dependence of employees on this of the fixed remuneration). payment. Nevertheless, the individual amounts are high enough to provide the required effective incentives as defined in the bank strategy. 46 Financial Report 2013 5.8 Employees Covered by Collective Agreements not covered by collective agreements. The available total amount is defined each year as a function of the 5.8.1 Fixed Remuneration business result. A bonus of approximately 5.7% The scope for the fixed remuneration of employees (2012: 5.4%) of the annual salary was paid out in 2013. covered by collective agreements is defined in the “Manteltarifvertrag für das private Bankgewerbe und 5.9 Disclosure Pursuant to Section 7 Para. 2 No. 2 and die öffentlichen Banken” (basic collective agreement Section 8 Nos. 1 – 5 InstitutsVergV of October 6, 2010 for private-sector and public-sector banks) as well as Section 7 para. 2 No. 2 InstitutsVergV: The total complementary internal regulations. amount of all remuneration for employees not covered by collective agreements is stated on the 5.8.2 Variable Remuneration basis of the Bank’s segment report. It is divided NRW.BANK’s employees covered by collective agreeinto fixed and variable components as well as the ments participate in a bonus programme whose general number of beneficiaries receiving variable features are comparable with that for the employees remuneration: Employees not covered by collective agreements, Fixed Variable Department/Segment 1) who received a bonus 2) remuneration 3) remuneration4) € thousands € thousands Programme-based Promotion 110 9,308.9 2,302.7 Other Promotion/Liquidity Management 35 3,653.4 1,394.0 Staff/Services 257 20,269.3 5,061.8 1)  ssignment of employees to the segments as of December 31, 2013 or at the time of departure (changes vs. the previous year due A to organisational changes in 2013). 2)  All employees not covered by collective agreements incl. staff changes in the course of the year (departures, retirements). 3) Paid in reporting 2013; incl. non-monetary benefits. 4) Received in 2013 for 2012. In addition, third-party benefits for mandates exercised Section 8 para. 3 No. 1: Presentation of the total in the total amount of € 20.5 thousand were paid to amount of all remuneration paid to Managing five employees in the Programme-based Promotion Board members and risk takers, broken down into segment and in the amount of € 3.0 thousand to three fixed and variable components and the number employees in the Staff/Services segment. of beneficiaries: Variable Total Fixed remuneration remuneration remuneration awarded Other incl. variable Number 2013 in 2013 remuneration1) remuneration € thousands € thousands € thousands € thousands Managing Board 4 2,113.2 564.0 123.3 2,800.5 Risk takers 2), 3) 17 3,017.2 837.7 178.3 4,033.2 1) O  ther non-monetary benefits. 2) Including (variable) payments to two risk takers who left the Bank in 2013. 3) Due to the small number of risk takers, the remuneration was not broken down by business units in order to comply with the principle of protection and confidentiality. Financial Report 2013 47 Report on Public Corporate Governance In addition, third-party benefits for mandates Section 8 para. 3 No. 3 InstitutsVergV: Presentation exercised in the amount of € 185.2 thousand and of the total amount of the variable remuneration € 17.6 thousand, respectively, were paid to Managing of the Managing Board and the risk takers divided Board members and risk takers. into paid-out and deferred components: Reduction Variable pursuant to remuneration Thereof Section 5 awarded Thereof paid-out para 2 No. 6 Number in 2013 deferred in 2013 InstitutsVerg € thousands € thousands € thousands € thousands Managing Board 4 564.0 451.2 112.8 0 Risk takers 1), 2) 17 837.7 670.2 167.5 0 1) I ncluding (variable) payments to two risk takers who left the Bank in 2013. 2) Due to the small number of risk takers, the remuneration was not broken down by business units in order to comply with the principle of protection and confidentiality. Section 8 para. 3 No. 4 InstitutsVergV: Presentation of the total amount of the variable remuneration of the Managing Board and the risk takers with separate presentation of the sustainability component: Thereof dependent on the value increase of NRW.BANK as Variable remuneration defined in Sec. 5 para. 2 No. 5 Number awarded in 2013 InstitutsVerg € thousands € thousands Managing Board 4 564.0 282.0 Risk takers 1), 2) 17 837.7 418.9 1) I ncluding (variable) payments to two risk takers who left the Bank in 2013. 2) Due to the small number of risk takers, the remuneration was not broken down by business units in order to comply with the principle of protection and confidentiality. Remuneration as defined in Section 8 para. 3 sentence 2 and sentence 5 InstitutsVergV was paid neither to Managing Board members nor to risk takers in the past reporting year. A presentation for the individual members of the Managing Board is provided in the notes to the Financial Report (page 113). 48 Financial Report 2013 Report of the Supervisory Board Report of the Supervisory Board To fulfil the tasks imposed on it by law and the statutes, Moreover, the Supervisory Board renewed the appointthe Supervisory Board held four meetings in 2013. ment of Managing Board member Michael Stölting for Another 16 meetings were held by the Committees another five years. composed of the members of the Supervisory Board. These included four meetings of the Executive Com­ KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft carried mittee, which also held one written vote. The Promotion out the audit of the financial statements for 2013 and Committee held four meetings as well as one written the statement of financial condition of NRW.BANK and vote. The Risk Committee held five meetings including issued an unqualified audit opinion. The Supervisory one extraordinary meeting. In addition, the Promotion Board and the Audit Committee formed from among its Committee and the Risk Committee held members discussed in detail the report of the external one joint meeting. auditors on the results of their audits. Following the final result of the audit, they raised no objections. Due to amendments to the German Banking Act, which were caused by the CRD IV Implementation Act and At its meeting on March 13, 2014, the Supervisory came into force on January 1, 2014, the Supervisory Board approved the financial statements and the Board decided to set up a Nomination Committee statements of financial condition established by the as well as a Remuneration Committee and decided Managing Board and proposed that the Board of the respective rules of procedure with effect from Guarantors approve the financial statements for the January 1, 2014 for the fiscal year 2014 as well as year 2013. As in the previous years, no consolidated the adjustment of the existing rules of procedure of financial statements were prepared, as the Bank is NRW.BANK. not obliged to do so under commercial law. Regular reports kept the Supervisory Board apprised of the Bank‘s situation and of all essential business events Düsseldorf/Münster, March 13, 2014 during the period. The Supervisory Board discussed and approved all transactions requiring its approval in accordance with legal or statutory provisions and addressed important matters of business policy in detail. Garrelt Duin In accordance with regulatory requirements and the Chairman of the Supervisory Board provisions in the statutes, the Supervisory Board addressed the business, promotion and risk strategy for the years 2014 to 2017, which had previously been discussed by the Promotion Committee and the Risk Committee. The principles of the business, promotion and risk policies were submitted for approval to the Board of Guarantors, which is the competent body under the Bank’s statutes. The Board of Guarantors approved the proposed strategy at its meeting on December 4, 2013. Financial Report 2013 49 M anagement Report Management Report of NRW.BANK for the Fiscal Year 2013 1 Fundamental Information about NRW.BANK as the ­ arket participant. NRW.BANK generates its own m State Development Bank of North Rhine-Westphalia income within the parameters of its conservative NRW.BANK is the state development bank of North investment strategy. This income is used to finance its Rhine-Westphalia (NRW). It has the public mission to development and promotion activities, to secure the support its guarantor, the state of North Rhine-Westlong-term viability of the Bank, also with regard to the phalia, in the completion of its structural and economic creation of its own, non-interest-bearing provisions and policy tasks. NRW.BANK is competition-neutral and reserves, and to finance the banking operations. To provides the full range of lending tools while at the fulfil its public mission, the Bank uses all standard same time contributing its banking expertise to promofinancing instruments. For this purpose, it primarily tion and development processes. The Bank pools the grants loans, underwrites guarantees and makes equity promotion and development programmes of the state of investments. North Rhine-Westphalia, the Federal Republic of Germany and the European Union and combines them with 1.2 Objectives and Strategies its own equity and debt products and advisory services. The Bank’s activities are geared towards sustainability. For details, refer to the “Principles of Corporate 1.1 Business Model Responsibility at NRW.BANK“. The business model of NRW.BANK is that of a largely budget-independent development bank with an inteNRW.BANK liaises closely and constantly with its grated promotion and development policy. According to ­executive bodies and ensures the appropriate degree of the “Verständigung II” agreement of March 1, 2002 transparency in implementing and refining its tasks. between the EU Commission and the German government, NRW.BANK is a legally independent developThe overall bank strategy is structured into two levels: ment bank engaging in competition-neutral structural The first level consists of principles, which, according and development business which permanently benefits to the statutes, are adopted by the Board of Guarantors; from institutional and guarantor liability as well as from the second level is the strategy level, which, according an explicit funding guarantee from its guarantor. To to the Minimum Requirements on Risk Management complete its mission, the Bank uses the resulting pos(MaRisk), is the responsibility of the Managing Board. sibilities for funding in the international capital market, The principles of the business, promotion and risk where the Bank has established itself as a reliable ­policy define the framework of strategic action. The Resolution by the Board Principles of of Guarantors (pursuant to statutes) Business policy Promotion policy Risk policy Strategy pursuant Economic environment to MaRisk is the responsibility Business and resource strategy Promotion strategy Risk strategy of the Managing Board in con­sul­tation with Capital markets business Investment and Contents of the fields of Capital cover Promotion business the Supervisory funding strategy promotion Board and its committees HR planning and Promotion themes Economic capital development strategy Organisational and IT strategy Country limits Quantitative budget 50 Financial Report 2013 business, promotion and risk strategy puts the strategic In the year 2013, NRW.BANK extended promotion positioning of the Bank which is defined in the principles funds totalling approx. € 9.2 billion (2012: € 9.5 billion) into more concrete terms and leads to a multi-year to support some 41,600 projects (2012: 43,300). The quantitative budget. use of own resources, e. g. to reduce the interest rates on promotion loans, is a key aspect of NRW.BANK’s The focus of the overall bank strategy is on the promobusiness model. tion strategy, which reflects the special importance of the promotion business. The business strategy defines The promotion strategy is implemented in the the orientation of the investment strategy and the fund“­Programme-based Promotion” segment and the ing activities as well as resource-related aspects such “Other Promotion/Liquidity Management” segment. as human resources and IT. The risk strategy addresses The Programme-based Promotion segment comprises the risk-relevant aspects of the strategy and is integrated the Promotion Programmes, Housing Promotion, Public with the promotion and business strategies. Infrastructure Finance from the Corporate Strategy / Public Infrastructure Finance Department as well as the The overall bank strategy is geared to NRW.BANK’s equity investments managed as part of the NRW.BANK’s public mission to support the federal state and its local mission as a development bank and the Syndicated and regional governments in completing their public SME Loans from the Corporate Finance Department. tasks. Material business activities as defined in the The Other Promotion/Liquidity Management segment Minimum Requirements on Risk Management (MaRisk) consists of Capital Markets including Municipal are the promotion business and the capital market ­Financing. ­business. With regard to the capital market business, NRW.BANK The current strategy continues the proven business continues to adapt its activities to the changed model of a largely budget-independent development environment resulting from the financial market crisis bank. Focal points of the promotion strategy include and is reducing its business volume and total assets as support in the move towards green energy, social planned. While portfolio investments continue to be ­housing promotion as well as assistance to North held with the intention of being held permanently, the Rhine-Westphalia’s municipalities in completing their ­capital market business is being scaled down primarily tasks. Moreover, NRW.BANK remains committed to through maturing investments as well as through portconstantly refining its development and promotion folio-enhancing and risk-reducing measures such as the products and processes with a view to increasing the selective wind-down of certain risk assets and limit cuts. efficiency of its development and promotion activities. In 2013, the business volume was reduced by a total of € 5.5 billion to € 164.0 billion (2012: € 169.5 billion). In the context of its highly qualitative and theme-­ oriented promotion business, NRW.BANK operates in 1.3 Internal Management System three fields of promotion: Housing & Living, Seed & For its internal management, NRW.BANK generally uses Growth and Development & Protection. These fields of controlling concepts and methods which have proven promotion are divided into promotion themes, for their worth and are commonly used in the banking which qualitative objectives and measures are defined. sector. NRW.BANK’s objectives and targets are primarThe measures result in specific promotion products. ily geared to providing its guarantor, the state of North The promotion instruments used by NRW.BANK mainly Rhine-Westphalia, with long-term support in performinclude lending products, equity investments and ing its structural and economic tasks. ad­visory services. Due to NRW.BANK’s public mission as the development bank of North Rhine-Westphalia, development and promotion is the primary business objective. Financial Report 2013 51 M anagement Report The preservation of the Bank’s net asset value has 2 Report on Economic Position been defined as a key condition for the Bank’s internal 2.1 Economic Climate management. NRW.BANK defines the net asset value as the equity capital as shown in the balance sheet with 2.1.1 The German Economy all its components adding allowance reserves. According to a first official estimate, the German economy grew by an average 0.4% in 2013. The low In keeping with the public development mission, the momentum is primarily attributable to external factors volume of new development and promotion business such as the slow growth in the world economy as well is an important control variable. Other parameters as the ongoing recession in some European countries. include total assets, business volume, operating But the domestic economy was also characterised by income, general administrative expenses as well as divergent trends. In particular, gross capital formation economic capital as determined in context of the in machinery and equipment fell short of the expecta­c alculation of the risk-bearing capacity. For all key tions announced at the beginning of the year. In spite ­performance indicators, there are defined targets of very low interest rates and a low credit hurdle, which are regularly subjected to plan/actual comparicompanies remained cautious especially with regard sons as well as scenario and forecast analyses in order to spending on plant and equipment. Construction to provide appropriate control stimuli. spending also declined moderately. By contrast, private and government consumption continued to support To manage the performance and the future strategic the Germany economy. Total government net lending/ growth steps in the promotion business, NRW.BANK borrowing (including social insurance) showed a minor determines the volume of new business separately for deficit, which means that the government’s accounts the fields of promotion and the promotion themes. The for 2013 is almost balanced. At 1.5%, German inflation volume of new business includes all new commitments increased at a lower rate than in the previous year due made. to the favourable price trend. Other important indicators for internal management in 2.1.2 The North Rhine-Westphalian Economy the banking business are total assets and the business North Rhine-Westphalia remains the federal state volume. Besides total assets, the business volume with the largest economy and accounts for a good one comprises contingent liabilities, other commitments as fifth of Germany’s aggregate economic output. North well as administered funds. As NRW.BANK continues Rhine-Westphalia’s GDP growth in 2013 is expected to adjust its capital market activities to the changed to be slightly positive, which would be in line with the environment resulting from the financial market crisis, Germany-wide trend. As a result of the moderate its total assets and its business volume are reduced growth posted by the chemicals and metals industry, according to plan. which is important for North Rhine-Westphalia’s industry, North Rhine-Westphalia’s growth rate was Operating income comprises net interest income and probably a little below the nationwide average. net commission income as well as net income from trading operations and the other operating result. The mixed economic developments are also reflected in Internal management is performed at department level. the NRW.BANK.ifo Business Climate. After a strong Due to its status as a development bank, generating start to the year, it deteriorated as the year progressed, profits is not the key objective of NRW.BANK. Instead, only to surge to its highest levels since spring 2012 profits generated are used to finance the development towards the end of the year – in sync with the Germanyand promotion activities and to maintain the banking wide trend – thus indicating a notable economic operations as well as to establish allowance reserves. ­recovery in North Rhine-Westphalia. Economic capital as determined in the context of the calculation of the risk-bearing capacity is NRW.BANK’s key risk management parameter. 52 Financial Report 2013 Sentiment in the construction sector was subdued for the eurozone seems to have been found. The banking the better part of the year. While the situation differed union may successively reduce this fragmentation in from region to region, positive signals again came future. However, the banking sector is not expected to ­primarily from private housing construction. However, be cured quickly as banks’ profitability will probably social housing promotion was adversely affected by decline as a result of the future regulation. Also, with the generally favourable interest rates, which prevented regard to the German market there seem to be over­ a recovery. capacities in some segments, especially the SME ­lending business, which will probably be reduced only The labour market remained stable. Employment slowly. The structurally poor profitability of Germany’s continued to grow and reached a new high. In spite of banks is additionally affected by the current low the slightly better economic trend, the unemployment ­interest rates. Net interest income has traditionally rate picked up moderately to 8.3%. This simultaneous been the most important source of income for the growth in employment and unemployment is due to ­German banking sector. an increase in the labour force resulting from growing part-time work and increased immigration. 2.2 Course of Business 2013 was a successful fiscal year for NRW.BANK. 2.1.3 Financial Markets 2013 saw the turmoil in the financial markets subside As demand for promotion products remained strong, notably compared to the two previous years. The the new business volume was much higher than announcement by the European Central Bank (ECB) to planned, although the unusually high demand of the buy unlimited amounts of European government bonds previous year was not repeated, which had been if necessary has proved especially effective. Moreover, expected. Among the promotion loans extended in several European countries took steps to consolidate accordance with the house bank principle, the their budgets, albeit to different extents. At the same NRW.BANK.Mittelstandskredit attracted particularly time, the ECB intensified its expansionary monetary strong demand, as in the previous years. The propolicy in 2013. By announcing its intention to leave grammes in the Environment/Climate/Energy promointerest rates at a very low level for an extended time, tion theme also showed a positive trend. The situation the central bank communicated a concrete medium in the social housing promotion segment was more to long-term outlook for its monetary policy for the first differentiated, with demand for the promotion of rented time in its history. In addition, the ECB took important dwellings picking up, while demand for promotion steps towards the introduction of the Single Super­ funds for owner-occupied housing declined. visory Mechanism. Total assets amounted to € 145.3 billion on December In the past year, the banking sector’s regulatory 31, 2013 (2012: € 148.8 billion). The business volume ­environment was primarily influenced by the European stood at € 164.0 billion (2012: € 169.5 billion). Parliament’s adoption of the Directive on prudential requirements for credit institutions and investment Thanks to its good credit worthiness and active investor firms, which puts the framework developed by the service, in conjunction with low interest rates, Basle Committee into practice throughout Europe. NRW.BANK was able to issue its bonds at favourable Its key elements include much stricter requirements conditions, thus further strengthening its long-term regarding institutions’ equity capital and liquidity. funding base. In spite of the success of the ECB’s measures in helping In the context of the business, promotion and risk to stabilise the markets, there remain certain risks to strategy, NRW.BANK continued to consolidate its financial market stability in the eurozone. These include ­c apital market portfolio. While portfolio investments potential political crises as well as the fact that no continue to be held with the intention of being held direct solution for the fragmented credit market in permanently, the portfolio was reduced primarily in the Financial Report 2013 53 M anagement Report context of maturities as well as through portfolioThe regulations provided for Portigon AG to make a enhancing and risk-reducing measures such as the compensation for the pension obligations transferred selective wind-down of certain risk assets and limit cuts. in the context of the spin-off. This resulted in a compensation claim for NRW.BANK towards Portigon AG At € 400.7 million (2012: € 445.0 million), operating in the amount of the pension obligation recognised. income before risk provisions/valuation adjustments The actual payments to pensioners were refunded by exceeded the earnings projections for the fiscal Portigon AG on an ongoing basis. year 2013. The Bank used its very good operating result almost entirely to strengthen its regulatory Pursuant to the regulations of the assessment dated equity capital and its risk-bearing capacity. August 1, 2002, Portigon AG and NRW.BANK agreed to finally settle NRW.BANK’s claims, with the exception In the fiscal year 2013 an agreement was reached of the future service cost, by a one-time payment. between Portigon AG and NRW.BANK regarding the With this one-time payment, responsibility for managing final settlement of the compensation for pension and handling the pension payments has passed to obligations for Portigon AG employees who are entitled NRW.BANK. The difference between the claim in the to a pension. amount of € 1,071 million, which had so far been recognised according to German HGB, and the one-time The 2002 asset spin-of from Westdeutsche Landesbank payment of € 1,347 million was recognised as deferred Girozentrale (today’s Portigon AG) to Landesbank income and will be released upon future reductions in Nord­rhein-West­falen (today’s NRW.BANK) included a the HGB actuarial rate. number of employment contracts of employees who are entitled to a pension under the laws relating to civil servants (Redefining Act (Neuregelungsgesetz) of July 2, 2002). 54 Financial Report 2013 NRW.BANK’s earnings in the fiscal year were composed as follows: Programme-based Other Promotion/ Staff/Services NRW.BANK Total Promotion Liquidity Management 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 € millions € millions € millions € millions € millions € millions € millions € millions Net interest income 209.7 227.7 255.1 235.3 28.3 78.3 493.1 541.3 Net commission income 18.6 12.4 51.0 64.9 –0.6 –0.8 69.0 76.5 Net income from trading operations 0.0 0.0 6.1 6.4 0.0 0.0 6.1 6.4 Other operating result 12.4 15.4 0.1 0.2 17.6 6.2 30.1 21.8 Administrative expenses –76.7 –79.8 –27.7 –29.0 –93.2 –92.2 –197.6 –201.0 – Personnel expenses –39.9 –43.0 –6.3 –6.1 –69.8 –65.1 –116.0 –114.2 – Operating expenditure –36.8 –36.8 –21.4 –22.9 –23.4 –27.1 –81.6 –86.8 Operating income before risk provisions/ revaluation adjustments 164.0 175.7 284.6 277.8 –47.9 –8.5 400.7 445.0 Risk provisions/ revaluation adjustments –104.6 –111.5 –109.3 –65.3 –161.7 –246.6 –375.6 –423.4 thereof: allocation to fund for general banking risks 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 –135.0 –225.0 –135.0 –225.0 Taxes on income and revenues –1.4 –0.3 0.0 0.0 –7.0 –2.7 –8.4 –3.0 Net income/ loss for the year 58.0 63.9 175.3 212.5 –216.6 –257.8 16.7 18.6 Average risk-weighted assets (in € billion) 25.5 18.6 14.2 15.1 0.3 0.3 40.0 34.0 Active Employees (number) 529 558 47 46 680 654 1,256 1,258 Financial Report 2013 55 M anagement Report The Programme-based Promotion segment comprises Due to the good new business development, the trend the departments Promotion Programmes, Housing in the other promotion segments was mostly positive Promotion, Public Infrastructure Finance from and was characterised by moderate growth. the Corporate Strategy/Public Infrastructure Finance Department as well as the equity investments made Net interest income in the Other Promotion/Liquidity as part of NRW.BANK’s mission as a development bank Management segment increased by € 19.8 million and the Syndicated Loans Midcap from the Corporate to € 255.1 million (2012: € 235.3 million), although the Finance Department. business volume was lower than in the previous year. The decline in earnings anticipated because of the The Other Promotion/Liquidity Management segment ­consolidation of the international capital market busiconsists of Capital Markets including the Municipal ness did not materialise thanks to one-time effects, Financing unit. primarily related to liquidity management. Moreover, short-term money-market transactions made on The Staff/Services segment comprises the Service and the basis of the applicable overall strategy generated Staff Departments such as IT/Organisation/Internal earnings that were comparable with last year’s. Services, Risk Management and Finance as well as the Strategic Equity Investments held as part of the public Net interest income in the Staff/Services segment mission. declined to € 28.3 million (2012: € 78.3 million). This was primarily due to the accumulation for the pension 2.3 Net Assets, Financial Position and Results of obligations taken over from Portigon AG in the fiscal Operations year, which, for the first time, shaved off € 52.7 million 2.3.1 Results of Operations from the result after the pro-rated release of the deferred income of € 24.2 million. Net Interest and Net Commission Income At € 562.1 million (2012: € 617.8 million), net interest Net commission income declined by € 7.5 million to and net commission income showed a very successful € 69.0 million (2012: 76.5 million). trend and clearly exceeded expectations. Due to onetime effects, it remained just below the very good level Net commission income in the Programme-based of the previous year. Promotion segment increased by € 6.2 million to € 18.6 million (2012: € 12.4 million). Apart from the Net interest income declined by € 48.2 million to gratifying development in the promotion business, € 493.1 million (2012: € 541.3 million). the increase in the promotion programme business mainly reflects instalment payments for the year 2012 At € 209.7 million, the result in the Programme-based amounting to EUR 3.7 million related to service fees Promotion segment was slightly below the prior year in the grants business. level (2012: € 227.7 million) and, hence, below expectations. The segment result is greatly influenced by net In the Other Promotion/Liquidity Management interest income in the Housing Promotion Department, segment, net commission income declined sharply by which was down by € 19.2 million on the previous year € 13.9 million to € 51.0 million (2012: € 64.9 million) to € 187.4 million (2012: € 206.6 million). Due to the primarily due to the reduction in surrogate loan low interest rates, many borrowers made unscheduled transactions. repayments. The liquidity received was used for the early repayment of internal long-term funding liabilities. Net Income from Trading Operations While the resulting prepayment penalties led to NRW.BANK‘s trading book contains short-term trading increased interest expenses in 2013, the segment’s transactions with interest rate products undertaken interest burden in the following years will be reduced by the Other Promotion/Liquidity Management segment. commensurately. In the fiscal year 2013, net income from trading operations amounted to € 6.1 million (2012: € 6.4 million). 56 Financial Report 2013 Other Operating Income Part of the allocation to allowance reserves pursuant to Other operating income amounted to € 30.1 million section 340f HGB related to general allowance reserves (2012: € 21.8 million) and was mainly influenced by the in an amount of € 190.6 million (€ 174.3 million) for release of provisions that were no longer needed counterparty risks from loan and securities transactions. as well as by the reimbursement of the service cost for As the actual defaults in the fiscal year were much employees entitled to pension by Portigon AG. lower than the defaults anticipated on a long-term average based on statistical assumptions, the Bank was Administrative Expenses able to make the respective allocations for precautionary At € –197.6 million (2012: € –201.0 million), NRW.BANK’s reasons. The increase in the allocations is primarily administrative expenses were lower than in the previous due to the introduction of differentiated and, accordingly, year and lower than projected. higher calculated losses given defaults. Personnel expenses rose by € 1.8 million in 2013 to The Programme-based Promotion segment posted a a total of € –116.0 million (2012: € –114.2 million). The result of € –104.6 million (2012: € –111.5 million). increase was mainly attributable to higher expenses In addition to risk provisions for the lending business for old-age provisions in the amount of € 3.3 million, as well as amortisation and expenses in conjunction which was offset by a decline in wages and salaries of with investments held as part of the public mission, € 1.7 million to € –92.8 million (2012: € –94.5 million). the Bank allocated a total of € 90.3 million While the collective pay rises of 2.9% effective July 1, (2012: € 92.1 million) to the allowance reserves for 2012 and of 2.5% effective July 1, 2013 in conjunction the promotion segments in 2013. with an almost unchanged number of active employees led to rising wage costs, the expenses for employees Risk provisions/revaluation adjustments in the Other with limited employment contracts was lower than in Promotion/Liquidity Management segment amounted the previous year due to declining employment figures. to € –109.3 million (2012: € –65.3 million) and were primarily influenced by the allocation to allowance Operating expenditure decreased by € 5.2 million to reserves for the capital market business in the amount € –81.6 million (2012: € –86.8 million). The reduction of € 99.5 million (2012: € 81.8 million). In addition, a is mainly attributable to lower depreciation of office net negative result in the amount of € –9.8 million was equipment as well as software purchased. posted as a result of the following effects. As in the previous years, NRW.BANK withdrew and repaid certain Risk Provisions/Revaluation Adjustments outstanding securities at the request and the initiative Risk provisions/revaluation adjustments amounted of the final investors. In the long term, this will improve to € –375.6 million in the fiscal year 2013, which the Bank’s funding base, as the final investors usually was down by € 47.8 million on the previous year’s invest in new issues of NRW.BANK. As a result, € –423.4 million. funding expenses will be reduced in future. The withdrawal resulted in net losses on securities sales of NRW.BANK again used its good operating result € –118.1 mil­lion. These net losses were largely offset to strengthen its risk-bearing capacity in accordance by contrary developments in the prices and valuations with its strategy. An amount of € 345.1 million (2012: of securities and derivatives from the total portfolio € 414.7 million) was allocated to allowance reserves. in the amount of € 108.3 million. Of this amount, € 210.1 million (2012: € 189.7 million) related to allowance reserves as defined in section The Staff/Services segment’s risk provisions/valuation 340f HGB, while € 135.0 million (2012: € 225.0 million) adjustments of € –161.7 million (2012: –246.6 million) related to the fund for general banking risks pursuant were primarily influenced by allocations to the fund for to section 340g HGB. general banking risks. Financial Report 2013 57 M anagement Report Net Income 2.3.2 Financial Position NRW.BANK posted net income of € 16.7 million for the Being the state‘s development bank and benefiting from fiscal year 2013 (2012: € 18.6 million), which will be institutional liability, guarantor liability and an explicit paid out towards federal interest expenses pursuant to funding guarantee from its guarantor, NRW.BANK section 14 of the Act on NRW.BANK (NRW.BANKG). shares the same excellent rating with the state of North Rhine-Westphalia. As in the previous years, Fitch Ratings, Moody‘s and Standard & Poor‘s reviewed NRW.BANK‘s credit ratings in 2013. The Bank’s good ratings were once again confirmed by all three agencies. List of current ratings Fitch Ratings Moody’s Standard & Poor’s Long-term rating AAA Aa1 AA– Short-term rating F1+ P-1 A–1+ Outlook stable negative * stable * Outlook for Germany and North Rhine-Westphalia applied to NRW.BANK due to close guarantee and support mechanisms. The Other Promotion/Liquidity Management segment At € 40.7 billion, liabilities to banks remained almost is responsible for the funding of NRW.BANK. As a unchanged (2012: € 40.6 billion). The promotion development bank benefiting from a state guarantee, loans funded through KfW Bankengruppe, which are NRW.BANK continued to experience strong demand paid out on the assets side primarily in the form of for its debt. NRW.BANK catered to investors‘ need for the NRW.BANK.Mittelstandskredit and NRW.BANK. state-guaranteed, liquid bonds and again consolidated Grün­dungskredit according to the house bank principle, its market presence with further benchmark issues in showed a very positive trend and increased by euros and US dollars in 2013. During the fiscal year € 0.4 billion on the previous year to € 22.2 billion. NRW.BANK placed debt in a net amount of € 9.9 billion The largely programme-driven lending business is also (2012: € 13.4 billion) with a wide international investor funded to a lesser degree through Landwirtschaftliche base. To optimise its funding, NRW.BANK continues Rentenbank, the European Investment Bank (EIB) to use its funding programmes, which essentially consist and the Council of Europe Development Bank (CEB). of the Global Commercial Paper Programme to cover maturities of up to twelve months and the Debt IssuLiabilities to customers decreased by € 0.7 billion to ance Programme to cover medium and long maturities € 20.4 billion (2012: € 21.1 billion). This item primarily as well tap issuance programmes. Euro-denominated comprises registered instruments and note loans. issues attracted the highest demand, followed by the At € 18.2 billion, the portfolio of registered instruments US dollar and the British pound. Short-term funding was down by € 0.4 billion on the previous year under the Global Commercial Paper Programme, (2012: € 18.6 billion). Note loans declined by € 0.2 billion especially in US dollars, again met with high demand to € 1.4 billion. in 2013 and was again the most favourable source of ­funding for NRW.BANK over the course of 2013. 58 Financial Report 2013 Certificated liabilities decreased by € 3.9 billion to Equity capital as defined in the German Commercial € 58.1 billion (2012: € 62.0 billion). Commercial papers Code (HGB) increased moderately to € 17.9 billion issued were down by € 2.7 billion on the previous year (2012: € 17.8 billion) due to allocations to the capital to € 8.6 billion as of the reporting date. Bearer bonds reserve. declined by € 1.3 billion to € 21.5 billion, whereas the portfolio of medium-term notes was almost unchanged The table below shows the equity capital as defined at € 28.0 billion. in the German Banking Act (KWG) and the equity requirements pursuant to the Solvency Regulation (SolvV) as of December 31, 2013: Capital requirements and capital ratios Dec. 31, 2013 Dec. 31, 2012 € millions € millions Capital requirements for the standardised approach to credit risk (KSA) 3,009.3 3,245.6 Capital requirements for market risk positions 5.8 3.0 Capital requirements for operational risk 91.3 88.2 Capital requirements (total) 3,106.4 3,336.8 Capital for solvency purposes 19,124.4 18,488.7 Core capital for solvency purposes 17,091.1 16,655.1 Overall capital ratio 49.25% 44.33% Core capital ratio 44.02% 39.93% The regulatory capital requirements were complied for promotion funds with the house bank, which passes with at all times in the fiscal year 2013. The overall it on to NRW.BANK. NRW.BANK then makes the funds capital ratio and the core capital ratio reflect the Bank’s available to the customer through their house bank. In high capitalisation, which is indispensable for the 2013, the NRW.Bank.Mittelstandskredit loan remained development and promotion business and serves to NRW.Bank’s highest-volume development programme fund the development and promotion loans. handled according to the house bank principle. 2.3.3 Net Assets Receivables from customers decreased by € 2.6 billion As of December 31, 2013, NRW.BANK’s total to € 60.9 billion (2012: € 63.5 billion). In the securities assets were down by € 3.5 billion to € 145.3 billion business, the portfolio of registered securities declined (2012: € 148.8 billion). by € 0.5 billion to € 6.8 billion, while the portfolio of note loans was reduced by € 1.4 billion to € 11.8 billion. At € 34.3 billion, receivables from banks were up by Social housing promotion loans amounted to € 20.8 € 1.3 billion on the previous year (2012: € 33.0 billion). billion. As a result of the unscheduled repayments, The promotion business handled according to the they were € 0.7 billion lower than in the previous year house bank principle is included in this balance sheet (2012: € 21.5 billion). item. Under this method, customers file an application Financial Report 2013 59 M anagement Report As a result of the scheduled reduction, the balance on GDP growth in 2014. It is therefore highly likely sheet item “bonds and other interestbearing securities” that growth will be driven almost entirely by the declined by € 1.8 billion to € 43.9 billion domestic economy. There are justified hopes that the (2012: € 45.7 billion). NRW.BANK essentially reduced spending propensity of Germany’s corporate sector the portfolio of instruments issued by banks by will improve. According to the latest results of the € 1.1 billion to € 17.6 billion. The portfolio of instruifo Business Survey, overall capacity utilisation is good. ments from public sector issuers was reduced by Corporate sentiment has improved as well, with € 0.5 billion to € 21.0 billion. The portfolio of bonds incoming orders for capital goods on the increase. and notes from customers also declined moderately This trend should continue in 2014, although the by € 0.2 billion to € 5.3 billion. uncertainty about the economic trend in general and the sovereign debt crisis in particular will probably At € 2.4 billion, the book values of NRW.BANK‘s equity not be entirely eliminated in 2014. Capital formation in investments in non-affiliated and affiliated companies machinery and equipment will therefore grow only remained nearly unchanged. at a low single-digit rate, which should be sufficient, however, to ensure solid demand for investment loans. Trust assets and trust liabilities declined by € 0.1 billion Generally speaking, the spending environment should to € 1.7 billion (2012: € 1.8 billion) due to the reduced – just like in 2013 – be characterised by low interest importance of the “trustee” promotion activities. rates and a good credit supply. Not only the corporate sector is expected to make relevant contributions to 3 Report on Post-Balance Sheet Date Events growth; private consumption and housing construction No events of special importance occurred after the activity are also likely to reach a high level in 2014 end of the fiscal year. as a result of rising incomes and low interest rates. The labour market should show a robust trend, with job 4 Report on Expected Developments creation set to continue. Due to migration primarily within the eurozone but also because of increased labour 4.1 General Information participation in Germany, the unemployment rate will This Report of Anticipated Developments contains probably not improve notably, though. forward-looking statements relating to the overall economic environment as well as to NRW.BANK’s High employment and the economic recovery business, net assets, financial position and earnings should be reflected in growing government revenues. position. Such statements are based on expectations On the other hand, spending is bound to pick up as and assumptions derived from information available well due, among other things, to rising wages and at the time of preparation. As such they involve risks salaries. Moreover, additional spending will be directly and uncertainties beyond the control of NRW.BANK politically induced. In this respect, government including, in particular, the development of the spending is expected to exceed the prior year level. general economic environment and the situation in Overall, the government budget should be almost the financial markets. This means that the actual balanced. This would be in line with the provisions events occurring in the future may deviate from these of the new debt regulation in Article 109 of the statements, expectations and assumptions. German Constitution (“Debt Brake”), which came into force in 2011. According to the latter, the federal 4.2 Development of the Economic Environment government and the federal states are obliged to post While the outlook for 2014 has lately improved an essentially balanced budget. Since 2013, the considerably, it remains only moderate overall. Being European Fiscal Pact has additionally applied. It forms an export-driven country, Germany should benefit the contractual basis for more effective coordination from the brighter global economy to a disproportionate of fiscal and economic policies within the EU. extent. In particular, the recovery in the eurozone The Fiscal Pact provides for an automatic corrective should additionally stimulate Germany’s exports. mechanism whenever targets are missed by a wide Due to the strength in the domestic economy, however, margin. As a result, control over the national fiscal policy imports will probably grow ahead of exports. As a will partly be shifted to the European level in future. result, net exports will have a slightly adverse impact 60 Financial Report 2013 NRW.BANK expects the real gross domestic product important contribution to earnings, will thus be further to grow by approximately 1.5% in 2014. Because of reduced. It is planned to partly offset this effect with the moderate upward economic trend, Germany’s rate income from the investment of non-interest-bearing of inflation should exceed the prior year level slightly reserves, whose volume will grow. in 2014. NRW.BANK assumes that administrative expenses will The economy in North Rhine-Westphalia is likely to increase moderately in 2014. The efficiency potential recover in a similar fashion as the nationwide economy. leveraged in the past will partly be offset by new Incoming orders in the manufacturing sector, which requirements arising from the regulatory environment. serve as a leading indicator, have shown a positive trend The size criteria that have been defined suggest that lately, and the chemicals industry has also reported a NRW.BANK will fall under European supervision by the growing order intake. Business expectations have clearly ECB in future. While the exact amount of the required improved according to the latest surveys. By contrast, investments in information technology and human the situation in the metal producing industry has resources cannot be quantified at this stage, it may brightened only moderately. On balance, growth should well amount to a high million euro amount. be close to or slightly below the Germany-wide average in 2014. Should the metal producing industry NRW.BANK therefore expects its operating income ex­perience a turnaround in the course of 2014, before risk provisions/revaluation adjustments in 2014 this could provide an additional boost to the North to be much lower than in the past fiscal year. Rhine-Westphalian economy. Risk provisions/revaluation adjustments should again be influenced by general allowances in 2014. 4.3 Development of the Bank By developing and marketing efficient development In future, possible rating downgrades in the Other and promotion products, NRW.BANK will continue to Promotion/Liquidity Management segment could cause support the economic and structural development higher general allowance reserves for counterparty of North Rhine-Westphalia, especially in implementing risks from loan and securities transactions. Upon request the move towards green energy. by the state government, the interest amounts to be paid by the state due to the utilisation of loans from the The Bank expects to participate in a growing number federal government for the promotion of housing of long-term, high-volume financings, e. g. to support construction and modernisation (subsidies pursuant to growth investments by larger SMEs as well as Article 104 a, sub-section 4 of the German Constitution infrastructure projects in North Rhine-Westphalia. in the version effective until August 31, 2006) which As a result, income in the Programme-based Promotion become due in the year following the respective fiscal segment is expected to increase slightly in conjunction year must be paid directly to the federal government with moderately growing portfolios. from the net income for the year of NRW.BANK. The remaining net income for the year will be allocated In the Municipal Financing unit, NRW.BANK to the reserves. Further profit distributions are not will continue its integrated approach. NRW.BANK is permitted under NRW.BANK’s Statutes. the largest provider of municipal finance in North Rhine-Westphalia. In keeping with its mission, the NRW.BANK anticipates a continuation of the moderate Bank will continue to focus on financing and promoting decline in both its total assets and its business volume the municipalities and communities in North Rhineas the consolidation of its international capital markets Westphalia and thus remain a strong partner of the business progresses. municipalities. This portfolio reduction and the ongoing allocation to NRW.BANK expects total operating income to decline allowance reserves will further strengthen the Bank’s markedly in 2014. Repayments from the international risk-bearing capacity provided that the market environcapital market business will be re-invested only ment remains stable and barring any unforeseen events to a moderate extent. The portfolio, which makes an that would require a completely new risk assessment. Financial Report 2013 61 M anagement Report 5 Risk and Opportunity Report The Board of Guarantors decides, among other things, Due to its specialised business model as a development in the context of the annual strategy process, on the bank, NRW.BANK does not engage in all lines of principles of the business, promotion and risk policies banking business. The Bank takes on risks only within and on the release of liability of the members of the clearly delineated bounds. As a state development Supervisory Board and the Managing Board. bank, NRW.BANK is subject to all regulatory risk management requirements. The committees in charge of risk management are the Asset Liability Committee (ALCO), the two Credit NRW.BANK uses a comprehensive set of risk monitorCommittees for the promotion business and the capital ing and management tools to manage the risks to which market business as well as the Strategy Committee. it is exposed. The Bank has implemented a framework of guidelines, organisational structures and processes The Asset Liability Committee, which is composed of all which ensure that risks are identified, measured, members of the Managing Board and four divisional aggregated and managed in accordance with the heads, is responsible for issues relating to market risks Bank’s risk-bearing capacity. and liquidity risks. It also addresses general topics such as capital allocation, profit management and balance 5.1 Organisation of Risk Management sheet structure management. Through active capital The full Managing Board of NRW.BANK is responsible management, the ALCO ensures that the Bank-wide risk for the risk management system. This includes, in parlimit is met at all times. ticular, the proper organisation of risk management, the risk strategy, the risk-bearing capacity concept as There is one committee each for the promotion business well as risk monitoring. In the context of the general and the capital market business. They prepare credit reporting process, the Managing Board is regularly decisions to be made by the Managing Board and take informed about the Bank-wide risk situation. their own credit decisions based on their limits and level of competence. In addition, they address issues The Supervisory Board monitors the Managing Board‘s of a general nature relating to counterparty risks. conduct of the Bank‘s affairs. The Risk Committee, a committee of the Supervisory Board, addresses the The Strategy Committee addresses issues of strategic Bank’s risk situation. The committee receives reports relevance. The main focus is on refining the overall on the risk profile for the various risk categories on a Bank strategy and on assessing the consistency of quarterly basis minimum. ­sub-strategies and the overall Bank strategy with the business and risk policies and the components of the promotion policy objectives of the federal state. 62 Financial Report 2013 Organisational Structure of Bank Steering Board of Guarantors Supervisory Board/ Committees Managing Board ALCO Credit Committees Strategy Committee Front office Back office In accordance with the MaRisk requirements, risk Management primarily include the development of moni­toring and risk reporting are managed indepenthe risk strategy, the determination of the risk-bearing dently of the front-office units. While the front-office capacity (incl. Bank-wide stress tests), the Bank-wide units are responsible for managing risks within the monitoring of limits, risk reporting, the daily valuation defined limits, the Risk Management back-office unit of trades, voting and credit processing in the promotion is in charge of risk monitoring, especially compliance and capital market business, the preparation of the with the limits defined by the Managing Board. watch list (for high-risk exposures), responsibility for Functional separation between the front office and compliance, money laundering prevention and the back office is ensured up to Board level. oper­ational risks as well as the coordination of the processes for the launch of new products. The Bank has entrusted the Head of Risk Management with the risk controlling function as defined by the The effectiveness and appropriateness of the risk MaRisk. He is involved in important management management structures and processes are subject to decisions relating to the risk policy, especially through regular reviews by Internal Audit, which acts as an his voting rights on the ALCO and other committees. independent body on behalf of the Managing Board. Risk Management comprises the following departOn balance, NRW.BANK’s risk management instruments: Credit Risk, Municipal and SME Financing, ments and processes again proved their worth in the Bank-Wide Risk & Credit Portfolio Management, Market past fiscal year. For instance, individual exposures & Liquidity Risk, Restructuring as well as Compliance/ with a deteriorating risk profile were identified and Money Laundering Prevention. The tasks of Risk diminished at an early stage. Financial Report 2013 63 M anagement Report 5.2 Risk Policy and Strategy Complemental to the risk inventory, new products to be Being a development bank, NRW.BANK has a focused added to the product portfolio of NRW.BANK are subbusiness model whose risks are strictly limited. Accordjected to a cross-divisional process for the introduction ing to its risk strategy, the promotion business takes of new products. This ensures that the risks of new precedence over the capital market business when it products are identified, measured and limited. comes to the allocation of risk capital. Avoiding defaults takes precedence over profit generation in all capital 5.4 Risk-bearing Capacity market activities undertaken to support the promotion Economic capital is the relevant risk management para­ business. New business with a sub-investment grade meter of NRW.BANK across all risk types and departrating is permitted only in the promotion business. ments. It forms the basis on which risks are comprised into a Bank-wide ratio using a consistent methodology. Together with the promotion and business strategy, the risk strategy is part of the overall strategy of NRW.BANK’s risk-bearing capacity is controlled from a NRW.BANK. It builds on the promotion and business going concern and a gone concern perspective. They strategies and aims to ensure balanced risk managecover the risks defined as material in the risk inventory ment within NRW.BANK. As part of the operational and additionally the business and cost risk to reflect a controlling process, it translates the risk strategy market standard becoming evident. principles into appropriate limits. It covers a planning period of four years. Institutional liability, guarantor liability and the explicit funding guarantee granted to NRW.BANK by its guarThe Managing Board of NRW.BANK defines the antor for the performance of its promotion tasks are not strategy and submits them to the responsible bodies. taken into account as risk-mitigating factors in either of The Risk Committee consults on the risk strategy, the two perspectives. which is finally discussed at the year-end meetings of the Supervisory Board and the Board of Guarantors. NRW.BANK uses a value-at-risk (VaR) concept covering a risk horizon of one year to quantify the individual risks 5.3 Risk Inventory and aggregate them into an overall ratio. The choice of Effective risk management and monitoring hinge on the confidence level depends on the perspective taken. the precise identification and assessment of risks. In the context of Group-wide risk inventory taking, The going concern perspective is taken for the direct NRW.BANK systematically examines whether the management of the risk-bearing capacity. It is based on overall risk profile fully reflects all risks which may the German Commercial Code (HGB) in accordance potentially influence the net worth, earnings or liquidity with the Bank’s accounting policy. The focus is on position. This is done at a Bank-wide level on an annual avoiding losses in the balance sheet in order to protect basis and whenever required on special occasions. creditors and owners. Accordingly, those risks that On this basis, risks are classified as material or could adversely affect a balance sheet under HGB are non-material, respectively. considered in economic capital. Economic capital is determined with a confidence level of 99%. This is to The material risks identified are the counterparty and ensure that even rare losses up to a mid-range amount the market risk as well as the liquidity, operational and can be covered without materially disturbing the pension risk. The three latter risk types are less relevant business activity. for the Bank-wide risk and therefore rank behind the counterparty and the market risk. 64 Financial Report 2013 As additional sub-condition, the gone concern For the business and cost risk, a general risk amount per­spective analyses the risk-bearing capacity with a is determined on the basis of a simplified method. confidence level of 99.96% to ensure that the Bank is Differences between the going concern perspective able to cover even extreme risk situations with existing and the gone concern perspective result exclusively assets. Under this approach, the focus is on protecting from the scaling to the confidence level used. the creditors in a fictitious liquidation case. More detailed information on the individual risk types The counterparty risk is one of the key risks taken and the methods used for their calculation is provided at a Bank-wide level. Differences between the going on the following pages of the risk and opportunity concern and the gone concern perspective primarily report. result from the confidence level used in the Credit VaR model. Under the going concern perspective, Bank-wide economic capital is determined by way of a simple addition Under the going concern perspective, the market risk of the economic capital of the risk types without taking is determined on the basis of a “HGB-VaR”. In this diversification effects into account. This is due to the context, the market risks that may have an adverse fact that the overall bank risk is largely determined by impact on the income statement prepared according the counterparty risk, which means that no material to HGB are taken into account. By contrast, the gone diversification effects exist. Under the gone concern concern perspective addresses the market risks on perspective, material diversification effects exist a mark-to-market basis. between the counterparty risk and the market risk, therefore they are taken into account when determining The liquidity risk under the going concern perspective the economic capital at a Bank-wide level to avoid overtakes into account changes in NRW.BANK’s funding stating the overall bank risk. The correlation used is spread that are relevant for the HGB income statement, estimated conservatively on the basis of bank-specific as an increase in funding costs leads to higher expenses. data in such a way that it can be considered to be Liquidity risks are not part of the gone concern persufficiently stable even in an economic downturn as spective but are limited by the amount of the available well as under market conditions that are unfavourable liquid funds (liquidity buffer). for the Bank’s business and risk structure. The reliability of the diversification assumptions and the stability Economic capital for the operational risk is determined of the correlation are reviewed regularly and whenever based on the Basle basic indicator approach. Differrequired on special occasions. ences between the going concern and the gone concern perspective result exclusively from scaling to the confidence level used. The pension risk is determined by means of a scenario analysis, which takes into account changes in the stat­ istical assumptions regarding invalidity and mortality which could lead to an increase in pension obligations. Differences between the going concern and the gone concern perspective result exclusively from different interest rates used to discount the cash flows. Interest rate risks relating to pension obligations are incorporated into the market risk. Financial Report 2013 65 M anagement Report The table below shows the composition of economic capital from both the going concern and the gone concern perspective. Bank-wide Economic Capital in € millions Dec. 31, 2013 Dec. 31, 2012 Going concern Gone concern Going concern Gone concern Counterparty risk 1,453 4,771 1,599 5,131 Market risk 124 4,963 34 4,624 Liquidity risk 13 – 14 – Operational risk 35 140 35 140 Pension risk 50 80 – – Business and Cost Risk 50 65 – – Diversification effect – –759 – –759 Total economic capital 1,724 9,260 1,681 9,136 Material changes compared to the previous year concern perspective and to € 15.0 billion (2012: include the integration of the business and cost risk as € 13.1 billion) on the gone concern perspective. These well as the pension risk in the risk-bearing capacity amounts include the allocations to allowance reserves concept. For these risks, economic capital is shown made in the fiscal year. for the first time. While the counterparty risk has ­declined moderately, the market risk increased prim­ For the direct management of risks under the going arily because of the assumption of a longer holding concern perspective, the Bank-wide economic capital period. This means that the moderate increase in limit is defined and allocated to the material risk types Bank-wide economic capital is essentially attributable and departments in the context of the annual strategy to methodological adjustments. process. This ensures that sufficient risk capital is available to achieve the planned income and that the The economic capital is compared with the maximum risks are limited at the same time. Utilisation of capital cover that is available to cover risks. Just like the limits is determined on the basis of the economic the economic capital, the capital cover is calculated in capital. As an additional condition, the economic accordance with the respective perspective taking capital shall not exceed the capital cover under the into account regulatory and balance sheet equity gone concern perspective. components, adjusted for specific corrections. Under the going concern perspective, for instance, the capital The chart below shows the limit utilisation for the components tied up in accordance with the Solvency counterparty, market and liquidity risk in the course Regulation are deducted. Under the gone concern of the year. Economic capital for the ­operational perspective, hidden charges and reserves, in particular risk, the business and cost risk and the pension risk from securities, are deducted if they are negative is determined once a year. I.e. it remains constant when balanced. Positive own credit risk effects are not throughout the year and the Bank makes no distinction accepted as mitigating factors on the liabilities side. between limit and utilisation. Therefore, the mentioned As of the reporting date, the capital cover amounts to risk types are not shown in the limit utilisation chart. € 13.9 billion (2012: € 13.2 billion) under the going 66 Financial Report 2013 Limit utilisation in the course of 2013 in % 100 75 50 25 0 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Bank-wide risk Counterparty risk Market risk Liquidity risk The risk types and the overall bank risk stayed within stress tests are performed under the going concern the limits defined for the going concern perspective at perspective and the gone concern perspective. Both all times. The increase in limit utilisation for the market historical and hypothetical scenarios are analysed. risk in November 2013 was primarily due to the integration of the strategic interest rate risks from pension Historical scenarios translate past crises to the current obligations. The Bank’s risk-bearing capacity was intact portfolio. Examples include a scenario reflecting the at all times throughout the fiscal year. height of the financial crisis at the time of the Lehman bankruptcy in 2008. In addition, the regulatory equity requirements under the Solvency Regulation were met at all times. Hypothetical scenarios are developed by the Bank on NRW.BANK has very comfortable capital ratios. For the basis of market analyses and expert estimates. information on the regulatory equity requirements, For instance, a scenario entitled “Deterioration of the the equity capital and the capital ratios, please refer to sovereign and financial institution crisis” assumes a paragraph 2.3.2 Financial Position. further increase in the risk factors that are relevant for the sovereign portfolio. In order to minimise the uncertainties resulting from the statistical processes of the value-at-risk approach, The stress scenarios examine the combined effects of a NRW.BANK takes various measures to validate the deterioration in exposures (increases in probabilities of data used as well as the risk results that are determined. default and loss given default) and of changes in market In addition, regular stress tests are performed. data (interest rates, credit spreads). 5.5 Stress Tests In addition, inverse stress tests are performed on a The risk management concept is complemented by regular basis. Inverse stress tests examine which events Bank-wide stress and scenario analyses. The Bank could potentially jeopardise the Bank’s ability to survive. takes an integrated approach which takes into account effects on the material risk types, the HGB income Under the going concern perspective, the stress tests statement and the capital cover. are dominated by changes in the field of counterparty risks. The assumed defaults of borrowers and rating The stress tests are performed at a Bank-wide level on migrations lead to a reduction in the capital cover and/ a quarterly basis and due to single events occuring. or to an increase in the economic capital for counterSimilar to the risk-bearing capacity concept, separate party risks. Financial Report 2013 67 M anagement Report Under the gone concern perspective, counterparty 5.6.2 Methods risks and market risks play an equally important role in Factors playing a key role in the calculation of the the stress tests. Under this perspective, the capital counterparty risk include the amount of the exposure, cover reacts much more sensitively to changes in market the probability of default and the loss given default data under stress. of each debtor. These parameters form the basis for managing the risk at the level of each individual The stress tests confirm the adequacy of the capital exposure and at a Bank-wide level. situation under the going concern perspective. The amount of the exposure is the sum total of all 5.6 Counterparty Risk relevant amounts that are subject to a risk of default. In the case of loans, this is the remaining 5.6.1 Definition capital plus binding payment obligations; in the The counterparty risk describes the risk of a countercase of securities, it is the higher of the cost price party being partly or fully unable to meet their con­ and the nominal value. Credit equivalents are tractual obligations towards NRW.BANK. There is the recognised to calculate counterparty risks from risk of a loss or reduced profit resulting from the full derivatives, taking netting and collateral pursuant or partial default of a counterparty. This comprises to standardised framework agreements into credit, counterparty and country risks as well as risks account. In addition, credit derivatives are recogresulting from equity holdings. nised at their nominal value; thereby the purchase of protection reduces the exposure of the respect­ NRW.BANK defines the credit risk as the risk of a conive reference counterparty, while the sale of protractual partner failing to meet its obligations to repay tection increases it. The (counterparty risk-related) liquid funds (loans) granted or securities. The credit risk amount of the exposure thus differs from the thus also includes issuer risks arising from securities. business volume. The probability of default is derived from the Counterparty risk means that the default of a debtor’s internal rating. For this purpose, contractual partner under a derivatives contract makes NRW.BANK uses differentiated risk classification it impossible for the Bank to realise an unrealised methods. The portfolios of corporates, financials gain from pending transactions (i.e. up to contractual and real estate clients are classified using rating maturity) or that the Bank will face increased replaceprocedures meeting the requirements of the ment costs if the market conditions have changed in internal rating based (IRB) approach of the the meantime. Solvency Regulation. The ratings for exposures to foreign governments are determined on the In NRW.BANK’s view, a country risk exists where basis of external agency ratings and structured the Bank has an exposure to customers headquartered internal plausibilisation. In view of the joint liability outside Germany. This definition covers all aspects scheme and the fiscal equalisation scheme, uniof the country risk (creditworthiness, transfer and form ratings are awarded in particular to savings economic risks). banks and domestic municipalities, respectively. Simplified internal risk classification methods are The risk from equity holdings results from the risk of used for smaller portfolios. Depending on the incurring losses from the provision of equity capital type of debtor, each rating is assigned a probability to enterprises. NRW.BANK’s equity holdings primarily of default based on a 24-step scale, so that all comprise investments which are held as part of the ­debtors are included as risk-relevant in the calculapublic mission and were transferred to the Bank upon tion of the economic capital on a staggered basis. its inception as well as investments made as part of the Bank’s mission as a development bank. 68 Financial Report 2013 The loss given default (LGD) describes the portion In the context of the Bank-wide stress tests, various of the exposure which would irrecoverably be lost historical and hypothetical scenarios are analysed, in the case of insolvency proceedings after realisawhich assume deteriorations in the rating quality that tion of potential collateral. Differentiated LGDs are are differentiated by asset classes. assigned to the exposures depending on the type of debtor. They are determined for housing The above risk management methods allow NRW.BANK ­promotion exposures based on an analysis of own to appropriately monitor counterparty risks, to identify historical data. For other asset classes, they are unbalanced portfolio developments and risk concentraprimarily determined on the basis of external data tions and to take any measures that may be required at sources, as there is no statistically significant an early stage. number of defaults in the Bank’s portfolio. 5.6.3 Validation NRW.BANK determines the economic capital for the The ratings and loss given defaults are validated at counterparty risk on the basis of a credit value-at-risk. least once per year. For the social housing promotion The risk horizon is one year, the confidence level is portfolio, which is the biggest portfolio of NRW.BANK 99% under the going concern perspective and 99.96% in terms of number of individual exposures, differ­en­ under the gone concern perspective. tiated analyses are performed for individual segments such as investors and owner-occupiers. The credit value-at-risk is calculated according to the formula of the IRB approach under the Solvency Besides the ratings and the loss given defaults, the Regulation. Methodologically, a difference is initially methodological assumptions that serve as the basis for made only between default and non-default of a debtor. the calculation of economic capital are also reviewed As maturities are adjusted, rating migrations that annually. For instance, the maturity adjustments implemay lead to additional capital requirements are also mented to reflect rating migrations are checked for taken into account. plausibility. As the IRB approach is based on the assumption of an The reviews serve to ensure that the risk calculation indefinitely granular portfolio, an additional concentraremains adequately conservative. tion surcharge is determined on the basis of a simulation process and reflected in the economic capital. As a 5.6.4 Risk Assessment and Limitation result, high exposures make a disproportionate contriNRW.BANK uses suitable limits and processes to ensure bution to the risk, which means that the surcharge that the counterparty risk is limited. On the one hand, takes concentrations into account. there are limits which limit the exposures at individual debtor level, Group level and at country level. Limit In order to further limit concentrations – not only with utilisation is determined by the amount of the exposure. regard to risks but also regarding income – single name New transactions are immediately counted against concentration limits at Group level and cross-borrower the limits. On the other hand, there is a Bank-wide and concentration limits at country level are defined for the a unit-specific limitation of the economic capital under amount of the exposure. the going concern perspective. The limits take into account both the Bank’s risk-bearing capacity and the Besides the economic capital (unexpected loss), standbudgets prepared by the individual units as part of ard risk costs (expected loss) are generally taken into the strategy process. account when defining the terms and conditions. This way, it is ensured that the expected losses are compensated by corresponding income. Financial Report 2013 69 M anagement Report Key elements used to monitor the counterparty risk: Where limits are exceeded, reasons must be given in each case; if these deviations are material – according Event-related bad news process incl. immediate to clearly defined criteria – they must be decided by analysis and decision on individual measures the Managing Board and be submitted to the executive (e. g. rating review, limit adjustments) bodies for information. Daily monitoring of single name, group and country limits The development and promotion funds extended by Daily monitoring of capital market investments NRW.BANK are either secured or granted according in the context of an early warning system to the house bank principle, which means that the (e. g. changes in credit spreads and ratings) respective portfolio is a low-risk portfolio. Sub-investMonthly monitoring of economic capital limits ment-grade exposures may be entered into only if this At least annual monitoring of individual credit is required by the public development mission, e. g. exposures in the promotion of small and medium enterprises and Ongoing monitoring of the watch list, which social housing promotion. contains intensive care and problem exposures In addition, the Bank holds a portfolio of securities/ receivables and loans and engages in money market transactions. Derivative contracts are concluded with counterparties with good credit ratings on the basis of standard contracts. New business in this portfolio must always be of investment-grade quality. Total exposure by rating classes incl. derivatives, in € billions 100 80 60 40 20 0 AAA AA A BBB BB B CCC and D Total exposure: 159.1 (as of Dec. 31, 2013) Total exposure: 162.9 (as of Dec. 31, 2012) 70 Financial Report 2013 NRW.BANK’s total exposure amounts to € 159.1 billion, As a largely independent development bank, NRW.BANK which represents a decline by € 3.8 billion from the uses the income from its international exposures to previous year’s € 162.9 billion. fulfil its development mission. The international exposure totals € 45.4 billion (28.5% of the total exposure; Due to the high proportion of government and municipal 2012: € 46.2 billion) and is composed of exposures loans, most of the ratings belong to the internal rating to European countries in the amount of € 35.0 billion class AAA. The investment-grade quota amounts to (2012: € 35.4 billion) and of exposures to non-European 91.1% (2012: 90.4%) (which represents the internal countries as well as supranational and multinational rating classes AAA to BBB). Changes in the rating organisations in the amount of € 10.4 billion composition of the portfolio compared to the previous (2012: € 10.7 billion). The international exposure is year primarily result from rating downgrades of focused almost exclusively (93.6%; 2012: 93.5%) existing positions, methodologically-induced rating on investment-grade countries. shifts in the field of social housing promotion and covered securities as well as the reduction in The European exposure comprises investments in international capital market exposures. the eurozone in the amount of € 27.8 billion (2012: € 28.3 billion) and investments outside the eurozone NRW.BANK’s portfolio is focused on Germany, which of € 7.2 billion (2012: € 7.2 billion). The non-European accounts for € 113.7 billion (2012: € 116.7 billion) exposures focus on North America with € 5.6 billion or 71.5% of the total exposure (2012: 71.7%). At (2012: € 6.2 billion) and Asia with € 1.0 billion € 79.6 billion (2012: € 78.4 billion), the main emphasis (2012: € 1.3 billion). Supranational organisations is on North Rhine-Westphalia; this amount includes and multinational exposures account for a total of direct exposures to municipalities of € 14.8 billion. € 2.6 billion (2012: € 2.3 billion). This concentration is the result of the public development mission, because of which the Bank has a special responsibility towards the municipalities and provides them with reliable funding. Geographic breakdown of exposures incl. derivatives, in € billions 120 113.7 116.7 100 80 60 40 27.8 28.3 20 7.2 7.2 7.8 8.4 2.6 2.3 0 Germany Eurozone Europe excl. eurozone Outside Europe Supranational/ multinational Exposures as of Dec. 31, 2013 Exposures as of Dec. 31, 2012 Financial Report 2013 71 M anagement Report NRW.BANK closely monitors the exposure to the The table below shows the Bank’s total exposure to eurozone periphery countries, which comprise Portugal, these countries as of December 31, 2013. Spain, Ireland, Italy and Greece. New exposures to these countries are not permitted as a general rule. Exposures to selected eurozone countries incl. derivatives, in € millions, prior-year figures in parentheses Public sector Private sector Governmententerprises/ Financial Financial Corporates/ Governments institutions institutions* Other € millions € millions € millions € millions Spain 3,712 (3,811) 708 (724) 1,726 (1,950) 82 (124) Italy 3,475 (3,506) – (–) 87 (167) 73 (124) Portugal 1,131 (1,248) 212 (231) 36 (72) – (9) Ireland 862 (864) – (–) 418 (435) – (4) Greece – (–) 33 (70) – (–) – (–) Cyprus – (37) – (–) – (–) – (–) * mostly covered exposures such as Pfandbriefe Of these countries, Portugal and Greece have an inter€ 5.5 billion). A major portion of the portfolio (66.4%) nal sub-investment-grade rating. Such sub-investmentadditionally benefits from a comprehensive state grade ratings result exclusively from rating downgrades guarantee (e. g. from the US Department of Education). of investments that were already contained in the portfolio. In the course of the fiscal year, the exposures The equity investment business comprises investments to these countries were reduced, in particular through which are primarily held on behalf of the federal maturing investments that were not re-invested. state of North Rhine-Westphalia and were transferred The remaining Greek exposure was fully eliminated to the Bank upon its inception as well as investments in early 2014 as had been planned. entered into as part of the Bank’s development mission. The counterparty risks arising from the investments As a result of the sovereign debt crisis, foreign governare largely based on strategic and operational risks, ments suffered further rating downgrades. In response which are primarily analysed using the corporate data to this, the Bank continued to refine its risk strategy made available for investment controlling purposes. and took portfolio-optimising and risk-mitigating Controlling for these companies includes continuous measures such as limit cuts and the liquidation of risk monitoring of profits and losses and of conformity assets also in 2013. New burdens faced by the governto projections. In the case of major equity holdings, ments or a more pronounced economic slowdown the quarterly report also includes a review of riskcould put the ratings under further pressure. relevant developments. As such, risk management is a systematic and continuous process that enables rapid Where securitisation exposures are concerned, adap­t ation to changing conditions. At some of these NRW.BANK constantly monitors the counterparty risk investments, the Bank’s position as shareholder is repre­ associated with the underlying reference pools. The sented through mandates on bodies such as advisory exposure declined by € 349.0 million in the fiscal year, councils, supervisory boards or investment committees. mainly due to repayments. As of the balance sheet date, Moreover, the investment contracts usually contain the securitisation exposures – mostly of investmentregulations which reserve a veto/approval right for grade quality – amounted to € 5.1 billion (2012: NRW.BANK in specific cases. 72 Financial Report 2013 For some equity investments, the counterparty risk is A general provision is formed for latent counterparty reduced due to a strong direct or indirect involvement risks. The amount of this allowance is based on histor­ of the public sector. In the case of seven participation ical averages for default rates and loss given defaults. funds in the promotion business (e. g. NRW.BANK. Mittelstandsfonds) with a total exposure of € 120.5 In the securities business, the risk provision is calcu­ million (2012: € 94.6 million), the counterparty risk is lated on the basis of market information, mathematical reduced by a guarantee from the State of North Rhinemodels and individual creditworthiness estimates. Westphalia which covers 49% of the respective fund‘s total investment. Equity investments of NRW.BANK are also regularly checked for the need to establish risk provisions. The € 2.2 billion book value of the investment in Where these are required, the book value is written Portigon AG, which is held on behalf of the federal down using common methods to determine the value state, is secured by a guarantee from the state of of the investment. North Rhine-Westphalia. 5.6.7 Opportunities Equity investment exposures are included in eco­nomic NRW.BANK takes risks in accordance with its business capital management and reflected in the counterparty model and the risk strategy principles only within risk. clearly defined limits. This means that unexpected opportunities arising from potential future develop5.6.5 Economic Capital ments or events which may lead to a positive deviation As of the reporting date, the economic capital set aside from forecasts or targets exist only to a very limited for counterparty risks amounted to € 1.5 billion (2012: extent. The positive business trend anticipated in the € 1.6 billion) under the going concern perspective and context of the business model is incorporated into to € 4.8 billion (2012: € 5.1 billion) under the gone the annual strategic planning process. concern perspective. Differences between the two perspectives result primarily from the confidence level Opportunities arise, for instance, from rating upgrades used. For both perspectives, the economic capital was of the exposures, which mean that less rating-related slightly lower than in the previous year. Risk-increasing economic capital needs to be set aside for counterparty effects resulting from rating downgrades in the risks. This opens up further investment opportunities sovereign portfolio as well as methodologically induced with additional income potential. rating shifts were offset by a reduction in risk assets. NRW.BANK determines anticipated losses on the basis 5.6.6 Risk Provisions of probabilities of default and loss given default and Defined criteria are used to determine whether risk incorporates them in the planning and extrapolation provisions need to be established for credit claims. for its result under HGB. There is an opportunity that Where they are needed, the amount of the required the actual defaults are lower than the anticipated individual allowances is determined in a timely manner losses. At the end of the fiscal year 2013, for instance, in the course of the year. Thereby, existing collateral an amount of € 190.6 million (2012: € 174.3 million) is taken into account. In evaluating collateral, the usual was allocated to reserves, which helped to strengthen methods applied for the valuation of real estate are the capital cover and the risk-bearing capacity. used for social housing promotion loans. The result is reduced by a discount calculated on the basis of historiOpportunities also arise from the equity investments cal data. By contrast, general provisions are established entered into as part of the promotion activities. If these for exposures to volume business in social housing perform positively, there is a possibility to sell them promotion (remaining capital of less than € 750 thsd.). at a profit. Financial Report 2013 73 M anagement Report 5.7 Market Risk sensitivity of the HGB result. The HGB-VaR is calculated for the current and for the next two fiscal years 5.7.1 Definition as well as generally for all future periods using a The market risk refers to a potential loss resulting from variance-covariance approach. unfavourable changes in market prices or price-influencing parameters. This definition covers interest rate, In addition, the VaR is examined on a mark-to-market foreign exchange rate and option risks. The Bank basis (MtM-VaR gone concern perspective). The does not take equity and commodity risks. As far as the (mark-to-market) sensitivities used to calculate the VaR interest rate risk is concerned, a distinction is made take into account general and specific interest rate between the general and the specific interest rate risk. risks, exchange rate risks and volatility risks. Under this It comprises both changes in general interest rates approach, the general interest rate risks from the largely and changes in the credit spread of issuer classes and equity-funded social housing promotion business as changes in the credit spread of individual issuers well as the specific interest rate risks (credit spreads) (residual risk). are considered in the investment portfolio. 5.7.2 Methods The volatilities and correlations needed to determine The Bank controls and monitors its market risk using the VaR figures are identical for both perspectives. The a value-at-risk (VaR) methodology. VaR is calculated historical observation period is 250 days, with a greater for daily management at a 95% confidence level for a weight placed on incidents in the more recent past. one-day holding period and takes into account all risk factors relevant for the portfolio, such as interest rates, Above and beyond this day-to-day management of foreign exchange rates, implicit volatilities and credit the interest-bearing business, strategic interest rate spreads. risks from pension obligations are also considered in the economic capital. They result from the Bank’s Market risks are primarily managed on the basis of a strategic decisions regarding the capital investment of VaR concept (HGB VaR going concern perspective pension provisions in cases where the maturity of the and earnings-at-risk approach, respectively). Under this investment does not exactly match the payment profile approach, all market risks which may influence the of the pension obligations. There is a risk that the HGB income statement are taken into account. In the provisions and the interest income generated from investment portfolio, this may be potentially unmatched the investment need to be complemented by other interest or foreign exchange rate positions which result operating income to meet all pension obligations. from different fixed interest periods or currencies of assets and liabilities which have not yet been hedged The calculation of VaR is supplemented with daily stress on a nominal value basis in the context of asset/liability scenario computations. In this context, hypothetical management. For the trading portfolio and the liquidity scenarios are considered for interest rates, foreign reserve, all relevant risks types are additionally meas­ exchange rates, implicit volatilities and credit spreads. ured on a mark-to-market basis. Accordingly, temporary In addition, the effects of changes in interest rates and market value changes, e. g. from specific interest rate credit spreads are examined for the identified historical risks (credit spreads), are counted under the HGB scenarios. The standardised stress scenarios are perspective for the trading portfolio and the liquidity supplemented if needed with individual, situational reserve. The HGB-VaR calculation is based on the considerations tailored to the risk structure of the ­sensitivity of the HGB income statement towards Bank‘s portfolio. Moreover, the analysis of the sensitivichanges in market prices (“HGB sensitivities”). In ties and risk concentrations from the above risk factors contrast to a mark-to-market VaR concept, the focus is an integral element of daily market risk measurement. is not on the mark-to-market sensitivities but on the 74 Financial Report 2013 5.7.3 Validation 5.7.4 Risk Assessment and Limitation Daily backtesting is used to check the quality of the The focus of the market risk under the gone concern VaR projection. In this context, the losses projected by perspective is on general and specific interest rate risks the VaR model are compared with the changes in the in the investment portfolio. The resulting market value result. The Bank performs clean backtesting without fluctuations are not reflected in profit/loss under ageing, which means that only changes resulting from the HGB-oriented going concern perspective, provided changes in the market data are taken into account. there is no permanent impairment. As investments in In accordance with the two perspectives, backtesting the investment portfolio are made with the intention is performed for both HGB losses and mark-to-market of being held permanently, the hedges used by the Bank losses. relate to the nominal value at maturity. Accordingly, there are only negligible fixed-interest-period and If the regulatory traffic-light model for internal currency mismatches under the HGB-oriented going models (for the calculation of the equity capital needed concern perspective, which are limited by the HGB-VaR to back market risks in the trading book) is applied for the risks of all future fiscal years as well as for the to NRW.BANK’s backtesting with a confidence level of current and the next two fiscal years. In addition, the 95% and 250 backtesting observations, the model is Bank has minor active positions in the trading portfolio. “in the green” for both perspectives (going concern and These are limited by a separate limit for the trading portgone concern perspective). This means that the validity folio. Compliance with the limits is monitored on a daily of the model is confirmed also by backtesting. basis; all limits were met at all times in the fiscal year. In addition, the parameters and assumptions of the Due to the hedges used, there are no material fixedmodel are regularly reviewed in the context of various interest-period mismatches at Bank-wide level under daily, monthly and annual processes. the HGB-oriented going concern perspective. HGB interest rate sensitivities (Bank-wide day-to-day management, all periods) to a 1 bp interest rate hike in € thsd. as of Dec. 31, 2013 200 100 0 –100 –200 1 1 3 6 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 12 15 20 25 > 25 day month months months year years years years years years years years years years years years years years years Financial Report 2013 75 M anagement Report Currency risks also play only a minor role under the Reflecting the low interest rate and exchange rate risks, HGB-oriented going concern perspective. They are the Bank-wide HGB-VaR for market risks for all future largely hedged using derivatives, which means that the fiscal years amounted to € 1.3 million as of December 31, HGB result is essentially exposed only to the currency 2013 (2012: € 1.1 million). risk on the interest margin generated. HGB-VaR going concern (Bank-wide day-to-day management, all periods) in € million 4.0 3.0 2.0 1.0 0.0 Dec. 31, 2012 Jan. 31, 2013 Feb. 28, 2013 Mar. 31, 2013 Apr. 30, 2013 May 31, 2013 Jun. 30, 2013 Jul. 31, 2013 Aug. 31, 2013 Sep. 30, 2013 Oct. 31, 2013 Nov. 30, 2013 Dec. 31, 2013 The average HGB-VaR for market risks in the fiscal year The allocation of the HGB-VaR to the risk types confirms was € 1.4 million. The minimum was € 1.2 million on the relatively low overall market risks taken, which, December 5, 2013 and the maximum was € 2.4 million as described above, are largely closed by hedges and on January 22, 2013. limited additionally. Against this background, the main risk types are the interest rate risk and the exchange rate risk (focus on future USD interest margins). HGB-VaR going concern (Bank-wide day-to-day management, all periods) in € millions March 31, 2013 June 30, 2013 Sept. 30, 2013 Dec. 31, 2013 € millions € millions € millions € millions Interest rate risk 0.7 0.8 0.9 0.4 Foreign exchange rate risk 1.4 1.2 1.2 1.1 Credit spread risk 0.3 0.4 0.3 0.3 Interest rate volatility risk 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Diversification –1.0 –1.0 –0.7 –0.5 Total VaR 1.4 1.4 1.6 1.3 76 Financial Report 2013 No material positions were held in the trading portfolio 5.7.6 KWG Interest Rate Shock in the fiscal year. Accordingly, the maximum VaR in the The effect of the sudden and unexpected interest fiscal year was € 1.2 million (2012: € 1.1 million). rate change in the investment book defined by BaFin circular 11/2011 – currently +/-200 basis points – is 5.7.5 Economic Capital dominated by the above-mentioned assumption based For strategic management of economic capital, the interest position of the housing promotion loans. Bank uses a confidence level of 99% under the going As of December 31, 2013, the negative change in the concern perspective and of 99.96% under the gone present value of the Bank’s investment book resulting concern perspective. A risk horizon of one year with a from a +/-200 bp interest rate shock amounted to shorter holding period of 90 days is analysed, which 10.6% of the regulatory equity capital (2012: 13.6%). results from the differentiated analysis of different Besides calculating the effects of the KWG interest rate holding periods per asset class and liquidity. The latter shock on the present value, the Bank also calculates reflects the possibility to excercise influence, e. g. by the effects of interest rate changes on the HGB result reducing risk positions in the event of an unfavourable under the going concern perspective. As the positions in market trend. The economic capital for market risks the Bank’s investment portfolio are held with a hold is determined conservatively from a stress VaR with to maturity intention, this perspective is in accordance stressed correlations and volatilities. This way, the with the Bank’s primary risk management approach. Bank ensures that the calculation of economic capital The interest rate risks under the going concern perspecalso reflects unfavourable market phases. Accordingly, tive are much lower than the risks under the present the economic capital remains relatively constant. value perspective, which is influenced by the par­ticular­ ities of social housing promotion as outlined above. Under the going concern perspective, the economic capital for market risks including strategic interest 5.7.7 Opportunities rate risks amounted to € 123.8 million (including The aim of NRW.BANK’s asset/liability management € 70 million for strategic interest rate risks) as of the is to generate a fixed interest and commission margin reporting date. with regard to the HGB income statement. This entails low market risks, which limit the respective The economic capital for market risks under the gone opportunities in the investment portfolio. The biggest concern perspective primarily includes general interest opportunities therefore lie in the development of the rate risks from the social housing promotion loans. contracted rates on the asset and the liability side These are primarily funded with own equity funds. and not in additional gains from mismatched interest To comply with MaRisk, the own equity funds used to and currency positions. In the trading portfolio, further fund housing promotion loans may not be taken into opportunities are also ruled out due to the existing limit. account in the risk calculation. The MaRisk thus imply This means that opportunities for generating additional that housing promotion loans are funded fully HGB income from market risk positions outside the mismatched with overnight deposits. This results in a strategic interest rate risks from pension obligations play high assumption based interest position. In addition, only a minor role. The current low interest rates mean economic capital includes all mark-to-market strategic that when it comes to investing pension provisions, interest rate rates and all credit spread risks of the opportunities arise from the possibility to re-invest investment portfolio, although any resulting fluctuations at higher interest rates. From a mark-to-market point in the market value are usually not recognised in profit/ of view, market price fluctuations lead to changes in loss in NRW.BANK’s HGB income statement. As of un­realised profit and losses. In the investment portfolio, the reporting date, the economic capital set aside for these are regarded as temporary value fluctuations – market risk amounted to € 5.0 billion (2012: € 4.6 billion) provided that they are not permanently impaired. under the gone concern perspective. Accordingly, net gains in the investment portfolio result from portfolio-enhancing measures. Financial Report 2013 77 M anagement Report 5.8 Liquidity Risk The market liquidity risk is of minor importance for NRW.BANK, as the investment portfolio essentially 5.8.1 Definition consists of positions held with a hold to maturity intenThe liquidity risk includes, in particular: tion. Accordingly, temporary market liquidity fluctuations are not relevant for the HGB income statement, as the risk of being unable to meet payment the focus is not on short-term profit generation by way obligations at maturity (liquidity risk in the of a sale. Sales of investments held in the investment narrower sense), portfolio serve to optimise the portfolio in the context the risk of being unable to provide sufficient of portfolio management and are not directly related to liquidity at the anticipated conditions (funding risk) the generation of liquidity. when needed and the risk of being unable to unwind or liquidate The market liquidity risk from securities held in the transactions or to do so only at a loss because of liquidity reserve and the trading portfolio is not mateinsufficient market depth or market disruptions rial, as the securities holdings are relatively small. (market liquidity risk). Moreover, the positions of the trading portfolio are liquid. 5.8.2 Methods The liquidity risk is managed centrally at NRW.BANK An analysis of the market liquidity risk that goes beyond to ensure liquidity across the entire Bank at all times. the analysis of the market risk is performed in the form of a regular analysis of the short-term liquidity to be The risk of insolvency and the funding risk are monigenerated from the securities portfolio. In addition, tored daily on the basis of a liquidity gap analysis it is reflected in the liquidity risk limitation in the form and its limitation. The liquidity gap analysis (in EUR of haircuts on the calculated liquidity potential. and foreign currency) is prepared and analysed each day independently of trading units. It reflects the con5.8.3 Risk Assessment and Limitation tractually agreed (deterministic) inflows and outflows Because of the explicit funding guarantee extended of cash for each day until the final cash flow occurs by NRW.BANK’s guarantor and its correspondingly (incl. interest cash flow and off balance sheet trans­ good rating, the Bank can generate the required liquidactions). ity at short notice at any time. The Bank usually funds itself in the money and capital markets. NRW.BANK For optional (stochastic) cash flows (e. g. termination continues to benefit from a very favourable funding rights or early redemption), conservative assumptions environment. are made in such a way that negative effects are assumed for NRW.BANK. Moreover, no (fictitious) new To ensure it is able to meet its payment obligations at business is reflected or modelled in the liquidity gap all times, the Bank additionally holds a substantial analysis; e. g. there is no prolongation of unsecured and portfolio of liquid ECB/repo-eligible securities. Regardsecured funding. less of the hold to maturity intention, the securities may be used in the repo market or for ECB open-market The funding risk, as the income risk for the HGB result, transactions with a view to generating liquidity. Sales is determined on the basis of the planned issuance of securities in the investment portfolio are therefore volume of the next 12 months and the volatility of the not required for this purpose. own fund spread and limited in the context of the ­risk-bearing capacity in the going concern perspective. In addition, the funding base is diversified in terms of investor groups, regions and products, which helps to minimise the funding risk. 78 Financial Report 2013 To limit the liquidity risk, a liquidity risk limit system Due to the above mentioned limit system, NRW.BANK’s exists for the entire period covered by the liquidity gap ability to meet its payment obligations is secured by analysis. This system is based on the MaRisk requirethe freely available portfolio of ECB-eligible receivables ments for assets to be held as liquidity buffer. The limit and the unused ECB line even without external capital system also requires liquid securities for observation market funding. Netted with cash inflows and outflows, periods of more than one month. In addition, there are there is a significant liquidity surplus for the 1-year further funding possibilities of the money and capital period that is primary relevant for risk management. markets, which are reflected in the limit system in a second step, with haircuts being applied. Liquidity gap analysis of NRW.BANK in € billions 50 –50 available ECB-eligible receivables 40 –40 cumulative cash flows 30 –30 20 –20 liquidity potential 10 –10 0 0 –10 10 Dec. 31, 2013 Jan. 31, 2014 Feb. 28, 2014 Mar. 31, 2014 Apr. 30, 2014 May 31, 2014 Jun. 30, 2014 Jul. 31, 2014 Aug. 31, 2014 Sep. 30, 2014 Oct. 31, 2014 Nov. 30, 2014 Dec. 31, 2014 cumulative cash flows available ECB-eligible receivables liquidity potential The limit system ensures that liquidity gaps are at all The results are analysed at least on a monthly basis. times covered by the liquidity buffer, especially in the Even assuming these stress scenarios, NRW.BANK is short-term segment. able to meet its payment obligations at all times. In addition, the HGB result is subjected to stress tests in Stress tests are also performed in the context of liquidthe form of rising costs from EUR/USD FX swaps. ity management. These stress tests take into account crisis-specific effects on payments, the liquidity buffer Liquidity risk management also incorporates compliance maintained by the Bank as well as the limit utilisation. with the German Liquidity Regulation. The liquidity The following is simulated in the context of the stress ratio as of the reporting date was 3.5 (2012: 3.6) and tests: thus well above the regulatory required minimum of 1.0, which was met at all times throughout the year. defaults of material borrowers, outflows under collateralisation agreements, reduced liquidity potential from ECB-eligible securities due to rating changes and reduction in the collateral value of ECB-eligible securities and credit receivables. Financial Report 2013 79 M anagement Report 5.8.4 Economic Capital 5.8.6 Opportunities As of the reporting date, the economic capital for NRW.BANK continues to attract strong demand from liquidity risks under the going concern perspective investors thanks to its status as a development bank (income risks of the HGB result for the issuance volume and the funding guarantee granted by the federal state planned for the next 12 months) was € 12.6 million of North Rhine-Westphalia. This is reflected in a (2012: € 13.7 million). favourable funding environment for the Bank – even in times of tight financial markets. But even in case of The parameters and assumptions of the liquidity risk a further reduction in the Bank’s own funding spread, model (especially liquidity gap analysis, limit system there are no plans to increase the funding volume and stress tests) are reviewed regularly. materially. Additional opportunities may arise, however, for the coverage of short-term liquidity, which may take 5.8.5 Funding Structure place in different money market segments, depending As a state-guaranteed development bank, NRW.BANK on the financial markets. again saw strong demand for funding instruments in the past fiscal year. The Bank met investors’ demand 5.9 Operational Risk for state-guaranteed liquid bonds and strengthened its market presence through further EUR and USD bench5.9.1 Definition mark issues (total volume of benchmark issues in 2013: Operational risk comprises risks in systems or pro€ 1.8 billion). The issues were placed with a broad cesses, specifically resulting from human or technical investor base. failure, external events or legal risks resulting from contractual agreements or applicable law. The funding transactions with domestic investors are dominated by bearer bonds, promissory loans and 5.9.2 Methods registered bonds. The framework for operational risk management at NRW.BANK incorporates both qualitative and quantitaNRW.BANK also used its international funding tive aspects. Quantitative management of the economic programmes. These essentially comprise the Debt capital is based on the basic indicator approach, while Issuance Programme, which covers medium and qualitative management is based on the MaRisk requirelong-term maturities, and the Global Commercial ments. Paper Programme, which covers maturities of up to 12 months. The GCP Programme constituted a par­ By using a combination of decentralised and centraticularly favourable source of funding for NRW.BANK lised risk management and risk monitoring, the Bank throughout the fiscal year. ensures that management can respond promptly as needed, and that the Managing Board can simul­ The funding structure of NRW.BANK primarily taneously take the necessary decisions based on the comprises certificated liabilities in the amount of Bank‘s overall risk profile. € 58.2 billion (mostly bearer instruments (€ 28.0 billion), bearer bonds (€ 21.5 billion) and commercial paper Since 2004, NRW.BANK has collected information on (€ 8.6 billion)), liabilities to banks of € 40.8 billion losses and loss-free risk events in a central risk event (mostly on-lending (€ 22.0 billion), promissory loans database and categorised them in accordance with the (€ 9.7 billion) and registered bonds (€ 4.6 billion)) as Basle event categories. The data collection serves as well as liabilities to customers of € 20.3 billion (mostly the basis for the assessment of operational risks at registered bonds (€ 18.2 billion)). NRW.BANK. The results of the annual forward-looking 80 Financial Report 2013 self-assessments and the findings resulting from the Operational risks in NRW.BANK’s IT environment are monitoring of risk indicators are also included in the managed on the basis of the IT strategy. The written overall assessment of the risk situation. instructions include rules for the use, procurement and development of hardware and software, with the main Prior to each product launch, a detailed analysis emphasis on compliance with the necessary security regarding potential operational risks is carried out in standards and business continuity. Appropriate author­ the context of a standardised process. isation concepts and processes additionally have a risk-mitigating effect. Contingency plans exist for the Comprehensive, business-process-oriented emergency breakdown of all critical IT systems. plans exist for particularly mission-critical events such as a major loss of staff, breakdown of a bank building Risks that may result from the outsourcing of material or a computing centre. The contingency plans cover all business activities are mitigated by an established audit areas and are designed to prevent high financial and and monitoring process, which primarily consists reputational risks. of a detailed risk analysis as the basis for a possible outsourcing decision to limit outsourcing risks. The Bank’s insurance cover is reviewed regularly to ensure that its appropriateness. In addition, the Bank effectively mitigates risks related to compliance, money laundering and financing NRW.BANK uses standardised contracts to minimise terror­ism as well as potential risks arising from other legal risks from transactions. Deviations from standard­ criminal acts. For this purpose, the processes and ised contracts and individual transactions are approved procedures were subjected to a thorough review in by the legal department. The Bank is currently not 2013. Bank-wide security procedures, processes for the involved in any significant pending proceedings. reporting of suspicions, regular hazard analyses as well as self-assessments serve to manage and limit the Operational risks are mitigated by, among other things, potential risks arising in conjunction with these topics. the instructions in the written orders as defined in the internal control system (ICS). These comprise all processes, methods and control measures ordered by the Managing Board which serve to ensure the proper and safe functioning of the operational processes. The ICS comprises general principles and requirements for working and behavioural practices, e. g. the four-eye principle, but also specific process-related instructions. Human resources risks are initially managed in the context of regular human resources planning. HRrelated measures are implemented in close consultation between the respective departments and the Human Resources Department. As part of the observation of risk indicators, indicators, e. g. regarding staff turnover or further training, are monitored in order to respond to undesirable developments at an early stage. Financial Report 2013 81 M anagement Report 5.9.3 Risk Assessment and Limitation 5.10 Pension Risk In the context of the identification and assessment of risks, all losses and risk events are analysed for their 5.10.1 Definition causes (including the observation of early warning Pension risk relates to the risk that there is a need to indicators). Regardless of the current amount of the risk increase the pension provisions. or the risk potential, this is done to ensure that countermeasures can be taken at an early stage if similar Pension obligations may increase primarily as a result events occur. of changes in the statistical assumptions regarding invalidity and mortality. This is considered as the pension NRW.BANK performs self-assessments of all operational risk in the calculation of economic capital. Strategic risks to which the Bank may be exposed. Risks are interest rate risks related to pension obligations are assessed separately for relevance (probability of occurincluded in the market risk. rence) and frequency. 5.10.2 Methods Neither the losses and loss-free risk events identified The calculation of the pension provisions requires the in 2013 nor the findings from the self-assessments actuarial determination of cash flows reflecting future and the observation of early warning indicators have changes in payment obligations over time. revealed any risks that could jeopardise the existence of the Bank. With regard to the period during which pensions are received, invalidity and death must be modelled in The economic capital for operational risks is deterthe cash flows. This is done using actuarial Heubeck mined annually in accordance with the basic indicator mortal­ity tables, which are generally accepted for approach. As the economic capital allocated to cover Germany and approved by the tax authorities. potential losses thus remains constant throughout the year, no distinction is made between limit and For the mortality tables, no historical changes covering utilisation. sufficiently long periods are available from which the volatilities required for a VaR model can be derived. 5.9.4 Economic Capital This is why the risk of changes in the statistical With regard to the economic capital for operational assumptions regarding invalidity and death is quantified risks derived from the regulatory basic indicator using a scenario analysis in which the cash flows approach, differences between the going concern increase based on the assumption of a growing life perspective and the gone concern perspective result expectancy. In addition, the probabilities of invalidity exclusively from scaling to the respective confidence are modified as well. To quantify the risk, the scenario level. As of the reporting date, the economic showing the strongest impact on the Bank is applied. capital set aside for operational risks amounted to € 35 million under the going concern perspective and to € 140 million under the gone concern perspective. No changes have occurred compared to the previous year. 82 Financial Report 2013 5.10.3 Risk Assessment and Limitation 5.11.2 Methods Due to the agreement reached between NRW.BANK A general risk amount is defined on the basis of a and Portigon AG regarding the final settlement of the simplified procedure for a one-year risk horizon, which pension compensation for employees of Portigon AG is consistent with other risk types. For this purpose, who are entitled to a pension under the laws relating to the deviations from the projected balance of income and civil servants, pension risks have now been classified administrative expenses are determined for the fiscal as material risks in the 2013 risk inventory. years since the inception of the Bank. From the negative deviations, mean and standard deviations are deterEconomic capital is determined once a year, i.e. it is mined, from which the economic capital at the chosen constant throughout the year, the Bank makes thus no confidence level is derived. distinction between limit and utilisation. 5.11.3 Risk Assessment and Limitation 5.10.4 Economic Capital Developments from which business and cost risks The economic capital set aside for pension risks as may arise are analysed on a regular basis. This includes, of the reporting date amounted to € 50 million under in particular, a review of the internal and external the going concern perspective and to € 80 million premises on which the strategy of NRW.BANK is based. under the gone concern perspective (differences result If required, adjustments are implemented in the context ex­clusively from different interest rates used to discount of the strategy process, for which the Managing Board the cash flows). As 2013 is the first year for which the is directly responsible. economic capital for pension risks is stated, no figures for the previous year are shown. Economic capital is calculated once a year. As this means that it is constant throughout the year, the Bank 5.11 Business and Cost Risk makes no distinction between limit and utilisation. 5.11.1 Definition 5.11.4 Economic Capital Business risk describes the risk of changes in the As of the reporting date, the economic capital set aside economic environment (market and/or demand) or the for the business and cost risk amounted to € 50 million legal environment. Cost risk means that the planned under the going concern perspective and to € 65 million personnel and operating expenses are exceeded or under the gone concern perspective (differences result that unplanned costs become effective. A cost risk could exclusively from different interest rates used to discount arise, for instance, as a result of projects that are the cash flows). As 2013 is the first year for which the not foreseeable today, e. g. in the context of the national economic capital for pension risks is stated, no figures and European banking supervision or accounting. for the previous year are shown. The business and cost risk was classified as non5.12 Reporting material in the risk inventory. This risk is nevertheless In accordance with the MaRisk provisions, the Risk backed by economic capital to ensure comprehensive Management Department ensures market-independent management of the risk-bearing capacity in accordance and regular reporting to the Managing Board and the with an emerging market standard. Risk Committee. Financial Report 2013 83 M anagement Report Daily reports are produced for the entire Managing Accounting-related business events are mostly handled Board both on Bank-wide level and for the capital locally. All accounting-relevant events are initiated market business. These include risk positions and in IT systems. The respective units are responsible for trading results as well as all cases where limits for full and proper capture and for implementing and market risks and liquidity risks as well as counterparty document­ing the required controls. Bank-wide functional and issuer limits are exceeded. responsibility for the accounting rules, the booking system, accounting and the definition of the valuation As a general standard, the monthly risk report covers principles rests with the Finance unit. This ensures that the following topics: Bank-wide risk management, consistent accounting and valuation principles are counterparty risks, market risks, liquidity risks, oper­ applied within NRW.BANK even where business transational risks and profit performance. It forms the basis actions are recorded locally. Risk Management is for the discussion of the risk situation in the ALCO responsible for the trading-independent valuation and and the Credit Committee. Besides the standardised results analysis. content, the report covers risk-relevant special topics as required. Every quarter, it covers the Bank-wide In the context of the Management Information System, stress tests across all risk types. a standardised report on the income statement, the cost centre statement, total assets, the business volume The quarterly reports to the Risk Committee are based and the planning and budgeting process is sent to the on the monthly reports that are relevant for the quarter; Managing Board each month to ensure timely reporting. while the level of detail is reduced with a view to the The Managing Board regularly informs the Supervisory recipients, all material aspects are addressed. Board and its committees about the current business situation. 6 Internal Control System Relevant for the Financial Reporting Process The financial statements are prepared by the Finance NRW.BANK’s internal control system (ICS) is to ensure unit and drawn up by the Managing Board. In accordthat the financial statements present a true and fair ance with the statutes, the Board of Guarantors of view of the net worth, financial and earnings position of NRW.BANK approves and endorses the financial statethe Bank in accordance with applicable legal provisions ments, which are published in the electronic Federal and standards. It primarily comprises regulations Gazette within the statutory deadlines. governing the organisational and operational structure and makes a clear distinction between responsibilities On the basis of legal standards, especially of the as well as processes, procedures and measures to German Commercial Code (HGB) and the “Verordnung ensure the appropriateness and reliability of internal über die Rechnungslegung der Kreditinstitute und and external accounting. Finanzdienstleistungsinstitute” (Ordinance on accounting by banks and financial institutions – RechKredV), The Managing Board of NRW.BANK is responsible NRW.BANK’s accounting process is described and laid for the creation and effective maintenance of an down in manuals and work instructions. These written appro­priate accounting-related internal control system. orders are updated on a regular basis. All employees Responsibility for implementation rests with the have direct access to the manuals via NRW.BANK’s Finance unit in cooperation with Business Support intranet. and Risk Management. 84 Financial Report 2013 The Finance unit examines all new legislation for its The Supervisory Board establishes an Audit Committee potential relevance to the Bank’s accounting process. from among its members. In accordance with the Necessary adjustments to processes and manuals are statutes and the Public Corporate Governance Code of implemented in a timely manner. The management and NRW.BANK, the Audit Committee addresses matters monitoring of new products are coordinated by Risk such as accounting-related issues, the selection of the Management in a standardised process. In this context, auditors and the verification of their independence, an accounting-related analysis of the financial instruthe commissioning of the auditors to carry out the audit, ments and the associated risks is carried out with a the definition of focal points for the audit and the view to ensuring accurate accounting. auditor’s fee. The front-office units are functionally and organisationThe auditor is appointed by the Board of Guarantors ally separated from the units responsible for settle­ at the recommendation of the Supervisory Board/Audit ment, monitoring and control. This separation is also Committee. reflected in the responsibilities of the individual Managing Board members. The authorities and responsi­ The auditor participates in the Supervisory Board’s bilities are laid down in detail in the individual specialist and the Board of Guarantors’ consultations regarding departments. Employees involved in accountingthe financial statements and reports on the key results relevant processes have the knowledge and experience of the audit. required for their respective tasks. Where required, external experts are called in for certain calculations, The functionality of the accounting-related internal e. g. the measurement of pension obligations. control system is additionally monitored by Internal Audit through regular process-independent tests in Besides the minimum requirements of the four-eye accordance with the MaRisk requirements published by principle, the use of standard software is a key element the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (BaFin). of the internal control system. The software is protected The Managing Board and the Supervisory Board are against unauthorised access by means of authorisations informed of the results of the tests in a timely manner. reflecting users’ competence levels. In addition, system-immanent plausibility checks, standardised coordination routines and target-actual comparisons serve to check completeness and avoid and identify errors. For instance, the figures determined in the accounting process are checked for plausibility on a monthly basis by means of comparisons with prior-year figures and planning figures and on the basis of the actual business trend. Inconsistencies are addressed jointly by the external and internal audit departments. Financial Report 2013 85 Balance Sheet Balance Sheet of NRW.BANK at December 31, 2013 Assets see Notes No. Dec. 31, 2012 € € € thousands 1. Cash a) cash on hand 13,110.17 15) b) balances with central banks 608,491,099.93 408,497) thereof: with Deutsche Bundesbank € 608,491,099.93 (408,497) 608,504,210.10 408,512) 2. Debt instruments issued by public institutions and bills of exchange eligible for refinancing with central banks a) treasury bills and discounted treasury notes as well as similar debt instruments issued by public institutions 22,948,648.84 22,179) thereof: eligible for refinancing with Deutsche Bundesbank € 22,948,648.84 (22,179) 3. Receivables from banks 1, 12, 24, 28 a) payable on demand 928,289,579.22 2,033,401) b) other 33,358,861,208.90 30,980,664) 34,287,150,788.12 33,014,065) 4. Receivables from customers 2, 12, 24, 28 60,898,246,157.66 63,452,093) thereof: secured by mortgages € 42,122,029.47 (75,705) loans to public authorities and entities under public law € 36,664,991,498.65 (37,952,096) To be carried forward: 95,816,849,804.72 96,896,849) 86 Financial Report 2013 Liabilities see Notes No. Dec. 31, 2012 € € € thousands 1. Liabilities to banks 14, 24, 27, 28 a) payable on demand 690,267,398.59 1,095,123) b) with agreed maturity or period of notice 40,037,127,034.25 39,456,759) 40,727,394,432.84 40,551,882) 2. Liabilities to customers 15, 24, 28 a) other liabilities aa) payable on demand 135,760,476.81 123,263) ab) with agreed maturity or period of notice 20,225,314,386.66 20,947,052) 20,361,074,863.47 21,070,315) 3. Certificated liabilities 16, 24, 28 a) bonds and notes issued by the bank 58,068,364,989.83 61,972,263) 58,068,364,989.83 61,972,263) 3a. Trading portfolio 17 146,334,274.72 107,209) 4. Trust liabilities 18 1,747,851,480.45 1,826,225) thereof: trust loans € 1,747,851,480.45 (1,826,225) 5. Other liabilities 19, 24 782,942,807.19 295,817) 6. Deferred items 20, 24 637,424,857.01 266,422) 7. Provisions 21 a) for pensions and similar obligations 1,514,335,581.00 1,433,237) b) tax reserves 7,226,791.50 5,861) c) for interest rate subsidies 94,830,941.90 83,321) d) other 353,816,717.63 440,195) 1,970,210,032.03 1,962,614) 8. Subordinated liabilities 22 2,387,220,207.00 2,487,920) thereof: due in less than two years € 329,000,000.00 (276,000) To be carried forward: 126,828,817,944.54 130,540,667) Financial Report 2013 87 Balance Sheet Balance Sheet of NRW.BANK at December 31, 2013 Assets see Notes No. Dec. 31, 2012 € € € € thousands To be carried forward: 95,816,849,804.72 96,896,849) 5. Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 3, 9, 12, 13, 24, 26, 28 a) money market instruments aa) of public institutions 21,025,954,202.31 21,522,396) thereof: eligible as collateral for Deutsche Bundesbank advances € 19,373,473,846.79 (19,620,393) ab) of other issuers 22,407,505,686.21 23,746,535) thereof: eligible as collateral for Deutsche Bundesbank advances € 17,672,541,321.15 (19,336,265) 43,433,459,888.52 45,268,931) b) bonds and notes 449,200,980.04 431,334) principal amount € 402,113,931.62 (387,654) 43,882,660,868.56 45,700,265) 6. Shares and other non-interest-bearing securities 4, 9, 12 1,957,200.00 1,957) 6a. Trading portfolio 5, 24 253,475,458.22 197,463) 7. Equity investments in non-affiliated companies 6, 9 2,268,085,623.39 2,262,184) thereof: equity investments in banks € 2,243,772,546.20 (2,243,773) 8. Equity investments in affiliated companies 6, 9 154,750,582.91 134,713) 9. Trust assets 7 1,747,851,480.45 1,826,225) thereof: trust loans € 1,747,851,480.45 (1,826,225) 10. Intangible assets 9 13,399,093.87 17,297) 11. Tangible fixed assets 9 68,194,167.96 69,501) 12. Other assets 8, 24 968,243,219.68 1,493,840) 13. Deferred items 10, 24 174,497,322.59 235,565) Total assets 145,349,964,822.35 148,835,859) 88 Financial Report 2013 Liabilities see Notes No. Dec. 31, 2012 € € € thousands To be carried forward: 126,828,817,944.54 130,540,667) 9. Capital with participation rights 22 11,000,000.00 11,000) thereof: due in less than two years € 11,000,000.00 (0) 10. Fund for general banking risks 626,740,000.00 491,060) thereof: special item pursuant to Section 340e (4) of the German Commercial Code (HGB) €1,740,000.00 (1,060) 11. Equity capital 23 a) subscribed capital 17,000,000,000.00 17,000,000) b) capital reserves 627,659,749.39 537,385) c) reserves from retained earnings ca) reserves required by NRW.BANK’s statutes 36,100,000.00 36,100) cb) other reserves 219,647,128.42 219,647) d) profit for the year 0.00 0) 17,883,406,877.81 17,793,132) Total liabilities 145,349,964,822.35 148,835,859) 1. Contingent liabilities 24, 25 liabilities from guarantees and indemnity agreements 15,388,364,271.10 17,051,173) 2. Other commitments 24, 25 irrevocable loan commitments 3,105,980,600.91 3,492,338) 3. Administered funds 130,033,272.49 166,870) Financial Report 2013 89 Profit and Loss Account Profit and Loss Account of NRW.BANK for the Period January 1 – December 31, 2013 Jan. 1 – see Notes No. Dec. 31, 2012 € € € € thousands 1. Interest income from a) lending and money market transactions 4,453,215,148.36 4,543,876) b) interest-bearing securities and book-entry securities 1,534,173,502.30 1,738,329) 5,987,388,650.66 6,282,205) 2. Interest expenses 5,509,462,407.04 5,755,825) 477,926,243.62 526,380) 3. Income from a) equity investments in non-affiliated companies 3,281,055.81 3,274) b) equity investments in affiliated companies 10,176,572.94 10,177) 13,457,628.75 13,451) 4. Income from profit pooling, profit transfer and partial profit transfer agreements 1,683,288.88 1,476) 5. Commission income 29 81,508,865.71 85,019) 6. Commission expenses 12,520,227.22 8,542) 68,988,638.49 76,477) 7. Net profit from trading portfolio 6,096,917.93 6,411) 8. Other operating income 30 39,321,482.27 22,350) 9. General administrative expenses a) personnel expenses aa) wages and salaries 92,787,395.10 94,473) ab) social security contributions and expenses for pensions and other employee benefits 23,194,175.11 19,682) thereof: 115,981,570.21 114,155) for pensions € 11,391,420.25 (8,279) b) other administrative expenses 31 73,209,183.09 73,062) 189,190,753.30 187,217) 10. Depreciation and value adjustments on intangible and tangible fixed assets 8,410,315.35 13,757) 11. Other operating expenses 30 9,087,237.58 384) To be carried forward: 400,785,893.71 445,187) 90 Financial Report 2013 Jan. 1 – see Notes No. Dec. 31, 2012 € € € thousands To be carried forward: 400,785,893.71 445,187) 12. Write-downs and value adjustments on loans and certain securities as well as allocations to loan loss provisions 557,039,270.79 590,353) thereof: allocation to fund for general banking risks € 135,000,000.00 (225,000) 13. Write-downs and value adjustments on equity investments in non-affiliated companies, equity investments in affiliated companies and securities treated as tangible fixed assets 183,215,853.67 166,943) 14. Expenses from the assumption of losses 1,699,000.00 0) 15. Result from normal operations 25,263,476.59 21,777) 16. Taxes on income and revenues 8,400,403.40 3,016) 17. Other taxes not shown under other operating expenses 128,388.52 178) 8,528,791.92 3,194) 18. Net income 16,734,684.67 18,583) 19. Designated payout due to legal requirements 16,734,684.67 18,583) 20. Profit for the year 0.00 0) Financial Report 2013 91 Notes Notes of NRW.BANK for the Fiscal Year 2013 Preparation of NRW.BANK’s Annual Accounts 2. Corrections in Current Accounts In the past fiscal year, NRW.BANK changed the The annual accounts of NRW.BANK were prepared disclosure of interest from swap contracts from general in accordance with the provisions of the German accounting to itemised accounting per swap contract. Commercial Code (HGB) and the Ordinance Regarding Besides the changed presentation in the statement Accounting for Banks and Financial Services Institutions of income, this change also affects the disclosure of the (RechKredV). Information that may appear either corresponding balance sheet items receivables from on the balance sheet or in the notes is included in the banks and receivables from customers as well as notes. Amounts in the notes are generally given in liabil­ities to banks and liabilities to customers. In the € millions. balance sheet, the change in disclosure for the fiscal year 2013 leads to a reduction in total assets in the As in the previous year, assets and liabilities in the amount of € 147.2 million (2012: € 218.9 million) present annual accounts have been recognised at amorbecause of the gross presentation method used here tised cost in accordance with Section 252 et seq. HGB. already. In the statement of income, the change leads to an increase in interest income and interest expenses The subsidiaries in the NRW.BANK Group are not of of € 1,968.4 million each. The prior year figures have material importance either individually or collectively. been adjusted accordingly. Consolidated financial statements are not prepared. In the fiscal year, the accounting of bespoke CDOs Accounting and Valuation Principles (Collateralised Debt Obligations) restructured in 2008 and 2009 was corrected in the current accounts. The Assets, liabilities and open contracts are valued in respective restructurings were made in such a way that accordance with Section 340 et seq. HGB in conjunca hedge in the form of a purchased hedge CDS (Credit tion with Section 252 et seq. HGB. Default Swap) was taken out for the reference portfolio of existing CDOs, while the new structure of the 1. General ­reference portfolio was achieved by way of a sold CDS. Receivables are reported at their amortised cost less any discounts where appropriate. Premiums and For accounting purposes, the CDOs and the two CDS discounts from notes and bonds were released by the were each treated as a hedge relationship and the net end of the term. Liabilities are carried at their repayment amount paid for the restructuring (premium paid for amounts, with any related discounts reported under the hedge CDS less premium received for the new CDS) deferred items. Premiums on receivables or liabilities was recognised as a deferred item. For those restrucare reported under deferred items as an asset or turings for which the margin was negative assuming liability, respectively. The proportionate amount of refinancing at market rates, a provision in the respective accrued interest on a receivable or liability at year-end amount was established (negative margin provision). is generally included with the receivable or liability In addition, a provision for anticipated losses was to which it applies. These items are valued according to established for the CDO portfolio, whose amount is the effective interest method. Non interest-bearing based on scenario analyses regarding creditworthiness loans to employees are reported at their amortised cost and remaining maturity. in accordance with tax regulations. Zero-coupon bonds are carried as liabilities at their issue price plus interest The counterparty risk-related closed CDO positions accrued as of the reporting date. and the hedge CDS positions were sold in the fiscal years 2009 and 2010. Only the CDS with the new risk structure remained in the portfolio. The transactions sold were derecognised against the compensation payment not affecting net income through profit loss. The deferred item on the assets-side and the provisions remained unchanged. 92 Financial Report 2013 In the context of the correction, the assets-side defer­ Discernible risks in the lending business were red item (€ 34.4 million) relating to the transactions adequately covered by individual value adjustments and the negative margin provision (€ 23.6 million) were and provisions. A global provision was formed in released in profit/loss with effect from December 31, accordance with tax valuation methods for latent risks 2013. In addition, the provision for anticipated losses from receivables and recourse receivables. Value was derecognised (€ 62.4 million) and a deferred item adjustments were deducted from assets in the longest was recognised on the liabilities side, which reflects remaining maturity range. Non-performing loans were the upfront fee of the CDS sold (€ 89.2 million). In the written off. fiscal year 2013, the corrective entries reduced the result by a net amount of € 37.6 million, which will be 4. Securities offset by positive effects from the scheduled release Securities are valued at cost; any difference between of the liabilities-side deferred item (€ 89.2 million) the cost and the repayment amount is recognised on in future fiscal years (until 2017). At the bottom line, a pro rata basis as income. Securities held in the the corrective entries lead to a different accounting financial investment portfolio are valued according to periodisation for expenses and income but did not the mitigated lower of cost or market principle. If their entail any additional burdens. carrying amount is higher than their current market value, these securities are shown in the notes as 3. Receivables “valued as fixed assets”. This information is subject to The Housing Promotion Department’s promotion loans change over time due to portfolio changes as well as to customers and banks, most of which are at no interest rate-induced movements and/or market priceinterest or below-market interest, are carried at their induced movements. nominal value. This recognises the fact that these loans are quite predominantly funded at matching maturities Securities held in the liquidity reserve are valued from equity capital and takes into account the “interest strictly at the lower of cost or market principle. balance guarantee” under which the State of North Rhine-Westphalia would compensate for any negative In the context of the determination of the fair value, interest balance for all promotion loans granted by the NRW.BANK applies mark-to-market valuation provided Housing Promotion Department up to December 31, that an active market exists for a given security. In this 2009. No negative interest balance existed for these case, the valuation is based on the liquid prices proreceivables as of the balance sheet date. vided by respected market data providers (e. g. Reuters or Bloomberg). In addition, the discounted cash flow All loans granted by the Housing Promotion Departmethod is used for mark-to-model valuation. Under ment after December 31, 2009 are not covered by the discounted cash flow method, the contractually the interest balance guarantee of the State of North agreed cash flows of an instrument (without options) Rhine-Westphalia. Up to the balance sheet date, the are discounted using risk-adjusted interest rates Bank exclusively used equity capital to finance these (use of spread curves). To the extent possible, interest non-guaranteed loans. curves based on curves quoted in the market are used. In exceptional cases, the spreads used for discounting are taken from research publications or, alternatively, provided by external market participants and verified independently by the Risk Management Department. Financial Report 2013 93 Notes NRW.BANK incorporated the principles of the IDW With regard to the equity investment in Portigon AG, statement on accounting (IDW RS HFA 22) (IDW: Institut the State of North Rhine-Westphalia has issued an der Wirtschaftsprüfer / Institute of Public Auditors indefinite value guarantee to NRW.BANK to hedge the in Germany, Incorporated Association) of September 2, equity investment risk arising from the equity invest2008 in the current financial statements. According ment. In the case of a sale, the difference between the to these principles, each structured financial instrument proceeds and a value of € 2,200.0 million is guaranteed. held in the investment book including securities issued is generally recognised as an integral asset or an NRW.BANK treats the equity investment in Portigon AG integral liability. In those cases where the structured and the value guarantee as a hedge relationship as financial instrument has much higher or additional risks defined in Section 254 HGB, which is accounted for or opportunities than the basic instrument due to an using the net hedge presentation method. Accordingly, embedded derivative, each individual component of the the equity investment in Portigon AG was recognised at asset or liability is recognised separately as an under­ an amount of € 2,190.8 million as of December 31, 2013. lying transaction and a derivative in accordance with the relevant HGB principles. In those cases where the 7. Tangible and Intangible Assets recognition as an integral asset or an integral liability Tangible and intangible assets with a limited useful gives a fair view of the net assets, financial position and life are depreciated in accordance with the applicable results of operations, such recognition is applied. tax regulations. They are written down for impairment where such impairment is likely to be permanent. 5. Derivatives Derivatives and other structured products are valued 8. Provisions on the basis of generally accepted models (Black 76, Provisions have been made for contingent liabilities and Black 76 with extension for CMS spread instruments, anticipated losses from open contracts in the amount One, Two and Three Factor Model of Interest Rates, of the settlement amount that will be required according Hazard Rate Model, One Factor Gauss Copula Model). to prudent commercial judgment. Here, too, valuation parameters based on standard market data sources are used (e. g. Reuters, Markit). Provisions with a remaining maturity of more than one year are discounted using the average market rate of When using models, standard model assumptions are the past seven years as appropriate for the remaining made. Valuation uncertainties primarily result from maturities. uncertainties of the parameters used and the assumptions on which the models are based. Pension, benefit and personnel provisions are measured by using the internationally accepted projected unit 6. Equity Investments in Affiliated and credit method, taking the future development of wages Non-Affiliated Companies and pensions into account. Based on the 2005 G tables Equity investments in affiliated and non-affiliated of Heubeck-Richttafeln-GmbH in Cologne, average companies are carried at cost taking existing collateral wage and salary rises of 2.5% were applied for this into account; where a loss of value is expected to purpose. be permanent, they are written down to the lower fair value. In accordance with the option granted under Section 253 para. 2 sentence 2 HGB, NRW.BANK has discounted provisions for pension obligations or comparable long-term obligations using the average market rate for an assumed remaining maturity of fifteen years. The interest rate of 4.89% used for discounting was stipulated by Deutsche Bundesbank. 94 Financial Report 2013 The accumulation for pension, benefit and personnel Revaluation adjustments relating to derivative trans­ provisions was recognised in interest expense in an actions in the financial investment portfolio are not amount of € 93.8 million (2012: € 34.3 million). recognised. These derivatives are macrohedges in the form of interest rate and currency derivatives, which The assessment of the provisions for benefit payments serve to manage the Bank’s overall exposure to interest were again calculated using an annual cost increase rate risk, as well as credit default swaps, which are of 3% for healthcare benefits. The average rate of the used as credit substitute transactions. benefit payments over the past three years was taken as the basis. For securities held in the financial investment portfolio with a carrying value of € 7,749,704,814.97, As in the previous years, NRW.BANK used interest an aggregate market value of € 7,480,328,728.12 rate subsidies for certain loans in order to fulfil its state was determined. These securities include a promotion tasks. When the loan is extended, the interest portfolio of Euro-zone countries with a carrying rate subsidy is provisioned for in the amount of the value of € 474,481,551.93 and a market value of present value. € 454,378,721.92 and non-EMU EU countries with a carrying value of € 6,664,640,932.66 and a market In accordance with Article 67 para. 1 sentence 2 value of € 6,449,799,726.31. EGHGB (Introductory Act to the Commercial Code), the option was used insofar as the existing provisions Because these securities have been funded at matching are maintained due to excess cover, as the required maturities and interest rates, and because none of release would have to be reallocated by December 31, the issuers‘ credit ratings indicated sustained weakening 2024 at the latest. As of December 31, 2013, excess (no permanent impairment in value expected), it was cover of € 0.1 million exists for these provisions. not necessary to write the securities down to market value. 9. Loss-Free Valuation of the Banking Book On October 8, 2012, the IDW’s Specialist Committee 10. Hedge Relationships of the Liquidity Reserve on Banking published its statement RS BFA 3 “Einzel­ To hedge against interest rate risks, assets with a fragen der verlustfreien Bewertung von zinsbezogenen carrying amount of € 438.1 million and derivatives with Geschäften des Bankbuchs” (Individual Aspects of a nominal volume of € 442.1 million were combined the Loss-Free Valuation of Interest-Related Transactions into a hedge relationship using the net hedge presen­ in the Banking Book). According to the statement, a tation method. The hedge relationship hedges interest provision for contingent losses must be established for rate risks in an amount of € 11.3 million. a surplus of obligations resulting from the banking and interest book in an overall view of the transactions. The transactions covered have a maximum remaining NRW.BANK performed the corresponding calculations maturity until September 21, 2022. in the 2013 financial statements, for which a periodic (P&L-oriented) view was taken. The present value of the The respective transactions in the derivatives portfolios future interest result of the banking book was reduced are hedges for the securities portfolios. Interest-induced by risk and administrative costs for the total term. movements in the market values of the hedged items The calculation did not result in a surplus of obligations, and the hedges will be mutually off-setting in future. which means that there was no need to establish a Effectiveness is measured retrospectively on the basis of provision for contingent losses. the dollar offset method. Interest rate risks are managed on the basis of sensitivities. Financial Report 2013 95 Notes 11. Financial Instruments of the Trading Portfolio 12. Currency Translation In accordance with Section 340e para. 3 HGB, Foreign currency amounts are translated in accordance instruments in the trading portfolio (securities, financial with Section 340h HGB in conjunction with Section instruments) are measured at fair value less a risk 256a HGB and statement RS BFA 4 of the IDW. Assets, discount of € 1.5 million (2012: € 4.6 million). liabilities and pending transactions denominated in foreign currencies were translated using the spot The risk discount was calculated on the basis of the exchange rate on December 31, 2013. In this context, value-at-risk (VaR) model, which the Risk Management NRW.BANK uses the reference rates of the European Department also uses for internal monitoring of the System of Central Banks (ESCB). market price risks of the trading book. The regulatory requirements of a confidence level of 99% and a In accordance with Section 340h HGB in conjunction holding period of 10 days were applied. The historical with Section 256a HGB, foreign-currency balance sheet observation period for the determination of the items and pending transactions of NRW.BANK are statistical parameters is 250 days, with a greater classified and valued as being specifically covered in all weight placed on incidents in the more recent past. currencies. The internally defined criteria for the inclusion of financial instruments in the trading portfolio remained unchanged in the past fiscal year. In order to comply with the distribution restriction for unrealised gains required pursuant to Section 340e para. 4 HGB, an amount of € 680,000.00 (2012: € 720,000.00) of the net result of the trading portfolio was allocated to the “fund for general banking risks” pursuant to Section 340g HGB. 96 Financial Report 2013 Balance Sheet Receivables from Banks (1) Breakdown by Maturity Dec. 31, 2013 Dec. 31, 2012 € millions € millions Payable on demand 928.3 2,033.4 Other receivables – up to 3 months 3,219.2 1,753.3 – between 3 months and 1 year 2,664.9 2,373.9 – between 1 and 5 years 11,624.6 11,193.9 – more than 5 years 15,850.2 15,659.6 Total receivables from banks 34,287.2 33,014.1 As in the previous year, receivables from banks do not include receivables from affiliated companies. The receivables from other companies in which equity investments are held totalled € 17.5 million (2012: € 21.4 million). Receivables from Customers (2) Breakdown by Maturity Dec. 31, 2013 Dec. 31, 2012 € millions € millions – up to 3 months 3,611.8 4,277.5 – between 3 months and 1 year 2,781.5 2,327.3 – between 1 and 5 years 14,580.8 13,663.6 – more than 5 years 39,924.1 43,183.7 Total receivables from customers 60,898.2 63,452.1 As in the previous year, receivables from customers do not include receivables from affiliated companies. The receivables from other companies in which equity investments are held totalled € 0.8 million (2012: € 0.8 million). Financial Report 2013 97 Notes Bonds and Other Interest-Bearing Securities (3) Marketability Dec. 31, 2013 Dec. 31, 2012 € millions € millions Bonds and other interest-bearing securities – listed on a stock exchange 40,191.1 42,212.0 – not listed on a stock exchange 3,691.6 3,488.3 Total bonds and other interest-bearing securities 43,882.7 45,700.3 Of the bonds and other interest-bearing securities, an amount of € 4,615.7 million (2012: € 4,823.0 million) is due in the following year. As in the previous year, bonds and other interest-bearing securities do not include securities from affiliated companies or companies in which equity investments are held. Of the total bonds and other interest-bearing securities € 449.2 million (2012: € 431.4 million) are held as part of the liquidity reserve and € 43,433.5 million (2012: € 45,268.9 million) are held in the financial investment portfolio. Shares and Other Non-Interest-Bearing Securities (4) Shares and other non-interest-bearing securities include marketable securities in the amount of € 1.9 million (2012: € 1.9 million). Marketability Dec. 31, 2013 Dec. 31, 2012 € millions € millions Shares and other non-interest-bearing securities – listed on a stock exchange 0.0 0.0 – not listed on a stock exchange 1.9 1.9 Total shares and other non-interest-bearing securities 1.9 1.9 All shares and other non-interest-bearing securities are held in the financial investment portfolio. 98 Financial Report 2013 Trading Portfolio (Assets) (5) Breakdown of Trading Portfolio Dec. 31, 2013 Dec. 31, 2012 € millions € millions Derivative financial instruments 0.0 0.0 Receivables 20.0 116.3 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 235.0 85.8 Risk discount pursuant to Section 340e para. 3 sentence 1 HGB –1.5 –4.6 Total trading portfolio 253.5 197.5 Derivative financial instruments include futures with a positive market value of € 1.4 million (2012: € 0.0 million). This market value is offset against the opposite variation margin received from futures. Equity Investments in Non-Affiliated and Affiliated Companies (6) NRW.BANK holds € 2,268.1 million (2012: € 2,262.2 million) in equity investments in non-affiliated companies and € 154.8 million (2012: € 134.7 million) in equity investments in affiliated companies. Of the equity investments in non-affiliated companies, € 2,190.8 million (2012: € 2,190.8 million) are securitised by marketable securities. However, none are listed on a stock exchange. An itemised list of NRW.BANK’s investments pursuant to Section 285 No. 11 and 11a HGB is shown separately in these Notes. NRW.BANK holds more than 5% of the voting rights in the following major corporations (disclosure pursuant to Section 340a para. 4 No. 2 HGB): Portigon AG Investitionsbank des Landes Brandenburg (ILB) Trust Assets (7) Trust assets comprise the following: Breakdown of Trust Assets Dec. 31, 2013 Dec. 31, 2012 € millions € millions Receivables from banks 115.7 123.8 Receivables from customers 1,632.2 1,702.4 Total trust assets 1,747.9 1,826.2 Financial Report 2013 99 Notes Other Assets (8) The total figure of € 968.2 million (2012: € 1,493.8 million) contains, among other things, interest receivables from the State of North Rhine-Westphalia under the value guarantee for the equity investment in Portigon AG in the amount of € 486.6 million (2012: € 386.6 million), option premiums in the amount of € 221.8 million (2012: € 0.3 million), option premiums not yet received in the amount of € 206.9 million (2012: € 0.0 million) as well as receivables from Helaba Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen for reimbursement of pension obligations in the amount of € 20.4 million (2012: € 17.8. million). Fixed Assets (9) Schedule of Fixed Assets Acquisition Additions Retirements Total Net Book Depreciation and Cost/ Depreciation Value Amortisation Production Cost and in the Fiscal Amortisation Year Jan. 1, 2013 Dec. 31, 2013 € millions € millions € millions € millions € millions € millions Bonds and other interest-bearing securities forming part of fixed assets 44,387.6 42,646.7 0.0 Shares and other non-interest-bearing Net change pursuant to Section 34 securities forming para. 3 sentence 2 RechKredV: part of fixed assets 1.9 € 3,329.0 million 1.9 0.0 Equity investments in non-affiliated companies 3,834.1 2,268.1 0.0 Equity investments in affiliated companies 176.9 154.8 6.9 Intangible assets 67.5 1.1 0.0 55.2 13.4 5.0 Land and buildings 64.5 1.6 0.3 6.1 59.7 1.1 Office equipment 24.5 0.8 0.2 16.6 8.5 2.3 € 59.6 million (2012: € 58.9 million) of the amount shown under land and buildings represent land and buildings used for business purposes. Deferred Items (Assets) (10) Breakdown of Deferred Items Dec. 31, 2013 Dec. 31, 2012 € millions € millions Discounts from underwriting business 93.6 101.6 Prepaid swap fees 49.8 59.4 Prepaid CDS fees 19.6 54.4 Other 11.5 20.2 Total deferred items 174.5 235.6 100 Financial Report 2013 Deferred Tax Assets (11) Due to NRW.BANK’s exemption from income tax, deferred taxes primarily relate to investments in commercial partnerships held as part of the public mission. In accordance with Section 274 para. 1 sentence 2 HGB, no deferred taxes were recognised for the deductible temporary differences which result in a tax reduction. Subordinated Assets (12) Subordinated assets are included in: Breakdown by Asset Type Dec. 31, 2013 Dec. 31, 2012 € millions € millions Receivables from banks 0.8 0.8 Receivables from customers 20.0 23.8 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 20.4 20.4 Shares and other non-interest-bearing securities 1.9 1.9 Total subordinated assets 43.1 46.9 Pledged Assets (13) Of the assets reported, NRW.BANK pledged € 140.6 million (2012: € 505.0 million) under repurchase agreements. Liabilities to Banks (14) Breakdown by Maturity Dec. 31, 2013 Dec. 31, 2012 € millions € millions Payable on demand 690.3 1,095.1 Other liabilities – up to 3 months 5,149.9 3,045.8 – between 3 months and 1 year 1,773.3 3,386.4 – between 1 and 5 years 15,658.2 14,144.5 – more than 5 years 17,455.7 18,880.1 Total liabilities to banks 40,727.4 40,551.9 As in the previous year, liabilities to banks do not include liabilities to affiliated companies. The liabilities to other companies in which equity investments are held totalled € 8.6 million (2012: € 10.6 million). Financial Report 2013 101 Notes Liabilities to Customers (15) Breakdown by Maturity Dec. 31, 2013 Dec. 31, 2012 € millions € millions Payable on demand 135.8 123.3 Other liabilities – up to 3 months 1,023.6 1,153.6 – between 3 months and 1 year 881.3 1,265.6 – between 1 and 5 years 3,828.9 4,285.7 – more than 5 years 14,491.5 14,242.1 Total liabilities to customers 20,361.1 21,070.3 Liabilities to customers include liabilities to affiliated companies in the amount of € 15.3 million (2012: € 13.2 million). As in the previous year, liabilities to customers do not include liabilities to other companies in which equity investments are held. Certificated Liabilities (16) Breakdown of Certificated Liabilities Dec. 31, 2013 Dec. 31, 2012 € millions € millions Notes issued – mortgage bonds 0.6 0.6 – municipal bonds 339.1 424.1 – other bonds 57,728.7 61,547.6 Total certificated liabilities 58,068.4 61,972.3 € 21,242.1 million (2012: € 21,717.7 million) of the notes issued is due in the following year. Trading Portfolio (Liabilities) (17) Breakdown of Trading Portfolio Dec. 31, 2013 Dec. 31, 2012 € millions € millions Derivative financial instruments 0.0 13.2 Liabilities 146.3 94.0 Total trading portfolio 146.3 107.2 Derivative financial instruments include futures with a negative market value of € 0.4 million (2012: € 0.0 million). This market value is offset against the opposite variation margin paid on futures. 102 Financial Report 2013 Trust Liabilities (18) Trust liabilities comprise the following: Breakdown of Trust Liabilities Dec. 31, 2013 Dec. 31, 2012 € millions € millions Liabilities to banks 11.9 16.5 Liabilities to customers 1,736.0 1,244.5 Other liabilities 0.0 565.2 Total trust liabilities 1,747.9 1,826.2 Other Liabilities (19) The total figure of € 782.9 million (2012: € 295.8 million) contains, among other things, an adjustment item from currency translation (in accordance with Section 340h HGB) in the amount of € 304.4 million (2012: € 245.4 million), option premiums in the amount of € 221.5 million (2012: € 0.0 million), option premiums not yet paid in the amount of € 206.9 million (2012: € 0.0 million), liabilities owed to the State of North Rhine-Westphalia in the amount of € 16.7 million (2012: € 18.6 million), liabilities owed to the Tax Office in the amount of € 5.1 million (2012: € 6.4 million), interest to be paid on existing profit participation rights and subordinated liabilities once the annual accounts have been approved in the amount of € 3.3 million (2012: € 3.4 million) and unpaid premiums from credit default swaps in the amount of € 1.0 million (2012: € 1.0 million). Deferred Items (Liabilities) (20) Breakdown of Deferred Items Dec. 31, 2013 Dec. 31, 2012 € millions € millions Transfer of Portigon AG “dual contract holders” 251.5 0.0 Swap fees received in advance 168.5 188.4 CDS fees received in advance 119.7 16.6 Premiums from underwriting business 97.3 61.0 Other 0.4 0.4 Total deferred items 637.4 266.4 The deferred item “Transfer of Portigon AG ‘dual contract holders’” results from the compensation claim for pension obligations of the Bank towards so-called “dual contract holders”, which was settled in the fiscal year. For more information, please refer to the information provided under “Provisions”. Provisions (21) The provisions for pensions include € 1,121.2 million (2012: € 1,071.7 million) in pension obligations to employees of Portigon AG who have claims for or are entitled to a pension under the laws relating to civil servants. Pursuant to Article 1 Section 4 para. 1 sentence 4 of the Bank Redefining Act (Neuregelungsgesetz) of July 2, 2002, these obligations passed from Westdeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale to NRW.BANK. Pursuant to the regulations of the assessment dated August 1, 2002, Portigon AG and NRW.BANK agreed, in the fiscal year 2013, to finally settle NRW.BANK’s claims resulting from the compensation entitlement, with the exception of the future service cost, by means of a one-time payment. With this one-time payment, responsibility for managing and handling the ­pension Financial Report 2013 103 Notes payments has passed to NRW.BANK. The difference between the claim in the amount of € 1,071.7 million, which had so far been recognised according to HGB principles, and the one-time payment of € 1,347.4 million was recognised as deferred income and will be released upon future reductions in the HGB actuarial rate. The provisions for pensions additionally include pension obligations in the amount of € 20.4 million (2012: € 17.8 million) towards employees of Helaba Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen who also have contractual claims or are entitled to a pension under the laws relating to civil servants. NRW.BANK is entitled to reimbursement from Helaba Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen in the same amount, which is shown in other assets. NRW.BANK’s provisions for additional benefits are at € 213.8 million (2012: € 211.1 million). This amount includes € 181.8 million (2012: € 180.8 million) in obligations to persons covered under the former pension agreement of Westdeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale, for which NRW.BANK has assumed the additional benefit payments since the spin-off from Westdeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale. An additional € 32.0 million (2012: € 30.3 million) has been set aside for claims to additional benefits that employees of NRW.BANK have for their retirement. Provisions in an amount of € 76.7 million (2012: 76.7 million) exist for potential compensation claims under the value guarantee. Subordinated Liabilities and Capital with Participation Rights (22) The subordinated liability as described below exceeds 10% of the total subordinated liabilities of € 2,387.2 million (2012: € 2,487.9 million). The State of North Rhine-Westphalia has to make repayments towards the federal government in conjunction with the use of house promotion loans granted by the federal government. Under applicable federal state law, NRW.BANK has to transfer the required funds from the repayment of housing promotion loans to the state budget. This transfer duty takes the form of a non-interest-bearing subordinated loan in an amount of € 2,413.9 million granted by the State of North Rhine-Westphalia to NRW.BANK, which has to be repaid by the year 2044 in accordance with a defined repayment plan. Based on the repayments made to date, the subordinated loan was stated in an amount of € 1,982.2 million as of December 31, 2013. The remaining subordinated liabilities of € 405.0 million carry an average interest rate of 3.8% (2012: 3.8%) and have original maturities between ten and thirty years. There is no early redemption obligation. Subordinated liabilities include liabilities with a remaining term of less than two years in an amount of € 329.0 million (2012: € 276.0 million). There are no existing agreements or plans to convert these funds into capital or into another form of debt. 104 Financial Report 2013 Interest expenses of € 9.8 million (2012: € 11.2 million) were incurred for subordinated liabilities. The subordinated liabilities carried by NRW.BANK comply with the requirements of Section 10 para. 5a KWG (German Banking Act); a right to terminate without notice has not been agreed. In 2013, no capital with participation rights matured, and no new capital with participation rights was issued. Hence, the total capital with participation rights was € 11.0 million (2012: € 11.0 million). Equity Capital (23) As of December 31, 2013, NRW.BANK’s subscribed capital was € 17,000.0 million (2012: € 17,000.0 million). The reserves totalled € 883.4 million (2012: € 793.1 million). NRW.BANK’s capital and reserves as reported on the balance sheet are made up of the following: Commercial Law Equity Dec. 31, 2013 Dec. 31, 2012 € millions € millions Subscribed capital 17,000.0 17,000.0 Capital reserves 627.7 537.4 Reserves from retained earnings – reserves required by NRW.BANK’s statutes 36.1 36.1 – other reserves 219.6 219.6 Profit for the year 0.0 0.0 Total equity capital 17,883.4 17,793.1 Once the annual accounts are approved, the capital of NRW.BANK required for regulatory purposes under Section 10 KWG will total € 19,503.0 million (2012: € 18,935.0 million). Foreign Currency Assets/Foreign Currency Liabilities (24) At year-end, NRW.BANK had foreign currency assets valued at € 10,218.4 million (2012: € 9,729.2 million) and foreign currency liabilities valued at € 17,608.4 million (2012: € 21,488.2 million). Contingent liabilities and other commitments denominated in foreign currencies totalled € 4,024.8 million (2012: € 3,638.5 million). Financial Report 2013 105 Notes Contingent Liabilities and Other Commitments (25) Contingent liabilities totalled € 15,388.4 million (2012: € 17,051.2 million) and incorporate € 14,689.8 million (2012: € 16,514.8 million) for credit derivatives (thereof € 352.7 million for embedded derivatives [2012: € 361.8 million]) and € 698.6 million (2012: € 536.4 million) for other guarantees and indemnity agreements. The credit derivatives are credit default swaps, in which NRW.BANK acts as protection seller. Against receipt of a premium from the protection buyer, NRW.BANK has taken the risk that a credit event agreed between the two parties with regard to the reference debtor occurs. The credit default swaps of NRW.BANK are primarily referenced to countries and are almost exclusively of very good and good investment grade quality. No claims are expected to be raised at present. The guarantees and indemnity agreements primarily comprise liability releases for house banks for promotion loans granted in the context of the development of sports facilities as well as global guarantees, guarantee lines and SME financing. Claims under these guarantees would potentially be raised in the event of the non-fulfilment of contractual obligations of the main borrower towards the beneficiary. This would arise, for instance, in the event of the delayed (or non-)repayment of loans or the improper completion of promised services. As there were no indications of such events as of the balance sheet date, there are currently no signs of future claims being raised under these guarantees. Other commitments comprise irrevocable credit commitments in an amount of € 3,106.0 million (2012: € 3,492.3 million). Of this total, € 666.5 million (2012: € 740.6 million) relates to commitments in conjunction with the housing promotion business. The irrevocable credit commitments result from transactions in which NRW.BANK has made a binding commitment towards its customers and is therefore exposed to a future credit risk. Based on historical experience from the previous years, it is expected that the irrevocable credit commitments will be utilised with a probability of almost 100%. Assets Used as Collateral (26) Bonds and notes in a nominal amount of € 5,236.4 million (2012: € 3,406.0 million) were pledged to the Deutsche Bundesbank and notes in a nominal amount of € 5,235.8 million (2012: € 6,310.3 million) were submitted to the Deutsche Bundesbank in the context of the “KEV” process (KEV: Kreditforderungen – Einreichung und Verwaltung/credit claims – submission and administration) as collateral for funding facilities. Securities in a nominal amount of € 22.7 million (2012: € 22.7 million) were deposited with the Eurex (electronic futures and options exchange) as collateral for forward transactions. In addition, securities in a nominal amount of € 4,007.0 million (2012: € 4,388.4 million) were transferred in the past fiscal year to secure off-exchange derivatives; these securities were deposited as collateral with the counterparty. Furthermore, an amount of € 269.9 million (2012: € 243.8 million) was transferred as collateral for repo transactions (repo: sale and repurchase agreement) and securities in an amount of € 2.0 million (2012: € 2.0 million) were assigned as rent deposit. 106 Financial Report 2013 Collateral for Own Liabilities (27) Collateral for registered municipal bonds and notes totalled € 2.2 million (2012: € 2.2 million). Cover (28) All issues of NRW.BANK requiring cover were covered in accordance with the statutory provisions and in accordance with the Bank’s statutes. On December 31, 2013, the nominal amounts of the cover were as follows: Cover Dec. 31, 2013 Dec. 31, 2012 Municipal bonds Municipal bonds (cover register II) (cover register II) € millions € millions Municipal bonds issued 2,847.1 4,365.0 Loans raised secured with registered municipal bonds and notes 2.2 2.2 Liabilities requiring cover 2,849.3 4,367.2 Municipal loans 17,253.1 17,935.5 Other ordinary cover (securities) 66.2 100.2 Excess cover 240.0 240.0 Cover funds 17,559.3 18,275.7 Excess cover 14,710.0 13,908.5 The cover register for mortgage bonds (cover register I) was closed with effect from June 29, 2012, as NRW.BANK will issue no more mortgage bonds for the time being. Accordingly, the cover only includes the cover register for municipal bonds (cover register II). Financial Report 2013 107 Notes Statement of Income Services Rendered for Third Parties (29) The net commission income includes € 12.7 million (2012: € 9.0 million) resulting from the administration of loans and subsidies held in trust. Other Operating Income and Expenses (30) The principal contributions towards other operating income are composed of € 16.2 million (2012: € 15.9 million) in income from the write-back of other provisions as well as € 15.0 million (2012: € 0.0 million) in income from the reimbursement of the service cost of Portigon AG. Other operating expenses include an amount of € 6.8 million (2012: € 0.2 million) in addition to the provisions for additional benefits established for employees of Portigon AG. Fee Paid to Auditor of the Annual Accounts (31) In the fiscal year 2013, the auditor charged a total fee of € 1.5 million (2012: € 1.8 million). € 1.2 million (2012: € 1.4 million) of which accounted for the auditing of the annual accounts, € 0.2 million (2012: € 0.1 million) for other auditing services and € 0.1 million (2012: € 0.3 million) for other services. Miscellaneous Other Financial Obligations NRW.BANK has long-term obligations in the amount of € 127.4 million up to the end of the contractual term. These include obligations in the amount of € 0.2 million with a remaining term of up to one year, obligations in the amount of € 2.4 million with a remaining term of up to three years, obligations in the amount of € 3.6 million with a remaining term of up to five years as well as obligations in the amount of € 121.2 million with a remaining term of more than five years. In addition, there are other financial obligations with an indefinite remaining term in the amount of € 2.0 million. Other financial obligations primarily result from rental, maintenance and IT service agreements. There is an obligation to make additional contributions in the amount of € 8.0 million (2012: € 8.0 million) to the European Investment Fund. Other Obligations NRW.BANK has other obligations pursuant to Article 1 Section 3 sentence 1 of the Bank Redefining Act of July 2, 2002. In addition to its capital contribution of € 55.0 million, NRW.BANK is liable for Investitionsbank des Landes Brandenburg (ILB) in the amount of an additional € 110.0 million. Deposit Insurance The state bank of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia became the development bank for North Rhine-West­ phalia and was renamed NRW.BANK pursuant to the “Act on the Reorganisation of the State Bank of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia into the Development Bank of North Rhine-Westphalia and on the Amendment of Other Laws” (Gesetz zur Umstrukturierung der Landesbank Nordrhein-Westfalen zur Förderbank des Landes Nordrhein-Westfalen und zur Änderung anderer Gesetze). Owing to these developments, as of January 1, 2005 NRW.BANK was made a member of the compensation scheme of the Association of German Public Sector Banks in Berlin (VÖB Entschädigungseinrichtung) by order of the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (BaFin). 108 Financial Report 2013 Derivative Transactions As of December 31, 2013, the total nominal value of derivative transactions was € 186,781 million (2012: € 195,173 million). Derivative transactions are mostly used as hedges against fluctuations in interest rates, exchange rates and market prices and almost entirely relate to the banking book. Banking book Nominal values Market values Market values positive negative Dec. 31, 2012 Dec. 31, 2013 Dec. 31, 2013 Dec. 31, 2013 € millions € millions € millions € millions Interest rate risks Interest rate swaps 152,357 140,036 5,818 –9,002 Interest rate options – bought (long) 2,145 4,378 248 – – written (short) 2,816 5,228 – –188 Caps, floors – – – – Stock market contracts – bought (long) – 17 – 0 – written (short) – 35 0 – Forward rate agreements – – – – Other interest rate forwards 423 275 – –14 Total interest rate risks 157,741 149,969 6,066 –9,204 Currency risks Foreign exchange forwards, swaps 7,208 7,362 5 –59 Currency swaps/ interest rate currency swaps 12,179 11,974 173 –951 Total currency risks 19,387 19,336 178 –1,010 Credit derivatives – bought (long)1 1,445 899 14 –23 – written (short)2 16,515 14,690 62 –218 Total credit derivatives 17,960 15,589 76 –241 Total banking book 195,088 184,894 6,320 –10,455 1) includes € 250 million (2012: € 260 million) in embedded derivative instruments which have to be separated (HFA 22) 2) includes € 353 million (2012: € 362 million) in embedded derivative instruments which have to be separated (HFA 22) Financial Report 2013 109 Notes Trading book Nominal values Market values Market values positive negative Dec. 31, 2012 Dec. 31, 2013 Dec. 31, 2013 Dec. 31, 2013 € millions € millions € millions € millions Interest rate risks Interest rate swaps 81 352 0 0 Interest rate options – – – – Stock market contracts – bought (long) 4 725 0 – – written (short) – 810 1 0 Forward rate agreements – – – – Other interest rate forwards – – – – Total interest rate risks 85 1,887 1 0 Total currency risks – – – – Total credit derivatives – – – – Total trading book 85 1,887 1 0 Banking book and trading book Nominal values Market values Market values positive negative Dec. 31, 2012 Dec. 31, 2013 Dec. 31, 2013 Dec. 31, 2013 € millions € millions € millions € millions Total interest rate risks 157,826 151,856 6,067 –9,204 Total currency risks 19,387 19,336 178 –1,010 Total credit derivatives 17,960 15,589 76 –241 Total banking book and trading book 195,173 186,781 6,321 –10,455 The presentation of derivative transactions also reflects embedded derivative instruments that have to be separated of a nominal value of € 5,739 million (2012: € 3,325 million). The item also includes interest rate derivatives from a hedge relationship as defined in Section 254 HGB with a nominal volume of € 442 million (2012: € 440 million) with positive market values of € 1 million (2012: € 0 million) and with negative market values of € –10 million (2012: € –19 million). The average nominal value of the derivative transactions and other forward transactions entered into by NRW.BANK for the period from January 1, 2013 to December 31, 2013 was € 202,070 million (2012: € 216,632 million). 110 Financial Report 2013 The market values of the derivative transactions are shown without accrued interest. To the extent available, market prices are used for valuing the derivative financial instruments. If market values are not available or cannot be reliably determined, the fair value is determined on the basis of standard pricing models or discounted cash flows. Option premiums paid/received are shown under other assets and other liabilities; prepaid swap fees and swap fees received in advance are included in the respective deferred item. The breakdown of derivative transactions by counterparty is as follows: Banking book Nominal values Market values Market values positive negative Dec. 31, 2012 Dec. 31, 2013 Dec. 31, 2013 Dec. 31, 2013 € millions € millions € millions € millions OECD banks 168,557 170,698 5,353 –8,827 Non-OECD banks – – – – OECD public-sector entities 13,794 11,554 888 –1,558 Other counterparties 12,737 2,642 79 –70 Total banking book 195,088 184,894 6,320 –10,455 Trading book Nominal values Market values Market values positive negative Dec. 31, 2012 Dec. 31, 2013 Dec. 31, 2013 Dec. 31, 2013 € millions € millions € millions € millions OECD banks 85 398 1 0 Non-OECD banks – – – – OECD public-sector entities – – – – Other counterparties – 1,489 0 0 Total trading book 85 1,887 1 0 Banking book and trading book Nominal values Market values Market values positive negative Dec. 31, 2012 Dec. 31, 2013 Dec. 31, 2013 Dec. 31, 2013 € millions € millions € millions € millions Total banking book and trading book 195,173 186,781 6,321 –10,455 Financial Report 2013 111 Notes Interest rate derivatives that are not assigned to the trading book are used as microhedges for specific transactions or as macrohedges for overall exposure, exclusively in the Bank’s proprietary business. Their result is recognised in net interest income. The interest rate contracts are spread across the entire spectrum of maturities, with approx. 46% (2012: 43%) of the interest rate contracts having a remaining time to maturity of more than five years. Banking book Interest rate risks Currency risks Credit derivatives Dec. 31, 2012 Dec. 31, 2013 Dec. 31, 2012 Dec. 31, 2013 Dec. 31, 2012 Dec. 31, 2013 € millions € millions € millions € millions € millions € millions Residual maturity – up to 3 months 9,747 6,389 7,570 7,513 777 285 – more than – 3 months to 1 year 17,058 13,964 2,618 1,998 763 676 – more than – 1 to 5 years 63,165 60,476 6,560 7,452 11,122 12,936 – more than 5 years 67,771 69,140 2,639 2,373 5,298 1,692 Total banking book 157,741 149,969 19,387 19,336 17,960 15,589 Trading book Interest rate risks Currency risks Credit derivatives Dec. 31, 2012 Dec. 31, 2013 Dec. 31, 2012 Dec. 31, 2013 Dec. 31, 2012 Dec. 31, 2013 € millions € millions € millions € millions € millions € millions Residual maturity – up to 3 months 4 274 – – – – – more than – 3 months to 1 year 0 888 – – – – – more than – 1 to 5 years 11 725 – – – – – more than 5 years 70 0 – – – – Total trading book 85 1,887 – – – – Banking book Interest rate risks Currency risks Credit derivatives and trading book Dec. 31, 2012 Dec. 31, 2013 Dec. 31, 2012 Dec. 31, 2013 Dec. 31, 2012 Dec. 31, 2013 € millions € millions € millions € millions € millions € millions Total banking book and trading book 157,826 151,856 19,387 19,336 17,960 15,589 112 Financial Report 2013 Number of Employees The average number of female staff employed by NRW.BANK in 2013 was 704 (2012: 695), and the average number of male staff, including the Managing Board, employed over the year was 620 (2012: 629). At the end of the year, there were 1,201 (2012: 1,198) active employees and 55 (2012: 60) trainees/apprentices, which results in a total headcount of 1,256 (2012: 1,258). Managing Board Remuneration Non-performance-linked and performance-linked components of the Managing Board remuneration paid in 2013 and 2012: Fixed remuneration Variable remuneration 1) Other remuneration 2) Total remuneration 1) In € thsd. 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Dietmar P. Binkowska 703.5 703.5 83.7 33.4 36.2 28.6 823.4 765.5 Klaus Neuhaus 476.0 476.0 66.0 26.4 28.9 27.8 570.9 530.2 Michael Stölting 465.0 455.5 66.0 26.4 42.4 36.2 573.4 518.1 Dietrich Suhlrie 468.7 456.0 66.0 26.4 15.8 15.4 550.5 497.8 Total Managing Board 2,113.2 2,091.0 281.7 112.6 123.3 108.0 2,518.2 2,311.6 1)  ariable remuneration for 2012 and 2013 is not fully comparable, as shares retained from prior year bonuses were paid out for the first time in 2013. V 2) Other taxable, non-performance-linked non-monetary benefits – in particular benefit in money’s worth from the use of a company car, partly with driver. Benefits from third parties for mandates fulfilled were received by two Managing Board members in the fiscal year: Mr Binkowska received an amount of € 112.5 thousand and Mr Stölting received an amount of € 72.7 thousand. Breakdown of the variable Managing Board remuneration granted in 2013 into components paid-out immediately and components retained over several years: Reduction pursuant to Variable remuneration thereof thereof paid out Section 5 para. 2 No. 6 In € thsd. granted in 2013 retained in 2013 InstitutsVergV Dietmar P. Binkowska 168.0 134.4 33.6 0 Klaus Neuhaus 132.0 105.6 26.4 0 Michael Stölting 132.0 105.6 26.4 0 Dietrich Suhlrie 132.0 105.6 26.4 0 Total Managing Board 564.0 451.2 112.8 0 Commitments in case of premature or regular termination of the Managing Board activity: In case of a premature resignation not attributable to an extraordinary termination for serious cause, the Managing Board members will receive the agreed remuneration until the end of their contractual term. There­ after, they receive an early pension based on the pension that would be paid in case of invalidity until they reach the age of retirement. The members of the Managing Board are entitled to pension benefits as they reach the age of retirement or in case of invalidity. In the event of their death their dependants are also entitled to benefits. All commitments are contractually unforfeitable or unforfeitable by law because of the number of years served. Mr Binkowska Financial Report 2013 113 Notes is entitled to a fixed pension taking into account pension payments from the public pension system. As a result of their previous employments, Mr Neuhaus and Mr Stölting have entitlements to civil-service-type pensions taking into account entitlements from the public pension scheme as well as entitlements under a pension enhancement policy. Mr Suhlrie benefits from a contribution-linked pension commitment. In the context of this pension commitment, a personal pension account with a starting component has been set up for him, into which annual pension components are paid. Expenses and present values of the benefits promised to the Managing Board members in case of regular termin­ation of their activity: Expenses 1) Present value of the obligation 2) In € thsd. 2013 2012 2013 2012 Dietmar P. Binkowska 627.9 3) 385.5 2,990.4 2,362.5 Klaus Neuhaus 297.7 273.6 4,468.9 4,171.1 Michael Stölting 243.1 237.8 2,434.5 2,191.5 Dietrich Suhlrie 213.6 198.1 711.8 498.2 Total Managing Board 1,382.3 1,095.0 10,605.6 9,223.3 1) T  he expenses shown here comprise personnel and interest expenses. In particular, they comprise the portion of the interest expenses that results from the change in the interest rate used for calculation (reduced from 5.05% on December 31, 2012 to 4.89% on December 31, 2013). 2) Where applicable, incl. values transferred by previous employers. 3) Expenses have increased – because of the contract renewal – due to an actuarial effect. In the fiscal year 2013, there were no changes in the commitments for old-age/invalidity and dependants’ pension for the Managing Board members of NRW.BANK. Payments to and present values of the old-age benefits of retired and resigned Managing Board members: Payments Present value of the obligation 1) In € thsd. 2013 2012 2013 2012 Former Managing Board members 527.4 528.7 11,205.9 11,057.6 1) Where applicable, incl. values transferred by previous employers. As no member of the Managing Board resigned in 2013, no commitments or payments were made in conjunction with a resignation. Remuneration of the Members of the Supervisory Board and its Committees, the Board of Guarantors as well as the Advisory Board The tables below show the remuneration of the members of the Supervisory Board and its committees, the Board of Guarantors as well as the Advisory Board in itemised form. The remuneration of the members of the Supervisory Board varies depending on their committee membership. 114 Financial Report 2013 Disclosure of the Remuneration Paid to Members of the Supervisory Board and Its Committees Total Total remuneration remuneration € € Members Pursuant to Section 12 Para. 1 Permanent Representatives Pursuant to Letters a to c of the Statutes Section 12 Para. 2 of the Statutes Garrelt Duin 26,300 Dieter Krell (until February 28, 2013) 3,333 Minister for Economic Affairs, Assistant Secretary Energy and Industry Ministry of Economic Affairs, Energy and Industry of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Michael Groschek 15,100 Wulf Noll (since March 1, 2013) 20,267 Minister for Building, Housing, Assistant Secretary City Development and Transport Ministry of Economic Affairs, of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Energy and Industry of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Dr. Norbert Walter-Borjans 26,600 Annett Fischer 12,400 Minister of Finance Assistant Secretary of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Ministry for Building, Housing, City Development and Transport of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Gerhard Heilgenberg 23,300 Assistant Secretary Ministry of Finance of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Members Pursuant to Section 12 Para. 1 Members Pursuant to Section 12 Para. 1 Letter d of the Statutes Letter e of the Statutes Horst Becker, MdL 5,600 Iris Aichinger (until June 30, 2013) 6,200 Parliamentary State Secretary Staff representative Ministry for Climate Protection, Environment, NRW.BANK Agriculture, Conservation and Consumer Affairs Düsseldorf of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Lutz Lienenkämper, MdL 18,300 Martin Bösenberg 18,000 Parliamentary Director Staff representative of the CDU Parliamentary Group NRW NRW.BANK State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Münster Johannes Remmel 18,300 Matthias Elzinga (since July 1, 2013) 5,900 Minister for Climate Protection, Environment, Staff representative Agriculture, Conservation and Consumer Affairs NRW.BANK of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Münster Norbert Römer, MdL 17,700 Frank Lill 16,600 Chairman Staff representative of the SPD Parliamentary Group NRW NRW.BANK State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Svenja Schulze, MdL 17,400 Thomas Stausberg (since July 1, 2013) 9,600 Minister for Innovation, Science and Research Director of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia NRW.BANK Düsseldorf Michael Tellmann (until June 30, 2013) 9,000 Staff representative NRW.BANK Düsseldorf 1. On the basis of the rules adopted by the Board of Guarantors, turnover tax and travel expenses are refunded by the Bank upon request. 2. The remuneration for members of the Supervisory Board joining or leaving the company in the course of the year is paid on a pro-rata temporis basis for each calendar month. 3. Potential duties of payment of the mandate holders and/or payments made are not taken into account. Financial Report 2013 115 Notes Disclosure of the Remuneration Paid to Members of the Board of Guarantors Total Total remuneration remuneration € € Members Pursuant to Section 8 Para. 1 Members Pursuant to Section 8 Para. 1 Letters a to c of the Statutes Letter d of the Statutes Garrelt Duin 5,000 Sylvia Löhrmann 5,300 Minister for Economic Affairs, Minister for School and Further Education Energy and Industry of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Michael Groschek 5,600 Dr. Rüdiger Messal 5,300 Minister for Building, Housing, State Secretary City Development and Transport Ministry of Finance of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Dr. Norbert Walter-Borjans 5,000 Udo Paschedag (until February 22, 2013) 833 Minister of Finance State Secretary of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Ministry for Climate Protection, Environment, Agriculture, Conservation and Consumer Affairs of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Members Pursuant to Section 8 Para. 1 Dr. Wilhelm D. Schäffer 5,300 Letter d of the Statutes State Secretary Ministry of Work, Social Integration and Welfare of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Helmut Dockter 5,600 Permanent guests State Secretary Ministry of Innovation, Science and Research of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Dr. Günther Horzetzky 5,000 Martin Bösenberg (since July 1, 2013) 300 State Secretary Staff representative Ministry of Economic Affairs, NRW.BANK Energy and Industry Münster of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Peter Knitsch (since March 7, 2013) 4,767 Frank Lill 600 State Secretary Staff representative Ministry for Climate Protection, Environment, NRW.BANK Agriculture, Conservation and Consumer Affairs Düsseldorf of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Thomas Kutschaty, MdL 5,600 Michael Tellmann (until June 30, 2013) 300 Minister of Justice Staff representative of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia NRW.BANK Düsseldorf Franz-Josef Lersch-Mense 5,600 Cabinet Secretary Head of the Premier´s Department of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia 1. On the basis of the rules adopted by the Board of Guarantors, turnover tax and travel expenses are refunded by the Bank upon request. 2. The remuneration for members of the Board of Guarantors joining or leaving the company in the course of the year is paid on a pro-rata temporis basis for each calendar month. 3. Potential duties of payment of the mandate holders and/or payments made are not taken into account. 116 Financial Report 2013 Disclosure of the Remuneration Paid to Members of the Advisory Board of NRW.BANK Total Total remuneration remuneration € € Members Pursuant to Section 23 of the Statutes Members Pursuant to Section 23 of the Statutes Garrelt Duin 2,000 Prof. Dr. Reinhard Klenke 2,000 Minister for Economic Affairs, District President Energy and Industry Münster Regional Government of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Michael Ackermann 2,000 Norbert Kleyboldt 2,000 Managing Director Permanent Delegate Klinikum Bielefeld gem. GmbH of the Apostolic Administrator of Bischöfliches Generalvikariat Münster Prof. Dr. Achim Bachem 2,000 Thomas Kubendorff (until March 31, 2013) 500 Chairman of the Managing Board District Administrator Forschungszentrum Jülich GmbH Vice President Landkreistag Nordrhein-Westfalen e. V. Frank Baranowski 2,000 Dr. Thomas A. Lange 2,000 Lord Mayor Chairman of the Managing Board City of Gelsenkirchen Bankenvereinigung Nordrhein-Westfalen e. V. Paul Bauwens-Adenauer 0 Markus Lewe 2,000 President Lord Mayor Chamber of Industry and Commerce City of Münster in North Rhine-Westphalia Werner Böhnke (until October 31, 2013) 1,667 Ulrike Lubek 2,000 Member of the Supervisory Board Director of LVR WGZ BANK AG Regional Association of the Rhineland Westdeutsche Genossenschafts-Zentralbank Prof. Dr. Gerd Bollermann 2,000 Wolfgang Lubert 2,000 District President Managing Director Arnsberg Regional Government EnjoyVenture Management GmbH Michael Breuer 2,000 Anne Lütkes 2,000 President District President Savings Banks and Giro Association of the Rhineland Düsseldorf Regional Government Norbert Bude 2,000 Andreas Meyer-Lauber 2,000 Lord Mayor District Chairman Chairman Deutscher Gewerkschaftsbund NRW Städtetag Nordrhein-Westfalen Heinrich Otto Deichmann 2,000 Dr. Paul-Josef Patt 2,000 Chairman of the Supervisory Board Chairman of the Managing Board Deichmann SE eCAPITAL entrepreneurial Partners AG Andreas Feicht (since April 1, 2013) 1,500 Jürgen Roters 2,000 Chairman Lord Mayor Verband kommunaler Unternehmen e. V. City of Cologne – Regional Group North Rhine-Westphalia – Marcelino Fernández Verdes (since April 1, 2013) 1,500 Roland Schäfer (since January 1, 2013) 2,000 Chairman of the Executive Board Mayor HOCHTIEF AG President Städteund Gemeindebund Nordrhein-Westfalen Financial Report 2013 117 Notes Total Total remuneration remuneration € € Members Pursuant to Section 23 of the Statutes Members Pursuant to Section 23 of the Statutes Dr. Reinhold Festge 2,000 Prof. Dr. Uwe Schneidewind 2,000 Managing Partner President and Academic Managing Director HAVER & BOECKER OHG Wuppertaler Institut für Klima, Drahtweberei und Maschinenfabrik Umwelt, Energie GmbH Heinz Fiege 2,000 Dr. Ottilie Scholz 2,000 FIEGE Logistik Holding Stiftung & Co. KG Lord Mayor City of Bochum Otto Rudolf Fuchs 1,000 Prof. Wolfgang Schulhoff 2,000 Shareholder President Otto Fuchs KG Düsseldorf Chamber of Handicrafts Prof. Dr. Ursula Gather 2,000 Dr. Jochen Stemplewski 2,000 Chairwoman Chairman of the Managing Board of the Directors Conference EMSCHERGENOSSENSCHAFT und of the Universities in North Rhine-Westphalia LIPPEVERBAND Dieter Gebhard 2,000 Peter Terium 2,000 Chairman Chairman of the Managing Board Regional Assembly of Westphalia-Lippe RWE AG Dr. Rolf Gerlach 2,000 Marianne Thomann-Stahl 2,000 President District President Savings Banks and Giro Association Detmold Regional Government of Westphalia-Lippe Günter Gressler (until June 30, 2013) 1,000 Reza Vaziri (since November 1, 2013) 333 Director General Managing Director 3M Deutschland GmbH 3M Deutschland GmbH Dr. Axel Claus Heitmann 2,000 Hans-Josef Vogel 2,000 Chairman of the Managing Board Mayor LANXESS AG City of Arnsberg Thomas Hendele (since April 1, 2013) 1,500 Gisela Walsken 2,000 District Administrator District President President Cologne Regional Government Landkreistag Nordrhein-Westfalen e. V. Thomas Hunsteger-Petermann 2,000 Prof. Dr. Jürgen Wilhelm 2,000 Lord Mayor Chairman City of Hamm Regional Assembly of the Rhineland Arndt G. Kirchhoff 2,000 Klaus Winterhoff 2,000 Managing Partner Legal Vice President KIRCHHOFF Holding GmbH & Co. KG Evangelical Church of Westphalia – Das Landeskirchenamt – Dr. Wolfgang Kirsch 2,000 Hans-Bernd Wolberg (since November 1, 2013) 333 Director of LWL Chairman of the Managing Board Regional Association WGZ BANK AG of Westphalia-Lippe Westdeutsche Genossenschafts-Zentralbank Dipl.-Ing. Hanspeter Klein 2,000 Chairman of the Managing Board Verband Freier Berufe im Lande Nordrhein-Westfalen e. V. 1. On the basis of the rules adopted by the Board of Guarantors, turnover tax and travel expenses are refunded by the Bank upon request. 2. The remuneration for members of the Advisory Board joining or leaving the company in the course of the year is paid on a pro-rata temporis basis for each calendar month. 3. Potential duties of payment of the mandate holders and/or payments made are not taken into account. 118 Financial Report 2013 Disclosure of the Remuneration Paid to Members of the Parliamentary Advisory Council of NRW.BANK Total Total remuneration remuneration € € Members Pursuant to Section 24 of the Statutes Members Pursuant to Section 24 of the Statutes Elisabeth Müller-Witt, MdL (since May 15, 2013) 125 Dr. Marcus Optendrenk, MdL (since May 15, 2013) 125 Member of the SPD Parliamentary Group Member of the CDU Parliamentary Group State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Mehrdad Mostofizadeh, MdL (since May 15, 2013) 125 Dietmar Schulz, MdL (since December 18, 2013) 0 Member of the Member of the Piraten Parliamentary Group Bündnis 90/Die Grünen Parliamentary Group State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Martin Börschel, MdL (since May 15, 2013) 125 Robert Stein, MdL (since May 15, 2013) Member of the SPD Parliamentary Group (until December 18, 2013) 0 State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Member of the Piraten Parliamentary Group (left in September 2013) State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Marc Herter, MdL (since May 15, 2013) 125 Ralf Witzel, MdL (since May 15, 2013) 125 Member of the SPD Parliamentary Group Member of the FDP Parliamentary Group State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Stefan Kämmerling, MdL (since May 15, 2013) 125 Hendrik Wüst, MdL (since May 15, 2013) 0 Member of the SPD Parliamentary Group Member of the CDU Parliamentary Group State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Gerda Kieninger, MdL (since May 15, 2013) 125 Gudrun Zentis, MdL (since May 15, 2013) 125 Member of the SPD Parliamentary Group Member of the State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Bündnis 90/Die Grünen Parliamentary Group State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Christian Möbius, MdL (since May 15, 2013) 125 Member of the CDU Parliamentary Group State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia 1. On the basis of the rules adopted by the Board of Guarantors, turnover tax and travel expenses are refunded by the Bank upon request. 2. The remuneration for members of the Parliamentary Advisory Council joining or leaving the company in the course of the year is paid on a pro-rata temporis basis for each calendar month. 3. Potential duties of payment of the mandate holders and/or payments made are not taken into account. Financial Report 2013 119 Notes Disclosure of the Remuneration Paid to Members of the Advisory Board for Housing Promotion of NRW.BANK Total Total remuneration remuneration € € Members Pursuant to Section 21 Para. 1 Members Pursuant to Section 21 Para. 1 Letter a of the Statutes Letter c of the Statutes Michael Groschek 3,600 Eva-Maria Voigt-Küppers, MdL 3,600 Minister for Building, Housing, Member of the SPD Parliamentary Group City Development and Transport State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Members Pursuant to Section 21 Para. 1 Klaus Voussem, MdL 3,600 Letter b of the Statutes Member of the CDU Parliamentary Group State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Günther Bongartz 3,300 Olaf Wegner, MdL 3,600 Senior Principal Member of the Piraten Parliamentary Group Ministry of Finance State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Dr. Michael Henze 3,300 Members Pursuant to Section 21 Para. 1 Assistant Secretary Letter d of the Statutes Ministry for Economic Affairs, Energy and Industry of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Hans Lauf 3,600 Ingo Apel 3,600 Assistant Secretary Vice President Ministry of Work, Social Integration and Welfare Haus & Grund Nordrhein-Westfalen e. V. of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Members Pursuant to Section 21 Para. 1 Dr. Werner Küpper 3,600 Letter c of the Statutes BFW Landesverband Nordrhein-Westfalen e. V. Martin Börschel, MdL 3,300 Alexander Rychter 3,600 Member of the SPD Parliamentary Group Association Director State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Verband der Wohnungswirtschaft Rheinland Westfalen e. V. Holger Ellerbrock, MdL 3,600 Members Pursuant to Section 21 Para. 1 Member of the FDP Parliamentary Group Letter e of the Statutes State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Dieter Hilser, MdL 3,600 Rudolf Graaff 3,600 Member of the SPD Parliamentary Group Deputy Mayor State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Städteund Gemeindebund Nordrhein-Westfalen Gerda Kieninger, MdL 3,600 Thomas Hendele 3,300 Member of the SPD Parliamentary Group District Administrator State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Kreis Mettmann Bernhard Schemmer, MdL 3,600 Stefan Raetz 3,600 Member of the CDU Parliamentary Group Mayor State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia City of Rheinbach Daniela Schneckenburger, MdL 3,600 Hilmar von Lojewski 3,300 Deputy Chairwoman Deputy Mayor of the Bündnis 90/Die Grünen Parliamentary Group for Urban Development, Construction, State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Housing and Transport Städtetag Nordrhein-Westfalen 120 Financial Report 2013 Total Total remuneration remuneration € € Members Pursuant to Section 21 Para. 1 Permanent Representative of the Letter f of the Statutes Chairing Member Pursuant to Section 21 Para. 2 of the Statutes Hans-Jochem Witzke 3,600 Sigrid Koeppinghoff (since January 15, 2013) 3,600 1st Chairman Assistant Secretary Mieterverein Düsseldorf e. V. and Ministry for Building, Housing, Member of the Board of City Development and Transport Deutscher Mieterbund Nordrhein-Westfalen e. V. of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Members Pursuant to Section 21 Para. 1 Letter g of the Statutes Dipl.-Ing. Hartmut Miksch 2,550 (since April 4, 2013) (until January 14, 2014) President (retired) Architektenkammer Nordrhein-Westfalen Dipl.-Ing. Ernst Uhing (since January 14, 2014) 0 President Architektenkammer Nordrhein-Westfalen 1. On the basis of the rules adopted by the Board of Guarantors, turnover tax and travel expenses are refunded by the Bank upon request. 2. The remuneration for members of the Advisory Board for Housing Promotion joining or leaving the company in the course of the year is paid on a pro-rata temporis basis for each calendar month. 3. Potential duties of payment of the mandate holders and/or payments made are not taken into account. Advances and Loans For members of the Supervisory Board of NRW.BANK loans totalling € 75 thousand (2012: € 28 thousand) exist whose interest rates range from 0% to 5.57%. Disclosure of Seats Held Pursuant to Section 340a Para. 4 No. 1 HGB Seats Held by Members of the Managing Board Seats Held by Employees Dietmar P. Binkowska Christiane Jansen Galeria Kaufhof GmbH Investitionsbank des Landes Brandenburg (ILB) InCity Immobilien AG (until December 31, 2013) Investitionsbank des Landes Brandenburg (ILB) Dr. Peter Güllmann Portigon AG Investitionsbank des Landes Brandenburg (ILB) Fiege Logistik (Schweiz) AG Michael Stölting Investitionsbank des Landes Brandenburg (ILB) Erste Abwicklungsanstalt Financial Report 2013 121 Notes Disclosure Pursuant to Section 26a Para. 1 Sentence 2 KWG in conjunction with Section 64r Para. 15 Sentence 1 KWG NRW.BANK has dual head offices in Düsseldorf and Münster and has no branches performing banking activities outside the Federal Republic of Germany. All figures in the financial statements as defined in Section 26a para. 1 sentence 2 KWG therefore relate exclusively to the Federal Republic of Germany. Itemised List of NRW.BANK’s Investments Pursuant to Section 285 No. 11 and 11a HGB Name and head office of the company Direct Capital Equity Net As at (D)/ share in € thsd, income/ Indirect % loss for (I) the year in € thsd, 1 Equity investments in affiliated companies 1.1 Other companies Bremer Spielcasino GmbH & Co. KG, Bremen D/I 51.00% 94 –857 Dec. 31, 2012 Casino Duisburg GmbH & Co. KG, Duisburg I 100.00% 10,000 2,941 Dec. 31, 2012 Casino Erfurt GmbH & Co. KG, Erfurt I 100.00% –786 –501 Dec. 31, 2012 Life Science Inkubator Betriebs GmbH & Co. KG, Bonn I 95.00% 348 –28 Dec. 31, 2012 Life Science Inkubator Sachsen GmbH & Co. KG, Dresden I 100.00% Dec. 31, 2013 LSI Pre-Seed-Fonds GmbH, Bonn D 65.79% 6,630 –486 Dec. 31, 2012 Neue Deutsche Spielcasino GmbH & Co. KG, Berlin I 100.00% 62 –157 Dec. 31, 2012 Nordwestlotto in Nordrhein-Westfalen GmbH, Münster D 100.00% 156 0 Dec. 31, 2012 NRW.BANK.Kreativwirtschaftsfonds Beteiligungs-GmbH, Düsseldorf D 100.00% 35 3 Dec. 31, 2012 NRW.BANK.Kreativwirtschaftsfonds GmbH & Co. KG, Düsseldorf D 100.00% 2,614 –1,538 Dec. 31, 2012 NRW.BANK.Mittelstandsfonds Beteiligungs-GmbH, Düsseldorf D 100.00% 25 0 Dec. 31, 2012 NRW.BANK.Mittelstandsfonds GmbH & Co. KG, Düsseldorf D 100.00% 47,118 9,720 Dec. 31, 2012 NRW.BANK.Seed Fonds Beteiligungs-GmbH, Düsseldorf D 100.00% 38 5 Dec. 31, 2012 NRW.BANK.Seed Fonds GmbH & Co. KG, Düsseldorf D 100.00% 10,012 –3,512 Dec. 31, 2012 NRW.BANK.Seed Fonds Zwei GmbH & Co. KG, Düsseldorf D 100.00% 418 –120 Dec. 31, 2012 NRW.BANK.Spezialfonds Beteiligungs-GmbH, Düsseldorf D 100.00% 27 2 Dec. 31, 2012 NRW.BANK.Spezialfonds GmbH & Co. KG, Düsseldorf D 100.00% –7 –101 Dec. 31, 2012 NRW.BANK.Venture Fonds Beteiligungs-GmbH, Düsseldorf D 100.00% 28 4 Dec. 31, 2012 NRW.BANK.Venture Fonds GmbH & Co. KG, Düsseldorf D 100.00% 15,478 –4,326 Dec. 31, 2012 NRW.BANK.Venture Fonds Zwei GmbH & Co. KG, Düsseldorf D 100.00% 11,807 –413 Dec. 31, 2012 Unterstützungseinrichtungs GmbH der Westdeutsche Lotterie GmbH & Co. OHG, Münster D/I 100.00% 26 0 Dec. 31, 2012 Westdeutsche Lotterie GmbH & Co. OHG, Münster D 100.00% 99,364 17,241 Dec. 31, 2012 Westdeutsche Lotto-Vertriebs GmbH, Münster I 100.00% 28 3 Dec. 31, 2012 Westdeutsche Spielbanken GmbH, Duisburg D 100.00% 26 0 Dec. 31, 2012 Westdeutsche Spielbanken GmbH & Co. KG, Duisburg D/I 100.00% 18,600 –10 Dec. 31, 2012 Westdeutsche Spielcasino Service GmbH, Duisburg D 100.00% 9,525 0 Dec. 31, 2012 122 Financial Report 2013 Name and head office of the company Direct Capital Equity Net As at (D)/ share in € thsd, income/ Indirect % loss for (I) the year in € thsd, Westdeutsche Spielcasino Verwaltungs GmbH, Duisburg I 100.00% 37 5 Dec. 31, 2012 WestEvent GmbH & Co. KG, Münster D/I 100.00% 3,927 359 Dec. 31, 2012 WestSpiel Entertainment GmbH, Duisburg I 100.00% 25 0 Dec. 31, 2012 2 Other equity investments 2.1 Financial institutions Investitionsbank des Landes Brandenburg, Potsdam D 50.00% 194,608 11,618 Dec. 31, 2012 Portigon AG, Düsseldorf D 30.51% 2,359,000 –1,350,000 Dec. 31, 2012 2.2 Other companies abbino GmbH, Dortmund I 35.15% –2,239 –444 Mar. 3, 2011 AplaGen GmbH, Baesweiler I 26.21% –3,141 –2,015 Dec. 31, 2008 BGB Ges. Bankenkonsortium ZENIT GmbH, Mülheim D 33.40% 2,304 18 Dec. 31, 2012 CAP-CMV GmbH, Köln I 25.94% Dec. 31, 2013 CellAct Pharma GmbH, Dortmund I 38.15% 92 –638 Dec. 31, 2012 CEVEC Pharmaceuticals GmbH, Köln I 25.59% 336 –3,122 Dec. 31, 2012 DIREVO Industrial Biotechnology GmbH, Köln I 22.59% 1,170 –2,576 Dec. 31, 2012 ELS Fonds GmbH & Co. KG, Recklinghausen I 32.30% 6,378 –310 Dec. 31, 2012 Epivios GmbH, Bonn I 24.60% 1 –102 Dec. 31, 2012 Frimo Group GmbH, Lotte I 49.00% –9,708 227 Dec. 31, 2012 Gardeur Beteiligungs GmbH, Mönchengladbach I 49.00% –18,624 –7,358 Dec. 31, 2012 Gründerfonds Bielefeld-Ostwestfalen GmbH & Co. KG, Münster I 38.42% 1,358 –132 Dec. 31, 2012 Gründerfonds Münsterland GmbH & Co. KG, Münster I 37.81% 1,236 –180 Dec. 31, 2012 Kapitalbeteiligungsgesellschaft für die mittelständische Wirtschaft in NRW mbH, Neuss D 49.63% 1,371 3 Dec. 31, 2012 Langendorf GmbH, Waltrop I 37.00% Dec. 31, 2013 Luxury Fashion Trade GmbH, Düsseldorf I 20.26% 2,185 –488 Dec. 31, 2012 NRW.International GmbH, Düsseldorf D 33.33% 20 –4 Dec. 31, 2012 ODS Oddset Deutschland Sportwetten GmbH, München I 33.44% 4,357 –1,681 Dec. 31, 2012 Phenox GmbH, Bochum I 27.61% 4,675 –58 Dec. 31, 2012 Reformhaus Bacher GmbH & Co. KG, Düsseldorf I 45.00% 1,220 –285 Dec. 31, 2012 Rheinland Venture Capital GmbH & Co. KG, Köln I 39.92% 3,365 –933 Dec. 31, 2012 saperatec GmbH, Bielefeld I 23.49% –98 –638 Dec. 31, 2012 Schnöring GmbH, Schalksmühle I 39.00% 938 –105 Dec. 31, 2012 Scienion AG, Dortmund I 23.50% 1,330 753 Dec. 31, 2012 Seed Capital Dortmund GmbH & Co. KG, Dortmund I 46.51% 3,986 –1,279 Dec. 31, 2012 Seed Fonds für die Region Aachen GmbH & Co. KG, Aachen I 46.95% 4,781 –856 Dec. 31, 2012 Seed Fonds II für die Region Aachen GmbH & Co. KG, Aachen I 46.14% 866 –23 Dec. 31, 2012 Sirius Seedfonds Düsseldorf GmbH & Co. KG, Düsseldorf I 44.61% 5,817 –2,174 Dec. 31, 2012 WINDTEST Grevenbroich GmbH, Hamburg D 25.00% 272 132 Dec. 31, 2012 NRW.BANK is a personally liable shareholder of Westdeutsche Lotterie GmbH & Co. OHG, Münster. Financial Report 2013 123 Notes Board of Guarantors/Supervisory Board/ Members Appointed by the Board of Guarantors Managing Board Helmut Dockter Board of Guarantors State Secretary Members Pursuant to Section 8 Para. 1 Ministry of Innovation, Science and Research Letters a to c of the Statutes of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Garrelt Duin Chairman Dr. Günther Horzetzky Minister for Economic Affairs, State Secretary Energy and Industry Ministry of Economic Affairs, of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Energy and Industry Düsseldorf of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Michael Groschek Deputy Chairman Peter Knitsch (since March 7, 2013) Minister for Building, Housing, State Secretary City Development and Transport Ministry for Climate Protection, Environment, of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Agriculture, Conservation and Consumer Affairs Düsseldorf of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Dr. Norbert Walter-Borjans Deputy Chairman Thomas Kutschaty, MdL Minister of Finance Minister of Justice of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Düsseldorf 124 Financial Report 2013 Franz-Josef Lersch-Mense Supervisory Board Cabinet Secretary Members Pursuant to Section 12 Para. 1 Head of the Premier’s Department Letters a to c of the Statutes of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Garrelt Duin Chairman Sylvia Löhrmann Minister for Economic Affairs, Minister for School and Further Education Energy and Industry of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Düsseldorf Dr. Rüdiger Messal Michael Groschek State Secretary Deputy Chairman Ministry of Finance Minister for Building, Housing, of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia City Development and Transport Düsseldorf of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Udo Paschedag (until February 22, 2013) State Secretary Dr. Norbert Walter-Borjans Ministry for Climate Protection, Environment, Deputy Chairman Agriculture, Conservation and Consumer Affairs Minister of Finance of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Düsseldorf Dr. Wilhelm D. Schäffer State Secretary Ministry of Work, Social Integration and Welfare of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Financial Report 2013 125 Notes Members Appointed by the Board of Guarantors Representatives of the Bank’s Staff Horst Becker, MdL Iris Aichinger (until June 30, 2013) Parliamentary State Secretary Staff representative Ministry for Climate Protection, Environment, NRW.BANK Agriculture, Conservation and Consumer Affairs Düsseldorf of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Martin Bösenberg Staff representative Lutz Lienenkämper, MdL NRW.BANK Parliamentary State Secretary Münster of the CDU Parliamentary Group State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Matthias Elzinga (since July 1, 2013) Düsseldorf Staff representative NRW.BANK Johannes Remmel Münster Minister for Climate Protection, Environment, Agriculture, Conservation and Consumer Affairs Frank Lill of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Staff representative Düsseldorf NRW.BANK Düsseldorf Norbert Römer, MdL Chairman of the SPD Parliamentary Group Thomas Stausberg (since July 1, 2013) State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Director Düsseldorf NRW.BANK Düsseldorf Svenja Schulze, MdL Minister for Innovation, Science and Research Michael Tellmann (until June 30, 2013) of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Staff representative Düsseldorf NRW.BANK Düsseldorf 126 Financial Report 2013 Permanent Representatives of the Members Pursuant Managing Board to Section 12 Para. 1 Letters a to c of the Statutes Dietmar P. Binkowska (Chairman) Dieter Krell (until February 28, 2013) Klaus Neuhaus Assistant Secretary Michael Stölting Ministry of Economic Affairs, Dietrich Suhlrie Energy and Industry of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Düsseldorf/Münster, February 7, 2014 Wulf Noll (since March 1, 2013) Assistant Secretary NRW.BANK Ministry of Economic Affairs, Energy and Industry The Managing Board of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Binkowska, Neuhaus, Stölting, Suhlrie Düsseldorf Annett Fischer Assistant Secretary Ministry for Building, Housing, City Development and Transport of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Gerhard Heilgenberg Assistant Secretary Ministry of Finance of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Financial Report 2013 127 C ash Flow Statement Cash Flow Statement of NRW.BANK as of December 31, 2013 The cash flow statement shows the changes in cash and cash equivalents and the cash flows of NRW.BANK, divided into operating activities, investing activities and financing activities. The cash and cash equivalents shown include the balance sheet items “cash” and “debt instruments issued by public institutions and bills of exchange eligible for refinancing with central banks.” Cash flows are allocated to operating activities as operating income accrues. The cash flow from investing activities results primarily from cash received and cash used in connection with selling or acquiring financial and tangible assets. The change in cash from financing activities captures the relationships to equity capital providers. The statement was prepared in accordance with German Accounting Standard No. 2 (DRS 2), as supplemented by the bank-specific German Accounting Standard No. 2–10 (DRS 2–10). 2013 € millions 1. Net income Reconciliation 16.7 2. Depreciation, write-downs and write-ups of claims, tangible and financial assets –44.3 3. Changes in provisions 140.3 4. Changes in other non-cash items 213.3 5. Gain/loss on the sale of financial and tangible assets Losses 130.5 Gains –226.0 6. Other adjustments –483.0 7. Subtotal –252.5 8. Changes in receivables a) from banks –1,314.4 b) from customers 2,194.9 9. Changes in securities (with the exception of financial assets) –76.5 10. Changes in other assets from operating activities 1,116.1 11. Changes in liabilities a) to banks 259.7 b) to customers –705.9 12. Changes in certificated liablities –3,961.0 13. Changes in other liabilities from operating activities 411.5 14. Interest and dividends received 6,383.9 15. Interest paid –5,687.7 16. Extraordinary cash received 0.0 17. Extraordinary cash disbursed 0.0 18. Income tax payments –6.8 19. Cash flow from operating activities –1,638.7 128 Financial Report 2013 2013 € millions 20. Cash from the disposal of a) financial assets 1,905.8 b) tangible assets 0.3 21. Disbursements for investments in a) financial assets –34.1 b) tangible assets –2.4 22. Changes in cash from other investing activities –1.1 23. Cash flow from investing activities 1,868.5 24. Cash from allocations to equity capital 90.3 25. Distributions on equity a) dividend payments –18.6 b) other disbursements 0.0 26. Cash changes from other capital –100.7 27. Cash flow from financing activities –29.0 28. Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period 430.7 29. Cash flow from operating activities –1.638.7 30. Cash flow from investing activities 1.868.5 31. Cash flow from financing activities –29.0 32. Other changes in cash and cash equivalents 0.0 33. Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period 631.5 Financial Report 2013 129 Equity C apital Equity Capital Subscribed Capital Reserves from Profit for Capital Reserves Retained Earnings the Year Total Reserves Other Required Reserves by from NRW.BANK’s Retained Statutes Earnings € millions € millions € millions € millions € millions € millions As of Dec. 31, 2011 17,000.0 445.6 36.1 219.7 35.6 17,737.0 Distribution to the state of NRW –35.6 –35.6 Compensation payments of the federal government for new promotion measures 91.7 91.7 Net income 18.6 18.6 Designated payout due to legal requirements –18.6 –18.6 As of Dec. 31, 2012 17,000.0 537.3 36.1 219.7 0.0 17,793.1 Compensation payments of the federal government for new promotion measures 90.3 90.3 Net income 16.7 16.7 Designated payout due to legal requirements –16.7 –16.7 As of Dec. 31, 2013 17,000.0 627.6 36.1 219.7 0.0 17,883.4 130 Financial Report 2013 Reproduction of the Auditor’s Report Reproduction of the Auditor’s Report We have issued the following unqualified Auditor‘s Our audit has not led to any reservations. Report: In our opinion, based on the findings of our audit, the “Auditor’s Report annual financial statements comply with the legal requirements (and supplementary provisions of the We have audited the annual financial statements, com­ articles of incorporation and give a true and fair view prising the balance sheet, the income statement, the of the net assets, financial position and results of notes to the financial statements, the cash flow state­ operations of the NRW.BANK in accordance with ment and the statement of changes in equity, together German principles of proper accounting. The man­age­ with the bookkeeping system, and the man­age­ment ment report is consistent with the annual financial report of the NRW.BANK, Duesseldorf and Muenster, statements and as a whole provides a suitable view for the business year from 1 January to 31 December of the NRW.BANK‘s position and suitably presents the 2013. The maintenance of the books and records and opportunities and risks of future development.” the preparation of the annual financial statements and management report in accordance with German commercial law and supplementary provisions of the Düsseldorf, February 14, 2014 articles of incorporation are the responsibility of the Company‘s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the annual financial statements, KPMG AG together with the bookkeeping system, and the man­ Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft agement report based on our audit. We conducted our audit of the annual financial state­ Bormann Schulz ments in accordance with § 317 HGB [“Handels­ Wirtschaftsprüfer Wirtschaftsprüfer gesetzbuch“: “German Commercial Code“] and German generally accepted standards for the audit of financial statements promulgated by the Institut der Wirt­ schaftsprüfer [Institute of Public Auditors in Germany] (IDW). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit such that misstatements materially affecting the presentation of the net assets, financial position and results of operations in the annual financial statements in accordance with German principles of proper accounting and in the management report are de­tected with reasonable assurance. Knowledge of the business activities and the economic and legal environ­ ment of the NRW.BANK and expectations as to possible mis­s tatements are taken into account in the deter­ mination of audit procedures. The effectiveness of the accounting-related internal control system and the evidence supporting the disclosures in the books and records, the annual financial statements and the man­ agement report are examined primarily on a test basis within the framework of the audit. The audit includes assessing the accounting principles used and signi­ ficant estimates made by management, as well as evalu­ ating the overall presentation of the annual financial statements and management report. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. Financial Report 2013 131 Responsibility Statement Responsibility Statement To the best of our knowledge, and in accordance with the applicable reporting principles, the financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of NRW.BANK, and the management report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of NRW.BANK, together with a description of the principal opportunities and risks associated with the expected development of NRW.BANK. Düsseldorf/Münster, February 7, 2014 NRW.BANK The Managing Board Dietmar P. Binkowska Klaus Neuhaus Chairman of the Managing Board Member of the Managing Board Michael Stölting Dietrich Suhlrie Member of the Managing Board Member of the Managing Board 132 Financial Report 2013 Members of the A dvisory Board for Housing Promotion Members of the Advisory Board for Housing Promotion Members Pursuant to Section 21 Para. 1 Members Pursuant to Section 21 Para. 1 Letter a of the Statute Letter c of the Statute Michael Groschek Martin Börschel, MdL Chairman Member of the SPD Parliamentary Group Minister for Building, Housing, State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia City Development and Transport Düsseldorf of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Holger Ellerbrock, MdL Member of the FDP Parliamentary Group Members Pursuant to Section 21 Para. 1 State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Letter b of the Statute Düsseldorf Günther Bongartz Dieter Hilser, MdL Senior Principal Member of the SPD Parliamentary Group Ministry of Finance State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Düsseldorf Gerda Kieninger, MdL Dr. Michael Henze Member of the SPD Parliamentary Group Assistant Secretary State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Ministry for Economic Affairs, Düsseldorf Energy and Industry of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Bernhard Schemmer, MdL Düsseldorf Member of the CDU Parliamentary Group State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Hans Lauf Düsseldorf Assistant Secretary Ministry of Work, Social Integration and Welfare Daniela Schneckenburger, MdL of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Deputy Chairwoman Düsseldorf of the Bündnis 90/Die Grünen Parliamentary Group State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Eva-Maria Voigt-Küppers, MdL Member of the SPD Parliamentary Group State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Klaus Voussem, MdL Member of the CDU Parliamentary Group State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Olaf Wegner, MdL Member of the Piraten Parliamentary Group State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Financial Report 2013 133 Members of the A dvisory Board for Housing Promotion Members Pursuant to Section 21 Para. 1 Members Pursuant to Section 21 Para. 1 Letter d of the Statute Letter f of the Statute Ingo Apel Hans-Jochem Witzke Vice President 1st Chairman Mieterverein Düsseldorf e. V. and Haus & Grund Nordrhein-Westfalen e. V. Member of the Board of Deutscher Mieterbund Düsseldorf Nordrhein-Westfalen e. V. Düsseldorf Dr. Werner Küpper BFW Landesverband Nordrhein-Westfalen e. V. Members Pursuant to Section 21 Para. 1 Bonn Letter g of the Statute Alexander Rychter Dipl.-Ing. Hartmut Miksch (since April 4, 2013) Association Director (until January 14, 2014) Verband der Wohnungswirtschaft Retired President Rheinland Westfalen e. V. Architektenkammer Nordrhein-Westfalen Düsseldorf Düsseldorf Members Pursuant to Section 21 Para. 1 Dipl.-Ing. Ernst Uhing (since January 14, 2014) Letter e of the Statute President Architektenkammer Nordrhein-Westfalen Rudolf Graaff Düsseldorf Deputy Mayor Städteund Gemeindebund Permanent Representatives of the Chairing Member Nordrhein-Westfalen Pursuant to Section 21 Para. 2 of the Statute Düsseldorf Sigrid Koeppinghoff (since January 15, 2013) Thomas Hendele Assistant Secretary District Administrator Ministry for Building, Housing, Kreis Mettmann City Development and Transport Mettmann of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Stefan Raetz Mayor City of Rheinbach Rheinbach Hilmar von Lojewski Deputy Mayor for Urban Development, Construction, Housing and Transport Städtetag Nordrhein-Westfalen Cologne 134 Financial Report 2013 Members of the Parliamentary A dvisory Council Members of the Parliamentary Advisory Board Members Pursuant to Section 24 of the Statute Dr. Marcus Optendrenk, MdL (since May 15, 2013) Member of the CDU Parliamentary Group Elisabeth Müller-Witt, MdL (since May 15, 2013) State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Chairwoman (since September 16, 2013) Düsseldorf Member of the SPD Parliamentary Group State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Dietmar Schulz, MdL (since December 18, 2013) Düsseldorf Member of the Piraten Parliamentary Group State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Mehrdad Mostofizadeh, MdL (since May 15, 2013) Düsseldorf Deputy Chairman (since September 16, 2013) Member of the Bündnis 90/ Robert Stein, MdL (since May 15, 2013) Die Grünen Parliamentary Group (until December 18, 2013) State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Member of the Piraten Parliamentary Group Düsseldorf (resigned 9/2013) State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Martin Börschel, MdL (since May 15, 2013) Düsseldorf Member of the SPD Parliamentary Group State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Ralf Witzel, MdL (since May 15, 2013) Düsseldorf Member of the FDP Parliamentary Group State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Marc Herter, MdL (since May 15, 2013) Düsseldorf Member of the SPD Parliamentary Group State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Hendrik Wüst, MdL (since May 15, 2013) Düsseldorf Member of the CDU Parliamentary Group State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Stefan Kämmerling, MdL (since May 15, 2013) Düsseldorf Member of the SPD Parliamentary Group State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Gudrun Zentis, MdL (since May 15, 2013) Düsseldorf Member of the Bündnis 90/Die Grünen Parliamentary Group Gerda Kieninger, MdL (since May 15, 2013) State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Member of the SPD Parliamentary Group Düsseldorf State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Christian Möbius, MdL (since May 15, 2013) Member of the CDU Parliamentary Group State Assembly of North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Financial Report 2013 135 Members of the A dvisory Board Members of the Advisory Board Members Pursuant to Section 23 of the Statute Michael Breuer President Garrelt Duin Savings Banks and Giro Association Chairman of the Rhineland Minister for Economic Affairs, Düsseldorf Energy and Industry of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia Norbert Bude Düsseldorf Lord Mayor and Chairman Michael Ackermann Städtetag Nordrhein-Westfalen Managing Director Düsseldorf Klinikum Bielefeld gem. GmbH Bielefeld Heinrich Otto Deichmann Chairman of the Supervisory Board Prof. Dr. Achim Bachem Deichmann SE Chairman of the Managing Board Essen Forschungszentrum Jülich GmbH Jülich Andreas Feicht (since April 1, 2013) Chairman Frank Baranowski Verband kommunaler Unternehmen e. V. Lord Mayor – Regional Group North Rhine-Westphalia – City of Gelsenkirchen Cologne Gelsenkirchen Marcelino Fernández Verdes (since April 1, 2013) Paul Bauwens-Adenauer Chairman of the Executive Board President HOCHTIEF AG Chamber of Industry and Commerce Essen in North Rhine-Westphalia Düsseldorf Dr. Reinhold Festge Managing Partner Werner Böhnke (until October 31, 2013) HAVER & BOECKER OHG Member of the Supervisory Board Drahtweberei und Maschinenfabrik WGZ BANK AG Oelde Westdeutsche Genossenschafts-Zentralbank Düsseldorf Prof. Dr. Gerd Bollermann District President Arnsberg Regional Government Arnsberg 136 Financial Report 2013 Heinz Fiege Thomas Hunsteger-Petermann FIEGE Logistik Holding Stiftung & Co. KG Lord Mayor Greven City of Hamm Hamm Otto Rudolf Fuchs Shareholder Arndt G. Kirchhoff Otto Fuchs KG Managing Partner Meinerzhagen KIRCHHOFF Holding GmbH & Co. KG Iserlohn Prof. Dr. Ursula Gather Chairwoman Dr. Wolfgang Kirsch Directors Conference Director of LWL of the Universities in North Rhine-Westphalia Regional Association of Westphalia-Lippe Dortmund Münster Dieter Gebhard Dipl.-Ing. Hanspeter Klein Chairman Chairman of the Managing Board Regional Assembly of Westphalia-Lippe Verband Freier Berufe Münster im Lande Nordrhein-Westfalen e. V. Düsseldorf Dr. Rolf Gerlach President Prof. Dr. Reinhard Klenke Savings Banks and Giro Association District President of Westphalia-Lippe Münster Regional Government Münster Münster Günter Gressler (until June 30, 2013) Director General 3M Deutschland GmbH Neuss Dr. Axel Claus Heitmann Chairman of the Managing Board LANXESS AG Leverkusen Thomas Hendele (since April 1, 2013) District Administrator and President Landkreistag Nordrhein-Westfalen e. V. Düsseldorf Financial Report 2013 137 Members of the A dvisory Board Norbert Kleyboldt Jürgen Roters Permanent Delegate Lord Mayor Apostolic Administrator of City of Cologne Bischöfliches Generalvikariat Cologne Münster Roland Schäfer (since January 1, 2013) Thomas Kubendorff (until March 31, 2013) Mayor and District Administrator and President Vice President Städteund Gemeindebund Nordrhein-Westfalen Landkreistag Nordrhein-Westfalen e. V. Düsseldorf Düsseldorf Prof. Dr. Uwe Schneidewind Dr. Thomas A. Lange President and Academic Managing Director Chairman of the Managing Board Wuppertaler Institut für Klima, Bankenvereinigung Nordrhein-Westfalen e. V. Umwelt, Energie GmbH Düsseldorf Wuppertal Markus Lewe Dr. Ottilie Scholz Lord Mayor Lord Mayor City of Münster City of Bochum Münster Bochum Ulrike Lubek Prof. Wolfgang Schulhoff Director of LVR President Regional Association of the Rhineland Düsseldorf Chamber of Handicrafts Cologne Düsseldorf Wolfgang Lubert Dr. Jochen Stemplewski Managing Director Chairman of the Managing Board EnjoyVenture Management GmbH EMSCHERGENOSSENSCHAFT und LIPPEVERBAND Düsseldorf Essen/Dortmund Anne Lütkes Peter Terium District President Chairman of the Managing Board Düsseldorf Regional Government RWE AG Düsseldorf Essen Andreas Meyer-Lauber District Chairman Deutscher Gewerkschaftsbund NRW Düsseldorf Dr. Paul-Josef Patt Chairman of the Managing Board eCAPITAL entrepreneurial Partners AG Münster 138 Financial Report 2013 Marianne Thomann-Stahl District President Detmold Regional Government Detmold Reza Vaziri (since November 1, 2013) Chairman of the Executive Board 3M Deutschland GmbH Neuss Hans-Josef Vogel Mayor City of Arnsberg Arnsberg Gisela Walsken District President Cologne Regional Government Cologne Prof. Dr. Jürgen Wilhelm Chairman Regional Assembly of the Rhineland Cologne Klaus Winterhoff Legal Vice President Evangelical Church of Westphalia Bielefeld Hans-Bernd Wolberg (since November 1, 2013) Chairman of the Managing Board WGZ BANK AG Westdeutsche Genossenschafts-Zentralbank Düsseldorf Financial Report 2013 139 Organisation Chart Organisation Chart Chairman of the Member of the Managing Board Managing Board Dietmar P. Binkowska Klaus Neuhaus Corporate Strategy/ Corporate Internal Audit Risk Management Legal Finance Human Resources Public Infrastructure Communications Finance N.N. (kommissarisch Christiane Jansen Binkowska) Birgit Rosczyk Florian Merkel Oliver Blaß Wolfgang Beimel Achim Meierkamp Board Office Marketing/Research General Audit Credit Risk Corporate Legal Accounting Personnel Development/ Management Training Dr. Michael Hans-Albert Christian Müller Kirsten Nagel Helmut Röhle Kuhlbrodt Böckenförde Joachim Kiesau Ralf Groß-Heitfeld EU Funding, Parliamentary and Credit Audit Municipal and SME Legal Capital Financial Personnel Foreign Trade European Affairs/ Financing Markets Accounting Development / and Investment Business Basic Issues1 Promotion Management Ingrid Hentzschel Henning Treder Alph Kühnapfel Hubert Venneker Reinhard Buch Ute Kuschel Petra Kalthoff Public-sector Press and IT Audit Bank-Wide Risk & Property Law Banking Human Resources Clients Communications Credit Portfolio Supervision Administration and Management Controlling Dr. Rüdiger Dr. Jörg Hopfe Caroline Gesatzki Georg Kremer Claudia Bauer Wulf Ebsen Krautheuser Peter Schröder Programme Owner Market Risk & Tax Support Liquidity Risk Sybille Werner Kindsmüller Thomas Hornung Heberer-Wilhelm Infrastructure Restructuring Controlling Finance Anja Langa Dr. Jamal Daoudi Walter Wohlhage Compliance 2 Jörg Weskamp Basic Issues & Controlling Sabine Lamers Department Unit Team with direct reporting line to the Department Head 1 Occupational Safety Officer, Equal Opportunities Officer, Data Protection Officer and Objective 2 Quality Management report directly to the Managing Board. 2 T  he Money Laundering Officer, who is in charge of the central function for the prevention of money laundering, terrorist financing and other criminal acts pursuant to section 25c KWG (Jörg Weskamp), the WpHG Compliance Officer (Manfred Gorka) and the MaRisk Compliance Officer (Jörg Weskamp) report directly to the Managing Board and are bound by instructions only from the latter. 140 Financial Report 2013 Member of the Member of the Managing Board Managing Board Michael Stölting Dietrich Suhlrie Corporate Finance Capital Markets Housing Promotion Promotion Business Support IT/ Programmes Organisation/ Internal Services Margret Dr. Ortwin Dr. Peter Güllmann Klaus Rupprath Hirthammer Schumacher Thomas Bracht Tobias Schmitt Venture Capital/ Business Owner-Occupied Commercial Back Office IT Accounting Early Stage Management Housing and Educational Capital Markets Loan Processing Promotion Rhineland Dr. Claas Heise Marco Adler Gerd-Peter Wolf Dr. Gerhard Weyers Frank Camp Matthias Lersch Equity Investments Treasury Rental Housing Structural Central Services IT Business Midcap Loan Processing Promotion Promotion Business Promotion Rhineland Programmes Düsseldorf Christoph Büth Andreas Berning Dietmar Struttmann Anton Render Astrid Demme Peter Bimczok Strategic Equity Portfolio Owner-Occupied Structural Development Banks IT Capital Markets Investments Management Housing Promotion and Product Process & Corporate Loan Processing Programmes Investments Westphalia Münster Felix Könsgen Andreas Rothermel Klaus Ahlers Marc Madlindl Eric Regnery Dr. Jens Heinrich Funds and Business Rental Housing Housing and Product Organisation and Management Loan Processing Agricultural Development IT Services1 Westphalia Promotion Stefan Büchter Bärbel Bontrup Uwe Beckmann Dr. Michael Knappe Dr. Jürgen Schulte Syndicated Loans Problem Loan Advisory Services Back Office Internal Services Midcap Processing Promotion Business Matthias Georg Arnold Markus Heising Robert Bruning Voß-Geßmann Ralf Welter Financing Advisory Advisory/ Objective 2 Quality Credit Check Management1 Joachim Monika Voß Thomas Stausberg Michelmann Departmental Management Regine BukowskiKnuppertz valid from December 31, 2013 Financial Report 2013 141 NRW.BANK at a Glance NRW.BANK at a Glance NRW.BANK Facts NRW.BANK Competition-neutral development bank of North Rhine-Westphalia operating according to the house bank principle; holds a full bank licence Guarantors State of North Rhine-Westphalia (100%) Liabilities/Guarantees Institutional liability Guarantor liability Explicit funding guarantee granted by the guarantors Legal Status Public law bank Head Offices Düsseldorf and Münster Information Services of NRW.BANK Initial advice and information on the promotion programmes: NRW.BANK.Infoline Phone +49 211 91741-4800 Fax +49 211 91741-7832 info@nrwbank.de If you have more detailed questions about promotion and financing projects, the Service Centre will be pleased to put you in touch with the regionally responsible, specialist promotion advisor or other specialist partners. For further advice, you may also contact: EU and Foreign Trade & Investment Promotion Accounting Management – Public Sector Clients Phone +49 211 91741-4000 Phone +49 211 91741-4600 Fax +49 211 91742-6218 Fax +49 211 91741-2666 europa@nrwbank.de oeffentliche-kunden@nrwbank.de Corporate Responsibility nachhaltigkeit@nrwbank.de NRW.BANK Münster Concept and Design, Friedrichstraße 1 Production and Typesetting Düsseldorf 48145 Münster vE&K Werbeagentur GmbH & Co. KG, Kavalleriestraße 22 Phone +49 251 91741-0 Essen 40213 Düsseldorf Fax +49 251 91741-2921 Phone +49 211 91741-0 Print Fax +49 211 91741-1800 www.nrwbank.de Woeste Druck + Verlag info@nrwbank.de GmbH & Co. KG, Essen-Kettwig 142 Financial Report 2013 Financial Calendar 2014 March 17, 2014 Annual accounts press conference September 19, 2014 Publication of the promotion result for the second quarter November 28, 2014 Publication of the promotion result for the third quarter Promotion Volumes 2013 2012 € millions € millions Housing & Living 4,840 5,297 Seed & Growth 2,925 2,845 Development & Protection 1,467 1,362 Total 9,232 9,504 Key Figures 2013 2012 € millions € millions Total assets 145,350 148,836 Equity capital pursuant to the German Commercial Code (HGB) 17,883 17,793 Equity capital 19,124 18,489 Net interest and net commission income 562 618 Administrative expenses 198 201 Operating income 401 445 Core capital ratio 44.02% 39.93% Staff 1,256 1,258 Ratings Fitch Ratings Moody’s Standard & Poor’s Long-term rating AAA Aa1 AA– Short-term rating F1+ P-1 A–1+ Outlook stable negative* stable * Outlook for Germany and North Rhine-Westphalia applied to NRW.BANK due to close guarantee and support mechanisms. Sustainability Ratings imug oekom research Sustainalytics Rating Positive Prime No. 72 of 350* * Above the peer group average. Print kompensiert Id-Nr. 1436182 www.bvdm-online.de
