Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Trusted. To transform. Millicom Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 01 Trusted. We are transforming Millicom from a leading Corporate Corporate responsibility activity at Millicom is To transform. telecommunications operator to a provider responsibility based on two pillars: promoting good corporate at Millicom of digital lifestyle products and services to behaviour and making a positive social impact Overview 01-09 emerging markets. Acting responsibly and in our communities. With this approach we help being trusted by our stakeholders are central the business deliver sustainable growth for to achieving this business goal. shareholders, provide an attractive workplace for our employees and create a strong brand We hope this report makes a contribution to appeal to consumers. to building that sense of trust. Our aim is to show you how we address different corporate responsibility (CR) aspects relevant to our Approach 10-27 business and how we plan to bring to life the social benefits of digital technology – for example through our Millicom Foundation. The report is aligned with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 guidelines, the leading international framework for sustainability reporting. Performance 28-36 Contents Overview Performance 02 About Millicom 28 Performance data and 04 President and Chief Executive 2014 targets Officer’s statement 32 GRI index 06 Material issues and 35 Independent assurance statement stakeholder engagement 36 Footnotes Approach 10 Customers: Making the digital lifestyle a reality 18 People: A good place to work 22 Responsible business: Trusted to act responsibly Paraguay ‘Tigo in your community’ gives Find out more children the opportunity to learn IT www.millicom.com skills. Through the programme, more than 540 teachers have received a total of over 2,800 hours of training in how to best use technology in their teaching. 02 Millicom Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Millicom Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 03 About Millicom Millicom is a leading international telecommunications Our chosen and media company dedicated to emerging markets markets1 in Latin America and Africa. We set the pace by Overview 01-09 offering a range of digital lifestyle services which Region Central America South America Africa connect people to their world. Operating in 15 countries, with e-commerce partnerships currently in Population (m) 28 63 186 22, Millicom offers innovative and customer-centric products. Millicom employs over 11,500 people and Mobile customers (m) 15.8 13.8 21.0 provides mobile, cable, broadband, TV and mobile financial services to over 50 million customers. Revenue ($m) 1,884 2,192 1,000 EBITDA ($m) 858 805 279 Approach 10-27 Our products Mobile Mobile Financial Services and services We provide mobile communications and Value Added Services to over 50 million We have 6 million mobile financial services customers across our markets, including customers in Bolivia, Colombia, Paraguay, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Chad, money transfer, bill payments, merchant payments and other services. Employees 4,030 4,410 2,915 DRC, Ghana, Mauritius, Senegal, Rwanda and Tanzania essentially under the brand name E-commerce and online services Tigo. In addition to mobile voice and SMS, We offer customers in 22 emerging markets we offer mobile data and locally relevant online shopping, marketplace, classifieds, content through Value Added Services. and other online services. Our global offices and where we operate Cable & Digital Media We offer fixed voice, broadband services and Pay-TV, including premium content, in cable Performance 28-36 and broadcast businesses in Bolivia, Paraguay, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and Nicaragua. Delivering the digital lifestyle 04 Millicom Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Millicom Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 05 President and Chief Executive Officer’s statement Transforming the lives Millicom never settles, always seeks new Corporate Responsibility is integral to our core Besides its focus on mobile and digital  y integrating B Overview 01-09 opportunities and looks to have real and business: providing accessible and affordable technology, The Millicom Foundation’s efforts lasting impact with its products and services. digital access to transform lives is fundamental will be targeted towards four thematic areas: Corporate of our customers Our digital lifestyle vision is to transform the to our business purpose. Connecting the supporting women & children, improving lives of our customers. Whilst executing our vision we are changing the way societies do “bottom of the pyramid” to a digital lifestyle is our everyday reality. healthcare, providing education & training and fostering entrepreneurship. Responsibility business and connect with each other. By integrating Corporate Responsibility into our In 2013 we outlined our new Corporate into our existing We could not achieve this without the trust of our stakeholders. Trust creates a strong brand existing processes we can remain agile in our execution, whilst living up to our commitments. Responsibility strategy with the aim of integrating responsible business practice deep processes we can that is fundamental to our future growth, especially as we expand into the new At the same time, we need to be rigorous and demand more by setting meaningful and in our way of doing business. We engaged our stakeholders in a process to understand their remain agile in strategic business areas of cable, financial services and online services. We have to be incremental targets in all core areas, from supply chain to environmental standards. That will concerns to help us determine the focus of such activities. 2014 and beyond will be our execution, trusted in order to transform. ensure we always aim higher and respond to about execution. whilst living up to Approach 10-27 our stakeholders’ concerns and needs. At Millicom, we bring Corporate Responsibility to life through two pillars: one acting as a For many of our central and local operations, So there is much to be proud of and also much still to do. I am committed to continue our commitments. catalyst for exemplary corporate behaviour and it may mean some significant changes in listening to our customers, our employees, our compliance and another as an expression of behaviour and practice, but I am convinced investors and other stakeholders to ensure we our values through The Millicom Foundation’s we have to do it. are tackling the right issues at the right time. work in wider society. With our commitment, drive and our I am very proud of some of the initiatives “Demand More” attitude, I know we will be We are building long-term value for our already underway. For example, in Tanzania, increasingly trusted to transform people’s shareholders on these pillars. But it is not we harnessed the power of our technology to lives and the societies where we operate. only they who benefit. A robust Corporate transform the number of birth registrations in Responsibility strategy creates value for our the Mbeya province, and the programme is Hans-Holger Albrecht customers, the countries where we operate now being extended. In Rwanda, where we President and CEO, Millicom and our employees too. have done so much good work offering an Performance 28-36 HIV/AIDS programme in the workplace, I am delighted that we are launching a digital innovation centre as an example of how we can contribute to the development of local entrepreneurship and skills. I am also excited about the potential of The Millicom Foundation, which will be committed to empowering societies with digital tools. In its proposed Digital Changemaker Programme it follows a three step approach: –– Identifying the best digital ideas and tools that can help to improve a social challenge –– Supporting innovators to make these ideas become reality –– Rolling out tools with a proven successful concept and bringing them to scale across the countries in which we work In this report Customers: Making digital People: A good place Business responsibility: lifestyles a reality to work Trusted to act responsibly We have a long and proud heritage Our people are the bedrock of We must act responsibly in our core of opening digital doors for our our success. We cannot achieve business, with high standards of customers by offering them anything without their commitment governance and anti-corruption affordable and accessible products. and we strive to attract and retain measures in place. It is vital We contribute to the economic the best talent we can find. We that we are strict on compliance development of our markets far also actively promote local talent. and that we respect the local laws beyond just business, through and customs in our markets. supporting employment and developing new infrastructure. 06 Millicom Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Millicom Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 07 Material issues and stakeholder engagement Focusing on Very important Overview 01-09 Safe and reliable Listening to and products and services understanding what matters PR2 customers PR5 Training and development Health and safety for employees of employees and Strong and LA1 LA9 partners trustworthy brand Non-discrimination LA5 LA6 Importance to the business and equal opportunity The purpose of producing a CR report is LA12 HR3 to provide stakeholders with an accurate HR9 HR12 overview of the company’s non-financial Approach 10-27 performance and to lay out Millicom’s Affordable and accessible approach for how we will address our most Participates in products and services Ethical supply chain the local econony material issues in future. To ensure the report addresses the issues that are most significant HR11 EN33 EC1 EC6 for our business and our stakeholders we LA14 LA15 Transparent EC7 EC8 conducted a materiality analysis together governance with an independent third party, a process EC4 aimed at identifying the relative significance of different CR issues to the company. These pages describe the materiality analysis as Customer privacy and freedom of expression well as how we have engaged with key stakeholder groups during the year. PR8 Active against corruption CR is a broad concept encompassing many SO4 SO5 Performance 28-36 different issues. It is important to understand Reducing energy and emissions which issues are the most significant as they affect both our long-term business success EN3 EN6 EN15 and also the decisions our stakeholders EN16 EN17 make in relation to Millicom. By conducting a materiality analysis we have been able to prioritise what we cover in this Important Importance to stakeholders Very important report, based on the feedback from both internal and external stakeholders. It is also a fundamental requirement of producing XX00 This symbol represents the GRI G4 key Customers People Responsible business a report in accordance with the Global performance indicator (KPI) that we have chosen to report on our material issues. GRI, the Reporting Initiative guidelines. Global Reporting Initiative, is the leading international Safe and reliable Health and safety of Active against standard for non-financial reporting and provides products and services employees and partners corruption The diagram opposite indicates the issues of On reviewing the issues prioritised through standardised KPIs for reporting CR performance. For the highest importance to both our internal the process, we have grouped them under more information on the KPIs and where to find them in this report, please see the GRI index on pages 32 to 34. and external stakeholders, with issues towards Customers, People and Responsible business. Strong and Training and development Customer privacy and the top right corner being the most material. We have used this grouping to structure the Two of the issues identified as material for us do trustworthy brand of employees freedom of expression We reviewed the impact of the top aspects following sections in this report. not relate to the KPIs provided by GRI, hence why along the length of our value chain, from no GRI symbol is indicated for them. Instead, we report on our performance for these issues Listening to and Non-discrimination Transparent research and development all the way to These issues reflect the top 12 prioritised using internally developed KPIs. understanding customers and equal opportunity governance customer service. This helped us establish issues in our analysis as well as “energy and where issues are important to stakeholders emissions”. While the assessment suggests outside our business. We consider all top that as a business we face more important Affordable and accessible Ethical supply chain issues to be material within the organisation. issues than reducing energy and emissions, products and services If they are important to our stakeholders, it is today expected that businesses are aware then they are key to our continued success. of their environmental impact and footprint. Including it in our reporting acknowledges the Participates in the Reducing energy local econony and emissions We have aligned the issues prioritised through importance we attach to addressing climate the assessment with what the GRI calls change, and to meeting concerns of key material aspects and their related specific stakeholder groups. standard disclosures. We have focused our report on our management approach and performance indicators for these issues. 08 Millicom Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Millicom Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 09 Material issues and stakeholder engagement continued Overview 01-09 Method We plotted the average score from our Regional variations in the findings Stakeholder group Engagement in 2013 Important for stakeholder Resulting actions We began the materiality analysis process external stakeholders against our internal The analysis showed that some issues are Governments –– Meetings with relevant local –– Licences, telecommunications –– Industry engagement on the by identifying key stakeholder groups to assessment of the issue’s significance to arrive equally important across all our regions, ministries (Telecom, Finance) and other regulation positive benefits of the ICT include in the assessment: Millicom (internal), at a materiality matrix (see previous page). such as listening to and understanding our and regulators, central banks, –– Quality of service industry for development investors, NGOs, suppliers and customers customers. However there are also differences consumer protection agencies, –– ICT and development –– Implementation of new (all external). We shared the results of the materiality between countries and regions. municipal governments, local –– Internet governance, cyberregulation on, for example, analysis with both internal and external law enforcement security and lawful interception transparency, quality of service We collected data through online surveys, stakeholders to gather their feedback. They For example, in certain African countries –– Participation at “Internet –– Child protection, e-waste, and customer registration interviews and research. Stakeholders were were interested to see the results and content fundamental safety measures such as road Freedom for Global competition and anti-trust laws asked to score a list containing eighteen issues with the conclusions we reached about which safety and working at heights were very Development” conference –– Taxation according to their importance for Millicom issues to focus on in our reporting. important whereas in Latin America there by Swedish government to focus on. The list of issues was developed was greater concern about anti-corruption Investors –– Over 250 meetings with –– Transparent governance –– Ongoing engagement in the using a range of sources: our previous CR We recognise that we have not involved all measures. In French-speaking Africa, where investors, face to face and –– Safe and reliable products Telecom Industry Dialogue reports, peer benchmarking and a media our stakeholder groups in this materiality there is a strong trade union tradition, Approach 10-27 over the phone and services on Freedom of Expression review. The issues were grouped into three assessment. This was due to the complexities freedom of association was a particular –– Four roadshows specifically –– Tax transparency and Privacy, particularly on categories: economic; health, safety and of doing so and we intend to address this in concern. In Latin America people emphasised targeted to Socially Responsible –– Inclusive business models the work around new tools environment; and social. the future. In particular we intend to the importance of safe and reliable products. Investment (SRI) investors in –– Anti-corruption risk assessments, strengthen the process we follow by including Stockholm, Paris and London training and prevention our key stakeholder group of employees. These insights help us with our local strategies –– Two SRI specific investor visits –– Implementation of HSE and are an additional benefit of conducting to our operations in Africa management system the materiality process. –– Investors provided input for the –– Meetings specifically to explain materiality assessment through our approach to privacy and tax an online survey NGOs and international –– UNICEF global workshop on –– Transparent governance –– Publishing our first CR report Engaging stakeholders makes us a better business organisations children’s rights and business –– Safe and reliable products in 2013 –– Responding to requests for and services –– Provided comments to A business has to take account of the views The following table indicates how we information on issues such –– Tax transparency UNICEF Child Online Performance 28-36 of its stakeholders. It ensures we meet needs, engaged each of our stakeholder groups as tax payments –– Child online safety Protection Guidelines draft can be responsive to concerns and manage during 2013, the issues we heard they –– Participation in multi-stakeholder –– Licence application –– Provided comments to Ranking potential risks to our business success. We define feel strongly about, and what we are forums, such as the Global for Myanmar Digital Rights project aiming to our stakeholders as those groups Millicom doing about them. Network Initiative and Telecom create methodology to rank ICT comes into contact with naturally during the Industry Dialogue learning companies on respect for free course of our day-to-day activities, and who forum in Brussels expression and privacy influence or are influenced by Millicom. –– NGOs provided input for the –– Responded and engaged materiality assessment through with Human Rights Watch an online survey regarding Myanmar licence –– Partnerships with local NGOs –– Responded to two NGO Stakeholder group Engagement in 2013 Important for stakeholder Resulting actions in community projects questionnaires regarding tax policies Customers –– Brand surveys –– Affordable and accessible –– Training to sales staff on –– Consumer insight studies products and services customer service and new Industry –– GSM Association –– ICT and development –– Several projects with the GSMA –– Regular customer satisfaction –– Strong trustworthy brand products and services –– Telecommunications Industry –– Human rights and business Foundation relating to Mobile surveys of all most important –– Safe and reliable products –– New channels for customer Dialogue on Freedom of Money, mFarmer, mWomen customer service channels and services service and education of new Expression and Privacy and mIdentity –– Face to face engagement in services, particularly via social –– Active participation in the shops, events, mobile customer media and in local languages Industry Dialogue service vans, through all points –– Focus on improving coverage Suppliers –– Face to face meetings –– Health and safety of employees –– Implementation of global of sales and capacity of networks, with suppliers and partners, child labour HSE management system –– Results of customer feedback and quality of service –– Friendly visits to suppliers –– Listening to and understanding –– Reassessment of suppliers surveys were included in the –– Initiatives to increase –– Suppliers provided input for our customers based on reviewed risk profile materiality assessment transparency of offers, costs the materiality assessment –– Global management of and opt-out possibilities through an online survey customer understanding Employees –– Management meetings to –– Our use of internal –– New helpline launched by an and customer operations introduce new strategy with communication channels external vendor with expanded –– Renegotiation of supplier global heads of functions –– Employee concerns are options for anonymous and contracts towards longer-term visiting operations being heard local language reporting relationships –– Management were interviewed –– Non-retaliation for –– Health and safety committees for the materiality assessment whistle-blowers formed in most operations –– Training –– Launch of communications –– Breakfast meetings with tool Yammer in all operations local management –– Collective agreement signed in –– Performance appraisal process DRC and Chad. Negotiations –– Employee volunteering ongoing in Senegal opportunities 10 Millicom Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Millicom Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 11 Customers Making the digital A business is only sustainable if it looks Examples of such programmes include: In early 2013, we created our Customer Percentage of mobile customers Overview 01-09 after its customers and makes a positive –– In Honduras, our Responsible Use of ICT Understanding team to follow customer trends who are pre-paid contribution to their lives. As Millicom is programme teaches children and young at a global level. The team conducts three lifestyle a reality transforming into a diversified digital player, we know more than ever that we have to earn the trust of our customers and wider adults about the potential dangers of the Internet and how to use information and communication technologies safely global surveys each year, tracking and generating both quantitative and qualitative data. The team also carries out local customer 93% stakeholders in our markets. We need to be and responsibly. satisfaction surveys on a country level, as well responsive to our customers, giving them –– In Paraguay, in a similar project, the Tigo as more specific surveys to understand why Highlights access to a digital lifestyle at a price they can afford, with a service that is safe and reliable. Operating in emerging economies presents opportunities for us to contribute to their Digital Citizen programme has educated 11,000 students, parents and other community members on responsible and safe ways to use information technology certain types of behaviour occur in certain markets. We share this knowledge with our Innovations team to bring customer needs into in the development process of new products 40% of them spend less than a growth and development. As one of the and to avoid risks. and services, and to our Sales team to improve $1/month with us Safe and reliable products and services: largest companies in our markets, this will help –– In Tanzania, we are educating customers the ways we reach and serve our customers. In Paraguay, our Tigo Digital Citizen programme us become a strong, trustworthy brand and about the importance of protecting Approach 10-27 has educated 11,000 students, parents and other secure our own future as a successful business. themselves against phishing schemes As a result of such insights, we are able to community members on responsible and safe ways by keeping their mobile financial services create new products that address our to use information technology Safe and reliable products related PIN numbers confidential. customers’ everyday needs and aspirations. and services Popular products in Africa include “Lend me” Capex in 2013 EC7 Our customers rely on us to deliver safe and Quality of service EC7 products directed at customers with irregular Listening to and understanding customers: reliable digital lifestyle products that let them In 2013 we invested significantly in our incomes, as well as audio entertainment This was a key focus area for us in 2013. In Africa we aligned stay connected. networks to improve both their capacity and services with religious information, jokes Total 1.2bn our satisfaction metrics, and in Paraguay, for example, call geographical coverage. These investments and daily news, which are accessible also centre satisfaction rose from 59% to 72% and in-store satisfaction rose from 68% to 80% during 2013 As we introduce the latest innovation through our ever-expanding product and service will give more people access to mobile communications, improve the quality and to illiterate customers. $ offering, we make sure our sales team works reliability of the service we provide and ensure On a regional level, we have various initiatives with customers to teach them how to get the that our networks are prepared for the to address customer feedback. For example, Affordable and accessible products: most from the new information and increased capacity requirements that come our ”Voice of the customer” team in Latin Latin America 871m 93% of our customers are pre-paid, and 40% of them communication technologies at their disposal. with mobile data services. America assesses and analyses the top Performance 28-36 spend less than one dollar a month with us In all of our markets in 2013, we made Still in 2013, for example in Bolivia and issues raised by customers, and assigns representatives to address them. The team is $ significant investments in training sales staff, Guatemala, we increased the reach of comprised of representatives from across the Participating in the local economy: improving our sales offices and introducing the networks to previously completely whole company, including operations, quality, Africa Almost all our customers live in cash economies but one in new ways to reach our customers to unconnected areas. Investment in building customer care, marketing and manufacturing. 333m six of our customers now use our mobile networks to send demonstrate the benefits of Internet access mast towers helps us to reach out to more The top three issues customers contacted our and receive money and mobile financial services. This is both to lower the threshold of adopting these customers but also has a beneficial impact on the community more broadly through call centres about in 2013 were cancelling subscriptions, navigation issues and handset $ services, but also to make sure customers increased connectivity. In Bolivia we put configuration. To address these, we made it Strong and trustworthy brand: feel in control of new services and can make up 112 new towers in rural areas in 2013 to easier to unsubscribe, we introduced an alert Tigo is the number one or two brand in 85% of our them best fit their needs and resources. bring access to mobile telecommunications when customers are close to using all their mobile markets and to expand our network coverage. data allowance and we developed an When we launched our 3G service in Senegal interactive voice response system to in December we provided, as the first operator In Tanzania our significant investment in simplify setting up handsets. to do so, guidance to help our customers improving network coverage and capacity saw understand how to control their data use Tigo win in the “Best Network Improvement” and send them notifications on their data category at the AfricaCom Awards, Africa’s usage to avoid “bill shock”. largest communications conference and exhibition. Thanks to the upgraded equipment We have overall increased the transparency of customers in Tanzania experienced a 70% The Millicom Foundation our terms of service by working with suppliers reduction in network outage time, a 63% Page 16 of products and services to clearly indicate reduction in call drops and a 300% increase costs, make sign-up to any service an opt-in in data throughput. process, and make opting-out easier to do. Listening to our customers PR5 In several of our markets, we have also At Millicom, our commitment to our customers started to work on customised digital moves in two directions. We strive to provide education programmes to make sure that our customers with the best possible products local customers understand how to use new and services, and we eagerly seek out their technologies responsibly. thoughts and reactions so we can continue Returning to Kivu improving and innovating to meet their needs. In June 2013, we were able to return to We listen to our customers’ feedback and Kivu in the north-eastern DRC after the concerns in our stores, as well as through easing of hostilities in the region, allowing roadshows, call centres, websites, social many people to connect to their families media networks and other channels. and friends via telephone for the first time. Connecting with customers With 11 million residents, our re-entry to There are many different ways in which we Kivu doubles our footprint in the country. connect with our customers. In addition to face to face meetings at our stores and roadshows, we connect through other channels such as call centres, websites and social media networks. 12 Millicom Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Millicom Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 13 Customers continued We also have a significant number To achieve the highest level of customer Affordable and accessible products Tigo is the most “liked” company Overview 01-09 of users who spend nothing with satisfaction, we have recently begun and services on Facebook in us: they use their phones only to implementing an “effortless experience” Millicom is dedicated to making mobile and receive calls or money transfers. We recognise they play a vital role in creating a connected economy. philosophy. To achieve the goal of making our customers’ experience effortless, we are changing from a cost-centric KPI model to digital technology affordable and accessible in Latin America and Africa. Ensuring that every person, regardless of their resources, 8 markets a customer-centric model to support what can access communications and information customers expect from us. Namely, providing services doesn’t only make good business options and solutions to our customers as sense for a company like ours – it’s also how we well as investing in training to ensure that can have our greatest positive social impact. our consultants are knowledgeable and can resolve the customer’s issue the first time they Our key strategy of “affordability, accessibility contact us. As a result of this initiative, we and availability” is meant to increase access are already seeing improvements in several to communications and information services markets in call-centre satisfaction and across the board. Most of our 50.6 million Approach 10-27 first-call resolution. In Paraguay, for example, mobile customers are part of the world’s call-centre satisfaction rose from 59% to largest but poorest socio-economic group, 72% and in-store satisfaction rose from sometimes referred to as “the bottom of the 68% to 80% during 2013. pyramid”. 90% of reloads for airtime by our Mobile penetration in customers are for $2 or less. Nearly two-thirds our Latin American operations In 2014, we will continue to improve on our of our customers bring in an average monthly customer service practices, providing training on revenue per user (ARPU) of less than $5, and change management for frontline consultants 40% have an ARPU of less than a dollar. 106.2 108.6 and stores for all our operations. We will be 96.4 97.4 starting this in our Latin American operations, We also have a significant number of users 86.4 where we will be rolling out a world-class who spend nothing with us: they use their 76.3 customer relationship management (CRM) phones only to receive calls or money transfers. platform as well as a new billing system. We recognise they play a vital role in creating a connected economy. Performance 28-36 How we communicate with our customers depends on the technology available where In order to make our products and services we work. In Chad, for example, where there more affordable and to respond to the reality is no call centre yet, we have launched an that many of our customers have very irregular interactive voice response (IVR) interface as a incomes, we offer a range of solutions. Often Bolivia Paraguay key communication tool. In 2013, customers, our customers need to just make one call, Honduras Colombia whether they can read or write, are able to or have money for just one SMS. Our pricing Guatemala El Salvador receive help in six new languages, including is structured per second, not per minute as Millicom and Facebook local tribal languages. In eight of our twelve in developed markets, to allow for these Tigo markets the Tigo Facebook page is the situations where “every second counts”. We for affordable internet most “liked” company page on Facebook, allow top-ups at the lowest local denomination From December 2013 Tigo customers in and has in many countries become one of the to make sure that people can top up their Paraguay have been able to access Facebook primary channels for communicating with our accounts even for one call if needed. Our “Lend through their handsets without incurring any customers. This is also the case in Chad, where me balance” service even allows customers data charges, in a six month long promotion. 3G has not yet been launched and customers who have sporadic income to borrow for an In partnering with internet.org, launched by access Facebook via SMS or USSD interface. urgent call or a text message if they do not Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg, Millicom currently have the money for it. Millicom then is leading the digital way in Latin America, charges a small fee the next time they refill joining the movement to making internet their account. Our lending products were used access available to the estimated two-thirds by 40% of customers in 2013 and by nearly of the world’s population who are not 60% in Rwanda. connected. Mobile penetration in our African operations Connected with its partnership with Tigo, In these ways and more, we are doing our part to bridge the digital divide, ensuring that the Facebook also launched in Guaraní for the 100.7 digital lifestyle is not only attainable for those first time, the official native language of with higher income. Paraguay. Guaraní remains one of the most 80.7 widely spoken indigenous languages in 69.0 South America, with an estimated 4.8 million speakers spread throughout Argentina, 44.9 45.0 47.0 Brazil, Bolivia and Paraguay. More people in 36.2 Paraguay speak Guaraní than Spanish, and it is considered the only indigenous language in the Americas whose speakers include a large proportion of non-indigenous people. Chad Senegal Senegal With our Facebook pages being one of our key In Senegal, we apply a daily cap Tanzania Ghana channels for communicating with customers, to online browsing costs. Once a DRC Mauritius making sure that as many people as possible can customer has spent $2 on data Rwanda access Facebook has a direct link to improving in a day he or she can browse for communication with our customers. free for the rest of that day. 14 Millicom Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Millicom Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 15 Customers continued Number of outlets (points-of-sale) Participating in the Investing in a digital future Increasing the reach of mobile money Importantly for us, mobile money can act as Overview 01-09 per region: local economy EC8 In the west, we now take access to mobile Another important feature of the markets a payment method for future online services. By making mobile and digital technology data for granted. We expect there will be where we operate is that they are almost In short, mobile money helps financial Central America affordable and accessible in developing 3G – or 4G – access almost wherever we go. entirely cash economies. With the exception services in the developing countries countries around the world, bridging the digital In 2013 we invested close to $1,000 million of Colombia, almost all flows of money are where we operate to mature and grow. 144,000 divide, we are making a positive difference to local economies every day. Millicom contributes to local economic development in out of a total capital expenditure (Capex) of $1,226 million on increasing network capacity in the countries where we operate to respond based on cash. By developing mobile financial services we are creating electronic payment systems which have far-reaching benefits. Paying our taxes Millicom has a global tax policy which is the countries where we operate also beyond to the growing demand for mobile data. developed by the head of tax and approved South America the products and services we provide. We bring Of the total Capex, we paid local regulators By the end of 2013 one in six of our customers by the group CFO, the executive team and job opportunities to local talent, stimulating $201 million on new spectrum and licences, was using mobile financial services. In Tanzania, acknowledged by the Board of Directors. 187,000 the local economy through our presence, contributing to infrastructure development, building knowledge capacity and adding to the tax base. We also contribute to the including 4G licences in Colombia and Honduras. New spectrum allows us to increase the capacity of our network and further improve the quality of our services. the figure rises to 45% and across Africa in the The policy is reviewed at least yearly, or as countries where the service is launched, 23% needed, and implemented by local tax of our customers use their mobile phones for financial transactions. teams in operating subsidiaries under the supervision of the global team. Compliance Approach 10-27 Africa communities where we operate through with the company tax policy and local tax The Millicom Foundation. In Africa we have previously focused our Transforming cash into electronic money laws is monitored by financial reporting 385,000 network coverage in high density areas, such makes it easier and safer for people to and controlling, internal audit and control, We provide employment and opportunities as big cities. For two years now we have been transfer money, whether that is to send external tax audits, and in some countries for additional income and experience to working to expand our coverage. We try to remittances, pay bills, buy goods and services with monitoring systems installed in many members of our local communities, benefit from existing networks and share or receive their salary. Doing transactions telecommunications networks. beyond our 11,500 plus employees. towers with competitors already present in electronically is also hugely more convenient, In addition to our permanent staff are the these areas – both to expand more rapidly instead of having to travel long distances to We would describe our tax position as “prudent people who sell our products and services, and cost effectively, but also to reduce our the bank or relying on local bus drivers to and fair”. Millicom does not negotiate specific ranging from sale of SIM cards and prepaid environmental impact. bring money across the country. In many tax concessions with local authorities. However scratch cards to mobile financial services countries, consumers pre-pay for utilities such on some occasions, together with the industry, through Tigo Cash. There were 716,000 To promote digital development and as electricity and water. If credit runs out, it is we do challenge new tax initiatives that we see outlets at the end of 2013, where our entrepreneurship, we established in March much more convenient to resume the service as harmful for the sector’s development or products and services were sold across Latin 2014 a business incubator in Rwanda for by paying a bill instantly with a mobile phone. that would result in price increases that would Performance 28-36 America, Central America and Africa, often scalable, exportable start-ups in the ICT arena. affect certain populations’ access to adding to the income of small shop owners. Participants will receive startup financing as Electronic transactions bring more people into communications services. At the end of 2013, we worked with over well as free access to office space, a structured the formal economy, allowing them to create 40,000 freelancers to sell our mobile products training and coaching programme, access to a history of financial transactions for the first In our holding company structure all of our and services across our markets. We provide Tigo technical resources for product testing time, which in turn can give them access to profits are taxed in our operating companies, an eight-week sales and business training and trials, and support from Millicom in credit finance, and brings potential new but some potential double-taxation is programme for our freelancers called Tigo accessing outside investors and customers. customers to banks. avoided in the absence of bi-lateral taxSales School which helps them grow their treaties with Luxembourg. In 2013, as in 2012, income and gain a profession for life (see Economic value generated and distributed Mobile money has also helped revolutionise we paid taxes in all countries where we have more in the “People” section). ($m) EC1 the way people in need get financial help. operating companies. Transfer pricing is used In Chad, we work together with the World in line with the OECD guidelines to charge Local recruitment 2013 Food Programme and Action Contre la Faim subsidiaries for the support provided by our At every level of the organisation, we focus on Direct economic to distribute aid using our Tigo mobile money global centres of excellence located in Europe hiring and developing local talent. Doing so value generated service. In December 2013, we also teamed and the US. We use intercompany loans in helps us understand our local markets better, up with Oxfam to reach hard-hit families line with the “arms length” principle to finance Revenues 5,159 and also gives us another way to contribute to in Guatemala with financial aid using operations in specific countries where the the local economy. 99% of our employees are Economic value distributed mobile technology. political risk profile is measured as “high”. recruited locally. Operating costs (2,050) Wages and benefits (474) Mobile money also helps fight corruption We report taxes paid by region, in line with Fairly significant differences on local and increases transparency. With mobile our overall financial reporting (see table for recruitment, particularly in senior management, Payments to providers of capital (500) financial services, people and businesses taxes paid). In addition our operations pay a existed between Latin America and Africa, Payments to government can deal directly with each other, cutting number of other taxes which are not based partly due to the maturity of the organisations (income tax only) (322) out middlemen. It also improves the on earnings including telecom tax, indirect in general. To promote local talent in Africa, Direct community investments (7) government’s visibility on money flows, tax, VAT and excise duties, withholding tax, in 2013, we launched a LinkedIn campaign Economic value retained 1,805 which helps increase the potential tax base. payroll tax, asset tax and wealth tax. to attract new people to our organisation. We have also recently hired or promoted local talent to the new position of “Deputy General Manager” in several operating countries. The Taxes paid in 2012/132 London office, which opened in 2013, has Total Digital ‘Susu’ Central South Unallocated continuing Mobile Financial Services are incredibly helped attract people with roots in our markets America America Africa items operations popular due to their convenience and and now houses our Africa regional team. safety. In Ghana we have worked with 2012 ($m) (131) (76) (32) (45) (284) women who offer ‘Susu’ (a savings service) 2013 ($m) (156) (85) (21) (60) (322) in local markets to transfer savings into mobile wallets for added security and easy access to their money. This project was nominated for a GSMA 2014 Award, and we expect 50,000 users of the service by mid 2014. 16 Millicom Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Millicom Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 17 Customers continued The Millicom Foundation Mobile birth registration Overview 01-09 In six months Tigo Tanzania together with UNICEF has registered over 100,000 making a difference children in a pilot birth registration project. In the West we don’t even reflect upon the consequences we would face if our parents Participating in the local community is not Three programmes will further systemise would not have registered our name and date just about developing infrastructure and our approach and build on the successful of birth. Having a name and an identity is increasing the reach of our services. It is also activities that we are already involved in: a right enshrined in the UN Convention on about using the power of our networks and the Rights of a Child. As simple as it appears, technology to overcome social challenges in –– Innovation programme: We are screening the vast majority of children in Sub-Sahara the societies we are working in. the best digital ideas and products that have never been registered. In Tanzania, a help overcome a social challenge combination of a lack of local registration Millicom spent over $7 million on direct –– Implementation programme: Realising offices in rural communities, and a tradition Approach 10-27 investment into charitable and community the most promising tools in one market to delay naming a new child for several weeks projects. When also taking into account the –– Scaling programme: Preparing projects after birth, led to a situation where less than monetary value of employee volunteering, with measurable social impact for 20% of children under 5 were registered, and in-kind donations and management overheads replication in other countries less than 9% have a birth certificate. related to these projects the figure exceeds $12 million. To maximise the impact generated Social impact investments in 2013 For the child, a certificate is a proof of age, from this expenditure we invest in strategic, US$ (’000) protecting the child from early recruitment into Using Tigo’s mobile money sustainable projects that fit with our digital armed forces, early marriage and child labour service, Oxfam has distributed Social impact spending/ business. The implementation is often and allowing them access to healthcare, philanthropic cash 282,000 undertaken in co-operation with established schooling, food and eventually a job. For contributions $7,368 the country, it means that the Tanzanian $ partners such as UNICEF, Oxfam or Action Contre la Faim. Monetary value of government can properly and efficiently employee volunteering3 $127 plan its education and healthcare systems. to 1,700 hard-hit families in In the future all of our social impact activities In-kind giving (at cost) $3,733 Performance 28-36 Guatemala’s Chiquimula province, will be bundled and driven by The Millicom Related management As the Tanzanian government de-centralised an area badly affected by child Foundation. The mission of the foundation overhead costs $1,263 its birth registration system, Tigo partnered malnutrition, the San Marcos is to “empower societies with digital tools”. Total monetary value with the Tanzanian national registry, RITA earthquake in 2012 and drought of corporate citizenship/ and UNICEF to develop a mobile SMS-based application that could work on even the most philanthropic contributions $12,491 basic mobile phones. Information about the child is sent via SMS to a central server and after receiving an automatic response, the registration worker is able to instantly issue The mission of The Millicom Foundation is to empower societies with a birth certificate. digital tools A pilot project was set up in the Mbeya region in June, 2013. Six months later in December Empowering 2013, the rate of birth registrations of under societies with digital tools 5-year-olds in the region has increased from 9% to 36%. In 2014 the project will be rolled out to other priority areas – giving Tanzanian children a better future through the power of SMS texting. Innovation Implementation Scaling Many other areas of community engagement Programme Programme Programme are featured on the Millicom website. Senegal In Senegal we provided the mobile communication platform for the national census. 18 Millicom Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Millicom Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 19 People A good place Whether they work in our head office, Since 2012 we have participated in the ILO in Tanzania and DRC in 2013, with plans Key facts Overview 01-09 a storefront in Paraguay, or on top of a international occupational health and safety to implement awareness activities and telephone pole in Ghana, our people are the day. Millicom extends and coordinates this into screening in 2014. Total employees4 to work backbone of our business. Our highest priority a full week. In 2014 we anticipate the whole of is to ensure our employees’ wellbeing while on the job. We aim to deliver this through our integrated health and safety management the operations to participate with coordinated efforts including the four corporate office locations. Employee training and development As Millicom transforms itself from a 11,321 system and regular communication with staff. telecommunications company to a digital We are also committed to our employees’ Training to be safe is vital lifestyle company, we need new skills in our Outsourced workers professional development which we review Employees complete a wide variety of safety organisation. This can be a challenge in our Highlights Training and development through the annual performance appraisal process. We listen to our employees’ feedback through our biannual Employee Engagement surveys, and through our enterprise social programmes to ensure that they have the appropriate knowledge to safely complete their tasks. For those working in our offices, for example, this includes ensuring fire safety markets, where the services we are providing are still new. This is one of the reasons why we invest in developing the skills of our existing employees. 5,032 of employees: network, Yammer. through proper equipment, fire drills, clear Total workforce5 Approach 10-27 Average hours of training exit ways, assigning fire marshals, as well as While our training philosophy emphasises 53 16,353 Employees by region (total) workstation setup and ergonomics, etc. We on-the-job learning, in 2013 we put a lot of 2013 2012 are initiating a training programme for our effort into improving the online training South America 39% 39% engineers (called the Telecoms Safety Passport offering. Most of our training we now conduct (4,413) (3,902) Scheme to Telecoms Industry), accredited under the banner of the “Millicom University”. Percentage of employees who have through the leading industry safety body received anti-corruption training Central America 35% 37% worldwide International Occupational Safety Leadership and change (3,986) (3,683) & Health (IOSH). We believe that this training management training 64% Africa 22% (2,547) 22% (2,186) represents current best practice in Africa. We own and operate a fairly substantial fleet In 2013, we instituted a “train the trainers” programme. Starting with Costa Rica and Honduras, we held a training workshop in Employees by employment contract of vehicles, which are used mainly by base London for 20 key personnel from human Non-discrimination and equal A safe and healthy station site maintenance staff as well as to resource and business functions. Our target is 3% opportunity: work environment LA5 transport our indirect sales staff to points of to have provided this training for all department Performance 28-36 Millicom is dedicated to providing a safe and sale. Of all health and safety risks, the heads in each country by the end of 2014 to Number of nationalities among employees healthy work environment for our employees, management of road risk is a priority as there ensure that both the personnel as well as the 76 contractors and business partners. Not all of our is a high risk of serious incidents due to the business side of change is considered as operating countries have ratified relevant health general poor condition of roads and lower Millicom develops. and safety conventions, which can mean more awareness of safety considerations in general. investment is required from us to ensure best This is why, over the course of the last year, This year we ran a pilot programme of 360º practice is implemented and also kept up. we have made more investments in vehicle evaluations for managers with the aim of Health and safety of Following a successful pilot in 2012, we maintain tracking devices and training to reduce road proving personal development plans for employees & partners: a health, safety and environmental (HSE) risk. In Tanzania, largely as a result of this evaluated managers. To have direct reports, Our health and safety incident reporting management system, as well as a number of 97% project, we saw zero fatalities during 2013 peers as well as line managers comment on tool and accompanying training module related procedures to recognise various health compared to six only the year before. a manager’s performance, represents a shift was successfully tested during 2013 and safety codes, regulations, acts and in culture for us. We were pleased with the standards. Our system is aligned with relevant Tailoring our programmes to meet results of the pilot and we will be extending Permanent – 10,960 international standards, ISO9001 (quality), local needs it during 2014. Fixed term/temporary – 361 ISO14001 (environment) and OHSAS18001 In 2013 we embarked to complete a security (occupational health and safety). review for all of our countries as part of the Online learning platform new corporate security strategy. In operating We set up an online learning platform in 2013 One of the first outputs from our fully integrated countries where personal safety and security which allows us to manage both online and HSE management system is our incident reporting are a concern, we track security levels and face to face learning initiatives with content tool and accompanying training module, which provide continuously updated safety guidelines providers including Harvard, SkillSoft and was successfully tested during 2013. We will for our employees with aid of Travel Tracker. getAbstract to mention a few. It gives our use this tool in 2014 to collect our first complete All employees have access to International employees access to different online courses More detailed KPIs in the year of data on incidents and accidents, and SOS (ISOS) Services & Emergency support across a variety of business skills (e.g. finance, performance data section intend to begin reporting on relevant key HSE through online and telephone assistance or on IT, business management and language). We Page 28 performance indicators in our 2014 CR Report. the move via the ISOS App, which allows them piloted this platform with the acquisition of to have access to updated medical and security 4,000 licences, granting access to approximately We expect the number of reported accidents information and local emergency numbers 45% of our employees. Our goal for 2014 is to and incidents to increase as people learn how wherever they are and to confirm their acquire 6,000 additional licences so that the to use the new system. After reporting starts whereabouts and contact details at all times. big majority of our employees can access the to normalise, we intend to set targets. learning platform. In some of the African countries where we As part of our commitment to health and operate, the occurrence of blood borne viruses safety, we are working to establish Health such as HIV and AIDS is an ongoing concern and safety committees in all our operations. among the population. To help curtail the Following further investments in vehicle These will have employee representation on spread of this epidemic and address tracking devices and training to reduce them, which we believe is vital as it improves the discrimination that often surrounds it, we held road risk as part of our HSE management flow of information to and from employees an AIDS awareness programme in Rwanda system, we saw zero fatalities in Tanzania in where it is needed and also because it improves during 2012 partnering with the NGO Swedish 2013, compared to six only the year before. management/employee communications. Workplace HIV/AIDS Programme, which was So far we have established H&S committees attended by close to 200 staff members. in 62% of our operations, some of which will Subsequently we also launched an HIV/AIDS be fully operational in 2014. and non-communicable diseases policy 20 Millicom Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Millicom Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 21 People continued On the job learning The trained freelancers are significantly are either local or from neighbouring countries Developing and supporting our Employees hired from the Overview 01-09 As part of our ‘on the job learning’ increasing their commissions and providing in the region. In 2013, we made considerable people more local community8 EC6 programme, we provide employees with themselves with an income level that, in some efforts to recruit more local talent in Africa and Clear and open communication with our staff opportunities of job rotation within our cases, is over 1,000% higher than the period are pleased that local recruitment in senior is vital, not only to be able to respond to their 98% 99% different markets. This is a chance for our before they were trained. Many are reinvesting management grew to 82% from 76% in 2012. concerns, but also for them to be able to do employees to travel and see the world, a part of this income back into their business their jobs effectively. 82% highly valued opportunity, and at the same and developing further revenue streams. This is Women represented 38% of new hires, a figure 76% time facilitate sharing of best practices within facilitated by the specific business skills training which has helped push total percentage of We regularly conduct an employee engagement the company. In many functions, such as provided to them during the sales school, women in our employees to 33% in 2013 survey, with the last one in 2012 and the next Human Resources and Finance, local talents which teaches and encourages them to build compared to 31% in 2012. The number of survey planned for early 2015. Global senior come to the headquarters locations for a few and manage a long-term sustainable business women in senior management positions fell management visits operations frequently to months to experience the business from a for themselves. to 19% compared to 21% one year ago. We support their activities and update them on different perspective and learn specific skills. recognise the need for action in this area, strategy. Locally, management engages with 2012 2013 2012 2013 Some return to London or Luxembourg to Tigo Sales School is not only positively and will be implementing specific actions staff in a number of ways, including breakfast take up global roles. impacting the life of the freelancers and the to address this trend in 2014. meetings, newsletters and emails. Approach 10-27 Tigo Sales School overall performance of our sales staff, but also Providing more training to our sales Our employees’ performance, development families and the communities in which our We have been focusing on promoting female We use the enterprise social network Yammer Senior managers7 force is delivering excellent results. and career progression are supported by our freelancers live. With this entrepreneurship entrepreneurship within our freelancer base. so employees can communicate freely with Total annual employee appraisal process. In the training, participants can go beyond improving In Ghana, Rwanda and Tanzania we have each other. Our CEO is also active on Yammer, process, employees agree annual performance their current income to gain a profession for done this by providing female MFS agents using it to post regular videos on our progress Trained vs untrained targets with their line managers, which are life as they are equipped with skills to start with business training and microfinancing and to celebrate our achievements. During reviewed mid-year. The targets align with their own business. Many of our freelancers through loans with subsidised interest 2013, we rolled out Yammer in all our Total revenue per freelancer per month company strategy and are meant to challenge have only completed basic schooling prior to rates from microfinance institutions in a operating countries, reaching 13,000 users +60% and motivate employees to improve their working for Tigo – making this training part partnership programme with The Cherie Blair globally. We have started doing live events own skills and performance. At the year end, of a critical path towards sustained future Foundation. Providing free training to female on Yammer where employees, regardless of performance is reviewed by both employee income. Millicom also makes a big effort entrepreneurs is one of the ways we work to seniority, can ask questions which executives and line manager. A new performance in organising graduation ceremonies with reduce gender-based inequalities that exist answer live. We believe we are one of the management tool will be rolled out in diplomas and senior management presence. in the access to education. most active company users of Yammer. Activations per freelancer per month 2014 to support this process and help These events have turned into big celebrations In 2013, we made considerable Performance 28-36 strengthen it with inclusion of specific with families of freelancers present to witness Employees by gender (total) 2013 has also been a year of change and efforts to recruit more local +79% career development goals. Compensation and benefit packages for them receiving their first professional diplomas. As freelancers improve their performance they Female employees 2013 33% (3,690) 2012 transformation in our employee base, as we 31% are bringing new talent into the organisation. (3,085) In 2013, we welcomed 2,400 new employees. talent in Africa, and are pleased to say that local recruitment in senior management grew to our employees vary between countries are given the opportunity to add additional Overall employee turnover was 14% driven up Turnover (hired and left in 2013) and employee grades. Most employees’ compensation focuses on base salary and a services to their portfolio, which helps them to generate further incremental revenues. For Male employees 67% (7,631) 69% in particular by Central America, where the (6,985) business environment has been challenging 82% 80% lower yearly performance bonus. In local operations, the benefit package often includes in-office medical facilities and health insurance also for families. For the freelancers who work example, after training a number of our direct sales force specifically in Mobile Financial Services (MFS) our sales of MFS in Ghana two months after launch had increased by 31%. Respecting labour rights Given the risk profile of our markets, we in the year. from 76% in 2012. need to ensure that we respect international with us, we provide daily breakfast and labour standards. Total trained as percentage of all freelancers transportation to the place of work. Tigo’s trained freelancers have been able 29% to consistently deliver increased returns from In June 2013 we signed a collective bargaining Training LA9 their interactions and conversations with our agreement covering all employees in DRC. 20136 2012 customers. Our trained freelancers are able In Senegal we faced challenges in labour Average hours to retain more of their customers and reach relations in 2013. A long licence dispute with of training per more customers on a consistent basis each the local government had meant we had not employee 53 50 month. Their commitment to Tigo is also been able to invest in our services nor our significantly stronger. people in a way we would have wanted to for some time. After the dispute was resolved, During 2013, we initiated rolling out the expectations of our staff were high and Combining CR and business benefit in Tigo Sales School in Latin America with pilot culminated in a three-week strike in May Tigo Sales School projects in Bolivia and Colombia. Our target 2013. As a result, we are currently in discussions We recognise that providing training to and is to roll out the training to cover all our with local counterparts for a collective investing in people beyond our direct employees countries during 2014. agreement, which we expect to be concluded can have a significantly positive effect, not just for our business, but for the local in the first half of 2014. communities where we work as well. Diversity and equal opportunity Millicom employs over 11,500 people in With the increased risk of child labour in the its markets and headquarters. We believe countries we operate we have zero-tolerance Tigo Sales School is an eight-week sales and Reach for Change that diversity among our employees not for under-aged employment. During 2013, the business training programme for freelancers, Together with the Swedish charity Reach only helps us to achieve our common goal Global Child Forum, a non-profit foundation, for Change we select and support social currently running in five African countries of meeting the needs of our globally diverse and The Boston Consulting Group made a joint entrepreneurs in six African countries. (Tanzania, Rwanda, Senegal, Ghana and customer base, but importantly is a driver study where they assessed how 1,000 publicly External experts and Tigo employees work Democratic Republic of the Congo), reaching for continued innovation. listed companies address and incorporate together to find outstanding visionaries more than 7,500 freelancers and almost children’s rights in their business strategy and that use digital tools to improve conditions 40,000 point-of-sale distributors during 2013. in their community. In 2013 we supported We are proud of our very diverse workforce, operations. Millicom is proud to be among the We are currently preparing for the launch of 20 change leaders in Africa with an annual which at the end of 2013 comprised 76 57 companies that received the highest score this initiative in Latin America, which will start grant of USD 25,000 and a place in an nationalities which well represents our in the assessment. In 2014, we will continue to in El Salvador, Paraguay and Bolivia. incubator programme. Their initiatives geographical footprint. Most of our employees develop our management of this important area. reached more than half a million children. 22 Millicom Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Millicom Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 23 Responsible business Trusted to operate Trust is hard to win and easy to lose. The Management of corporate responsibility Our commitment to responsible business Millicom is committed to meeting the highest Overview 01-09 foundation of any business success has In Millicom, the management of corporate conduct and our values are outlined in our standards of compliance with anti-bribery to be our compliance with business norms responsibility is shared between two functions. Code of Ethics which all employees are and corruption legislation. Our internal responsibly and good corporate governance. expected to sign. Last year, we set a target processes are aligned with international best The head of corporate responsibility is responsible to create an online training tool for the Code practices, including Transparency International’s We base our work on the ten principles of for implementing CR company-wide as it relates of Ethics – a target we failed to achieve. This Business Principles for Countering Bribery, the the UN Global Compact, which includes to corporate behaviour as defined in the UN was mainly due to the fact that the policy is US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the UK respect for human and labour rights, taking Global Compact. The head of The Millicom currently being updated and will be launched in Bribery Act. To identify best practices related a precautionary approach to safeguard Foundation is responsible for the implementation the coming year in a more concise and easily to governmental requests for monetary and our environment, and proactively working of social impact projects in local communities. accessible format. in-kind contributions, we performed a review Highlights to prevent corruption. Our values and Each country has a CR manager or team that of internal practices during 2013. commitments are outlined in our Code of reports to a local line manager, as well as to With this coming new Code of Ethics, the Ethics, publicly available on the Millicom the head of CR and the head of The Millicom signing of the current Code also declined slightly In our mobile financial services division, Anti-corruption: website. In our business it is also Foundation. The head of CR regularly reports to during the year. After the new Code of Ethics is we have been developing an anti-money Our internal processes are aligned with international best fundamental to retaining the trust of the CR committee of the Board of Directors, and published, we will review procedures related to laundering system to work in step with Approach 10-27 practices, including Transparency International’s Business our customers that we do our utmost the head of the Foundation to its independent the signing of the Code as well as related newly emerging regulatory requirements in Principles for Countering Bribery and the UK Bribery Act to protect their privacy. board of trustees. training programmes. markets such as Honduras and Tanzania. Governance and transparency Implementation of CR activities and Employees who have signed the Code Internally, Millicom has a zero-tolerance At Millicom, we recognise that our Company’s programmes is carried out and owned by of Ethics (total) policy towards all forms of bribery, corruption, Customer privacy: long-term success, along with the continuing trust different functions within Millicom. For example: 2013 2012 extortion and fraud. Our employees and Millicom is a founding member of the Telecommunications of our stakeholders, depends on us maintaining –– the Procurement department is responsible Employees who intermediaries are prohibited from offering Industry Dialogue on Freedom of Expression and Privacy the highest possible standards for responsible for ensuring an ethical supply chain; have signed the 90% 94% or accepting any form of bribe, kickback or and ethical business conduct. –– the Human Resources team ensures Code of Ethics (10,141) (9,426) facilitation payment under any conditions. respect for labour rights; During 2013 we uncovered a case of collusion To that end, our internal control and audit –– the Compliance, Legal and Internal Audit between two suppliers and employees in department evaluates our governance and departments make sure we take a Anti-corruption activities SO5 Tanzania. The employees involved were Governance and transparency: overall business practices, while the Board proactive approach to ethical business and Corruption is a significant impediment to dismissed and the supplier contracts Our Internal Control and Audit department evaluates our of Directors’ Corporate Responsibility (CR) anti-corruption; and economic development in the emerging markets terminated. Overall one bribery-related Performance 28-36 governance and overall business practices, while the Board of Committee oversees management of all –– the Internal Control and Audit department in which Millicom operates, and adds a high level internal investigation was carried out Directors’ Corporate Responsibility (CR) Committee oversees corporate responsibility issues. The Board’s support policy and process compliance, of risk to our Company’s bottom line. For these in 2013. management of all corporate responsibility issues Audit Committee, which meets at least acting as an extra level of evaluating our reasons, it is essential that we take a strong quarterly, regularly reviews reports from approach, ensuring that we conduct stand against illegal and unethical activities. the Compliance team. business responsibly. Ethical supply chain: Supplier Code of Conduct, which all suppliers are required Internal control The CR organisation in each country provides Corporate responsibility at Millicom to sign, is based on the principles of the United Nations Our internal control process is designed to the different functions with guidance and is shared between two functions: Global Compact ensure that: support to implement responsible corporate –– we are using our resources effectively behaviour locally, working with them to identify and economically; gaps and to develop actions for improvement. –– we are protecting and safeguarding Responsible behaviour is thus embedded in Function Reducing energy and emissions: our people and assets; the entire organisation. In our 2013 CDP report we improved both our disclosure –– policies, procedures, decisions and score to 81 (68) and our performance band to B (D) management’s instructions are For issues requiring special oversight, and for properly applied; evaluation of performance and management Corporate The Millicom –– financial and operational information processes, we have created cross-functional behaviour Foundation is of high quality; and that groups and committees, such as our health –– we comply with laws and regulations. and safety committees. We will be creating more cross functional groups in the future to Performance against targets Internal control involves all of our functions oversee areas such as the management of law Page 31 and personnel, from our Board of Directors enforcement requests and the governance to sales and operations staff. Senior of group policies. management teams are responsible for initiating, demonstrating and promoting Millicom’s ethical principles and culture every Focus day. Each individual employee is, in turn, responsible for following our internal guidelines. The Internal Control and Audit department provides central support to local management Implementing CR Create digital tools for and employees to help them manage and company-wide as defined in social impact projects assess their local internal control system. the UN Global Compact in local communities 24 Millicom Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Millicom Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 25 Responsible business continued We developed and launched our Conflict of investigation and 51% resulted in either a Customer privacy and freedom of expression Overview 01-09 Interest Declaration tool in 2012 to reduce written warning or employee termination. As a digital lifestyle company leader Millicom takes the privacy of our customers very seriously. Millicom is a founding member of the the risk of corruption in one of the highest Telecommunications Industry Dialogue on Freedom of Expression and Privacy, and signed up to implement its guiding principles in March 2013. risk areas for us. With this tool, employees To ensure that our employees are aware of Our progress is described in the table below. complete a form to declare whether they our policies on ethical business conduct, we Percentage of employees that have any potential conflict of interest. When conduct in-person integrity awareness trainings have completed the Conflict of a potential conflict is flagged, the issue is with all staff with a total of 6,149 having Guiding principle Progress Interest declaration brought to the attention of their line manager taken the course by the end of 2013. Of our 1) C  reate and/or maintain relevant policies, with Board oversight or Millicom has signed up to the Principles of the Telecommunications and, if necessary, to the executive level for Board of Directors, five out of eight (63%) 67% equivalent, outlining commitment to prevent, assess, and mitigate Industry Dialogue. Our Code of Ethics contains our commitment to decision-making. At the end of 2013, 67% of received anti-corruption training during 2013. to the best of their ability the risks to freedom of expression and customer privacy. our employees had signed such declaration. privacy associated with designing, selling, and operating No public legal corruption cases were brought telecommunications technology and telecommunications services Our anonymous helpline is available to any against Millicom during the reporting period. of our employees or partners to report any 2) Conduct regular human rights impact assessments and use due Risk assessment regarding freedom of expression was carried out in suspicious behaviour they have identified that Number of cases reported into the Approach 10-27 diligence processes, as appropriate to the company, to identify, 2012. As a result new guidance for handling government requests was does not align with Millicom’s values and Helpline by category HR3 HR12 mitigate and manage risks to freedom of expression and privacy created. During 2013, Millicom has put emphasis on data protection policies. In 2013, we made our helpline fully 20139 2012 – whether in relation to particular technologies, products, services and integrity of our systems. Whenever possible, we want to align our independent, confirming our commitment to Bribery and corruption 1 5 or countries – in accordance with the Guiding Principles for the approaches to industry standards or best practice, which is one of the non-retaliation against whistle-blowers. This Discrimination Implementation of the UN “Protect, Respect and Remedy” framework reasons for our engagement with the Industry Dialogue (ID). independent service, which is available in several languages, ensures that whistleand harassment 6 10 blowers can remain anonymous throughout Human rights 3) Create and/or maintain operational processes and routines to Millicom continues to work on the implementation of an aligned the investigation process, even when they are and labour 15 14 evaluate and handle government requests that may have an guidance for handling government requests. At the end of 2013, being updated on progress. This anonymity is Conflict of interest 3 14 impact on freedom of expression and privacy most countries still followed local processes. crucial to encourage reporting. During 2013, Fraud 76 17 a total of 177 cases were reported through 4) A  dopt, where feasible, strategies to anticipate, respond and Millicom participated within the ID to define events that would require either this channel or directly to a line Other 76 17 minimise the potential impact on freedom of expression and specific escalation and mitigation processes. Millicom is looking to manager. Out of these, 80% led to a formal Total 177 77 privacy in the event that a government demand or request is formalise its current approach during 2014. received that is unlawful or where governments are believed to Performance 28-36 be mis-using products or technology for illegitimate purposes Number of Investigations Investigations 5) A  lways seek to ensure the safety and liberty of company Employee safety is of particular concern for us. Our head of security is whistleblower resulting in resulting in personnel who may be placed at risk involved in assessments and decisions relating to any major events. HR3 HR12 investigations a written termination of an conducted warning employee contract 6) R  aise awareness and train relevant employees in related In 2013, awareness raising has focused on employees directly involved Bribery and corruption 1 0 0 policies and processes in assessing requests, while we have been emphasising overall data Discrimination and harassment 5 0 0 security with all personnel. Human rights and labour 14 8 1 Conflict of interest 3 0 0 7) S hare knowledge and insights, where relevant and appropriate, Millicom has participated in major multi-stakeholder events and Fraud 76 16 45 with all relevant and interested stakeholders to improve provided comments to reviews, guidance and ranking proposals. understanding of the applicable legal framework and the Within the ID, we share case studies and challenges from our operating Other 43 19 2 effectiveness of these principles in practice, and to provide support environment, which can be for most part quite different from the Total 142 43 48 for the implementation and further development of the principles debate in the US and Europe around surveillance. 8) Report externally on an annual basis, and whenever circumstances In 2013, we received requests for transparency reports. This has been make it relevant, on progress in implementing the principles, and the first year we have been collecting information on numbers of law Data privacy security personnel perform regular scans to as appropriate on major events occurring in this regard enforcement requests from each operation. Due to lack of agreed We process a lot of information about detect vulnerability spots in network components industry definition for “a request”, we have decided not to publish our customers and their communications. and applications. aggregated numbers this year. We continue to work with the ID on Keeping this information safe and secure is reporting standards as well as internal definitions, and hope to be able of utmost importance to keep their trust. Our information security management system to publish trends in reporting going forward. The numbers we have or framework is aligned with the international collected show differences between countries, and that in general Millicom assures the security of our information security management standard many more requests are made in our Latin American markets, as would information systems and databases ISO/IEC 27001. Policies and risk assessment be expected given the overall security environment and that lawful in a number of ways, including: processes are constantly being evaluated to interception is not implemented in all African operations. –– Our Code of Ethics, which defines better analyse new risks. As customers’ data unauthorised use of customers’ data and right to privacy must be protected, risk 9) H  elp to inform the development of policy and regulations to We do this through direct engagement with governments and law –– Regular internal audits assessments are periodically conducted to support freedom of expression and privacy including, alone or enforcement, particularly in cases when new laws or regulations are –– External audits protect products and services against new in cooperation with other entities, seeking to mitigate potential being introduced. We also engage with a number of interested –– Simulated hacker attacks threat scenarios. Millicom recognises the negative impacts from policies or regulations stakeholders, NGOs and investors in particular, on specific requests and Partnership on online services importance of business continuity planning, In December 2013, we welcomed MTN as a to explain the situation in our markets and how we manage related risks. strategic partner to accelerate the growth of In addition, we are currently implementing and constantly invests in making its network our online alliance in Africa. Together with an approach where our internal information more resilient. 10) Examine, as a group, options for implementing relevant Millicom has been working on this together with the ID companies. MTN, we reach 220 million mobile customers grievance mechanisms, as outlined in Principle 31 of the with very limited overlap. This is significant as the synergies are numerous between mobile UN Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights business and online services through the opportunities to leverage the distribution network, the customer base and the payment infrastructure. 26 Millicom Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Millicom Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 27 Responsible business continued Ethical supply chain In cases where we identify areas of nonMeanwhile, our energy efficiency strategy is Electronic waste Overview 01-09 EN33 LA14 LA15 HR11 compliance with our Supplier Code of Conduct, moving forward. A number of country-level Electronic waste (e-waste) continues to be Millicom works with more than 13,000 our approach is to collaborate with the supplier initiatives are being carried out to reduce the another key focus area of our environmental suppliers around the world, ranging from to solve the issue, generally through creating an impact from our energy and emissions and to activities due to the lack of local resources to large multinational companies to small action plan and scheduling follow-up visits. We meet our overall goals of energy reduction. treat waste and the number of other challenges view termination of a contract as a last resort, such waste can create if not disposed of Number of friendly supplier local vendors. We expect all of our suppliers since Millicom may represent a significant part In some of our markets, all electricity from responsibly. During 2013 we sold part of our visits carried out during 2013 to demonstrate the same high standards of ethical behaviour as we require internally, of a community’s income and the impacts of the grid comes from renewable sources. In waste in some of our operations. In two of our 102 which is why supply chain is a key focus withdrawal on local societies could be severe. other parts of our markets access to reliable biggest operations, Guatemala and Colombia, area moving forward. Working together to address non-compliance is grids is poor or does not exist and so diesel-fuel the value of sold waste amounted to $337,833. also a more sustainable solution. generators are used. These generators are Our Supplier Code of Conduct, which all key responsible for the majority of our emissions Previously, Millicom applied local ownership suppliers are obliged to sign when entering into Suppliers that have signed the Supplier and we are looking at alternatives. Efforts for the management of e-waste. As the contract with us, is based on the principles of Code of Conduct to reduce our dependency on fuel include infrastructure for treating the e-waste in many 2013 investments in solar power systems, hybrid of our countries is limited at best, the focus has Hybrid battery solutions the United Nations Global Compact and the Approach 10-27 % Total solutions for our base station sites, GPS mainly been to support in the development of Hybrid battery solutions combine solar ILO core conventions, and covers ethics and power, deep cycle batteries, turbines integrity, workers’ rights, workers’ protection, Suppliers that have monitoring of our vehicle fleet and free cooling infrastructure. In 2013 Millicom decided to and fuel energy sources. By alternating prohibition of child labour and environmental signed the Supplier for indoor base stations. The number of base increase its ownership of the e-waste issue between different power sources, hybrid protection. To ensure that the Supplier Code of Code of Conduct 14% 1,940 stations running on solar power as primary at the global level and launched a global batteries help us save significant amounts Conduct is followed, we undertake a risk-based power source was 110 in 2013 (108 in 2012). e-waste management initiative. The e-waste of fuel at off-grid sites. approach and follow up with selected suppliers Introducing solar base stations has been management system has three strands, and the Strategic suppliers that have signed Number of cases of non-compliance challenging due to local conditions requiring changes to Millicom procedures are as follows: the Supplier Code of Conduct requiring them to complete a self-assessment with the Supplier Code of Conduct questionnaire, as well as conduct site visits to frequent cleaning and maintenance, as well per category 82% those suppliers with the highest potential risk. as high import duties in some countries. –– First, establish a proactive supply chain 2013 54 suppliers completed the self-assessments While solar powered base stations have only process through focusing on better during 2013. This includes 14% of the suppliers Human rights – increased a little, the number of base stations forecasting, purchasing, maintenance Increase in the number of base we consider strategic.10 The pattern of results Labour – running on hybrid battery solutions was 1,149 and storage of electronic equipment, stations running on hybrid was similar across regions and none of the Environment – in 2013 up from 832 in 2012, which represents –– Second, Millicom is now managing e-waste battery solutions during 2013 a 38% increase. using new guidelines and instructions based 38% responding suppliers was identified as a Performance 28-36 Corruption 2 on best practice to ensure compliance significant risk. Other 411 To reduce operational costs and carbon with international environmental Because the maturity level around these footprint, we are upgrading network equipment waste legislation, issues is low in many of our markets, we have Reducing energy and emissions EN7 to new more energy efficient models, such as –– Third, from the first quarter of 2014, Millicom chosen to conduct “friendly” visits ourselves As a global company, Millicom understands implementing single radio access network will roll-out the global waste management  uel consumption per base F rather than unannounced audits by a third the importance of preserving the long-term (Single RAN) where several radios use only one programme, where all e-waste will be treated station was reduced by 13% and party. In doing so we strive to initiate sustainability of our operating environments, antenna, reducing the need for air-conditioning, by international, certified and environmental electricity consumption per base Number of supplier contracts dialogues and strengthen partnerships not only because it is the right thing to do but and increasing site sharing initiatives. As a result, friendly vendors. station was reduced by 25% terminated as a result of nonbetween Millicom and our suppliers, helping also because it makes good business sense – fuel consumption per base station was reduced compliance with the supplier them work towards meeting our expectations better energy management leads to greater by 99 litres compared to 2012 and electricity Most countries where we operate have few or Code of Conduct regarding ethical business conduct. During cost savings. consumption per base station was reduced even no environmental regulation, making our by 4575 kWh. voluntary efforts even more essential. However, 4 2013, 102 friendly supplier visits were carried 18,599 out. The majority of the supplier visits are We have reported our greenhouse gas emissions regulations are beginning to emerge and with carried out in Honduras in collaboration with and other environmental impacts to the CDP Other local environmental initiatives include an that, associated costs. For example, we now pay Hybrid battery solutions the CR organisation FUNDARHSE. for the past four years. Our target is to reduce office paper recycling campaign in our El Salvador a tax in the DRC for using non-biodegradable and CO2 emissions 14,024 CO2 emissions of base stations by no less than service centres, a take-back programme for old scratch cards. Millicom has started training suppliers in the 50% by 2020. Given our markets, collecting handsets in Colombia and reducing the visual 1,149 Code of Conduct during 2013, a practice that reliable energy data is a challenge. This year, intrusion of antennas in Bolivia by camouflaging 10.1 is currently still at a small scale. For example, we are able to report more detailed data sites as palm and pine trees. 832 7.6 in Rwanda we held training events for suppliers compared to last year. However, we on the Supplier Code of Conduct to ensure acknowledge that there is still a lot of work that they understand the commitments to be done to improve data reliability and Energy and emission performance EN3 EN15 EN16 EN17 made by signing it. robustness. This is why in 2013 we began 2013 2012 developing a new reporting tool, scheduled Fuel consumption (’000 litres)12 21,583 17,88713 to launch by mid-2014 with the specific aim Fuel consumption (MWh)14 229,377 196,760 to improve the quality of the environmental data we collect. We plan to begin benchElectricity consumption – non-renewable (MWh)15 184,749 361,800 Number of base stations CO2 emissions (tonnes) running on hybrid per base station marking our energy efficiency compared to Electricity consumption – renewable (MWh)16 90,472 34,000 battery solutions (full Scope 1 + 2) our competitors once this new tool is in place. Cooling consumption (MWh) 75,767 n/a 38% increase 25% reduction Solar power generated and used at base stations (MWh) 706 n/a 2012 Total energy consumption (MWh) 581,071 592,560 2013 Scope 1 – CO2e (tonnes)17 56,267 47,99218 Scope 2 – CO2e (tonnes)19 92,130 102,363 CO2e (tonnes) from base stations owned by a supplier 53,590 52,304 Air travels km (’000)20 51,400 ~ 50,000 CO2 air travels (tonnes)21 4,990 4,89522 Scope 3 – CO2e (tonnes) 58,580 57,199 28 Millicom Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Millicom Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 29 Performance Percentage of employees by gender Workforce by gender and by region Total workforce by type Our performance and region Overview 01-09 2013 2013 % Total By gender and 2014 targets South America Male 10,507 31% Female 39% 1,708 Female 5,846 Male 61% 2,705 By region Central America South America 6,684 Female 31% 1,230 Central America 5,830 69% Male 69% 2,756 Africa 3,427 Africa Female 26% 666 Percentage of new employee hires by gender, by region and by age group LA1 Employees – 11,321 Male 74% 1,881 Outsourced workers23 – 5,032 Approach 10-27 2013 2012 Total workforce – 16,353 Permanent employees by employment Total 21% 2,400 35% 3,519 type and by gender (excludes temporary/ fixed term employees) By gender Strategic suppliers that have 2013 Female 25% 913 signed the Supplier Code of Conduct Employment type Male 19% 1,487 by type EN33 LA15 HR11 Full time 10,959 By region Strategic suppliers Part time 1 South America 24% 1,067 Gender Central America 20% 785 Female 3,540 Africa 16% 416 Male 7,420 By age group Below 30 31% 1,460 Performance 28-36 Percentage of employees by 30 to 50 14% 883 employee category and age group LA12 Above 50 25% 57 2013 Senior managers 82% Below 30 3% Percentage of employee turnover by gender, by region and by age group LA1 30 to 50 92% 2013 2012 Signed – 323 Above 50 6% Employees excluding senior Total 14% 1,617 11% 1,110 Other suppliers managers By gender Below 30 43% Female 14% 521 12% 30 to 50 55% Male 14% 1,096 Above 50 2% By region South America 12% 535 Percentage of employees by Central America 17% 679 employee category and gender LA1 Africa 12% 317 2013 2012 By age group Senior managers Below 30 16% 735 Female 19% 21% 30 to 50 13% 849 Male 81% 79% Above 50 14% 33 Signed – 1,617 Employees excluding senior managers Female 33% 31% Strategic suppliers that have signed the Supplier Code of Conduct Male 67% 69% South America Central America Africa Board of Directors by gender and by age group LA12 2013 By gender Female 13% 1 Male 88% 7 By age group Below 30 0% 0 82% 100% 99% 30 to 50 50% 4 Above 50 50% 4 Signed – 3,625 Signed – 3,982 Signed – 2,534 30 Millicom Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Millicom Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 31 Performance continued Percentage of total employees Number of involuntary and voluntary leavers Performance against targets Overview 01-09 covered by bargain agreements24 2013 2012 Area Target Performance Comment New targets 8% Number of involuntary leavers 631 426 Number of voluntary leavers 986 684 Human rights –– Implement global guidance Implementation started –– Create cross functional for receiving and processing and will continue group to oversee the law enforcement assistance company’s policies on law Employee absentee rate25 LA6 requests by end of 2013 enforcement assistance 2013 –– Review global guidance Total 0.54% for receiving and processing Employees who have signed the By region law enforcement assistance Code of Ethics by employee South America 0.48% requests by end of 2014 , for category, 2013 implementation in 2015 Central America 0.67% Children’s rights –– High level policy commitment The Code of Ethics is currently –– Code of Ethics revised Africa 0.39% to children’s rights in 2013 under review during 2014, including Senior managers Approach 10-27 a policy commitment Average hours of training by employee category and by gender LA9 to children’s rights 2013 –– Children’s rights selfThis work was put on hold due –– Create a plan for child online By employee category26 assessment tool created to organisational changes protection in 2014, with Senior managers 17 and piloted in at least three implementation in 2015-2016 Employees excluding senior managers 55 markets in 2013 –– Clarify company policies on child labour in 2014 By gender27 Anti-corruption –– 70% of employees have 67% of employees had Female 22 completed the Conflict of completed the Conflict of 67% Male 22 Interest declaration tool Interest declaration by end by end of 2013 of 2013 Employees who have received anti-corruption training, by region and by employee –– Online training on the This target was not achieved –– The Code of Ethics updated category28 SO4 Code of Ethics created, with as the Code of Ethics is in 2014 2013 2012 over 50% of employees being reviewed –– Initiate training in the Performance 28-36 Signed – 357 Total 64% 6,149 49% 4,979 completing by end of 2013 Code of Ethics in 2014 and continue through to By region 2015 on a global level South America 77% 3,386 49% 1,921 Suppliers –– Top 20 suppliers in each 54 self-assessments were –– Top 20 suppliers (based on Employees excluding senior managers Central America 45% 1,038 52% 1,915 country to complete a carried out during 2013 spend) in each country have Africa 68% 1,725 50% 1,095 self-assessment against the signed the Supplier Code By employee category29 Supplier Code of Conduct of Conduct and completed a self-assessment against Senior managers 39% 183 the Code by end of 2014 Employees excluding senior managers 73% 5,966 Health, safety & –– Key frameworks of HSE Achieved –– HSE management system environment management system in fully implemented in all Employees that have completed the Conflict of Interest declaration30 place in all operations by operations by the first half 2013 2012 the end of 2013 of 2014 Total 68% 54% –– Four core sites in line with OSHAS 18001 by end of 2014 By region –– All operations in line with 91% South America 91% 43% OSHAS 18001 by end of 2015 Central America 48% 58% –– E-waste processed through By the end of 2013, we –– E-waste processed through Signed – 9,784 Africa 71% 70% certified e-waste vendor(s) in had selected our e-waste certified e-waste vendor(s) in all regions by the end of 2013 partner and a trial was all regions by first half of 2014 Customer privacy PR8 underway including our 2013 markets in Senegal, Tanzania, El Salvador and Colombia Total number of confirmed Total number of substantiated complaints received concerning breaches of incidents when contracts with customer privacy received from regulatory bodies 4 –– Improve environmental data This year we have collected –– Online non-financial business partners were terminated collection to make 2013 a more sophisticated data in data collection system Total number of substantiated complaints received concerning breaches of base year for new targets terms of energy classification. implemented during first or not renewed due to violations customer privacy received from outside parties and substantiated by the related to corruption Implementation of an online half of 2014 organisation – non-financial data collection –– Carry out an industry 3 Total number of identified leaks, thefts, or losses of customer data31 1,263 system ongoing but delayed benchmark during 2014 to consider new target setting Suppliers that have signed the Supplier Code of Conduct by region EN33 LA15 HR11 based on 2013 data 2013 –– To reduce CO2 emissions by CO2 emissions were during 2013 base station by 50% by 2020 reduced by 25% per base South America 8% 270 station compared to 2012 Central America 19% 657 Africa 15% 1,013 Fully achieve Partially achieved Not achieved 32 Millicom Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Millicom Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 33 Global Reporting Initiative G4 content index External General standard disclosures Page assurance Overview 01-09 This report describes our corporate of UNE, a large publicly owned cable and mobile management approach for aspects where Stakeholder engagement responsibility (CR) approach and performance operator. Regulatory approvals for the merger relevant. The page references for disclosures in the calendar year 2013. It is our second are expected to complete during 2014. on management approach in the index table G4-24 List of stakeholder groups 8-9 Yes (35-36) CR report in accordance with GRI, which we below refer to where information on such G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 8 Yes (35-36) are now producing on an annual basis. This report has been written in accordance with additional aspect specific management G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement 8-9 Yes (35-36) the GRI principles for defining report content. We approach is disclosed. This report covers the same scope as our have considered the views of our stakeholders G4-27 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder engagements 8-9 Yes (35-36) financial reporting except for Mauritius and from the following groups: Millicom (internal), We believe external assurance adds credibility Report profile Rocket Internet (which are excluded as we do investors, NGOs, suppliers and customers. Senior to our reporting and provides us with useful not hold operational control), and Nicaragua management within Millicom determined the feedback so, once again, we have asked an G4-28 Reporting period 32 Yes (35-36) and our Stockholm corporate office (which are scope of this report based on an assessment of independent assurance provider, DNV GL, to G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 32 Yes (35-36) excluded based on immaterial size). All other the material issues identified by stakeholders. review this report. Their statement is on page 36. country operations and global offices are G4-30 Reporting cycle 32 Yes (35-36) included except where stated. Where regional Following the assessment, a list of 13 material If you have any questions about the contents G4-31 Contact 32 Yes (35-36) Approach 10-27 data is stated it excludes data from our issues were selected and form the principal of this report or wish to give us your feedback, G4-32 “In accordance” option chosen and GRI index 32 Yes (35-36) corporate offices. The measurement methods content of this report. This report is in accordance please contact: we have used have not changed since our last with the GRI G4 guidelines under the Core option. G4-33 External assurance 35-36 CR report for 2012, which we published in 2013. Milka Pietikainen Governance Since the last report, we moved our African Millicom’s generic management approach Head of Corporate Responsibility headquarters from Dubai to London, effectively to CR is described on pages 22 and 23 in this Millicom 2, rue du Fort Bourbon G4-34 Governance structure 53-54 (AR 2013) closing the Dubai office. In 2013, we also report and covers all aspects identified as L-1249 Luxembourg Ethics and integrity announced the signing of an agreement to material through our materiality process. G4-56 Corporate values 22 Yes (35-36) merge our Colombian operations with those We also report specific information on our CR@millicom.com External External General standard disclosures Page assurance Specific standard disclosures Page assurance Strategy and analysis Economic Performance 28-36 G4-1 CEO statement 4 Yes (35-36) Economic performance Organisational profile G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach 10 G4-3 Name of organisation 2 G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 14 G4-4 Brands, products and services 2 Market presence G4-5 Location of headquarters 2 (AR 2013) G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach 14 G4-6 Countries of operation 2 G4-EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community 21 G4-7 Ownership and legal form 2 (AR 2013) Indirect economic impacts G4-8 Markets served 3 G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach 14 G4-9 Scale of organisation 3, 19 G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported 11 G4-10 Employee breakdown 19, 21, 28-29 Yes (35-36) G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 14 G4-11 Percentage of empoyees covered by collective bargaining agreements 30 Environmental G4-12 Description of supply chain 26 Energy G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period 32 G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach 27 G4-14 Whether and how the precautionary approach is applied 22 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation 27 Yes (35-36) G4-15 External principles, charters or initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or endorses 9 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 27 G4-16 Memberships 9 Emissions Identified material aspects and boundaries G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach 27 G4-17 Entities included in the organisation’s consolidated financial statements which are not included in 32 G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) 27 Yes (35-36) this report G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) 27 Yes (35-36) G4-18 Process for defining aspect boundaries and report content 8 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) 27 Yes (35-36) G4-19 List of material aspects identified 7 Yes (35-36) Supplier environmental assessment G4-20 Aspect boundary within the organisation 20 G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach 26 G4-21 Aspect boundary outside the organisation 8 G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and 26, 29-30 G4-22 Restatements from previous reports 36 Yes (35-36) actions taken G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods 32 Yes (35-36) Social Employment G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach 18 G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and 29 Yes (35-36) region 34 Millicom Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Millicom Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 35 Independent assurance statement External Specific standard disclosures Page assurance Scope and objectives –– Evaluation of supporting evidence for Inclusivity concerns the participation of Overview 01-09 Occupational health and safety We have undertaken independent assurance prioritised claims and data in the report stakeholders in developing and achieving of the Millicom 2013 Corporate Responsibility based on the materiality of issues at a an accountable and strategic response G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach 18-19 Report (the Report) for the reporting period consolidated corporate level. to sustainability G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety 18 Yes (35-36) ending December 31, 2013. –– Review of the processes for gathering and –– Last year we recommended increasing committees consolidating the specified sustainability reporting of issues related to the large G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total 30 The assurance process was conducted in performance information and, for a number of freelancers, contractors and number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender* accordance with AA1000AS (2008). We were sample, checking the data consolidation. dealers that operate under the Tigo brand. engaged to provide Type 2 moderate level This year the report contains the results of Training and education assurance, which covers: We used the AA1000 Accountability Principles the Sales School for Freelancers showing the G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach 19-20 Standard as criteria to evaluate the nature positive impacts of the business beyond –– evaluation of adherence to the AA1000APS of adherence to the principles of Inclusivity, direct employees. Future reports should G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category 20, 30 Yes (35-36) (2008) principles of inclusivity, materiality Materiality and Responsiveness and the Global provide details of other opportunities and Diversity and equal opportunity and responsiveness (the Principles); Reporting Initiative Quality of Information challenges arising within these groups. G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach 20-21 –– the reliability of specified sustainability Principles as criteria for evaluating the –– Tracking and analysis of the range of Approach 10-27 performance information as per the Global selected performance information. engagements at a corporate level remains G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category 28-29 Yes (35-36) Reporting Initiative (GRI) table on pages strong. Millicom should consider further according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity 32 to 34; and Findings and opinion formalising its stakeholder engagement Supplier assessment for labour practices –– Any claims relating to financial information We reviewed and provided feedback on structure, including for example a G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach 26 contained within the Report are excluded drafts of the Report and where necessary stakeholder panel, to further integrate from the scope of this assurance process. changes were made. On the basis of the work stakeholders’ views into strategic decision G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labour practices criteria 26 undertaken, nothing came to our attention making. We restate our recommendation G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labour practices in the supply chain and 26, 29-30 Responsibilities of the Directors to suggest that the Report does not properly that key outcomes of stakeholder actions taken of Millicom and of the assurance describe Millicom’s adherence to the engagement and issues are also tracked Non-discrimination providers Principles or its performance. and reported within operating companies. The Directors of Millicom International G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach 20-21 Cellular S.A. (Millicom) have sole responsibility In terms of reliability of the specified Material issues are those which are G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 24 for the preparation of the Report. We were performance information, nothing came to necessary for stakeholders to make not involved in the preparation of any part of our attention to suggest that these data have informed judgments concerning Performance 28-36 Supplier human rights assessment the Report. We have no other contract with not been collated from information reported Millicom and its impacts G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach 26 Millicom and this is the second year that we at operational level as described, nor that –– We welcome the revised approach to have provided assurance. the assumptions utilised were inappropriate. materiality which has helped increase the G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 26, 29-30 We are not aware of any errors that would confidence that Millicom is addressing all Assessments Our statement represents our independent materially affect the Group data. its material issues. Future reports should G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach 25 opinion and is intended to inform all of demonstrate clear links between this Millicom’s stakeholders. We adopt a balanced Observations analysis and the further development G4-HR9 Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or 34 approach towards all stakeholders. Without affecting our assurance opinion we and execution of the new CR strategy. impact assessments** also provide the following observations. –– Supplier self-assessments, ‘friendly’ visits Human rights grievance mechanisms Basis of our opinion and Code of Conduct training for suppliers A multi-disciplinary team of sustainability and The integration of CR efforts across Millicom are now underway. We recommend G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach 24 assurance specialists with knowledge of the continued in 2013 and the materiality analysis reporting on the roll out and the outcomes G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal 24 Yes (35-36) sector and the key issue areas performed undertaken assisted in the formal identification from these initiatives in future reports. grievance mechanisms work at Headquarters and at selected sites. of stakeholder priorities for reporting. They –– Last year we recommended coverage of Anti-corruption We undertook the following activities: also form the basis of further systematisation data security and customer privacy and of CR efforts through the two pillars of welcome their inclusion this year. G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach 23 –– Review of the current Corporate promoting good corporate behaviour and G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 30 Yes (35-36) Responsibility issues that could affect making a positive social impact on communities. Responsiveness concerns the extent G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 30 Millicom and are of interest to stakeholders; We look forward to seeing further progress in to which an organisation responds assessment of Millicom’s approach to systems, focus on the weaker material issues to stakeholder issues Customer health and safety prioritising issues through the materiality and demonstration of commitment through –– Millicom’s reporting on tax is notable for G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach 10 assessment and recent outputs; review of target-setting. its approach and level of transparency. information provided by Millicom on its –– Health and Safety system improvements G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the 34 reporting and management processes Millicom continues to improve the scope are underway and the company wide health and safety impacts of products and services*** relating to the Principles. and nature of its data collection systems roll-out in 2014 will enable Millicom to Product and service labelling –– Interviews with selected directors and and processes. Challenges of non-financial report on performance data for the first G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach 11 senior managers responsible for material performance management within the business time and set targets in the future. We CR issues and review of selected evidence remain and the implementation of the online restate our recommendation to include G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 11 to support issues reported. non-financial data collection system has been information on construction work Customer privacy –– Site visit to Tigo Ghana to review the process delayed. However, we noted an improvement and working from height, especially and systems for preparing site level CR data in the quality of available data. for contractors. G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach 25 and implementation of the Corporate G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of 30 Yes (35-36) Responsibility strategy. customer data * Omissions are made where the information is currently unavailable. We are implementing a H&S management system that will track work-related injuries which will enable more detailed reporting from 2014 on. ** During 2012, all Millicom’s operations were subject to Human Rights review. During 2013, operations in Honduras and Rwanda were subject to Human Rights review (15% of country operations). In Honduras, the Foundation for Corporate Social Responsibility in Honduras evaluated us as a socially responsible company. In Rwanda, we took part in ILO’s East African Decent Work Programme. *** During 2013, we had no incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of our services. 36 Millicom Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Independent assurance statement continued –– Last year we recommended improved –– The proportion of manual data collection DNV Two Tomorrows Limited Corporate and registered office coverage of marketing, e-waste and waste. and collation, and therefore the risk of London Millicom We note that the e-waste initiative is human error, remain high. On the basis of April 17, 2014 2, rue du Fort Bourbon now underway. Marketing and waste evidence we evaluated, review mechanisms L-1249 Luxembourg remain areas where further disclosure at corporate level were found to be robust. Grand Duchy of Luxembourg is recommended. –– Understanding of CR data collection –– The employee engagement survey and mechanisms for certain KPIs has increased Postal address Yammer demonstrate effective channels at Business Unit level. However, the Millicom for employee feedback. We recommend maturity of data collection systems and B.P.2312 future reporting describes the results of processes still varies across the Company Jason Perks L-1023 Luxembourg that feedback and the actions taken by and its operating countries. Director Grand Duchy of Luxembourg Millicom in response. –– The risk of data omission or incorrect inclusion Tel: +352 27 759 101 Fax: +352 27 759 359 remains, as data boundaries and calculation DNV Two Tomorrows Limited is part of DNV RCB 40630 Luxembourg Performance information methods are not always clear or consistent. GL – Business Assurance, a global provider –– We recognise that Millicom’s strategy is still –– The implementation of the online of certification, verification, assessment Corporate responsibility evolving, but note the lack of measurable, non-financial data collection system and training services, helping customers Milka Pietikainen long-term targets to demonstrate should reduce the risk of error at operating to build sustainable business performance. Head of Corporate Responsibility commitment to performance improvement country and group level. We restate our www.dnvgl.com Millicom at present. We welcome the CEO’s recommendation to develop Group-level 2, rue du Fort Bourbon recognition of the importance of targets protocols on all KPIs, clarifying data L-1249 Luxembourg and recommend a clear set of targets be boundaries and providing guidance and CR@millicom.com set for key CR performance metrics. training for operating businesses on how to collect and calculate the data. Visit Millicom’s homepage at http://www.millicom.com/our-responsibility/ Millicom on the web www.millicom.com/our-responsibility/ twitter.com/Millicom www.facebook.com/millicom www.linkedin.com/company/8579 Design and production: Carnegie Orr +44 (0)20 7610 6140 www.carnegieorr.com Footnotes to this Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 1 All numbers are excluding the Online business. 10 Strategic suppliers includes those that are seen 23 Outsourced workers are indirect employees who are 2 Taxes paid includes taxes paid for the whole as key partners for the development and roll out of hired through a third party and receives a monthly salary. Millicom group. Millicom’s business strategy and operations. They 24 This includes all employees in Chad and DRC and 3 Monetary value of employee volunteering is represent almost 3% of our total supplier base. some in Senegal where negotiations are ongoing. estimated using the median hourly salary of the 11 “Other” category includes cases related to fraud. 25 Absentee data excludes Tanzania, Ghana, Bolivia country operations. It only includes volunteering 12 Includes diesel and gasoline consumption. and corporate operations. done by employees during regular working hours 13 Litres for 2012 have been restated. 26 Average hours of training per employee category tracked in a systematic manner. 14 Where unable to separate diesel & gasoline, the excludes data from Senegal and Bolivia operations 4 All employee data excludes employees in Mauritius higher conversion factor (diesel) has been applied. as it was not systematically tracked during 2013. and Nicaragua. Including Nicaragua and Mauritius This has been done for fuel consumption in Honduras 27 Average hours of training by gender excludes data total employees are 11,734. in 2013 and all fuel for 2012. Source conversion from Costa Rica, Senegal, DRC, Guatemala and 5 Includes employees and outsourced workers. factors: Defra. Bolivia operations as it was not systematically 6 The approach to record training hours varies across 15 Electricity consumption excludes electricity from tracked during 2013. countries. In Guatemala, training hours are only London corporate offices. 28 Data on anti-corruption training excludes tracked on an aggregate level including all types of 16 2013 figures includes electricity from Paraguay, Guatemala operations. workers. Average hours per employee was therefore DRC, Rwanda and Paraguay. 2012 includes data 29 Data excludes Guatemala, Rwanda and Ghana estimated using the average hours of training for from Paraguay. operations. For Chad, El Salvador and Costa Rica, employees, outsourced workers and freelancers. 7 “Senior management” is defined as pay grade 14 and 17 Boundary for GHG Scope 1 & Scope 2 inventory is operational control. Source emission factors: number of employees trained during 2013 was added to 2012 year-end figures. Keep in touch with Millicom’s – Latest news – Financial results, publications above, representing approximately 500 persons. 8 All employees in our countries of operations 2006 IPCC guidelines. 18 Emissions for 2012 have been restated. 30 Direct employees that have signed the Conflict of Interest declaration. In Honduras, signing of the progress throughout the and presentations excluding employees on expatriate contracts. 9 During 2013 Millicom changed the set-up of the 19 London office is excluded based on lack of data access. CO2 from cooling is calculated using conflict of interest form is done on an aggregated level only (including both direct and indirect year on our website and – Financial calendar – Who we are Helpline and as a result, whistle-blower reports were also collected through alternative channels. These the same emission factor as for non-renewable electricity. Source emission factors: IEA & US EPA. employees). An estimation of the portion of direct employee having signed the form was made based social media. – What we do are included in the Helpline figures for 2013 but were 20 Excludes travel from Paraguay. 2012 data on a 10% sample of the aggregated total figure. – Where we operate not included in the figures reported in 2012 when is incomplete. 31 Total number of identified leaks, thefts or losses – Our responsibility only cases reported through the Helpline were 21 CO2 emissions are estimated using CO2 emission of customer data mainly represents cases where included, thereof the lower total number of cases factors for short haul travel (seating unknown) in organised crime have created accounts in other reported 2012. the GHG Protocol calculation tool. people’s names, and therefore do not represent 22 Emissions for 2012 have been restated. cases of our systems having been compromised.
