2013 | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT EVERY CONNECTION COUNTS LET’S BUILD A BETTER WORLD TOGETHER TE Connectivity is a world leader in technology and innovation. Not only are we innovating to make the world’s products smarter, safer, greener and more connected; we’re also innovating ways to lead the way in sustainability, community and other measures of corporate responsibility. Turning problems into solutions is just one way we can make the world a better place. Contents 4 Letter From Our Chairman and CEO 5 About TE Connectivity 8 About This Report 14 Governance, Compliance, and Ethics 26 Environmental Responsibility in Our Operations 36 Responsibility in Our Products 44 Supplier Social Responsibility 52 Workplace and Responsibility to Our Employees 60 Responsibility in Our Communities 4 | INTRODUCTION INTRODUCTION | GOVERNANCE | OPERATIONS | PRODUCTS | SUPPLY CHAIN | WORKPLACE | COMMUNITIES | Message to Our Stakeholders Our values—integrity, accountability, teamwork, and innovation—define how we lead. They guide our daily decisions. By growing our business according to these principles, we earn the trust and respect of our colleagues, partners, and customers. We believe it is the right way to do business, and the only way to do business. This report showcases amazing results of TE • Exceeding $3 million of corporate giving people working toward sustainability. For the while employees gave nearly $1.5 million to second year, we’re listed on the Dow Jones charitable causes around the world Sustainability Index-North America—clear We are committed to innovation that recognition of our employee commitment to accelerates the world’s connectivity. We achieving responsible results. Other highlights are equally committed to delivering on that include: promise responsibly, sustainably, and ethically. • Reducing greenhouse gases by 17%, energy We encourage our business partners and consumption by 12%, water usage by 16%, customers to do the same. The last year shows and hazardous waste by 42%, all from our terrific progress. I thank and congratulate FY10 baseline our TE employees around the world for their commitment to doing the right thing. • Implementing an ambitious shipboard energy management plan decreased shipping I’m proud to share their work. fleet fuel usage by nearly 100,000 metric tons, while greenhouse gas emissions were reduced by nearly 90,000 metric tons • Innovating safe and reliable replacement of copper with aluminum wiring in cars helping automotive customers reduce vehicle CO2 Tom Lynch emissions Chairman and Chief Executive Officer TE Connectivity 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report | 5 About TE Connectivity TE Connectivity (NYSE: TEL) is a $13 billion world leader in connectivity. The company designs and manufactures products at the heart of electronic connections for the world’s leading industries including automotive, energy and industrial, broadband communications, consumer devices, healthcare, and aerospace. TE Connectivity’s long-standing commitment to innovation and engineering excellence helps its customers solve the need for more energy efficiency, always-on communications, and ever-increasing productivity. With approximately 90,000 employees in over 50 countries, TE Connectivity makes connections the world relies on to work flawlessly every day. To connect with the company, visit: www.te.com. TE Segments TE operates through four reporting segments aligned to our strategy and vertical markets. TRANSPORTATION NETWORK Solutions Solutions INDUSTRIAL CONSUMER Solutions Solutions 6 | INTRODUCTION INTRODUCTION | GOVERNANCE | OPERATIONS | PRODUCTS | SUPPLY CHAIN | WORKPLACE | COMMUNITIES | Corporate Responsibility at TE Connectivity Corporate responsibility is about the number of ways we can make a difference in the world. Each year, we find new ways to improve our sustainability, compliance and community efforts, always focusing on being a responsible member of the communities we’re in. TE Connectivity has a reputation of delivering The actions we take today will have impact high-quality, innovative products that help far into the future, so we’re dedicated to keep our customers address their connectivity adapting our corporate responsibility program challenges, helping them make lighter, safer to the ever-changing environment of our social and greener products that can better the world. and technological world. As a company that Serving our customers, our employees, our thrives on innovation, it is also our duty to apply shareholders and community members with that innovation in ways that can better the sustainability top of mind is good for business entire world and we whole-heartedly accept and right for protecting the world’s future. that challenge. Our 27,500 direct and indirect suppliers are For more information on our an extension of the work we do, so we make Corporate Responsibility Program, visit rigorous efforts to make sure they operate www.te.com/responsibility or email us at with the same values with which we conduct TERA@te.com. our business—reducing waste, protecting the environment and following the same social responsibility guidelines we do. We take measures in our own operations to improve working conditions at our facilities worldwide, reduce material waste, reduce energy and water consumption, give back to our communities and more. TE Connectivity 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report | 7 Corporate Responsibility Program Priorities at TE Each year, we discuss and prioritize corporate responsibility issues that are relevant to both our business and society. As a global company, we stay aware of the relevant issues important to tackle for each TE location and set priorities accordingly. Our corporate responsibility department sits within our legal department. We also involve senior executives from our business Aspects Addressed on page segments and other stakeholders to help Economic Performance Annual Report develop plans of action. Anti-Corruption 17 Legal Compliance 14-21 Risk Management 23 Energy 28 Emissions 30 Waste 31 Water 27 Product Compliance 36 Innovation 38 Supplier Social Responsibility 44-49 Occupational Health and Safety 57 Learning and Development 52-53 Inclusion and Diversity 54 Local Communities 60-65 8 | INTRODUCTION INTRODUCTION | GOVERNANCE | OPERATIONS | PRODUCTS | SUPPLY CHAIN | WORKPLACE | COMMUNITIES | About This Report Our Corporate Responsibility Report and website communicate the progress we’ve made in maintaining our promise to the U.N. Global Compact. This is our fourth annual report, and it covers the impact of all our global operations and subsidiaries for our fiscal year, which runs from September 29, 2012 to September 27, 2013, unless stated otherwise. We use the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines—the world’s most widely used sustainability reporting framework. GRI’s Reporting Principles of materiality, sustainability context, stakeholder inclusiveness, and completeness helped us select and prioritize the content for the report at the Core Level. More details about our corporate responsibility policies, activities, and performance are available www.te.com/responsibility. TE Connectivity 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report | 9 Examples of How We Engage with Key Stakeholder Groups Communities Employees Nonprofits • Social investment programs • Regular informal • Working with partners to through corporate giving engagement through team deliver community and and through the TE meetings corporate responsibility Connectivity Foundation • Internal communications programs • Partnerships with • Quarterly town hall • Providing technology skills nonprofits, governments, meetings within business and expertise through and non-governmental units and functions employee volunteering organizations • Annual leadership and sales • Driving non-governmental • Employee volunteering meetings organizations’ efficiency and participation in civic • Employee pulse survey and effectiveness through councils in their local • Annual ethics training and technology grants communities certification to Code of Suppliers Corporate Responsibility Business Conduct • Close collaboration to Thought Leaders Governments and incorporate corporate • Annual review of our Regulators responsibility into all Corporate Responsibility • Contributing to policy aspects of the supply chain program and report development through our • Supplier Guide to Social Customers Global Government Affairs Responsibility team • Annual customer • Regular audits to ensure our satisfaction survey • Working with government suppliers are adhering to officials and regulators to the Supplier Guide to Social • Customer audits ensure proper oversight of Responsibility • TE.com website issues of importance • Field teams Investors and • Channel partners Analysts • Customer service • Regular meetings with investors Distribution Partners • Annual Meeting of • Annual partner satisfaction Shareholders survey • Annual Report • Annual in-person meetings • Proxy Statement with our key distributors • Our Corporate Responsibility Report • Sustainability investment indices • Investor Relations website 10 | INTRODUCTION INTRODUCTION | GOVERNANCE | OPERATIONS | PRODUCTS | SUPPLY CHAIN | WORKPLACE | COMMUNITIES | Corporate Responsibility Snapshot FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 Financial Net Sales (in US millions) $11,681 $13,778 $13,282 $13,280 Governance Percentage of employees certifying 94% 99% 97% 99% compliance with the TE Guide to Ethical Conduct Total number of ethics and compliance 100,818 144,537 125,155 229,468 training sessions completed Total number of matters reported to the 588 685 769 710 Ombudsman Office Total number of matters closed by the 515 669 735 772 Ombudsman Office Environment Greenhouse gas emissions (metric tons 820,705 759,323 710,557 685,484 CO2 equivalent) Greenhouse gas intensity (metric tons of 68 53 53 52 CO2/net sales in millions) Energy consumption (electricity, heat, 1,767,317 1,676,666 1,537,071 1,563,866 steam, cooling in Mwh) Energy usage intensity (Mwh/net sales in 146 117 116 118 millions) Water usage (millions of gallons) 1,318 1,283 1,155 1,108 Wastewater (millions of gallons) 1,039 1,020 919 885 Hazardous waste generated (metric tons) 7,009 4,809 3,694 4,120 Materials recycled/reused (metric tons) 74,741 70,204 63,348 67,737 Other waste disposed (metric tons) 15,124 14,272 16,700 16,837 TE Connectivity 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report | 11 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 Products Number of engineers 7,000 7,400 7,400 6,900 Research, development, and engineering $563 $701 $688 $675 dollars spent (in US millions) Supply Chain Total direct and indirect suppliers 34,242 31,900 31,983 27,537 Total direct material suppliers 10,946 9,485 9,642 14, 376 Total indirect suppliers 23,296 21,953 22,340 13, 161 Number of supplier screenings 9 143 243 303 Workplace Employees at year end 89,000 94,000 88,000 90,000 Employees active on Learning Management 11,180 16,323 21,462 33,855 System Employee safety: Total recordable incident 0.54 0.47 0.34 0.30 rate (per 100 employees)1 Employee safety: Lost time recordable 0.26 0.24 0.14 0.14 incident rate (per 100 employees)2 Women in leadership positions worldwide (note 3) 64 100 106 Community & Philanthropy Corporate charitable giving (in USD) $1,427,332 $2,200,045 $2,572,837 $3,066,766 Employee donations (in USD) $1,248,041 $1,470,336 $1,299,372 $1,388,430 Total amount of grants made by the TE $604,534 $529,046 $513,695 $649,721 Connectivity Foundation (in USD) Notes 1. Work-related injuries or illnesses involving more than first aid per 100 employees per year. 2. Work-related injuries or illnesses involving lost time per 100 employees per year. 3. This data was not collected in 2010. 12 | INTRODUCTION | GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE | OPERATIONS | PRODUCTS | SUPPLY CHAIN | WORKPLACE | COMMUNITIES | GOVERNANCE, COMPLIANCE, AND ETHICS TE Connectivity 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report | 13 14 | INTRODUCTION | GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE | OPERATIONS | PRODUCTS | SUPPLY CHAIN | WORKPLACE | COMMUNITIES | GOVERNANCE, COMPLIANCE, AND ETHICS We create a positive work environment by encouraging values-based decision making to foster responsible business growth. We highlight the importance of these standards through proper training, multiple channels of communication, and high ethical standards. Increased global attention on standards in corpThe board, together with senior management, is also orate compliance reinforces the importance of our responsible for establishing our operating values strong culture of ethics and compliance. To support and for setting strategic direction and priorities. the expansion of our initiatives in this area, we Our board provides management with strategic have a full-time Chief Ethics and Compliance guidance, and ensures that management adopts Officer and a global compliance team devoted and implements procedures designed to promote to promoting and further strengthening our efforts. legal compliance and the highest standards of integrity and ethics throughout the organization. Board of Directors The board meets at least four times each year, and each of its committees typically meet more Good governance starts with a responsible frequently. The chairman and lead independent board of directors. At TE, our strong commitment director arrange for senior managers to attend to high personal and professional integrity leads us board and committee meetings and meet inforto recruit and retain directors who also share the mally with directors before and after the meetings. same values. To conduct its oversight function, the board TE’s board of directors sets the tone for our maintains the following three standing committees entire company. They are responsible for composed entirely of independent directors: directing the management of our business units • Audit in the best interests of shareholders and in a • Management Development and Compensation manner that is consistent with good corporate • Nominating, Governance and Compliance citizenship. TE board members: • Select and monitor our top management Board Composition and • Provide oversight for financial reporting and Independence legal compliance Our board is constituted to be strong in its • Determine the company’s governance collective knowledge and diversity of experience principles in accounting and finance, management and leadership, vision and strategy, business oper• Implement governance policies ations, business judgment, crisis management, risk assessment, industry knowledge, corporate governance, and global markets. 15 Our Board Yong Nam Advisor to the CEO, Daelim The board is led by a chairman and a lead independent director. A non-executive director of Directors Industrial Co. Ltd. served as chairman through January 2013. Eleven of our twelve directors are independent. All Profile Daniel J. Phelan directors are annually elected by a majority of Retired Chief of Staff, votes cast at the annual general meeting, and Thomas J. Lynch GlaxoSmithKline plc they serve for one-year terms. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Lawrence S. Smith Our directors meet a strict set of performance TE Connectivity Ltd. Retired Executive Vice criteria, including demonstrating the highest President and Co-CFO, ethical standards and integrity, a history of Frederic M. Poses* Comcast Corporation achievement that reflects superior standards Chief Executive Officer and for themselves and others, and an ability to Partner, Ascend Performance Paula A. Sneed take tough positions while at the same time Materials Chair and Chief Executive working as a team player. They possess individual Officer, Phelps Prescott backgrounds that exemplify a wide range of Dr. Pierre R. Group, LLC experience and knowledge. Brondeau A number of procedures exist so that conflicts of President, Chair, Chief David P. Steiner interest for directors are avoided. For example, Executive Officer and President, Chief Executive directors undergo an annual performance and Chairman, FMC Corporation Officer and Director, Waste review process to consider employment or Management, Inc. business associations affecting their qualification Dr. Juergen W. as an independent TE director. Gromer John C. Van Scoter Retired President, 6 President, Chief Executive Tyco Electronics Officer, and Director, eSolar, Inc. NUMBER OF Dr. William A. Jeffrey TIMES OUR Chief Executive Officer Laura H. Wright BOARD MET and President, HRL Founder, GSB Advisors IN FY2013 Laboratories, LLC * Lead Independent Director of the TE Connectivity Ltd. board of directors. 16 | INTRODUCTION | GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE | OPERATIONS | PRODUCTS | SUPPLY CHAIN | WORKPLACE | COMMUNITIES | Executive Compensation annual cash incentive awards are tied to overall corporate, segment or business unit Philosophy measures that distinguish our highest from our lowest performing business units. Our Our executive compensation philosophy program also permits limited discretion to calls for competitive total compensation that recognize superior business unit or individual reward executives for achieving individual and performance. Long-term incentive awards corporate performance objectives. Our goal is are designed to reward our executive officers to attract, motivate and retain leaders who will for creating long-term shareholder value. drive the creation of shareholder value. Long-term incentive awards for executive The Management Development and officers are granted primarily in the form of Compensation Committee (MDCC) reviews stock options and performance stock units. and administers the compensation and benefit • Appropriate risk—Our executive programs for executive officers and performs compensation programs are designed an annual assessment of the company’s to encourage executive officers to take executive compensation policy. In determining appropriate risks in managing their total compensation, the MDCC considers the businesses to achieve optimal performance. objectives and attributes described below. • Competitive with external talent markets— • Shareholder alignment—Our executive Our executive compensation programs compensation programs are designed are designed to be competitive within the to create shareholder value. Long-term relevant markets. In particular, we consider incentive awards, which make up a significant compensation for comparable executives percentage of our executives’ total within a general peer group of companies compensation, closely align the interests of that compete with us for executive talent and executives with the long-term interests of our a peer group of companies in the electronics shareholders. industry, and where appropriate, supplement these analyses with additional indices for • Performance based—Many components unique positions. of our executive compensation package are linked to performance. For example, Governance of Corporate ResponsiBoard Level (meets 4 or more times a year) bility at TE • Enterprise Risk • Product Innovation • Talent and Succession Our board of directors Management (annually) (4 times per year) Review (annually) reviews all of our corporate responsibility initiatives. While we do not have a separate sustainability Management Audit Nominating, committee, the board Development & Governance & Committee and its three standing Compensation Compliance committees oversee • Ombudsman • Executive (4 times per year) • Enterprise Risk sustainability and other efforts that fall under TE Compensation Management (annually) • Compliance and Corporate Responsibility. (4 or more times • Environment, Health & Ethics (annually) Here is how the board and per year) Safety (annually) its committees receive reports and oversee these • Compliance and efforts: Ethics (twice annually) • Philanthropy (annually) TE Connectivity 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report | 17 • Focus on executive stock ownership— The TE Connectivity Ltd. Share Ownership and Retention Requirement Plan, together with long-term equity awards, drives executive stock ownership. Beginning in fiscal 2014, stock ownership requirements for the named executive officers have increased from two to three times base salary. The stock ownership requirements for our chief executive officer is six times base salary. • Simple and transparent—Our executive compensation programs are designed to be readily understood by our executives and transparent to our investors. Our Guide to Ethical Conduct Our Guide to Ethical Conduct is the cornerstone GUIDE TO of our compliance program. As a multinational ETHICAL CONDUCT company, our employees have different backgrounds, life experiences, training, and CERTIFICATION perspectives. Our guide promotes a common 99+ RATE IN FY2013 understanding among all employees of TE’s % values and how our core values relate to their jobs and the success of our company. The guide is available in 18 languages. TE’s policies, newsletters, training and other ethics and compliance educational materials are also available in multiple languages. All employees and are trained annually on the guide and are asked to certify on an annual basis their compliance with our policies and principles. This year, 99.55 percent of employees and 100 percent of senior management certified their compliance with the guide. Our Guide to Ethical Conduct uses real-life examples to educate our employees on TE policies including: • Anti-corruption • Fair treatment and mutual respect • Protection of confidentiality of information • Fair competition • Import and export compliance laws • Environment, health, and safety • Resources for questions and reporting misconduct 18 | INTRODUCTION | GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE | OPERATIONS | PRODUCTS | SUPPLY CHAIN | WORKPLACE | COMMUNITIES | Business Partner Management Program In 2013, TE initiated a global automated Business Partner Management (BPM) Program. This new process ensures that our business partners’ commitment to shared success, ethics, and values mirrors our own. The BPM Program requires prospective business partners to be sponsored by a TE employee (the business sponsor). The business sponsor oversees the business partner through a mandatory vetting process including: • Completion of an informational questionnaire • Review of TE’s Guide to Ethical Conduct • Completion of an anti-bribery certification Integrity in Our Supply Chain We view our global supply base as an extension of our organization, so we are committed to ensuring that our suppliers are held to the same high standards of integrity and uncompromising values exemplified by TE employees. This ensurance comes from direct supplier engagement through the Supplier Social Responsibility Program, a set of formal assessment and audit processes that provide transparency in supplier operations. TE is also committed to working with suppliers who are in the process of building their own corporate social responsibility programs. We help ensure their success by raising awareness about key issues, from conflict minerals and compliance to employee health and safety. TE’s Supplier Social Responsibility Program is discussed in detail in the Supplier Social Responsibility section of this report. TE Connectivity 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report | 19 Empowering confidential resource. Employees, suppliers, investors, customers, and other third parties Employees to Address can ask questions or address concerns with the Ombudsman about potential violations of the Non-Compliance Guide to Ethical Conduct, our policies, laws, All employees are responsible for upholding regulations, safety, or ethics. our values, so we want them to ask questions Reporting directly to the board of director’s about compliance issues, especially when Audit Committee, the Ombudsman ensures an answer may not be clear. We strongly that all reported issues are thoroughly and encourage employees—and make it easy for confidentially addressed and resolved by them—to report potential non-compliance using internal and/or external resources as issues in a timely manner to their supervisor, appropriate. The Ombudsman and chief to the human resources or law department, ethics and compliance officer regularly meet or to the Office of the Ombudsman. with the Compliance Committee, which includes members from TE’s senior management team, to discuss compliance issues and program response. Board We encourage concerned people or groups to contact the Office of the Ombudsman by telephone, via the toll-free global ConcernLINE, or through the ConcernNET website. Reports can also be made anonymously where permitted by applicable law. We also encourage our managers, supervisors, HR team, and other Audit Committee internal groups to inform the Ombudsman of any possible misconduct so that any issues can be investigated and appropriately addressed. In FY2013, the Office of the Ombudsman received 710 reports, the majority of which dealt Office of the with company policies, conflicts of interest, and Ombudsman general employment questions. In about half of the cases that were resolved during the year, TE took corrective actions or otherwise made improvements to the benefit of our company Office of the Ombudsman and our employees. Even when cases are unsubstantiated, the reporting process provides All reports of possible violations are taken us with valuable insights and opportunities to seriously and appropriately addressed with be proactive and institute better preventive the oversight of the Office of the Ombudsman. measures. The Ombudsman is an appointed TE employee who acts as an independent, impartial, and 20 | INTRODUCTION | GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE | OPERATIONS | PRODUCTS | SUPPLY CHAIN | WORKPLACE | COMMUNITIES | Global Government Affairs The GGA team works strategically with government officials around the world to shape Corporations should exist not only to make public policies and political decisions that a profit, but to make a difference. It’s the affect TE’s business objectives and the global responsibility of global corporations like TE to marketplace. By increasing TE’s leadership on leverage our economic power, reach, and unique public policies that have a direct impact on assets to impact the world in a positive way. innovation, competitiveness, market access, and business growth, GGA enhances the company’s TE’s Global Government Affairs (GGA) team opportunity to “do well by doing good.” works to make a difference for the company and the communities in which we are located. By Around the world, TE is actively involved in engaging with local business, community and policies that maximize the ability of TE and its government partners, we can advance common employees to innovate in order to create jobs, goals, build positive community programs and strengthen the global economy and support enact public policy that serves not only the competitiveness. Key issues to TE are examined company, its shareholders and its employees, on the following page. but also the larger good. TE Connectivity 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report | 21 Innovation/Competitiveness Trade/Market Access • Tax—As a global company TE can be The products that TE manufactures rely on significantly impacted by the tax and complex global supply chains and markets that economic development policies of the require the free flow of goods. TE advocates countries in which its facilities are located. for policies that open markets by lowering TE supports tax policies that promote global tariff and non-tariff barriers, strengthen trade innovation, competitiveness and job creation. facilitation programs, support a rules-based • Education—Skilled workers add value to the international trading system, and do not limit labor force by increasing productivity and global procurement. developing innovative products. TE actively promotes education and training policies that Business Growth ensure a skilled, robust workforce that is able • Telecommunications—TE believes that to meet the demands of the 21st century. market-based solutions—not burdensome • Workforce—By attracting, developing and regulations—should be the option of choice retaining a world-class global workforce that to satisfy consumer demand for wired and reflects TE’s core values and respects the wireless broadband solutions. local culture, HR laws, and policies—such as immigration, overtime, benefits, and • Automotive—TE supports initiatives workplace safety—of the regions in which we that encourage development of mobility do business, the company is able to enrich solutions and the systems that make these the communities where our employees live technologies more safe and efficient, and work. TE supports policies that enable including safety and navigation systems; companies to recruit, hire, relocate and retain battery and charging systems; sensors; and the talent necessary to meet its business power management systems. needs in a global economy. • Energy—TE is confident that funding for • Privacy—TE recognizes the importance ongoing research and development is integral of protection of information, including to the expansion of alternative energy personally identifiable information, and is solutions. committed to complying with the laws where it operates. The company supports data privacy regulations that protect personal data without placing undue reporting and regulatory requirements on industry. Corporations • Cybersecurity—TE supports a cybersecurity policy that increases information sharing should exist not between the public and private sector without increasing a company’s liability. The only to make a policy should draw on industry-driven best practices, rather than government mandates, profit but to make to develop policies for improved security of critical infrastructure without imposing a difference.” prescriptive regulatory requirements that stifle innovation and can impede global market access. 22 | INTRODUCTION | GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE | OPERATIONS | PRODUCTS | SUPPLY CHAIN | WORKPLACE | COMMUNITIES | Spotlight: TE Law Department and is currently advocating for the client in her guardianship dispute. Prisco said, “The VIP Recognized for Significant group provided me with the support of training Contribution to the materials, initial case consult and an assigned mentor. I felt very comfortable assisting the Community client with her legal issues, despite the fact that I did not have prior experience with the subject In 2013, TE and its in-house counsel were matter.” honored with two prestigious Pro Bono awards. The Philadelphia Bar Foundation and The The ACC Pro Bono Award recognized TE’s Law Association of Corporate Counsel (ACC) both Department for its volunteer efforts for the formally recognized TE’s Law Department LawWorks Program and the Wills for Heroes for its outstanding pro bono efforts on behalf Foundation. The Wills for Heroes Foundation is of disadvantaged community members and charitable organizations. The Philadelphia Bar Foundation Pro Bono Skills-based volunteering is Award honored TE’s partnership with the ideal way TE’s in-house Philadelphia VIP, the umbrella organization lawyers can contribute to the for pro bono activities serving lower-income Philadelphia communities. The partnership, company’s social responsibility spearheaded by Associate General Counsel efforts. I’m extremely proud Lee Zimmerman, offers TE legal staff the of our department’s volunteer opportunity to participate in Philadelphia VIP’s efforts and the recognition we LawWorks Project clinics and conduct pro bono counseling sessions. have received from the legal community.” John Jenkins, EVP and General Counsel a nonprofit organization that enlists volunteer attorneys to provide free wills and other estate planning documents for first responders and their spouses or significant others. The TE legal team provided pro bono services to a total of 108 first responders and their families over a series of three separate events. These volunteer clinics were held to support police officers, firefighters and other first responders Through the LawWorks Project over the last two who serve our office communities in Berwyn years, more than 19 TE attorneys and law clerks and Middletown, Pennsylvania and Wilmington, have offered one-on-one consultations for 37 Delaware. small business owners, micro-entrepreneurs and To read more about TE Connectivity’s nonprofit organizations free of charge. commitment to corporate responsibility, Jennifer Prisco, legal counsel, accepted a visit http://www.te.com/responsibility. guardianship case through VIP. Jennifer consulted with the client about ideal outcomes TE Connectivity 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report | 23 ...approximately 100 producManaging Risks tion locations throughout Mitigating risks has been and always will be an essential part of our commitment to the world help us diversify providing a safe and secure workplace, working and mitigate our risks...” as a premier partner to our customers, and protecting the company and its shareholders. Our approach to risk management is based on a rigorous assessment and analytical process Business Continuity which evaluates the upside and downside of Our customers rely on us to get our products to strategic, technical, and tactical risks. This them in a timely manner even when unforeseen comprehensive approach enables us to make circumstances arise. That’s why we’ve built our better decisions when considering the impacts business continuity practices on international on our company, stakeholders, customers, and standards and take a risk-based approach communities. While some risks, such as political to implementing mitigation actions. These instability, are not within our control, we practices position us to reduce the impact establish contingency plans to help us stay agile from an interruption and quickly recover and proactively address external risks. from one when it does occur. In addition, our approximately 100 production locations In addition, our Enterprise Risk Management throughout the world help us diversify and team works closely with our businesses and mitigate our risks, allowing us to deliver functional owners to evaluate emerging risks consistently to our customers. and appropriate mitigation actions. 24 | INTRODUCTION | GOVERNANCE | OPERATIONS OPERATIONS | PRODUCTS | SUPPLY CHAIN | WORKPLACE | COMMUNITIES | OPERATI TE Connectivity 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report | 25 ONS NS ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY IN OUR OPERATIONS 26 | INTRODUCTION | GOVERNANCE | OPERATIONS OPERATIONS | PRODUCTS | SUPPLY CHAIN | WORKPLACE | COMMUNITIES | MAKING A DIFFERENCE TE is committed to environmental protection and sustainability. We show our commitment through our company-wide efforts to reduce our energy and water usage, waste, and greenhouse gas emissions. We are proud to say our efforts are paying off. Starting in 2008, we began collecting data to eliminate hazardous waste. Since that time, measure our carbon footprint. We used this we have continued to expand company-wide data to initiate our efforts to reduce greenhouse processes to reduce our energy and water gas emissions. Since then, we have incorporated usage, and minimize our generation of waste. our commitment to emissions reduction into TE operations worldwide. This year, we saw a reducEnvironmental Management tion of 16 percent over 2010, our baseline year. Systems Throughout 2013, we have continued to reduce More than half of TE’s manufacturing sites the environmental impact of our operations have their environmental management systems around the globe, implementing hundreds of (EMS) certified to ISO 14001 by third parties. To projects that reflect our commitment. In 2013, achieve certification, a facility must demonstrate we achieved reductions in four key areas. that its EMS identifies significant environmental impacts, sets goals and targets, and has a • Water usage & wastewater discharge robust system for evaluating performance, • Energy consumption taking corrective actions where needed, • Greenhouse gas emissions checking statuses on an ongoing basis, and • Waste continually improving performance. TE sites without third party certification have Resource Conservation EMS that include most of the key elements Our earliest environmental efforts included of the ISO 14001 standard, including aspects the establishment of “closed-loop” plating analysis, measurement and management review, at many of our manufacturing facilities. This checking and corrective actions, and selfprocess, adopted in the 1990s, uses extensive assessments. wastewater recycling as well as stringent treatment processes to conserve water and TE Connectivity 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report | 27 Water and Wastewater Protecting and conserving water is crucial for the world’s future. By reducing our water usage and the amount of wastewater generated from our operations, we can help the environment, simplify our processes, and cut material usage and costs. Water Policy 1,318 1,108 TE is not a water intensive company, and only #16 a small number of our 100+ operating locations around the globe are located in areas defined by the U.N. as “water stressed.” Nevertheless, % we recognize that water is becoming a scarce commodity in many nations. We closely monitor our operations, and we are taking action to reduce water use. Water Usage 2010 2013 Water Usage Millions of gallons TE uses water for manufacturing processes and sanitary uses, including plating of metal which historically has involved large quantities of One quarter of our 27 plating facilities water for rinsing. incorporate a zero wastewater technology, Due to our ongoing conservation efforts, in 2013 and in those that do not, we use wastewater our operations used approximately 1.1 billion treatment systems. All wastewater is treated gallons of water, an 16 percent decrease for water to meet applicable discharge limits, and we usage compared with our baseline year 2010. often go beyond regulatory requirements. In particular, we have modified plating equipment Wastewater to significantly reduce wastewater volume, chemical usage, and hazardous We have wastewater discharge associated with waste generation. both our manufacturing processes and sanitary uses. In 2013, our operations discharged 885 million gallons of wastewater. This is a 15 percent decrease in wastewater discharge compared with FY2010. 28 | INTRODUCTION | GOVERNANCE | OPERATIONS OPERATIONS | PRODUCTS | SUPPLY CHAIN | WORKPLACE | COMMUNITIES | Energy Reduction Our commitment to resource conservation is evident throughout our operations, from large-scale solar installations and water reclamation projects, to numerous smaller, energy-saving efforts. Each year, we identify and implement hundreds of energy-saving projects. Some of these Spotlight: projects are as simple as installing more efficient lighting systems, better controlling how much space we heat and cool, or reducing hot water temperatures. Yet, the combined impact of these many smaller projects is significant. We also implement more substantial projects, such as upgrading air compressor systems (a major energy expense for TE). Some of these larger projects are highlighted in the following pages. 1,767 A Partnership in 1,564 Sustainability #12 A TE plating facility in Dinkelsbuehl, % Germany identified an opportunity to utilize a more sustainable energy source by buying super-heated water from a nearby fermentation plant (bio-gas). Now this partnership is a sustainability success shared by TE, the farmer, and the local Energy Consumption 2010 2013 community alike. Electricity, heat, steam, cooling in The plating process at the Dinkelsbuehl millions of Kwh plant requires a significant amount of heat. By utilizing the hot water from the bio-gas plant, TE was able to reduce its electricity usage by 1.5 million kwh—10 percent of the plant’s total usage—and CO2 emissions were reduced by more than 500 metric tons, or 8.5 percent of the plant’s total emissions. TE Connectivity 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report | 29 Spotlight: These and more efforts have successfully improved operations, extended engine lifetimes, and reduced fuel consumption far beyond expectations. By the end of 2013, the total fuel reduction neared 10,000 metric tons with a corresponding decrease in greenhouse gas emissions and a cost savings of over $10 million. For more information about TE SubCom please visit http://www.subcom.com or http://www.youtube.com/user/ TE Subsea Communicasubcomchannel. tions’ Green Ships Initiative Conserves Fuel, Reduces Carbon Emissions TE SubCom ships are running more Spotlight: efficiently than ever thanks to an ambitious shipboard energy management plan. Since its implementation in 2010, the project has saved nearly 10,000 metric tons of fuel while reducing greenhouse gas emissions by close to 90,000 metric tons. The project began with a rigorous team effort to track baseline fuel consumption, and determine the most strategic methods of conserving fuel. Initially, TE SubCom Large-Scale Solar Panel had no metrics to compare ship operating Installation in Kakegawa, parameters, or whether fuel savings could even be achieved. Furthermore, Japan no industry standards or benchmarking Our facility in Kakegawa was designed existed, and the team was unaware of as a high-efficiency, environmentally any similar ship operations tracking and friendly manufacturing plant. The roof was implementing fuel reductions. constructed with 4,536 solar panels using TE’s Solarlock junction boxes, connectors, Project leaders spent three years and cables in every panel. establishing benchmark data and developing energy-saving efforts that were The panels can generate electricity at implemented throughout TE SubCom’s a rate of as much as 1,079 kilowatts per fleet in 2010. Ship schedules were adjusted hour—equivalent to the electricity usage to accommodate more fuel-efficient of 256 average households in Japan. The speeds, while routes were re-calculated to placement of the panels on the roof is take better advantage of ocean currents. also expected to improve heat reflection, Upgraded bottom and propeller paint as so less energy will be needed for air well as more closely managed hull and conditioning. The use of solar panels propeller cleaning resulted in less drag on this facility alone will decrease CO2 and hull resistance. Crewmembers actively emissions by approximately 400 metric tons participated in the onboard conservation each year. of water and power. 30 | INTRODUCTION | GOVERNANCE | OPERATIONS OPERATIONS | PRODUCTS | SUPPLY CHAIN | WORKPLACE | COMMUNITIES | Greenhouse Gas Emissions TE is committed to addressing the global challenge of climate change. In 2008, we began collecting data to measure our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, and in 2009 we set our first GHG emission reduction goal. Since then, we have built our commitment to GHG reductions into our operations by: • Installing recovery systems at all of TE’s 821 electron beam sites to reduce releases 685 of sulfur hexafluoride (SF6), a potent #17 % greenhouse gas • Comprehensively measuring our energy usage and GHG emissions at over 200 significant locations around the world • Conducting audits of energy usage at our sites, focusing on our highest-use sites • Tracking and evaluating audit findings Greenhouse Gas 2010 2013 and site-initiated energy projects using a Emissions company-wide database In thousands of metric tons CO2 equivalent • Establishing minimum energy standards for site equipment and systems • Adding an energy and GHG emissions focus to teams responsible for each of our major processes (plating, compounding beaming Spotlight: and tubing, molding, stamping, TE’s Kessel-Lo Plant and assembly) Reduces Greenhouse Gas • Establishing energy teams at all sites with more than 50 employees Emissions by 44 Percent • Communicating with employees at all TE’s Telecom division reduced greenhouse sites regarding energy consumption, GHG gas emissions with the installation of a emissions, and opportunities for reductions new sulfur hexafluoride (SF6) recovery system. SF6 is an excellent electrical At the end of 2013, we are well on our way insulator, but it is also a potent greenhouse to our new goal of an additional 10 percent gas. The upgrade resulted in an impressive reduction by 2015. We have reduced energy 44 percent reduction in greenhouse gas consumption by 12 percent on an absolute basis emissions for the Kessel-Lo facility. and by 22 percent on a sales-adjusted basis. We have reduced greenhouse gas emissions by 17 percent on an absolute basis and by 26 percent on a sales-adjusted basis. TE Connectivity 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report | 31 Waste Zero waste is our long-term goal, so we are constantly seeking to re-engineer our products and production processes to become waste-free. We are improving purchasing and manufacturing practices so that raw material waste is at an absolute minimum. Additionally, we have focused our attention on reducing hazardous waste. In FY2013, compared with our baseline of FY2010, we reduced the amount of hazardous Spotlight: waste generated by 42 percent. TE’s Culpeper Plant 7,009 Improves Energy Efficiency by 15 to 20 Percent Our Culpeper, Virginia, Aerospace, 42 % 4,120 Defense, and Marine plant implemented # an emergency power system that greatly reduced the plant’s usage of a fuelhungry diesel generator. The new system eliminated the need for a generator to run 24/7, resulting in an energy savings of 15 to 20 percent. The reduced fuel Hazardous Waste 2010 2013 consumption reduces greenhouse gas Generated emissions at a rate equivalent to taking In Metric tons 233 cars off the road. 32 | INTRODUCTION | GOVERNANCE | OPERATIONS OPERATIONS | PRODUCTS | SUPPLY CHAIN | WORKPLACE | COMMUNITIES | Supporting Environmental Efforts Worldwide Since the 1990s, TE has taken measures—often significant— to reduce our impact on the environment. In addition to focusing on our own operations, we also reach out to support environmental efforts in communities worldwide. Apart from awarding grants to boost environmental efforts in the U.S., we encourage and reward employee volunteer efforts on behalf of the environment. Following are some of the environmental projects we supported in 2013. Spotlight: Urban Forest Planting in Bangalore, India In an effort to support urban forest initiatives in Bangalore, TE India has committed to ongoing support of non-profit Eco-Watch. TE supports the organization’s reforestation efforts through employee participation and financial assistance. At urban planting events, employees participate in digging thousands of pits, obtaining saplings, watering, fertilizing and nurturing the plants throughout the year. TE Connectivity 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report | 33 Spotlight: Spotlight: TE Connectivity TE Rides to Raise Foundation Supports High Environmental Awareness School Wind Power in the Philippines The TE Connectivity Foundation, in TE employees joined 15,000 bicyclists conjunction with the Pennsylvania Wind from all over the Philippines for the 14th for Schools program operated by Tour of the Fireflies in Manila, Philippines. Pennsylvania State University, provided Riders covered approximately 35 kilometers, funding for a new wind turbine installed passing through the cities of Pasig, Quezon, at James Buchanan High School in Marikina, Mandaluyong and San Juan. Mercersburg, PA. The TE Connectivity The tour is organized by the Firefly Foundation gave $20,000 for the project Brigade of the Philippines, a non-profit including $10,000 to help purchase the organization promoting the bicycle as turbine, $5,000 to offset teacher profesa sustainable form of transportation. sional development costs, and $5,000 to The objectives of the tour were to raise support a Student Wind Challenge. awareness of environmental issues, One of the main goals of the Wind for particularly pollution due to emissions Schools program is to educate students from vehicles, and biking as a means of about wind energy. Students track the transportation as well as for good health. turbine’s power production through a After the ride, TE donated 10 mountain computer system. Penn State students bikes along with helmets to the Firefly and faculty also assist in the wind resource Brigade organizers. The donated bikes and site assessment of the wind energy and equipment will be used to help in systems and act as science mentors to advocating for a cleaner environment. the students. 34 | INTRODUCTION | GOVERNANCE | OPERATIONS | PRODUCTS PRODUCTS | SUPPLY CHAIN | WORKPLACE | COMMUNITIES | PRO RESPONSIBILITY IN OUR PRODUCTS TE Connectivity 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report | 35 DUCTS 36 | INTRODUCTION | GOVERNANCE | OPERATIONS | PRODUCTS PRODUCTS | SUPPLY CHAIN | WORKPLACE | COMMUNITIES | SUSTAINABILITY FROM START TO FINISH Responsibility in our products starts with the designs we create and continues with the materials we choose, our manufacturing processes, and even our methods for the disposal of outdated materials and equipment. At TE, we practice sustainability at each and every stage of the product life cycle. This year, we continued to focus attention on High Concern (published through December how we choose our materials—being more 2013). We continue to work with our customers particular about volume ordered and more to develop substitutions to ensure that those conscious about the effect on the environment. substances will be removed from TE products We’re proving to ourselves and to our well before their respective sunset dates. customers that protecting the Earth is also TE also makes substantial efforts to reduce the good for business. use of halogens (including PVC) and phthalates. Product Stewardship Working to Set Global Standards Nearly all of our global product lines are TE actively participates in industry associations compliant to the 2011/65/EU Directive on the and standards organizations around the world, Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous such as iNEMI, TechAmerica, and China RoHS Substances in Electrical and Electronic Standard Working Groups, to provide input to Equipment (commonly referred to as RoHS the development of standards and regulations 2). Our remaining product lines are in industry that address management and control of segments, such as military and aerospace, hazardous substances. where RoHS compliant products are currently We also support initiatives to develop an neither required nor, in most cases, accepted. industry standard data-exchange format and We also focused on Registration, Evaluation, platform for product environmental compliance Authorization, and Restriction of Chemicals information. By adopting this standard, (REACH) with dedicated programs and resources the industry can significantly improve the to deal with the increasing legislative requirequality of data gathered as well as lower the ments as well as business continuity concerns. administrative burden of the multiple data Currently, less than one percent of our products exchanges needed throughout the supply chain. contain any of REACH’s 151 Substances of Very TE Connectivity 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report | 37 Spotlight: The Emerging World of Even more significant, as the quality of additive manufacturing technology improves and its Additive Manufacturing (3D use becomes more widespread, costs are Printing) lowering. At TE, where we have begun using In the 1990’s, the sci-fi television show this technology for rapid prototyping and “Star Trek” featured a device known as the even representative parts, we are now able “replicator.” This vital piece of machinery to look at ways to use the technology for could replicate anything at all: clothing, production of components, and even tooling. food, weapons, spare parts, and practically Additive technology’s potential benefits anything else the crew required. At the to sustainability are significant. For one, time, the replicator seemed no more than a when goods can be custom manufactured fantastic fabrication. Today, modern additive using only the required amount of material, manufacturing, more commonly known as 3D the result is a dramatic reduction in waste. printing, has turned fantasy into reality and Multiply that by the potential volume promises to revolutionize manufacturing. of production, and the waste reduction Modern 3D printers can replicate structures possibilities are staggering. out of an increasing range of materials, 3D printing also allows for much greater including resins, composites, wood, localization. Cost savings for modern manumetal, sugar, and more. Furthermore, the facturing has traditionally relied upon centraltechnology is expanding quickly. These ized, large-scale production. The flexibility of printers have advanced from creating additive manufacturing technology allows for immobile 3D objects to more complex more, smaller-scale manufacturing operations devices, complete with moving parts. catering to local markets. Shipping—its cost and impact on the environment—can be dramatically reduced. Spotlight: Spotlight: Wildlife Protection Avisphere: New TE Product Products Protects Birds in Flight Insulation Products Protect Wildlife TE France introduced a bird warning from Electrocution device for cables and wires at the Paris In the U.S. alone, power outages caused 2013 CIGRE (International Council for by wildlife are thought to cost around Large Electric Systems) convention. $25 billion each year, and cause the death The device’s bicolor photoluminescence of countless wildlife, including protected deters flying birds from striking overhead species of animals and birds. TE estimates transmission lines. TE research and that damage at electrical substations development teams worked with could be reduced by as much as 60 to transmission utility specialists and 80 percent simply by applying insulation, ornithologists in France to develop this which prevents animals from reaching groundbreaking new product. live wires. Interest in the prevention of such costly tragedy is increasing, and TE continues to develop well-designed wildlife protection products to meet the growing demand. 38 | INTRODUCTION | GOVERNANCE | OPERATIONS | PRODUCTS PRODUCTS | SUPPLY CHAIN | WORKPLACE | COMMUNITIES | Shakopee, US Harrisburg, US Eatontown, US Menlo Park, US Winston Salem, US Greensboro, US Research and Development TE Connectivity’s commitment to ongoing research and development goes far beyond a strong financial investment. Advanced development is the norm across all our business units, pushing next-generation technologies to stay ahead of changing trends. Our global team of engineers and innovation leaders collaborate regularly and discuss how connectivity solutions from one industry can solve challenges in another. This approach combining broad exposure and expertise is what makes TE the worldwide leader in connectivity. TE Connectivity 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report | 39 50–100 Design Engineers 100+ Design Engineers Swindon, UK Den Bosch, Netherlands Kessel-Lo, Belgium Bensheim, Germany Kawasaki, Japan Pontoise, France Kyungsangbuk-Do, S. Korea Shanghai, China Dongguan, China 7,000 ENGINEERS AROUND 18,000 PATENTS GRANTED + THE GLOBE OR PENDING 24 % OF SALES FROM NEW PROD$ 675M INVESTED IN R&D UCTS INTRODUCED OVER THE AND ENGINEERING IN FY2013 LAST THREE FISCAL YEARS 40 | INTRODUCTION | GOVERNANCE | OPERATIONS | PRODUCTS PRODUCTS | SUPPLY CHAIN | WORKPLACE | COMMUNITIES | Understanding the Lifecycle We have integrated our worldwide processes QC080000 industrial standard and integrated and activities to reduce environmental with key TE business processes. This system impacts through the lifecycle of our products is a supplement to the TE Global Quality in a Product Environmental Compliance Management System framework, and it Management System (PEC-MS). The supports the TE Global Product Environmental management system is based on the IEC Compliance Policy. Spotlight: TE Equipment Donation was faced with potentially destroying very valuable, still-usable machinery. A group of Provides College Students employees, including David Beede, Frederik with “Real World” Experience Morel, Heather Yu, Josh Lockerby, John Frisco and Bob Tierney, discussed options for a more sustainable solution. Donated in September, the equipment is already in use in some of the college’s courses across different departments. “What’s great is that all departments shared the wealth and got a piece of this generous donation,” said Wendy. The donated items included high-powered microscopes, industrial lasers and other Lane Community College (LCC) in Oregon, equipment that will be used in automotive, U.S., is providing students valuable, hands-on diesel, aviation maintenance, fabrication/ experience, thanks to a TE donation of more welding, manufacturing and electronics than $45,000 worth of equipment to the technology programs. school’s Advanced Technology Division. “Having this state-of-the art equipment Wendy Jett, LCC Foundation Director said, at LCC will give students more relevant “We’d never be able to afford this equipment workforce training and enrich their overall on our own. Now our students can learn how instruction,” said LCC’s Advanced Technology to use the same state-of-the-art equipment Dean Pat O’Connor. “In the short-term, they’ll need to use in the workforce.” students will have a better classroom TE Medical in Oregon had been breaking experience, and in the long-term, they’ll down a Test and Measurement Lab and leave LCC job-ready, having practiced on equipment with real-world applications.” TE Connectivity 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report | 41 Spotlight: TE’s Aluminum Wiring between aluminum and copper poses mechanical and electrical challenges, so the Solution Improves Safety and process isn’t simple. Reduces Auto Emissions The dissimilar metals and contact physics According to the Environmental Protection must be managed very carefully. TE Agency, fossil fuels account for up to 57 developed LITEALUM wire-crimp termination percent of global gas emissions. In order to technology that successfully enables metals help reduce greenhouse gases, TE is working integration. The solution is efficient, costhard to help decrease emissions related to effective and reliable while resolving the the burning of fossil fuels. challenges. An emerging trend in the auto industry is the TE’s innovative termination technology allows replacement of copper with aluminum wiring for equal current load performance at half in vehicles. Changing copper to aluminum the weight of copper wire, thereby reducing wire in motor vehicles effectively reduces the vehicle’s weight and CO2 emissions. vehicle weight for greater fuel efficiency (Source for EPA data: http://www.epa.gov/ and lower CO2 emissions. But the interface climatechange/ghgemissions/global.html) Spotlight: Spotlight: TE and Alcatel-Lucent TE’s Coolbit Optical Deliver Sustainable Engines Drive Greater Solution for Wireless Speed, Lower Power Connectivity in HighConsumption Capacity Locations TE has launched a brand new line of In 2013, TE Connectivity partnered with 25G active optic interconnects for data Alcatel-Lucent to develop an innovative communication systems, designed to wireless solution that reduces the time, provide up to 300 gigabytes of data materials, and power required to provide per second—per port—while consuming connectivity to customers in high-capacity about 60 percent less power than similar locations such as sports stadiums, train products. stations, and business parks. Driving this revolutionary performance Together, the two companies established are TE’s Coolbit optical engines. These a common digital interface between the tiny engines convert data from electrical Alcatel-Lucent mobile Ultra-Broadband signals to optical signals, and have the access portfolio and the TE FlexWave, capability of both sending and receiving digital distributed antenna systems (DAS). data at 25 gigabits per second. Parallel The solution supports multiple service channels allow up to 300 gigabits per providers across multiple technologies and second of bidirectional data for a 12-channel frequency bands. The product design uses device (or more), which is equivalent to less power, space, and fiber, and reduces downloading 100 DVDs in five seconds. materials overall by as much as 40 percent. TE Coolbit optical engines enable data Mobile operators who deploy the DAS communication systems to have higher solution in large, high-traffic venues will density and higher speed, at double be able to meet demand for coverage the energy efficiency—an achievement and capacity while lowering cost and that will enable the industry to create improving sustainability. breakthrough platforms and products. 42 | INTRODUCTION | GOVERNANCE | OPERATIONS | PRODUCTS | SUPPLY CHAIN SUPPLY CHAIN | WORKPLACE | COMMUNITIES | UPPLY TE Connectivity 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report | 43 SUPPLIER SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 44 | INTRODUCTION | GOVERNANCE | OPERATIONS | PRODUCTS | SUPPLY CHAIN SUPPLY CHAIN | WORKPLACE | COMMUNITIES | SUPPLIER SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AT TE Corporate responsibility extends beyond our business to our suppliers we do business with. TE is firmly committed to operating with a socially responsible supply chain, forming relationships with suppliers who uphold the same values we do. TE Connectivity Guide to Supplier Social Responsibility Our Supplier Social Responsibility (SSR) We reject corruption and unfair business Program is based on international standards practices; promote environmental sustainability of human rights, sustainability, and social and a healthy work environment; improve responsibility, including the guiding principles working conditions by prohibiting forced, harsh, of the Organization for Economic Co-Operation or inhumane treatment and discrimination of and Development (OECD) and the U.N. Global supplier employees; and encourage diversity Compact. Through express commitment to through programs that enable socially and TE’s Guide to Supplier Social Responsibility, economically disadvantaged groups to become suppliers acknowledge these universal principles part of our supply chain. and recognize them as a requirement of doing Our Guide to Supplier Social Responsibility business with TE. aligns with expected standards for: • Air Emissions • Industrial Hygiene • Proprietary and Confidential • Child Labor • Machine Safeguarding Information • Socially Responsible Metals • Management Systems of • Recordkeeping and Financial Continual Improvement Controls • Dormitory and Canteen • Non-discrimination • Risk Assessment • Emergency Preparedness • Occupational Injury and • Substance-Free Workplace • Environmental Permits and Reporting Illness Reporting and • Supplier Commitment to Investigation Corporate Responsibility • Export/Import Controls • Occupational Safety • Use of Company Property • Freedom of Association • Physically Demanding Work • Wages and Benefits • Freely Chosen Employment • Pollution Prevention and • Waste Disposal • Hazardous Substances Resource Reduction • Wastewater and Solid Waste • Humane Treatment • Product Content Restrictions • Working Hours TE Connectivity 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report | 45 Spotlight: Conflict Minerals Growing concern for the state of human TE provides all suppliers identified under the rights in mining operations, especially in the SEC regulations with a Reasonable Country Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), has of Origin Inquiry (RCOI). This survey must brought necessary scrutiny to the sourcing of be completed in order to ensure continued conflict minerals in the electronics industry. eligibility for doing business with TE. In 2012, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Suppliers will also need to provide written Commission (SEC) published regulations certification that they have procedures in implementing Section 1502 of the Doddplace to demonstrate that materials and Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer products are sourced in accordance with TE Protection Act governing conflict minerals. standards, and to ensure the reliability of These regulations require companies the survey responses. Based on the survey to perform due diligence on the source results, TE may require additional information and chain of custody of conflict minerals from suppliers in order to determine whether contained in their products. or not products or materials are indeed “socially responsible.” TE Connectivity adopts this policy to guide the implementation and maintenance of its We recognize the challenges that lie ahead conflict minerals program: in establishing reasonable practices to break through existing complexities and barriers • TE strives to have a socially responsible to information throughout the conflict supply chain, and is committed to sourcing minerals supply chain. We are dedicated products and materials from non-conflict to working with our suppliers to help sources. establish traceability of conflict minerals and • TE expects that its suppliers have due ensure that our products and materials are diligence processes in place to identify the responsibly sourced. source of the conflict minerals contained in their products, and that those sources do not support conflict and violations of human rights. • TE provides information and guidance to suppliers with underdeveloped processes, to increase supply chain transparency throughout the world and into the DRC and surrounding regions. MINERAL MINERAL METAL SUPPLY TRADING SUPPLY ELECTRONICS Mines Traders Smelters Suppliers Refiners Customers/ Final Products 46 | INTRODUCTION | GOVERNANCE | OPERATIONS | PRODUCTS | SUPPLY CHAIN SUPPLY CHAIN | WORKPLACE | COMMUNITIES | Aligning Suppliers Focus on Education with TE’s Social We have incorporated SSR outreach and education into our formal supplier forums. Responsibility SSR information is made available during supplier technology trade shows, strategic Guidelines supplier meetings and during our supplier In 2010, TE began communicating SSR expeconboarding processes. tations to our supply base. Since that time, we have deepened our reach by requiring both new New Suppliers and existing suppliers to formally acknowledge As part of our supplier selection process, their agreement to comply with our SSR guidesuppliers are systematically informed of lines. In order to strengthen supplier alignment, TE’s Guide to Supplier Social Responsibility we perform regular supplier screenings and (TEC-1015). New suppliers must agree to independent corporate responsibility audits. comply with these guidelines to be conIn 2013, we initiated follow-up audits. These sidered for TE business. processes are discussed in detail throughout this section. Existing Suppliers We continue to reach out to legacy suppliers to seek compliance with our SSR guidelines. We began with direct material suppliers in 2011 and expanded to indirect material and service suppliers in 2013. We conduct this process via an online survey. TE Connectivity 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report | 47 Ensuring Ongoing Every audit includes a debrief of results with the supplier’s management team. The Social Responsibility of debrief includes an overview of the supplier’s sustainability strengths and opportunity Suppliers areas. Where applicable, suppliers receive TE is committed to advancing the highest social recommendations for improvement and a responsibility practices throughout our supply suggested improvement plan timeline. chain. In addition to obtaining initial agreement In 2013, TE conducted 39 initial audits and 12 with our supplier guidelines, we conduct re-audits. Since 2011, we have completed a total ongoing screenings and corporate responsibility of 91 total initial audits and 24 repeat audits. audits to validate our suppliers’ continuing alignment to our sustainability guidelines. Of the 91 audits TE has performed since the inception of our program in 2011, our Supplier Screening—an in-depth suppliers showed solid performance against discussion with our suppliers on sustainability global benchmarks in environmental and labor practices, and continue to trend toward TE personnel perform supplier screenings to the global benchmark in health and safety. reinforce the importance of sustainability with Currently, management systems, wages and our suppliers and to identify sustainability hours are opportunity areas for select suppliers. improvement opportunities within the supplier’s worksite. Supplier screenings include a supplier self-assessment combined with a TE onsite Validation Efforts screening of sustainability indicators. 2011 2012 2013 In 2013, TE professionals personally advanced 3rd Party Initial Audit 21 31 39 the message of sustainability with 252 suppliers, a 26 percent increase over 2012 efforts. 3rd Party Repeat Audits 0 12 12 Since 2011, we have completed a total of 576 Supplier Screenings 124 200 252 screenings in over 30 countries. Total 145 243 303 Corporate Responsibility Auditing —a rigorous, independent audit of our suppliers’ sustainability practices TE conducts full onsite corporate social responsibility audits of selected suppliers through an independent service provider with expertise in sustainability auditing. Our audit program aligns with our corporate responsibility program, as well as internationally recognized industry standards. The main categories for our audits include assessing the following areas of interest: • Management Systems • Health and Safety • Wages and Hours • Labor • Environmental 48 | INTRODUCTION | GOVERNANCE | OPERATIONS | PRODUCTS | SUPPLY CHAIN SUPPLY CHAIN | WORKPLACE | COMMUNITIES | Continuous Localization Improvement in Buying materials close to the facilities where Supplier Social they will be used has a positive impact on the environment and communities in which Responsibility we do business. By shortening transportation distances, we can reduce fuel consumption, As our supply chain sustainability processes transportation costs and lead times for our mature, we continue to define and incentivize customers. Plus, purchasing in the local ongoing improvement. Working in partnership community helps the economic development with our suppliers to find solutions is key, in that community. including remediating instances of non-compliance and investing in suppliers’ management In 2013, we took several actions to improve our capabilities. localization efforts and impact, including: Remediation can include, among other activities: • Increased communications with suppliers on the benefits of localization • TE and suppliers working together • Added resources in regions like Mexico to create a corrective action plan and Eastern Europe where more supplier • Monitoring progress toward an development was needed implementation plan • Ensured that IPO resources in India worked • Termination of relationship when serious closely with business units to source PBL compliance issues are not remedied (private brand label) products to give one Starting in 2014, suppliers identified with solution to TE customers (increased local significant audit findings will be required to content) provide a corrective action plan in lieu of a • Worked directly with suppliers in India to follow-up audit. TE’s SSR team will review action improve localization of metals and resins plans to determine the robustness of corrective • Incorporated selection of localized suppliers actions. If TE does not agree the plan addresses into our new product development process audit findings appropriately, a follow-up audit will be performed. Our 2013 localization efforts were highly effective. We localized 87 percent (which was our goal) In 2013, TE’s focus on continuous improvement of our nearly $4.6 billion of global material spend. translated into a 23 percent re-audit rate of This means TE contributed over $4 billion to the our suppliers initially audited in 2012. regional economies in which we work. LOCALIZED MATERIAL SPEND 87 % TE Connectivity 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report | 49 TE as a Supplier and Our Customer Corporate Responsibility Requests TE is also dedicated to being a responsible audits come in a variety of ways, sometimes supplier for our customers. As a supplier, as a two-day onsite audit focused purely on we respond to sustainability and corporate corporate responsibility or part of a more responsibility questionnaires from customers comprehensive customer audit. We take and industry groups. These questionnaires are these audits seriously and use them to further used by our customers to determine whether improve systems and processes at all our a third-party SSR audit is needed. These facilities. Spotlight: TE Connectivity Procurement and Suppliers Raise $100,000 for the American Heart Association Our relationship with our suppliers is not just focused on sustainability, it’s about collaborating to serve communities as well. The hottest day of the year in central Pennsylvania did not deter 22 TE Connectivity executives and 58 of the company’s top suppliers from raising $100,000 for the American Heart Association (AHA) in the first ever TE Executive Golf Outing this Summer. $100,000…will go directly to Despite extreme heat and humidity, 80 the AHA for heart disease golfers, 20 volunteers, and several represenand stroke awareness and tatives from the AHA of the Capital Region came together at the historic Hershey research. Everyone really Country Club in Pennsylvania in the U.S. to stepped up and delivered an help raise money and awareness for heart exceptional event.” disease and stroke. The TE-AHA Heart Walk Executive committee and TE’s Global Procurement Department sponsored the event. Funds raised will help the AHA fulfill its 2020 target goal of improving the cardiovascular health of all Americans by 20 percent while reducing deaths from cardiovascular diseases and stroke by 20 percent. 50 | INTRODUCTION | GOVERNANCE | OPERATIONS | PRODUCTS | SUPPLY CHAIN | WORKPLACE WORKPLACE | COMMUNITIES | WORK TE Connectivity 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report | 51 WORKPLACE AND RESPONSIBILITY TO OUR EMPLOYEES PLACE 52 | INTRODUCTION | GOVERNANCE | OPERATIONS | PRODUCTS | SUPPLY CHAIN | WORKPLACE WORKPLACE | COMMUNITIES | SUPPORTING OUR PEOPLE TO THRIVE AND GROW At TE Connectivity, our commitment to engage and enable our workforce is the cornerstone of our corporate strategy. We honor this commitment by providing a wealth of professional and personal development opportunities, vibrant health and wellness programs, and exceptionally safe work environments. In addition to helping our employees to thrive and grow, our efforts support TE strategic goals to: Developing Talent Providing our employees with ample tools to • Foster an inclusive workplace develop both personally and professionally • Embrace diversity strengthens individuals and business alike. We • Support uncompromising values have expanded our talent development and • Unleash individual potential training programs beyond basic on-the-job skills training. We offer career-building programs Our commitment to protect and empower our for our employees worldwide, especially in the people also helps us encourage their growth areas of operations, engineering, and leadership. and self-actualization, and inspires a greater level of employee engagement. Online Learning Our current online learning management system has an enrollment of 42 percent, with 25,000 active users throughout all levels of the company, taking more than 5,000 skill-building courses. Educational Support We offer tuition reimbursement as a benefit to TE employees all around the world. In 2013, we spent over five million dollars to support employees who are working toward educational degrees or certifications. TE Connectivity 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report | 53 Leadership Development TE provides leadership training programs and Spotlight: tools that challenge leaders to grow both Leadership Foundations professionally and personally. Individuals are empowered to lead, engage, and motivate their With the strong support of Chairman teams. Robust programs like TE Leadership and CEO Tom Lynch, and the TE Operating Way are designed to provide senior leaders Committee, this innovative career-building with the skills and resources they need to program was launched in 2013 to develop manage strategy, execution and talent; while leaders at all levels of the company. our new global program TE Leadership Leadership Foundations was designed to Foundations provides first-line leaders with create a transformational culture change practical tools and training related to running by teaching leaders to be coaches and the business and their teams. champions of inclusive and ethical leadership. Talent Mobility The program also supports TE’s strategic We encourage employees to take new positions goals, including unleashing people’s in other departments across the company to potential, diversity and inclusion and share expertise across functions, roles, and having highly engaged employees. geographies. We’ve expanded our internal development opportunities, such as rotational and short-term assignments. In 2013, 237 employees relocated within the U.S., 208 employees were assigned to 40 short-term and 134 long-term positions overseas, and 34 employees were relocated globally to permanent positions. Leadership Development Opportunities Program Leadership TE Strategy Leadership Executive Foundations Leadership Way Leadership Programs Programs Available to Leaders at all Operations Executive Leadership levels of the and product leadership company managers Target Enrollment 1,000+ 500+ 1,500+ 150+ for 2014 54 | INTRODUCTION | GOVERNANCE | OPERATIONS | PRODUCTS | SUPPLY CHAIN | WORKPLACE WORKPLACE | COMMUNITIES | Workforce Spotlight: In all countries of operation, excluding China, India and Mexico, our hiring rate was 10 percent, Leadership Diversity while our turnover rate was 15.6 percent Training (voluntary turnover was 6.9 percent). The In 2013, we launched diversity and company’s global average for turnover, including inclusion awareness training for TE China, India and Mexico, is 36.8 percent. executives. Participants examined how they send Inclusion and Diversity messages across businesses, borders and cultures and how that has an impact As a global company, we have a rich diversity of on leadership and engagement. Practice cultures, experiences, and perspectives, which exercises explored typical ways leaders we highly value. We continue to create an inclumight send unintended messages, and sive environment and recruit a diverse workforce. the impact they have on workplace satisfaction and productivity. The program, Gender which is continuing in 2014, enables leaders to master the skills of sending, Our global workforce is 38 percent female, receiving and interpreting messages in with 16 percent of leadership positions a manner that supports all employees to filled by women. reach their fullest potential. Our TE Women’s Network supports the development, retention, and recruitment of women to help maintain our gender diversity. This network is a place where women can WORKFORCE MANAGEMENT collaborate, encourage each other toward TOTAL TOTAL professional growth, and exchange best practices so they will be more successful in the workplace. 16% 38% 62% 84% Female Male Female Male Global Gender Diversity By Reporting Category TE Connectivity 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report | 55 Health and Wellness program helps employees address mental health issues, family and parenting concerns, We are committed to helping our employees and financial needs. and their families have the tools they need to stay healthy—physically, mentally, and Global Wellness Campaign financially. We offer a wide variety of wellness The diversity of TE’s workforce means that our and assistance programs everywhere we employees can have very different health and operate. wellness needs. Networks of peer volunteer Wellness Champions help us examine and Employee Assistance understand employee needs at a local level. Program (EAP) This way, we are able to offer more focused EAP is a global resource that provides programs that inspire and empower our professional, confidential assistance for all employees to lead healthier lives. employees and their family members. The 56 | INTRODUCTION | GOVERNANCE | OPERATIONS | PRODUCTS | SUPPLY CHAIN | WORKPLACE WORKPLACE | COMMUNITIES | TE Connectivity 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report | 57 A Safe and Healthy Workplace 0.47 At TE Connectivity, we are committed to providing a safe and healthy work environment 0.34 #12 for everyone. Our employees actively care 0.30 about their own safety and the safety of others, and are committed to working toward a zero% incident workplace. We demonstrate our ongoing commitment by: • Accepting responsibility for our leadership role in safety at all levels of management Incident Rate 2011 2012 2013 Per 100 employees • Engaging employees around the world in TE safety programs • Auditing continually our worksites against TE safety standards and regulatory requirements • Challenging our manufacturing plant teams to achieve safety excellence through our safety management system • Measuring and reporting safety outcomes as a key performance indicator valued throughout the organization In FY2013, we continued to make progress toward our goal of eliminating workplace injuries and illnesses. Our total recordable incident rate (TRIR) across all TE manufacturing plants was 0.30 incidents per 100 employees per year, a 12 percent improvement over our 2012 rate of 0.34. 58 | INTRODUCTION | GOVERNANCE | OPERATIONS | PRODUCTS | SUPPLY CHAIN | WORKPLACE | COMMUNITIES COMMUNITIES | COMM TE Connectivity 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report | 59 NITIES RESPONSIBILITY IN OUR COMMUNITIES 60 | INTRODUCTION | GOVERNANCE | OPERATIONS | PRODUCTS | SUPPLY CHAIN | WORKPLACE | COMMUNITIES COMMUNITIES | CONNECTING WITH OUR COMMUNITIES Every Connection Counts is not just a tagline at TE. It is who we are and our guidepost for doing business. Whether we are connecting with communities through employee volunteerism or responding to help re-establish connectivity after a disaster, our efforts can make the world a better place for everyone. To help build strong communities where we • Increase public recognition of TE do business, we promote giving programs Connectivity in the communities in which and employee volunteerism around the globe. we do business, through community In 2013, the company, our employees, and sponsorships and events. the TE Connectivity Foundation donated over $5 million to more than 1,500 charitable Focus Areas organizations worldwide. We align our global community programs with our core values—integrity, accountability, Corporate charitable giving $3,066,766 teamwork, and innovation—and focus efforts in Employee donations $1,388,430 the following four areas: • Disaster Relief and Human Services TE Connectivity Foundation $649,721 Driving the highest standards of integrity through investments in human services and Community Mission disaster relief Our community mission is to empower our • Environment employees to make a positive impact by Increasing accountability through actively connecting with each other and their investments in energy and the environment local communities around the world. • Health and Wellness Creating a sense of teamwork through Our Community Program Goals investments and participation in community • Increase employee engagement by driving health activities employee participation in community • Education and Technology efforts through the development of policies, Fostering innovation through investments in programs, and tools that guide and promote education, emphasizing science, technology, giving and volunteerism. engineering and math (STEM) • Make an impact on social issues important to TE, our employees and the communities we work in through strategic grant making and volunteerism. TE Connectivity 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report | 61 Corporate Giving and Communications Governance Improving internal and external communications around our philanthropy and community Corporate giving at TE is primarily focused in involvement has been critical to increasing locations with the largest number of employees. program visibility and participation. Internally, Regional Community Councils analyze the chariwe host an employee blog site to help raise table organization’s needs, determine our ability employee awareness and engagement, and to to make a difference, and help employees support offer a space where employees can share stories our communities in a way that fits their passions. of their philanthropic efforts with colleagues. Our governance structure has evolved to Our external site, www.te.com/en/about-te/ better support employee volunteerism and responsibility/community.html, informs the giving on a global basis. Currently, we have 18 public about the key components of and Regional Community Councils representing guidelines for our community programs. Visitors 86 percent of TE employees around the world. can also learn about the impact TE employees This expanded global network helps us better are making in communities worldwide. facilitate and enhance employee engagement, local grant making, and volunteerism. Regional Community Councils are guided by our Executive Community Board, which oversees Spotlight: TE’s philanthropy efforts worldwide. 1 pint of blood In 2013, TE’s improved Community Council can save up to network allowed us to directly support 3 lives employees to make a positive impact. As a result, we successfully leveraged our $3.5 million philanthropy budget more effectively than ever Martin Zillka Gives Life before. And for the first time, our Dollars for through the Gift of Blood Doers programs extended outside the U.S. to Our employees around the world have Mexico, supporting employees there to engage been donating blood for years at TEmore extensively in community service. sponsored blood drives. In 2013, over 1,700 TE employees donated blood to help save up to 6,200 lives. 7% Many employees give multiple times a $ 264,854 Environment and Other year, including Martin Zillka, TE Technology 22% 36% Human Services and area leader in the Czech Republic. For Disaster Relief $ 798,378 $ 1,343,455 six years, Martin has been registered as Education and Technology a “Super Blood Donor” at the hospital in Boskovice, Czech Republic. In 2013, he 35% Health and Wellness hit a donation milestone of 30 times his $ 1,309,800 own blood over his lifetime. Martin is a great advocate for blood donation and encourages TE employees to get involved. Global Corporate Giving Due in part to Martin’s efforts, more than 200 people at the TE worksite in the Czech Republic donated blood last year. 62 | INTRODUCTION | GOVERNANCE | OPERATIONS | PRODUCTS | SUPPLY CHAIN | WORKPLACE | COMMUNITIES COMMUNITIES | Programs To further support our mission to connect employees with each other and their communities, we increase the donation amount Matched Employee Giving for employees volunteering as a team. We For U.S. employees, TE Connectivity matches donate $50 per volunteer hour up to $5,000 one dollar for each dollar donated by an per team of three or more TE employees eligible employee to an approved 501(c)(3) volunteering together. nonprofit organization—a minimum of $25 per organization and up to $10,000 total Community Involvement Award per employee, per calendar year. In 2013, This year, we introduced TE’s Community TE donated more than $1 million to match Involvement Award at all TE sites hosting thousands of employees’ gifts to nonprofit Regional Community Councils. Employees and organizations. our nonprofit partners nominate TE employees Additionally, we partner with local United Way around the world for exceptional volunteer organizations in the U.S. and Mexico to conduct service. TE Award winners receive a $1,000 workplace-giving campaigns. Employees grant for the charity of their choice. This year’s generously gave over $300,000 through the four award winners were selected for their U.S. United Way campaign this year. TE also outstanding contributions to the community matches employees’ United Way contributions and demonstration of TE Connectivity’s dollar for dollar up to $10,000 per U.S. community mission: to empower employees to employee each calendar year. make a positive impact by actively connecting with each other and their local communities Dollars for Doers around the world. The Dollars for Doers program was created to TE Community 2013 Award Winners motivate employees to volunteer and/or work Pat Thompson, TE business development together in charitable fundraising. This year, manager, has been bringing TE volunteers these U.S.-based programs were extended together to build affordable housing for lowto TE employees in Mexico through their income families with Twin Cities Habitat for Regional Community Councils. In the coming Humanity for more than nine years. He has led years, we hope to further expand Dollars for more than 500 volunteers, raised $45,000 and Doers programs, facilitated by our Regional helped build multiple homes. In addition to Community Councils. doing the front-end coordinating work required Under the Dollars for Doers program, funds are to schedule the volunteers, Pat also plays a distributed to the eligible nonprofit organization hands-on role at the build sites. for which a TE employee volunteers. TE Jorge Lozano, TE test engineer manager in donates $10 for each employee volunteer hour, Juarez, Mexico, has championed employee up to $1,000 per year. This allows employees participation in community programs over to amplify their giving power and deepen the last 18 years. He is the President of TE’s contributions to communities. United Way Committee and has participated in a variety of volunteer activities such as tree planting events, school restorations, United TE Connectivity 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report | 63 Way Day of Caring, common grounds cleaning TE Connectivity Foundation for shelter homes, blood drives, toy drives, and The TE Connectivity Foundation is a trust food collections. operating exclusively for charitable, scientific, Christine Kroah, TE paralegal, has been literary, or educational purposes within the volunteering with the FIRST® (For Inspiration meaning of section 501(c)(3) of the Internal and Recognition of Science and Technology) Revenue Code. Though governed by employees Robotics team at Dauphin County Technical of TE Connectivity, the foundation is a separate School for over five years. FIRST uses robotics entity and acts independently of the company. to build student awareness and skills in the TE Connectivity Foundation provides grants STEM fields. Her efforts have allowed volunteers to U.S. organizations that qualify as nonprofits to work more efficiently when it comes to under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue securing corporate funding, recordkeeping, Code. Grants are awarded in geographic and general administrative processes. Christine areas of the U.S. where TE has a significant constantly brings new energy to the group employee population, to organizations whose by inspiring new recruits and encouraging services fall under one or more of the four everyone to work together for a common goal. categories outlined by our global philanthropy Lee Zimmerman, TE associate general counsel, guidelines (disaster relief and human services, has been a volunteer attorney with Philadelphia environment, health and wellness, and/or VIP since October 2011. Philly VIP promotes education and technology). Grant recipients equal justice for the poor by providing civil legal must also align to TE’s core values of integrity, services not otherwise available, collaborating accountability, teamwork and innovation. with other legal services organizations, and In 2013, the foundation awarded $649,721 in promoting a culture of volunteerism by grants to 117 nonprofit organizations, including educating and exposing attorneys and law multiple grants to FIRST robotics teams and students to issues of poverty. Lee regularly a presenting level sponsorship of the FIRST attends small business clinics where he provides Robotics Competition Raleigh Regional Event. microentrepreneurs and low-income small The foundation also made significant grants to business owners with free legal advice. In DiscoverE, MATHCOUNTS, and KaBOOM! 2013, Lee recruited 17 additional TE attorneys to attend Philly VIP small business clinics. He is credited with the record number of hours donated by the TE legal department. 64 | INTRODUCTION | GOVERNANCE | OPERATIONS | PRODUCTS | SUPPLY CHAIN | WORKPLACE | COMMUNITIES COMMUNITIES | Disaster Relief and Staying Alive: CPR Training Events Preparedness Effective bystander CPR provided immediately after cardiac arrest can double a victim’s odds of survival. With support from the American Disaster Relief Donations Heart Association, TE held multiple on-site In 2013, TE responded to major disasters hands-only CPR training events to raise around the globe by hosting food and supply awareness and prepare employees in the event collection drives, helping rebuild communities, of a cardiac emergency. and donating $240,000 to disaster relief In 2013, over 200 employees were trained organizations. across the U.S. We kicked off a program to hold Disaster struck in regions close to several TE training at our global leadership events and worksites this year. A few weeks into TE’s fiscal sales meetings throughout FY2014, and set a year, Hurricane Sandy devastated the East goal to train over 1,000 people by the end of Coast of the U.S. TE made a $50,000 donation FY2014. to the American Red Cross and TE’s Energy business donated 5,000 t-shirts and bottles of water to utility crews working to restore power in the region. TE employees held local drives for much needed supplies for the communities most impacted. Additionally, several TE Energy field technicians lent their expertise to the restoration efforts. In China, TE responded to the Sichuan earthquake in April by matching employee donations of over $35,000 and making an additional $100,000 donation to help local organizations rebuild. TE India gave to Oxfam India to help the estimated 100,000 people affected by the floods in the Uttarakhand region. And, in Czech Republic, employees helped their neighbors rebuild after the devastating 2013 European floods by donating pumps, generators, and other much needed equipment and supplies. TE Connectivity 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report | 65 Spotlight: In conjunction with other volunteers, John also works very closely with law John Hulse Develops enforcement providing specialist advice National Search and for missing person searches. John was one Rescue Method of the lead managers for the April Jones abduction search, one of the largest search John Hulse, engineering manager in the responses in recent history in the U.K. U.K., has actively volunteered with search and rescue for the Ogwen Valley Mountain Because of John’s dedicated Mountain Rescue Organization. He has taken part Rescue service, he was chosen to carry the in over 1,000 rescue operations over 38 Olympic torch in the 2012 London games. years, and has been a team leader of one In addition to his Mountain Rescue service, of the busiest Mountain Rescue Teams in John has devised a new method of the U.K. for more than 25 years. managing search and rescue operations His rescues include helping people injured in the U.K. and Ireland. His method in the mountains, lost in the forests or is now used by 62 volunteer rescue missing from home throughout Wales. teams together with 10 police, fire and He has rescued stuck canoeists, taken a ambulance services, and the Royal Air lead role in flooding and adverse weather Force rescue helicopter squadron. His response for the communities of North method has been a great success and has Wales, provided initial response for two now been used in more than 1,600 rescue air crashes, and worked alongside other operations in the U.K. emergency service workers to deliver a professional response to difficult events. 66 | INTRODUCTION | GOVERNANCE | OPERATIONS | PRODUCTS | SUPPLY CHAIN | WORKPLACE | COMMUNITIES | GRI REPORTING INDEX GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES General Standard Page Number General Standard Page Number General Standard Page Number Disclosures (or Link) Disclosures (or Link) Disclosures (or Link) STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS IDENTIFIED MATERIAL REPORT PROFILE ASPECTS G4-1 4 G4-28 8 AND BOUNDARIES G4-29 8 G4-17 7 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-30 8 G4-18 7 G4-3 2 G4-31 8 G4-19 7 G4-4 5 G4-32 8 G4-20 7 G4-5 Back Cover G4-33 Not Available G4-21 7 G4-6 2013 Annual Report G4-22 Not Available G4-7 2013 Annual Report GOVERNANCE G4-23 Not Available G4-8 2013 Annual Report G4-34 16 G4-9 2013 Annual Report STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-10 Workforce ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-24 9 G4-56 4 G4-11 Not Available G4-25 9 G4-12 42-49 G4-26 9 G4-13 2013 Annual Report G4-27 9 G4-14 G4-15 United Nations Global Compact G4-16 United Nations Global Compact Notes 1. The information is subject to specific confidentiality constraints TE Connectivity 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report | 67 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES General Standard Page Number General Standard Page Number General Standard Page Number Disclosures (or Link) Disclosures (or Link) Disclosures (or Link) ECONOMIC EMISSIONS SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR LABOR PRACTICES ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE G4-DMA G4-DMA G4-DMA G4-EN16 30 G4-LA14 47 G4-EC1 2013 Annual Report G4-EN18 30 G4-LA15 47 G4-EC2 2013 Annual Report EFFLUENTS AND WASTE G4-EC3 2013 Annual Report G4-DMA SOCIAL: HUMAN RIGHTS G4-EC4 2013 Annual Report G4-EN22 27 SUPPLIER HUMAN RIGHTS MARKET PRESENCE G4-EN23 31 ASSESSMENT G4-DMA (note 1) G4-DMA G4-EC5 (note 1) SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT G4-HR10 47 G4-DMA G4-HR11 47 INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS G4-EN32 47 G4-DMA G4-EN33 47 SOCIAL: SOCIETY G4-EC7 60-64 ENVIRONMENTAL GRIEVANCE ANTI-CORRUPTION G4-EC8 60-64 MECHANISMS G4-DMA G4-DMA PROCUREMENT PRACTICES G4-SO4 17 G4-EN34 19 G4-DMA ANTI-COMPETITIVE G4-EC9 48 BEHAVIOR SOCIAL: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK G4-DMA ENVIRONMENTAL G4-SO7 2013 Annual Report EMPLOYMENT ENERGY G4-DMA COMPLIANCE G4-DMA G4-LA1 54 G4-DMA G4-EN3 10 G4-SO8 2013 Annual Report G4-EN5 10 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-EN6 29 SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR G4-DMA IMPACTS ON SOCIETY WATER G4-LA6 57 G4-DMA G4-DMA G4-SO9 47 DIVERSITY AND EQUAL G4-SO10 47 G4-EN8 27 OPPORTUNITY G4-DMA G4-LA12 54 68 | INTRODUCTION | GOVERNANCE | OPERATIONS | PRODUCTS | SUPPLY CHAIN | WORKPLACE | COMMUNITIES | U.N. GLOBAL COMPACT Principle Information in Report Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection Supply Chain and Workplace of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights Supply Chain and Workplace abuses. Labor Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association Supply Chain and Workplace and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory Supply Chain and Workplace labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Supply Chain and Workplace Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of Supply Chain and Workplace employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Environmental Sustainability environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Environmental Sustainability responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of Environmental Sustainability environmentally friendly technologies.” Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its Governance, Ethics, forms, including extortion and bribery. and Compliance TE Connectivity 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report | 69 TE Connectivity Ltd. Rheinstrasse 20 CH-8200 Schaffhausen Switzerland +41.0.52.633.66.61 www.te.com TE (logo) and TE Connectivity are trademarks. Rev. 3-12
