Tata Power Delhi Distribution Limited United Nation Global Compact COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (FY 2013-14) Tata Power Delhi Distribution Ltd. (A TATA Power & Delhi Government Joint Venture) Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights There are specific provisions for human rights in the company’s policies. The sub-stratum of these policies ensures its employees enjoy the fundamental human rights. TPDDL has provisions and comprehensive systems for Safety, Occupational Health, Environment & Disaster Management (SHE & DM), housing and education. The company follows IMS procedures for Quality, Safety, Health, Environment & Social Accountability complying with the standards of ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 & SA 8000 management standards. The company complies with all applicable safety, health, social accountability & environmental laws & legislations. Following are the various steps taken by the company for IMS commitment and implementation:  All contents of the IMS are compiled by various means, identified & defined in TPDDL.  Environmental & OHS Risk Assessment are regularly updated whenever there is addition of new activity / after completion of IMP (Integrated Management Program) identified for any significant aspect / risk or at least annually.  All applicable legislation identified & quarterly statutory compliances are monitored through SRSC (Statutory & Regulatory Score Card) meetings. Care for the safety of community at large As a Power Distribution Company, TPDDL ensures reduction and prevention of possible discomfort and harm from its operations. TPDDL has a well-defined IMS Policy in place and also carries out Safety Audits of system, network, TPDDL installations, sub stations & public installations etc., reports of which are compiled at various levels and reviewed from time to times. Company also imparts safety training to TPDDL employees and business associates personnel. TPDDL carries out Safety audits of public installations like cinema halls, hospitals, shopping malls, schools etc. as part of our social responsibility. In case there are any non-conformances at TPDDL’s end they are corrected immediately and those at the consumer end are communicated to the consumer for necessary compliance, this activity is done through SAP module for better monitoring and timely closer of Safety issues if any. Regular follow up is done to ensure compliance in the broader interest of public safety. TPDDL also stages street plays (Nukkad Natak) for enhancing safety awareness of general public in its operational area covering approximately 18000 persons. Electrical safety do`s and don`ts are supplied to each new consumer at the time of meter installation. Safety leaflets are distributed to consumers for awareness. Health care & healthy working condition for employees  TPDDL is committed to provide health amenities & healthy work environment to its employees.  Six dispensaries are operating at different locations providing the primary health care to the employees and their dependents.  A mobile dispensary has been deployed to provide the health care facility at the work place of the employees.  There are 133 hospitals, including 30 Dental centers & 21 eye hospitals/centers and two physiotherapy centers on our panel to provide OPD and Indoor treatment on credit/cash basis.  There are 24 Diagnostic centers on our panel to provide investigation services on credit/cash basis.  There are 248 chemists on our panel to provide medicines on discounted rates.  45 canteen boys had annual health checkups complying with SA 8000 norms.  578 employees were given training on first aid & CPR and 52 employees were certified as First Aid Champions.  133 Free Health Checkup and health awareness Camps were organized at different locations which covered 3205 employees including 422 BA employees.  336 locations were covered for first aid treatment to employees.  The disposal of medical bio waste at dispensaries is done as per the procedure laid down by DPCC for the purpose.  84994 health consultancies were given during the FY 13-14 at TPDDL dispensaries. Education of employees TPDDL trains its employees regularly to update themselves professionally, managerially and technically. Employees are encouraged to improve their educational and professional qualification by giving suitable incentives, study leave, etc. The details of courses offered are as follows: S. No. Course sponsored No. of Employees Period University of Petroleum & Energy Studies (UPES) & Indian School of Petroleum & Energy (ISPE), Dehradun 40 employees Till FY 13-14 Advanced diploma in Power Distribution 1 Management ITI Electrical, Dheerpur 3 employees 2013-15 2 Faculty of Management Studies, Delhi 9 employees 2013-15 3 University – Executive MBA All India Management Studies – MBA 17 employees 2013-15 4 Delhi Technological University – 5 employees 2013-17 5 B.Tech(Electrical) Delhi Technological University 4 employees 2013-15 6 Weekend MBA Aryabhatt & GTB Polytechnic Diploma 10 employees 2013-17 7 in Electrical Faculty of Law, Delhi University – LLB 2 employees 2013-16 8 Principle 2: Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses.  TPDDL is a joint venture of Tata Power and Delhi government and being a part of Tata legacy ensures that dignity of individuals is preserved and there are no instances of human rights abuse as the organization has in place strong and effective HR rules and practices. Abiding by the Tata Code of Conduct company ensures equal opportunity to all its employees & qualified applicants; Treatment of employees with dignity and maintaining an environment free from sexual harassment and policies and practices giving employees equal opportunity.  Several channels of grievance redressal exist for employees to voice their concerns. The grievance redressal procedures are documented and communicated to all employees.  The Ethics Management framework ensures that no case of human right abuse occurs. Any complaint on violation of ethical conduct is promptly acted upon and guilty is punished.  Joint Interaction Forums exist where employees mutually sort out their issues with the objective of improving employee-management relations.  TPDDL employees can also register their grievances which have built-in timelines for resolution and in instances of non-resolution; the complaints are escalated to appropriate levels and addressed in due course of time.  The company also has a Sexual Harassment Policy in place, supported by a Sexual Harassment Committee, which guarantees a safe workplace for female employees and ensures that they work without fear of gender bias and sexual harassment. An independent member from a NGO has also been placed in the committee. Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining.  TPDDL has three segments of employees workmen, supervisors and executives. The interests of the employees are taken care of by the employer and several benefits and social security schemes are also provided to them.  Employees have their unions/associations that interact with the TPDDL management and mutual interests are addressed in a fair and transparent manner. Principle 4: Business should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor.  No prospective employee is required to deposit any sum of money for employment in TPDDL.  Any amendment/revision in statutory provisions are immediately implemented and communicated and the same are implemented for employees/ ensured for implementation for Business Associate employees.  The appointment letters issued by the company to new joinees state clearly the various terms and conditions of employment and TPDDL Code of Conduct which they need to adhere to.  All policies related to the employees are posted on the intranet for public viewing.  TPDDL also ensures safety, welfare and social security of the employees and ensures that employees working under Business Associates are extended full protection through various statutory compliances.  TPDDL strictly adheres to all the provisions of labor laws and statutorily compliances and there is no instance of any forced or compulsory labor practices. Principle 5: Business should support the effective abolition of child labor.  For appointment in the company, the minimum age prescribed and scrupulously followed is 18 years.  All contractors are forbidden to engage child labor. Contractors are signing TPDDL’s General Conditions of Contract, clause 16 of which forbids them to engage child labor in compliance to the CHILD LABOUR (PROHIBITION AND REGULATION) Act 1986.  Government enforcement agencies like Inspectors from labor department are free to inspect the sites to check for employment of child labor. Those found guilty are liable for disciplinary action by the Government.  Records of the laborers engaged by the contractors are kept at worksites which indicate the age of labor hired.  TPDDL has a SLA (Service Level Agreement) with business associates to uphold principal enshrined in global compact, compliance with all applicable Labor laws etc.  TPDDL has got Child Remediation Policy in place with a process defined for discouraging child labor and steps to be taken after the detection of child labor. Under this process if young worker found at site will take care of his/ her education/vocational training till the worker attain the age of 18. For proper monitoring a Child Remediation team is constituted having representation from Corporate Social Responsibility, Finance, HR, BA & Legal, Corporate Strategy & Planning and partner NGO. Principle 6: Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.  TPDDL Code of Conduct & TPDDL Ethics policy equipped with the recruitment & promotion rules takes proper care of eliminating such discrimination.  Job specifications have been laid down for the purpose of recruiting the right person for the right job.  TPDDL follows a grievance procedure that can be invoked by aggrieved employee relating to wage payment, increment, recovery of dues, working conditions, leave, allotment of quarters, medical facilities, Seniority, Transfer, Promotion and like issues. The grievance address process in TPDDL is carried out in various wayso through HR Connect the employee helpline o through Voice of Employee o through direct responsibility centers as & when it occurs o through JIF (Joint Interaction Forum) o through Open House dialogues with Sr. Management  Unions and associations representing the various levels of employees have easy access to the management to discuss and resolve discriminations, if any, quickly and effectively.  Preference is given to SC/ST candidates in campus recruitments transparently lowering qualifying marks by 5% in written exam, without diluting merit.  The company provides equal opportunity to females to be a part of the TPDDL family and as a result, the male female ratio in the company is improving every year. Year / No. of Employees Male Employees Female Employees 2011-12 3406 452 2012-13 3184 428 2013-14 3096 431  Quality and cost being equal, TPDDL gives preference to enterprise of SC/ST promoters for inclusion in its supply chain, provided such companies transparently and voluntarily share this information prior to bid participation. Complete waiver of tender fee, 50 % relaxation in security deposit, relaxation in bank guarantee and 25% relaxation in company turnover under qualifying requirement criteria in General Conditions of Contract. Principle 7: Business should support a pre-cautionary approach to environmental challenges. TPDDL Climate Change Policy: ‘TPDDL will play a leadership role in climate change by being knowledgeable, responsive and trustworthy and by adopting environment friendly technologies, business practices & innovation, while pursuing our growth aspirations and enhancing shareholder value. TPDDL will measure its carbon footprint and will strive to:  Be the benchmark in the segment of industries on the carbon footprint of our operations.  Engage actively in combating climate change advocacy and the shaping of regulations of business.  Incorporate ‘green’ perspective in all key organizational processes.’ TPDDL IMS Policy: ‘We ensure a safe & healthy environment and workplace conditions with due regards to environmental protection, compliances, applicable laws and regulations’. This is achieved by:  Ensuring continual improvement in our Environmental, Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems to protect natural resources and eliminate/reduce occupational health hazards and safety risks.  Complying with all applicable Environmental, Occupational Health & Safety laws and legislations.  Institutionalizing effective resource management with specific focus on energy saving, land utilization, tree plantations and strengthening pollution prevention & waste minimization practices.  Enhancing environmental, health and safety awareness amongst all stakeholders through communication and training.  Being an ISO 14001:2004 and OHSAS 18001:2007 certified company; TPDDL has established an environmental management system that helps them to demonstrate environmental responsibility.  TPDDL has done extensive Environmental Aspect & Impact Assessment and for Significant Aspect it has defined mechanism in place through documenting Work Instruction / Operating Guidelines. On a regular basis “Environmental Aspect & Impact Assessment” is updated so that it remains current & effective.  Organization Objectives are specifically focused on Energy Conservation measures, Climate Change, Land utilization & Tree Plantation. Improvement Programs are also made for mitigating / eliminating significant Aspects / Hazards.  Operations related wastes are disposed of in the most appropriately suited manner e. g. 1. Waste oil is collected by an authorized collection agency and disposed in an appropriate manner. 2. Lead Acid batteries which are hazardous are also disposed to agencies which deal specifically with the disposal of these. 3. Biomedical wastes which are hazardous in nature are also appropriately disposed of with approved agency. 4. Nonferrous scrap is sold off through authorized recyclers only.  There is an enhanced focus on Climate Change in the company, as it is one of the focus areas of Tata Group. The carbon footprints created by the officials of TPDDL travelling by their vehicles to & fro the office were estimated by Strategy Group based on the inputs provided by various groups  Regular mails have been generated by DSM & EE group of TPDDL for awareness of Energy conservation, Climate Change and environment related issues. Principle 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. A few of the processes initiated to promote greater environment responsibility are given below Reduction of Aggregate Technical & Commercial loss from 10.78% in FY 2012-13 to 10.50% in the FY 2013-14.  Plantation of over 20,000 saplings across the zones, public places, district offices & training center of TPDDL against the target of 5000 saplings given by Delhi Govt. Company signed a MoU with Govt. of Delhi, becoming its Greening Agent for plantation across North & North West of Delhi. Approximately 60,000 saplings have been planted by company till date.  Consumer groups are made aware for climate change & other environmental concerns through RWA meetings, distribution of pamphlets & booklets in consumer meets, message on bills and through banners & posters at various locations.  TPDDL after a detailed analysis of the load profiles of TPDDL& Delhi Jal Board (DJB, water utility in Delhi) plants, suggested DJB to shift its morning operation hours for water pumping stations by 2 hours. This has helped in minimizing the coincidence with TPDDL peak hours which resulted in a saving of 2 MW of energy from the peak demand.  TPDDL identified energy saving potential at Banks ATMs where ACs was running 24 hours at 16-17°C throughout summer. Dialogues were held with Ministry of Environment & Forest (MoEF) which resulted in MOEF issuing guidelines to all the major banks in Delhi to ensure the optimal temperature setting of the ACs of their ATMs.  Under the aegis of Energy Club TPDDL organized Akshay Urja Diwas 2013, in association with Energy efficiency & Renewable Energy Management Center, during FY 13-14 in which more than 1000 students, teachers and RWA members took part. The celebration had skits on climate change presented by students, display of science models on energy conservation and stalls of energy efficient and renewable energy devices. th  TPDDL is a member of steering committee on developing the 12 Five year plan for Demand Side Management & Energy Efficiency  In order to promote energy efficiency, TPDDL is emphasizing upon use of energy efficient appliances. With regard to this, TPDDL is ensuring that the appliances purchased henceforth are star rated & energy efficient ones. To begin with, TPDDL has issued guidelines to its procurement group for the following items:  Air Conditioners (5 Star Air Conditioners)  Distribution Transformers (3 Star)  T5 tube lights & electronic ballast (instead of T12 tube lights & magnetic chokes)  Consumer outreach programs are being organized at various ForumsRWAs, Consumer meets. The presentations were given by well-established energy sector professionals from EE & REM, BEE, TERI, OEMs, etc. All consumer meets have climate change/ energy conservation as a part of agenda. Energy conservation tips are circulated & shared with consumers in the RWA meets every month. Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environment friendly technologies. The waste generated in TPDDL is disposed of as per applicable DPCC (Delhi Pollution Control Committee) Guidelines. List of waste produced with quantity, quality (i.e. analysis performed) and disposal routesDomestic General domestic waste from canteen Office and Site waste Hazardous Reusable transformer oil Nonferrous waste cable Bio medical waste  Storage of waste Transformer oil is stored in Sealed Drums. The oil is sold to recyclers approved by DPCC (Delhi Pollution Control Committee). Office waste of domestic nature are collected and disposed of in MCD (Municipal Corporation of Delhi) bins, bio medical waste generated at various dispensaries of TPDDL is sealed in a puncture proof plastic bag and sent to registered Bio-Medical waste treatment centers approved by DPCC. Old Lead Acid Batteries are stored in concrete floor and sent to suppliers under “Buy Back Scheme” or to approved recyclers.  Ozone depleting substances (Chloro Floro Carbon): TPDDL does not use any Ozone Depleting substance (CFC). All ACs used by the company have R-22 & R-134 gas & star rated by BEE.  Company is working in collaboration with Tata BP Solar for accelerating the deployment of Solar Water Heaters in TPDDL area and planning to spread awareness through Resident Welfare Association meetings.  TATA Power-DDL has recently got approval to implement Automated Demand Response Program for its Top 250 Commercial & Industrial Consumers. Under the project, consumers will be suggested to reduce their unessential loads during periods when power purchase costs are high or during peak periods.  A pilot project for replacing High Pressure Sodium Vapor lights with LED lights for street lighting purpose is over. A baseline measurement & study of its performance is in process.  Use of 5 star rated ACs in the company. Audio & video conferencing for employees to reduce the carbon footprint due to travel for meetings.  TPDDL celebrated “Energy Conservation Week” from 18th-24th March, 2014 in order to sensitize its employees about : Energy Conservation and its efficient use  Global warming and its harmful impact  Conservation of resources :Tool to combat climate change  A pilot project was conducted for using sun reflected paints on exterior walls & roofs to evaluate the impact on reduction on air conditioning load. Pilot was conducted at one of TPDDL building which resulted in 8% reduction in air conditioning load. Subsequently, TPDDL in association with Dulux launched a discount based scheme for its sun reflect paint range (Weathershield) for TPDDL consumers and employees under which the product was offered at 20% discount through the selected dealer outlets. Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.  The company focuses on extensive counseling to the employees for promotion of ethical behavior in the organization. TPDDL is driven by its strong value system which has its roots in the TATA Code of Conduct. TPDDL Code of Conduct is signed by every employee while joining pledging to abide by the code of conduct. It states that “TPDDL and its employees shall neither receive nor offer or make, directly or indirectly, any illegal payments, remuneration, gifts, donations or comparable benefits which are intended to or perceived to obtain business or uncompetitive favors for the conduct of business. The company shall cooperate with governmental authorities in efforts to eliminate all forms of bribery, fraud and corruption.”  The organization’s Ethics and value system has been assimilated and institutionalized in the form of an Ethics policy. A fully fledged Ethics Management Apex Team is in place which is chaired by CEO, TPDDL. The committee is comprised of an apex team of 12 senior management members at its top followed by 14 member team of Location Ethics Counselor coming from middle management. These Ethics Officers cover every nook & corner of company with each officer having 5 to 7 Ethics Champions under him taking care of every unethical practice including anti-corruption acts.  A full-fledged Vigilance Department is in place. The head of group is responsible for ascertaining a fair and an unbiased investigation process as well as ensuring the execution of the penalty if awarded. Vigilance cases are regularly monitored by this group and reports are put up on a regular basis to the competent authorities. The disciplinary actions taken are as per the service rules.  Pro Active Vigilance group came into existence for carrying out surprise raids, on spot checking of Field staff executives & BA staff at consumer’s premises, checking of materials at stores and receiving & resolving IVRS complains.
