AXFOOD2013 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P OR T s fo r a aspire A x food s h i p r o le leader nabilit y s u s t a i in us t r y – i m p or t a n t i n t he i nd a t e g reater n s cr e decisio rency fo r a n s p a tr ers consum New, challenging diversity goals engage entire Group SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Contents 4 CEO’s message 5 Axfood’s responsibility ÅSA DOMEIJ Head of Environment and Social Responsibility 7 Sustainability programme Tel. +46-8-553 99 00 9 Environment – ambitious initiatives in the area asa.domeij@axfood.se of energy use 12 Customers – sustainable and safe foods that offer value for money 15 Suppliers – audits for better working conditions 17 Employees – pride, commitment and diversity 19 Society – external work with responsibility issues 21 GRI table Axfood works systematically for continuous improvement in the prio­r­ itized environmental areas of energy consumption, transports and recycling. Results are achieved through long-term work involving both large and small measures. The Company analyses the value chain to identify which initiatives have the greatest impact. Axfood’s customers want sustainable, safe foods that offer value for money. During the year, the Group made several important decisions that give consumers greater opportunities to make conscious and well informed decisions in stores. Axfood aspires to be a partner in its suppliers’ sustainability work and upholds generally accepted business practices and high ethical stan­ dards in its business relationships. Social audits are an important tool for ensuring sound conditions in manufacturing, and all suppliers are expected to comply with laws and regulations, and respect international conventions. Axfood is a firm believer that diversity enhances business benefit. Experiences from other cultures are valuable for meeting customers’ demands. The Group holds the vision is that its employees will reflect the diversity of its customers and strives to offer equal opportunity for everyone. 2 AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Through profitable growth and innovative thinking, we will be the best food retail company in the Nordic region Food retail business is conducted through the wholly owned store chains Willys and Hemköp. Wholesale business is conducted through Dagab and Axfood Närlivs. 252 820 Collaboration with proprietor-run stores wholly owned stores Nasdaq Axfood has 252 wholly owned stores. In addition, Axfood collaborates with a large number of proprietorrun stores that are tied to Axfood through agreements, including stores in the Hemköp chain as well as stores OMX Axfood is listed on Nasdaq OMX run under the Handlar’n and Tempo profiles. Stockholm AB’s Large Cap list. 20% MARKET SHARE Axfood has an approximate 20% 50 % The principal owner is Axel Johnson 20% share of the food AB, with 50.1% of the shares. retail market in Sweden. 3 AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ceo’s message Sustainability is key to sucess In 2013 we continued our determined effort towards achieving industry leaderWe have also continued our work with ani­ mal welfare, and in 2014 we will be looking ship in sustainability. I am proud of our position and convinced that sustainability into various animal welfare certifications in strengthens Axfood’s business and contributes to long-term development of our purchasing countries. the operations. At the same time, I am very humble with respect to the sustainWe are on an exciting journey, and the level of commitment in our organization is ability challenges that we face. great. All parts of our operations are working in concert towards the goal of being best in the industry at sustainability. The shared CLIMATE ISSUE MOST IMPORTANT FOR to more and new ways of improving our view in the Company is compelling – we are THE FUTURE business, and strengthens our relationships driven by a conviction that sustainability The climate issue is the greatest challenge with customers and other stakeholders. issues are a key to success for Axfood. of our time and requires the engagement of Axfood already has great diversity among people from of all parts of society. At Axfood its employees. But we need to be even better we have set an ambitious goal – to be at capitalizing on the strengths inherent in ­climate-neutral by 2020. We will reduce diversity. Consequen­tly, in 2013 we set a our environmental impact by 75% and cli­ new diversity goal that 20% of managers in mate-compensate the remainder through the Group should have an international Anders Strålman smart projects that help curb climate background by 2020. Diversity is also a President and CEO, Axfood AB change around the world. ­matter of gender, age, experience and In 2013 we installed one of the country’s b­ ackground. largest solar panel systems on the rooftop of Together with the Axel Johnson Group, Dagab’s cold storage warehouse in Gothen­ we are also participating in the Axelerate ini­ burg. The panels generate a substantial tiative, which was started in 2013 with the amount of carbon-free energy for a part of mission to promote diversity in the organi­ our operations in which energy consump­ zation. tion is the highest. To further reduce energy consumption, more stores have installed CUSTOMER CONFIDENCE energy monitoring systems and have fur­ One issue that cast a shadow on our indus­ nished refrigerated and frozen food displays try during the year was the controversy sur­ with doors and lids. rounding of the so-called horse meat scan­ We are also working together with others dal. Many of us were taken by surprise by to draw attention to the climate issue and the fraud behind ingredient labelling. It is advocate sustainable development. Through something that we take – and have taken – the Haga Initiative, which Axfood co-founded, with utmost seriousness, both through our a number of well known companies have quality assurance and control programmes undertaken to reduce their carbon emissions. and through new, important decisions made The aim of the initiative is also to influence during the year. To ensure that our custom­ politicians and challenge others in industry ers will feel safe and be able to make well to match our ambitions. We are active in the informed choices, Axfood has decided to debate and spur others to action. more clearly inform about the source of the main ingredients also for other ingredients DIVERSITY STRENGTHENS AXFOOD than meat. In addition to our extensive inter­ Diversity is another important sustainability nal control programme in stores, we have issue that we had in focus in 2013. We also adopted more and expanded controls believe that diversity enriches, contributes of products, including DNA analysis. 4 AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Axfood's responsibility Ambitious and goal-­oriented ­sustainability work Axfood is one of Sweden’s leading on the foundation of Axfood’s core values, ing public opinion regarding the environ­ Code of Conduct and sustainability pro­ ment and consumer demand. For example, food retail companies, with the ambigramme. new environmental policy decisions may tion to be a leader also in sustainable According to Axfood’s environmental pol­ involve higher taxes or regulations that could development. By being a driver of susicy, the precautionary principle shall be used give rise to a need for new investments. proactively in environmental work. Axfood’s The Company therefore monitors devel­ tainability issues over the long term, sustainability work is based on the UN defi­ opments in this area and prioritizes climate with tangible goals, Axfood creates nition of sustainability: “Development that and environmental aspects in all aspects of meets the needs of the present without operations in order to minimize risks and be the right offerings for its customers. compromising the ability of future genera­ proactive in its ability to comply with new This in turn leads to better business. tions to meet their own needs”. Axfood has rules and regulations, and demands made also been a participant in the UN Global by the authorities and consumers. Compact since 2002, and its ten principles The climate issue is one of the greatest Strategic approach are also natural focus points. This work is challenges today, as climate change poses Axfood’s goals and strategies rest on a conducted mainly in accordance with ISO major inherent risks for food production, ­conviction that environment, social respon­ 14001 principles. Reporting is done in including drought, floods and price fluctua­ sibility, strong customer orientation, and accordance with the Global Reporting tions caused by commodities speculation. proud and committed employees are vital ­Initiative (GRI) guidelines, level B. For Axfood this is putting higher demands drivers of value creation in the Company. on strategic purchasing. This can entail, for Work with the environment and sustainable Sustainability-related challenges example, ensuring that the Group is not development will therefore be conducted as and opportunities dependent on food ingredients from a single actively as possible to ensure that the Com­ Axfood’s operations are affected by environ­ region, as extreme weather can make har­ pany is best in the industry. This work rests mental policy decisions as well as by evolv­ vests uncertain. Axfood’s stakeholders Axfood’s most important stakeholders are the groups of people most important provide guidance to Axfood in its work with who are affected most by and/or affect the Company’s business. ­sustainability and corporate social responsibility. The issues that are perceived by these stakeholders as being the Owners Customers Axfood shall create enduring value Axfood aims to offer its customers for its shareholders by exercising a wide range of environmentally corporate responsibility. adapted, healthy and safe products at competitive prices. Employees Axfood wants proud and committed Suppliers employees, and to be a collaborative By making demands and engag­ and effective organization. ing in a dialogue, Axfood strives to raise the level of its suppliers’ sustainability work. Society Axfood strives to actively contribute to society by influencing and being responsive. 5 AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Axfood's responsibility Axfood is also contributing to more sustain­ demand for sustainable products. Through Axfood adheres to a policy that lays out the able food production, such as through its communication in stores, the Company is Group’s position on the offering and accept­ efforts to promote sustainable production of also helping customers make conscious ing of bribes and corruption. The ­policy is palm oil and soybeans. choices, such as through source-labelling of updated every year, and pertinent employ­ Rising energy prices and more stringent the main ingredients. ees are required to certify in writing that fuel emission standards affect Axfood’s Axfood’s purchasing guidelines have they have read the policy. In 2013, 1,070 operations. Moreover, consumption of elec­ obtained a strong sustainability profile that affected employees (900) signed such a cer­ tricity and fuel has a major climate impact. is based in part on life cycle analyses during tification, including persons with a payment For this reason, the Company is working the products’ course through the supply authorization right and employees who in intensively to improve the efficiency of its chain. Relationships with suppliers are gov­ some other way affect decisions about pur­ energy use. A number of measures are erned by the Company’s Code of Conduct chases of products or services. being taken to improve the efficiency of road with respect to social and business ethics transports and increase the use of biofuels. issues. Organization and implementation Greater use of rail transport is also seen as Axfood works with sustainability matters in a an opportunity. Code of Conduct for business ethics business-driven manner. Sustainability Over time, credible sustainability work is The Group’s Code of Conduct stipulates that issues are integrated in all aspects of opera­ decisive for earning customers’ trust. Grow­ Axfood shall conduct its business in accor­ tions in order to foster engagement through­ ing numbers of consumers are demanding dance with generally accepted business out the organization. The Executive Commit­ foods with an identity, clear source labelling practice and high standards of business eth­ tee and Head of Environment and Social and clearly marked ingredients. Axfood is ics in relation to suppliers and other busi­ Responsibility are responsible for overarch­ therefore working actively to meet the rising ness partners. ing strategies, goals and actions, and fol­ low-up. The individual companies and divi­ sions, in turn, have operational responsibility for their own sustainability work. To be able to work in an integrated man­ ner, it is important that the individual com­ SUSTAINABILITY ORGANIZATION panies have operational responsibility for their sustainability work. All companies have their own environmental coordinator. It is also important to gradually raise employees’ competence with respect to basic know­l­ edge about sustainability issues and CEO Axfood’s commercial benefit of being an EXECUTIVE industry leader in this area. COMMITTEE AXFOOD’S SUSTAINABILITY WORK SUSTAINABILITY HEAD OF COORDINATORS ENVIRONMENT AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICERS AT STORES AXFOOD’S BUSINESS Responsibility for overarching strategies, goals and actions, and follow-up rests with the Executive Committee and Head of Environment and Social Responsibility. The individual companies and divisions within the Axfood Group have operational responsibility for their own sustainability work. 6 AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Sustainability programme FOCUS AREA OVERARCHING GOALS SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS • Axfood will continuously improve its prod­ Sustainability ucts from an environmental perspective through adherence to the Group’s purchas­ ing guidelines. programme • – Axfood will work actively for more sustain­ able production of palm oil and soybeans. Axfood will advocate for better animal with meas­ur­ w ­ elfare. able goals ENVIRONMENT – TRANSPORTS • Axfood will reduce its climate impact from transports and business travel. Axfood’s sustainability programme is an important governance tool for the Group’s sustainability work. The programme describes goals, actions and results of the Group’s sustainability work and is revised once a year in pace with the achievement ENVIRONMENT – ENERGY of goals and the emergence of • Axfood will reduce its climate impact by 75% by 2020 (base year 2009). new opportunities. SUPPLIERS • Axfood will promote respect for human rights, workers’ rights and environmental protection among its suppliers and business partners. EMPLOYEES • Axfood will create workplaces that offer involvement, diversity and opportunities to develop. 7 AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Sustainability programme TARGET/KEY RATIO OUTCOME 2013 OUTCOME 2012 • Axfood will increase its sales of organic products 3.0 % 2.7 % to at least 3% of total food sales in 2013. 1.1 % • Axfood’s sales of organic meat will amount to 3% of total 3.0 % Approximately 95 % of meat sales by year-end 2013. products are labelled with • Packaging of Axfood’s private label products will include 98 % information on the coun­ information about the country of origin of meat ingredients. try of origin. A dialogue is • The palm oil used in Garant products will be certified by 2015. Certification process being carried out with sup­ begun. pliers of certified palm oil. • Dagab and Axfood Närlivs will reduce their CO2 emissions from Group–9.9 %1) –17.4 %1) owned vehicles by 20% per tonne-kilometre by 2015 (base year 2009). • The Axfood Group will reduce air travel by employees +6.2 %2) –16.0 % by 15% in 2013. • Axfood will reduce its energy consumption by 30 % –4.3 %1) –3.9 %1) per square metre by 2015 (base year 2009). • Dagab will reduce its electricity consumption by 5 % –4.6 % by year-end 2013 (base year 2012). • By 2015 at the latest, suppliers accounting for at least 67% of the Axfood became a Axfood will become Group’s purchasing value from risk countries will be audited in member of BSCI a member of BSCI accordance with the BSCI’s3) goals. Axfood will join BSCI in 2013. in 2013. in 2013. • By 2015 at the latest, at least 34 % of audited suppliers will have made improvements in accordance with the BSCI standards. • Continued high work attendance rate of at least 95 %. 94.7 % 95.0 % • Continued Employee Satisfaction Index score of at least 90 %. 91.0 % 91.0 % • Achieve an even gender balance in senior positions, i.e., that 25.0 % women 22.7 % women women and men will be represented within a range of 40 %–60 % 75.0 % men 77.3 % men by 2015 at the latest. 1) Compared with base year. 2) The increase is mainly attributable to a larger amount of business travel associated with the project to implement the new business system, plus more trips booked via travel agencies. 3) The Business Social Compliance Initiative, a leading business-driven initiative for companies committed to improving working conditions in the global supply chain. 8 AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Environment Environment – continued investments accelerating the pace of environmental work Axfood works systematically for conconsumption in the Group’s buildings has route planning and high capacity utilization been reduced by 4.3% since 2009. At the in delivery vehicles. Drivers are trained in tinuous improvement in the prioritized same time, demand for fresh and refriger­ so-called eco-driving to optimize fuel use, environmental areas of energy conated products is growing, requiring more and all of Axfood’s own delivery trucks use sumption, transports and recycling. energy to run refrigerated displays. To Evolution diesel fuel, which is a 25% blend ­further reduce energy consumption, of pine oil in ordinary diesel fuel. This Results are achieved through longmore refrigerated and frozen food displays results in lower CO2 emissions than ordinary term work involving both large and in stores have been furnished with doors diesel fuel. and lids. When purchasing new vehicles for its small measures. The Company ana­ fleet, Axfood chooses vehicles with the most lyses the value chain to identify which Road transports commercially viable engines and best envi­ initiatives have the greatest impact. The Group’s extensive product flows involve ronmental performance. During the year, intensive transport and logistics operations. Dagab ordered two new trucks powered by Axfood is working for long-term sustainable liquid petroleum gas (LPG). These will be Axfood’s warehouses and cold storage ware­ transports and has set challenging emission tested in the operations in 2014. houses are the largest consumers of energy targets. The Group’s own delivery fleet in the Group. Axfood is working to identify includes 137 (144) vehicles. In addition to Travelling and meeting improvement potential by systematically these, the Group uses the services of inde­ The Axfood Group’s goal is to reduce the measuring and controlling electricity use in pendent transport firms. total number of business trips by investing its wholly owned stores and warehouses. Dagab and Axfood Närlivs, which are in and offering alternative meeting forms, Axfood’s goal is to reduce electricity responsible for own transports within the such as videoand virtual conferencing. Pri­ ­consumption by 30% per square metre by Group, are working to reduce climate impact ority is also given to choosing transport by 2015 (base year 2009). To date, electricity through such measures as streamlined rail or coach over air travel. In 2013 the 9 AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Environment number of business trips using air travel achieved through, among other measures, increased by 6.2 %. This is mainly due to an cooperation with catering companies, local increase in travel in connection with the solutions for donating food, better ordering implementation of the new business system at Axfood’s facilities throughout the country. routines and increased use of Autoorder, an automated restocking system that monitors Increased support All air travel in the Group is climate-com­ pensated. actual flows to and from stores. to Solvatten Axfood lives up to its goal that all com­ Climate-smart products In 2013 Axfood introduced a line of pany cars satisfy the requirement to be Various products have differing environmen­ sparkling water sold in half-litre bottles ­classified as environmental cars in accord­ tal impacts during their production, transport for the benefit of the Solvatten water ance with the 2012 definition. and consumption. Axfood strives to ensure purification project in Uganda. Custom­ that the products included in its assortment ers at a number of Willys and Hemköp From waste to resource have as little environment impact as possi­ stores have been able to buy the prod­ All Axfood stores, warehouses and offices ble. By gradually sharpening requirements uct, where half of the sales price of sort their waste in order to increase material placed upon suppliers, the environmental SEK 10 is donated to the Solvatten proj­ recycling as far as possible. impact of products can be reduced. ect. This is one form of support for a Sorted material like shrink wrap and cor­ The Group’s purchases of palm oil illus­ Swedish invention that gives people in rugated board are a potential source of trate the effects of Axfood’s guidelines in developing countries access to clean income. All of Axfood’s stores strive to practice. Axfood has opted to replace con­ drinking water. ensure that food waste is sorted out for bio­ troversial palm oil with other vegetable oils Solvatten is a water container that gas production where possible. The ambi­ where possible and purchases green palm uses the sun’s ultraviolet rays and heat tion is to be able to send food waste from all oil certificates that correspond to the vol­ to purify water. In addition to giving stores to biogas production plants. Three ume of palm oil that is still used in certain ­people a means of purifying water, less external contractors handle the Group’s private label products. This promotes sus­ wood is needed to heat up water – a waste and report what they collect in an tainable palm plantations and production of ­climate gain with a bonus! online portal. Invoices for their services are palm oil, which is helping to preserve rain During his visit to Sweden in 2013, then sent directly via the portal to Axfood. forests. Axfood’s goal is that all palm oil U.S. President Barack Obama gave men­ The portal came online in 2012 and is con­ used in the Group’s private label products tion to Solvatten and to Petra Wadström, tributing to improved follow-up of the will be certified by 2015. the Swedish inventor behind Solvatten, Group’s sorting. In 2013 a parallel initiative for purchases which attracted considerable media Axfood is striving to optimize resources of soy products led to a decision to purchase attention. Axfood has been supporting and prevent food shrinkage. This is being soy certificates starting in 2014. Solvatten previously through climate compensation for business travel by air and through the Garant Såklart ­product line. In November, Axfood representatives visited Uganda to meet families who use the Solvatten system, to find out what it entails for them. About a dozen families in the capital city Kampala as well as in the country­ side described how access to clean water has led to a better life and improved their financial situ­ ation. Money that they previously had to spend on fuel just to boil water can now be used for other purposes, includ­ ing their chil­ dren’s school costs in many cases. 10 AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Environment Solar panels turn heat into refrigeration at Dagab’s cold storage warehouse Priorities 2014 Continue work on improving energy Dagab’s new cold storage warehouse in Gothenburg was inaugurated in 2013 and efficiency in all aspects of operations. supplies Axfood’s store chains in southern and western Sweden with frozen products. The facility also has one of the largest solar panel systems in Sweden, with the capacFollow up how greater access to alterity to generate 87,000 kWh of electricity per year, which is equal to what five nornative forms of meeting has affected mal-sized homes require each year for heating. business travel. On a yearly basis the system covers 10% of the warehouse’s energy needs, but during the summer this level can be as much as 20%. This makes the system a sound Increase cooperation to reduce food investment. Cold storage warehouses and solar panels are an optimal combination, shrinkage in stores and generate revesince the energy need for refrigeration is the greatest during the summer, when most nue from recycled material. solar energy can be converted. ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION FOR GROUP-OWNED STORES AND WHOLESALE FACILITIES CO 2 EMISSIONS, TRANSPORTS 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 Retailing MWh 289,077 289,632 286,654 Total CO2, tonnes 10,207 9,209 9,955 Wholesaling MWh 31,729 32,622 36,204 CO2 kg/tonne products 21.9 20.09 21.15 Total MWh 320,806 322,254 322,858 CO2 kg/SEK m in sales 2) 612.20 788.26 847.95 Number of stores 252 246 237 Number of vehicles in fleet 137 144 143 Electricity consumption No. vehicles with breath alcohol kWh/m2, stores 394 400 406 ignition interlock devices 126 130 112 Electricity consumption kWh/m2, 1) Total volume for Dagab’s and Axfood Närlivs’ own delivery vehicles – transports from wholesale facilities 208 223 237 own warehouses to stores. Due to a new calculation model, figures for previous years Total CO2, tonnes 2) 16,264 18,726 20,053 have been revised. 2) Pertains to delivered value using own fleet. 1) Partly estimated values. 2) Renewable electricity since 2010 for most of Axfood’s facilities. The emissions factor for the remaining facilities has increased due to previously contracted, unexpired CO 2 EMISSIONS, BUSINESS TRAVEL1) electricity contracts. 2013 2012 2011 CO2 air travel, tonnes1) 622 868 762 CO2 rail travel, tonnes1) 0 0 0 CO2 car travel, tonnes 620 738 772 1) Pertains to business travel booked by travel agencies. 11 AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Customers Customers – greater transparency and clarity for safe choices Axfood’s customers want sustainable, consequences of this for consumers and Stewardship Council (MSC). Previously only determine how companies like Axfood individual stores or restaurants in Sweden safe foods that offer value for money. should act in relation to their suppliers. had managed to achieve certification to During the year, the Group made sevsuch an extent. Growing interest from cus­ eral important decisions that give conExtensive mapping of animal tomers could be seen in higher sales of welfare practices MSC-certified fish. During the year, Hemköp sumers greater opportunities to make Interest in organic foods is also being driven held a number of training initiatives to raise conscious and well informed deciby growing interest in animal welfare. In knowledge about MSC among employees. response to this, today Axfood gives priority The Axfood-owned company Falkenbergs sions in stores. to organic meat with KRAV certification, as it Seafood is the only fish wholesaler in Swe­ sets the most far-reaching standards regard­ den that does not sell any fish on WWF’s red ing animal welfare. list, and its operations are also MSCand Clearer source labelling In 2013 Axfood decided to draw up an KRAV-certified. Axfood strives to help consumers find sus­ animal welfare certification for all of its pri­ tainable, healthy and safe foods at competi­ vate label products. This is mainly being Ecolabelled stores tive prices. Toward this end, the Group’s achieved by mapping all existing certification Willys offers Sweden’s “cheapest bag of chains have worked with their environmen­ standards. This work is expected to be com­ organic groceries”. In addition, Willys has tal profiles through communication with pleted in 2014, while the entire certification partnered with the Swedish Society for customers and in stores. This is particularly process will be ready in a few more years. Nature Conservation (SSNC), which has clear at Willys, which has ecolabelled stores As a result of the focus on animal welfare, ­ecolabelled all of the chain’s stores with the and Sweden’s lowest prices for organic food Axfood was the first company in the industry “Good Environmental Choice” ecolabel. This products. to take a stance against antiquated methods certifies, among other things, that the stores Consumers are voicing an interest in in hog farming, which will take effect in offer a wide selection of organic products, more identity and less anonymity in their 2015. Axfood’s goal here is to force the avoid especially environmentally hazardous food products. During the year, Axfood industry to cease the practice of castrating products, and work with energy efficiency made the decision to mark its private label pigs without anaesthesia. and waste sorting. Moreover, the modern­ products with clearer information on the Willys will stop selling eggs from caged ized stores are considerably more energy-­ source of all main ingredients, not only hens entirely in 2014. efficient than before. This can mainly be meat. For example, if a cheese is produced credited to modern energy monitoring in Holland but contains milk from another Customers showing a preference ­systems and the installation of refrigerators country, it should be stated where the milk – for MSC-certified fish and freezer displays with lids and doors, the main ingredient – comes from, not only In 2013 Hemköp was the first grocery chain which is important both for the environment where the cheese was processed. to certify all of its fish counters in its wholly and for the chain’s ability to keep prices low. In addition, new studies are leading to owned stores accordance with the Marine more stringent standards in existing frame­ works. For example, the “Good Environmen­ tal Choice” ecolabel has raised its require­ ments for PVC plastic. This has led to changes in the assortment, and PVC has been replaced with other alternatives in all of Willys’ products where possible. During the year, Axfood started a dia­ logue on animal husbandry together with the restaurant and foodservice operator Martin & Servera. This dialogue is being led by the Antonia Ax:son Johnson Foundation for Sus­ tainable Development in response to figures published by the European Medicines Agency that indicate the extensive use of antibiotics in animal husbandry. The aim is to work together with external experts to study the 12 AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Customers Greater share of organic products offer value for money. The products are sold The Fairtrade Certified private label Aware Axfood’s goal for 2013 was that organic in all of the Group’s store concepts. The included ten products at year-end (ten), products would account for 3% of total food assortment comprised 140 (130) items at including coffee, tea and chocolate. sales was achieved. year-end and is being gradually expanded. Garant Ekologiska varor is Axfood’s pri­ In 2013, organic and Fairtrade Certified Quality assurance of private label products vate label for organic food products that bananas were introduced. Private label products play a key role in Axfood’s efforts to offer high quality prod­ ucts that give customers value for their money. Regardless of the product and level of quality, all food producers of the Group’s private label products must have plants that are certified according to any of the stan­ dards sanctioned by the Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI). The quality of food safety work is also controlled in yearly analyses performed by Axfood quality assurance staff. Ethical exclusions and control programmes In the Group’s wholly owned stores, Axfood has chosen to refrain from product catego­ ries that are contrary to the Company’s val­ ues. These include magazines with a por­ nographic content, and cider and so-called alcopop beverages with an alcohol content higher than 2.25%. Nor are concentrated energy shots sold in Axfood stores. To ensure adherence to minimum age limits for purchases of alcohol, tobacco and medicine – legal limits or the Group’s own voluntary limits – Axfood conducts training and has routines for checking ages. Follow-up is con­ Quality standards ducted in stores through the Group’s inter­ nal control programme. TYPE OF PRODUCT SUPPLIER REQUIREMENT In cooperation with the trade organiza­ tion Svensk Dagligvaruhandel, Axfood has helped draw up the industry-wide “Safe Household chemical products, ISO 9001 or GPM food in your store” guidelines. The guide­ cosmetics and hair care products lines’ recommendations are applied in Axfood stores and serve as a platform for the design of the stores’ own internal control programmes. In such a control programme, the stores Vegetables, root vegetables and fruit Certification according to Global perform certain daily checks, including GAP or similar arrival inspections and temperature inspec­ tions at the departmental level. Clear rou­ tines are in place for unpackaged foods, for example, to ensure that food hygiene is maintained and the integrity of the cold Certain non-food items, such as toys Documentation and certificate chain. and electrical appliances of CE labelling Axfood has a Group-wide agreement with a partner on hygiene and pest control issues, which visits Group-owned stores on a regular basis. The visits include the taking of microbiological samples and reviewing the Products designed for contact Certification that the product is man­ stores’ internal control work. In an internal with food ufactured using material approved in function called “Concept follow-up”, which accordance with Normpack’s rules is also conducted on a regular basis, food safety is a central control point. Suppliers that have not completed certification can request dispensation if they can present a credible timetable for certification. 13 AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Customers Guaranteed organic bananas Sales of organic bananas rose sharply during the year. The Garant Ekologiska product line includes organic, Fairtrade Certified bananas that are pack­ aged in biodegradable plastic bags. A QR code on the package links customers to a film about work on a banana plantation. Organic banana plantations practice pesticide-free agriculture, which is good for the plantation workers and good for the environment. In addition to a safer and more secure work environment and natural envi­ ronment, organic banana plantations are contributing to the development of methods that are also benefit­ ing conventional banana plantations. Fairtrade Certi­ fication is a voucher that production is conducted under fair working conditions. Priorities 2014 Introduce clearer labelling of the source of main ingredients in all ­private label products. Finish work on animal welfare certi­ fication and formulate Axfood’s QUALITY ASSURANCE OF PRIVATE LABEL PRODUCTS ­standards. 2013 2012 2011 Product recalls from stores, private Strengthen offering of and availability label products, number 31 22 25 of organic products. Product recalls from stores, other, number 68 30 45 Share of private label product suppliers approved according to GFSI, % 99 98 98 KEY DATA PER STORE CHAIN Hemköp Willys Willys Hemma 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 Number of organic products 907 1,008 1,331 605 524 608 366 340 361 Sales as % of total food sales 4.55 4.20 4.11 255 2.26 2.14 3.15 2.91 2.73 Number of Fairtrade Certified products 90 72 104 50 42 50 32 31 27 Sales as % of total food sales 0.27 0.23 0.20 0.13 0.12 0.13 0.16 0.16 0.16 Number of hypoallergenic products 576 555 637 434 420 452 310 276 277 14 AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Suppliers Suppliers – the goal is a reliable and transparent supply chain Axfood aspires to be a partner in its required to adhere to the standards in the Axfood’s representative office in Shanghai is Code of Conduct. They are also required to an important resource for identifying good suppliers’ sustainability work and ensure that their subcontractors in turn suppliers that meet Axfood’s quality stan­ upholds generally accepted business adhere to the Code. dards as well as the standards set in the practices and high ethical standards Code of Conduct. Social audits Deviations from laws and conventions in its business relationships. Social Axfood performs social audits to examine lead to a dialogue between Axfood and the audits are an important tool for ensurhow well its suppliers adhere to the Group’s supplier in question, with a view to achieving Code of Conduct and their respective coun­ improvements. If no improvements are ing sound conditions in manufacturtries’ laws governing workers’ rights and made, then grounds exist to terminate the ing, and all suppliers are expected to working conditions. Together with local audi­ cooperation. comply with laws and regulations, and tors, Axfood performs social inspections of selected suppliers. The protocol for the Alliances carry greater weight respect international conventions. audits is based on SA8000, an international During the year Axfood became a member standard for social audits that covers such of BSCI (the Business Social Compliance Ini­ Code of Conduct applies to all areas as child labour, work environments tiative), an international alliance of compa­ Axfood’s Code of Conduct has been imple­ and housing conditions. nies that is working to improve working con­ mented in all operations and applies for In 2013, a total of 23 (21) social audits ditions in factories and farms worldwide. employees as well as suppliers. The Code were performed. The audits have been sys­ Membership in the alliance is enabling more lays out Axfood’s obligations and expecta­ tematized, with clearer routines for fol­ audits and inspections of suppliers to be tions in internal and external relations and is low-up and return visits. Axfood conducts a performed. Axfood also participates in other based on internationally recognized conven­ risk mapping of countries with respect to industry alliances – including the Nordic tions for human rights, working conditions human rights, environmental policies and purchasing network United Nordic – in an and the environment. corruption. This forms a platform for the set­ effort to work with others to address chal­ All companies that supply products or ting of priorities in inspections and is used lenges involving suppliers. services to Axfood Group companies are as support by the purchasing organization. 15 AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Suppliers The social audit process Axfood decides to conduct a On-site meeting with Review of documents, such Concluding meet­ An action plan is Within 6 to 12 social audit of a particular the supplier’s man­ as time cards, payroll slips, ing with supplier’s drafted through months after the supplier or producer. The agement at the plant employment contracts and management to dialogue with the visit, a follow-up decision on which supplier along with a review of policies. Inspection of the go through any supplier in the visit is made to to be visited is based on how the audit will be production facility’s prem­ deviations from event any devia­ ensure that the specific criteria that weigh performed, based ises and interviews with the requirements tions have been action plan has in such factors as risk coun­ on Axfood’s Code employees. in the Code of discovered. been followed. try and risk industry. of Conduct. Conduct. On visit to China Axfood’s head of sustainability, together with employees from Axfood’s purchasing office in Shanghai, visited a number of Chinese suppliers during the year. Axfood imports both food and other products from China. Before a new supplier is approved, a buyer pays a visit and performs a general control of the work environment and other social conditions, among other things. If the result is positive and an agreement is reached, a complete social audit is per­ formed by Axfood’s own auditor, who also has considerable knowledge about Chi­ nese business culture and who checks to see that time cards and other documents have not been falsified. Unfortunately, there are consultants in China who can be hired to falsify documents ahead of social audits or offer bribes for approved results. Axfood’s own auditor has uncovered sev­ eral such cases over the years. Development in China has progressed rapidly. As a result of wage growth in recent years, Chinese companies are working to improve the efficiency of pro­ duction processes in order to uphold their competitiveness. They are also finding it important to adapt their production and offerings to Axfood’s environmental stan­ dards, such as by offering candles made Priorities 2014 of certified palm oil. Ensure that Axfood adheres to the prin­ ciples for membership in BSCI. Continue increasing the pace of social IMPORTS OF PRIVATE LABEL PRODUCTS FROM VARIOUS REGIONS audits through procurement of external Number Share, % support. Europe 2,759 81.8 Asia 555 16.5 Study animal welfare audits. Africa 8 0.2 North America 30 0.9 South America 19 0.6 Increase resources and competency Total 3,371 100 in the purchasing organization. 16 AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Employees Employees – greater diversity and distinct culture are success factors Axfood is a firm believer that diversity enhances business benefit. The Group’s The new health strategy has led to the ­adoption of joint rehabilitation processes, vision is that the employees should reflect the diversity among the customers. which will highlight good examples and help identify signs of ill-health at an early stage. Diversity leads to enhanced women in management positions was 25% The goal is to be able to quickly initiate business benefit (23%); however, Axfood’s management ­beneficial rehabilitation measures, reduce Experiences from other cultures are valu­ training programmes have had an even bal­ sickness-related absenteeism and promote able for meeting customers’ demands. The ance of men and women since 2010. At a faster return to work after an illness. Group holds the vision is that its employees year-end 2013 the share of women store Another aspect of the “Omtag hälsa” will reflect the diversity of its customers and managers was 26% (27%). strategy involves the adoption of improved strives to offer equal opportunity for every­ Axfood is one of the initiative-takers routines for incident reporting via the Swed­ one. In 2013 the Board of Directors decided behind Diversity Charter Sweden, which is ish retail trade’s work environment informa­ on a challenging diversity target, entailing part of a European company network with tion system (HIA). The aim is to identify risks that 20% of managers in all Group compa­ thousands of members dedicated to sharing at an early stage and be able to prevent inju­ nies should have an international back­ knowledge and experience surrounding ries and minimize the risk for operational ground by 2020. This target will be followed diversity in an effort to strengthen their busi­ interruptions. This represents a clear up yearly. ness. All member-companies in the Diversity strengthening of the continuous, systematic A precondition for achieving this goal is Charter sign a contract that they will work that diversity work is incorporated in all actively with diversity based on set targets. recruitment and employee development pro­ cesses. Axfood has initiated a mapping and Values-based leadership analysis of how diversity is taken into account The Group has defined a leader profile that in the Group’s competence succession work. clarifies which type of leadership is sought Toward this end, together with the Axel after. Axfood works with various methods for Johnson Group, Axfood will participate in evaluating and following up leadership and the Axelerate initiative, which is aimed at employee attributes that will ensure a system promoting greater diversity in the organiza­ and structure for leadership succession and tion. A number of participants from the identify individuals with leadership potential. Axfood Group will study if any cultural or The goal is that 75% of managers should structural obstacles exist to increasing diver­ be recruited internally. The aim is to balance sity in the organization. Together with mem­ length of experience with new thinking and bers of the Executive Committee, they will create conditions for constructive dynamics. set goals for increasing diversity in manage­ Axfood provides obligatory training for all ment positions. This work was begun in leaders in Axfood’s core values and view of 2013 and is continuing in 2014. leadership. The Group has also set a goal to achieve an even gender balance in management Health and well-being positions. This entails that a minimum of During the year, a Group-wide health strat­ 40% and maximum of 60% shall be of egy, “Omtag hälsa” (“Health reboot”), was either gender. launched. Since previously, all employees To accelerate achievement of this goal, in have been encouraged to participate in 2013 Axfood decided that there should ­fitness activities through a fitness subsidy always be one candidate of each gender for from Axfood. The Group also offers company consideration when a management position health services, which focus on preventive is to be filled. At year-end 2013, the share of measures in the workplace. 17 AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Employees work environment and safety work that for prospective store managers is conducted At total of 36,000 e-learning courses were ­covers all employees and ensures that yearly to secure access to competent and held in 2013, with the main purpose of Axfood’s operations adhere to the Work committed store managers. raising the basic level of competence in Environment Act and the Work Environment The Axfood Academy is the Group’s centre stores. Axfood offers e-learning courses in Authority’s guidelines. for training and development programmes. areas such as the environment, sustain­ The offering includes instructor-led courses, ability, age verification, safety and food Grow with Axfood however, the focus is on digital training plat­ hygiene. The goal of Axfood’s broad train­ All Axfood employees are to participate in forms – e-learning – which are a cost-effec­ ing programme is to support employees yearly performance reviews with their tive tool for providing competence develop­ in their development and to make clear immediate supervisor. All stores have a ment for all employees in the Group. Nearly which competence profile is needed for defined set of competency requirements 50% of employees complete the courses at various roles. and qualifications that are designed to high­ home, which benefits the environment by Axfood was named as “Career Com­ light opportunities and requirements for the eliminating unnecessary travel. pany of the Year” in 2013 by the Swedish respective job roles. Together with a devel­ In 2013 a total of 7,300 employees par­ business daily Dagens Industri. The Com­ oped programme of training and continuing ticipated in 4,300 training days. In addition, pany also received a distinction as Com­ education courses, this creates conditions 1,500 employees completed the Group-wide petence Company of the Year at the for individuals to grow. A trainee programme environment training in 2013. Swedish Competence Trade Fair. Satisfied employees Axfood conducts regular employee sur­ veys. In the most recent survey, which was conducted in 2012, an Employee Satisfaction Index score of 91% was achieved, which can be compared with the industry benchmark of 85%. Priorities 2014 Highlight processes for competence succession with a focus on diversity. Continue developing alternative ­meeting forms. Implement the “Omtag hälsa” health strategy in an effort to reduce sick­ ness-related absenteeism. EMPLOYEE STATISTICS 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Work attendance, retail, % 94.9 95.1 95.5 95.4 94.9 Work attendance, wholesale, % 93.7 93.9 94.1 93.9 93.9 Work attendance, staffs, % 96.7 98.7 96.9 97.3 97.1 Employee turnover rate, % 8.9 9.1 11.1 11.8 9.8 Men/women, % 8.0/9.6 8.7/9.4 10.8/11.4 10.8/12.6 9.5/10.0 Age category –29, % 12.7 13.0 16.1 16.2 13.2 Age category 30–49, % 6.7 6.7 8.2 8.8 7.1 Age category 50–, % 8.7 8.9 10.6 12.3 10.3 Average service time, years 9.8 10.5 9.8 9.1 8.9 Number of full-time employees 4,386 4,367 4,318 4,332 3,840 Number of part-time employees 4,016 3,758 3,484 3,486 4,298 Average number of employees1) 8,285 8,021 7,062 6,895 6,816 Number of men 3,837 3,341 3,268 3,214 3,135 Number of women 4,448 3,913 3,794 3,681 3,681 Number of training days 4,300 5,000 4,000 3,900 2,200 1) Based on 1,920 working hours per year. All employees are covered by collective agreements, which regulate notice periods, among other things (1–12 months, depending on age and service time). 18 AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Society Society – partnerships and dialogue regarding important responsibility issues Axfood takes measures to preserve and uphold its relationships with society and its various stakeholders, ranging from consumers to authorities. Together with non-profit organizations and other business actors, the Group works with issues that require a broad base of participation or joint solutions. Trade organization monitors regulations The retail trade organization Svensk Daglig­ varuhandel advocates for issues that involve the entire food retail industry. Among other things, the association develops standards and studies how EU legislation should be implemented in Sweden. Axfood also partic­ ipates in other trade organizations, such as for packaging and newspaper recycling, since these are relevant for operations. Company networks Axfood is one of the founders of the Haga Initiative, a climate-focused network whose aim is to reduce emissions from industry, combat climate change and serve as a role model in climate work. Members commit Pursuing diversity in European with a number of non-profit organizations. themselves to reducing their emissions by at collaboration For example, Willys is a main partner to Save least 40% by 2020. Axfood is one of the initiative-takers behind the Children Sweden and also cooperates The Swedish Association of Environmen­ Diversity Charter Sweden, which is part of a with the Swedish Society for Nature Conser­ tal Managers (NMC) and CSR Sweden are European company network with thousands vation. Hemköp works together with SOS two additional company networks that of members dedicated to sharing knowledge Children’s Villages, among others, while the Axfood participates in, focusing on sustain­ and experience surrounding diversity in an Group as a whole supports Save the Children. able, responsible business. effort to strengthen their business. All mem­ With respect to issues related to oceans Axfood is also belongs to Handelns ber-companies in the Diversity Charter sign and fish, Axfood consults with WWF. Säkerhetsgrupp (HSG), a network of security a contract that they will work actively with Together with companies and organizations, officers from retail chains throughout Swe­ diversity based on set targets. Axfood participates in the Roundtable on den. HSG promotes collaboration between Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) and the Round its members in an effort to strengthen the Non-profit organizations Table on Responsible Soy Association, both industry’s security work and foster greater Axfood works on a more long-term level with of which serve to protect the world’s rain for­ security for employees and customers. sustainability issues through partnerships ests and promote sustainable production of 19 AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Society palm oil and soybeans. The focus is cur­ rently on establishing an effective system for trading in certified palm oil and soybeans. During the year, Axfood decided to purchase Deposits provided aid to the Philippines soybean certificates and conducted a map­ ping of soybean flows, including imports. More than SEK 3.4 million in donations was collected for Save the Children in 2013. This is a tremendous figure that rose considerably with customers’ help in the final Dialogue with stakeholder organizations months of the year, when Axfood announced that donations of all bottle and can Axfood maintains regular contact and car­ deposits would be earmarked for the Philippines. To further encourage donations, ries on a dialogue about sustainability issues ­Willys and Hemköp pledged to match customers’ donations. In total the campaign with a number of stakeholder organizations, raised nearly SEK 1.3 million in aid for victims of Typhoon Haiyan. including the Swedish Society for Nature In addition to collections for natural disaster victims in the Philippines, focus Conservation (SSNC), WWF, Greenpeace, during the year was on other Save the Children activities – work with socio-­ Fair Trade Center, the Swedish Consumers economically deprived areas, youth sports projects in Sweden, and an educational Association, Animal Welfare Sweden and project in Ivory Coast. Animal Rights Sweden. In its dialogue with SSNC, for example, the focus has been on the issue of chemicals. Palm oil is another important issue of focus in discussions with SSNC, WWF and Greenpeace, for example. Sustainable fishing is also a recurring issue is Axfood’s dialogue with environmental organizations. Fair Trade Center focuses on social conditions in production and among suppliers. Swedish consumers are con­ cerned about issues related to animal wel­ fare and product labelling. Scandal opened new opportunities Large parts of the Swedish food industry were shaken by news reports in the spring of 2013 about false content labels in which beef actually turned out to be horse meat. Axfood was also affected, and some five tonnes of lasagne had to be recalled from stores. The lasagne was entirely edible, but the content declaration had been falsified. Axfood sought permission from the Swedish National Food Agency to distribute the lasagne to people in need instead of discarding it. On the condition that the mislabelled packages were removed and correct con­ tent declarations were provided, Axfood’s request was approved. Together with St Clara church in Stockholm, in March Axfood distributed the entire parcel of lasagne with horse meat to people in need. The cooperation with St Clara church has continued, and during the autumn Axfood also took up cooperation with Centrum church in Stock­ holm. Every week, two Hemköp stores in Stockholm have been donating food products that have been left over but are still safe to eat, including bread, fruits and vegetables. The food is then handed out to people in need in Stockholm. Central Stockholm currently has some three to five thousand homeless people. Other stores are now looking into the oppor­ tunity to work with local partners and contribute to relief organizations. 20 AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 gri-table GRI-table For the sixth year in a row, Axfood is reporting its sustainability work from Axfood’s previous reports and the methods used there. How­ in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines, ever, certain emission factors have changed compared with the pre­ level B. The report is not subject to external assurance. Axfood is a ceding year. In contrast to a year ago, the reporting of EN16 does not participant in the Global Compact and adheres to its principles for include refrigerants. Axfood is reviewing its data collection method sustainability work. The calculation methods for carbon dioxide emis­ for this. sions are based in part on the guidelines outlined in the Haga Initia­ During the year, Axfood was not issued any fines or sanctions for tive, which are based on the GHG protocol. The calculation method violations of environmental laws, food safety or other laws. used in the Haga Initiative is described in more detail on Axfood’s The table below references where the information is presented in website: axfood.se. the report. In addition to the profile and governance data prescribed The sustainability indicators cover Group-owned retail and whole­ by the GRI, the table covers all core indicators as well as the comple­ sale operations. The Group’s franchise stores currently do not report mentary indicators that are judged to be relevant for Axfood. The sustainability data centrally to Axfood and are therefore not covered symbols show if the respective indicators are complete. Some report­ by the report. The same applies for external transport contractors in ing refers to information in the Annual Report (AR). the wholesale operations. In this respect, the report does not differ Page Page Axfood reference Degree Axfood reference Degree Profil 1. STRATEGY & ANALYSIS 4. GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS & ENGAGEMENT 1.1 CEO statement 4 Governance 1.2 Description of key impacts, 4–6, 7–8, 4.1 Governance structure of the organization 6, AR 44, 48 risks and opportunities AR 40–41 4.2 The Chairman of the Board's role in the AR 47–48 organization­ 2. ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 4.3 Independent and/or non-executive AR 46 board members 2.1 Name of the organization Back cover 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees AR 45 2.2 Primary brands, products, and services 3, 14, to provide recommendations to the board back cover, AR 14–17 4.5 Principles for compensation to senior executives AR 74–75 2.3 Operational structure of the organization AR 16–17 4.6 Processes for avoiding conflicts of interests in AR 46 the board 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters Back cover 4.7 Processes for determining the qualifications of AR 45–46 2.5 Countries where the organization operates 3, 15–16 board members 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 3, AR 44 4.8 Mission, values, Code of Conduct, etc. 5–6, AR 6 2.7 Markets 3, flap 4.9 The board’s monitoring of the sustainability work AR 48 2.8 Scale of the organization 3, flap 4.10 Processes for evaluating the board’s work AR 47–48 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period 21 Commitments to external initiatives 2.10 Awards received during the reporting period 18, AR 3 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the 5 p ­ recautionary principle is applied 4.12 Endorsement of external voluntary codes, 5, 12–13, 15, 3. REPORT PARAMETERS p ­ rinciples or other initiatives 19–20 Report profile 4.13 Memberships in associations 15, 17, 19–20 3.1 Reporting period 21 Stakeholder engagement 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 21 4.14 List of stakeholder groups 5, 19–20 3.3 Reporting cycle Administration report 21 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of 5 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report 2 ­stakeholders with whom to engage Report scope and boundary 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 19–20 3.5 Process for defining report content 5–8 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised 5–6, 12, 19–20 through stakeholder engagement 3.6 Boundary of the report 21 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope 21 or boundary of the report 5. ECONOMIC INDICATORS 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint 21, AR 64–71 ventures, subsidiaries, etc. Sustainability governance, Finance AR 4–13 3.9 Data measurement techniques 21, AR 64–71 EC1. Direct economic value generated and distributed AR 56–63 and calculation principles EC2. Risks and opportunities for the organization due 5–8, 10–11 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any restatements of 21 to climate changes information provided in earlier reports EC3. Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit AR 80–82 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting 21, AR 64–71 plan obligations periods regarding scope, boundaries, etc. EC4. Financial assistance received from government AR 79 GRI content index EC6. Policy, practices, and proportion of 3.12 Table identifying the location of the 21–22 spending on locally-based suppliers Standard Disclosures in the report EC7. Local hiring and proportion of senior manage­ 17–18 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to 21 ment hired from the local community seeking external assurance for the report EC8. Infrastructure investments and services provided for public purposes Fully reported Partly reported 21 Not reported AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 gri-table Page Page Axfood reference Degree Axfood reference Degree 6. ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS LA8. Education, training, prevention and risk-control programmes in place Sustainability governance, Environment 5–11 LA9. Health and safety topics covered in formal AR 37 EN1. Materials used by weight or volume agreements­with trade unions EN2. Percentage of recycled input materials LA10. Average hours of training per year per employee 18 EN3. Direct energy consumption by primary source 11 LA12. Employees receiving regular performance and 18 EN4. Indirect energy consumption by primary source 11 career development reviews EN5. Energy saved due to conservation 9–11 LA13. Composition of governance bodies and 8, 17, AR 74 and efficiency improvement employees according to diversity indicators EN7. Initiatives to reduce indirect energy 9–11 LA14. Ratio of basic salary of men to women consumption and results Human rights EN8. Total water withdrawal by source HR1. Investment agreements that include human 8, 15–16 EN11. Location/scope of land owned near protected rights clauses areas/areas of biodiversity value EN12. Impacts of products or operations on biodiversity HR2. Suppliers that have undergone screening on 15–16 EN16. Direct and indirect greenhouse 9–111) ­human rights, and actions taken gas emissions, by weight HR4. Total number of incidents of discrimination and EN17. Other relevant indirect greenhouse 9–11 actions taken gas emissions, and result HR5. Operations where freedom of association and 15–16 EN18. Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 9–11, 12 collective bargaining may be at significant risk and actions taken EN19. Emissions of ozone-depleting substances HR6. Operations identified as having significant risk for 15–16 EN20. NO, SO, and other significant air emissions, incidents of child labour and actions taken by weight per type HR7. Operations identified as having significant risk 15–16 EN21. Total water discharge, quality and recipient for incidents of forced or compulsory labour and EN22. Waste by type and disposal method 10 actions taken EN23. Number and volume of significant spills Society EN26. Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts 10, 12–14, SO1. Programmes for evaluating the operation’s of products and services 19–20 impacts on communities EN27. Products sold and their packaging 10, 13, 14 SO2. Business units analysed for risks related to AR 40 materials that are reclaimed ­corruption EN28. Fines and/or non-monetary sanctions for 21 SO3. Employees trained in the organization’s 6 ­non-compliance with environmental laws ­ nti-corruption policies and procedures a EN29. Environmental impact of transports 9 SO4. Actions taken in response to incidents of ­corruption SO5. Participation in public policy development and 19 7. SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS lobbying Sustainability governance, Social 5–8, 15–20 SO8. Monetary value of fines for non-compliance with 21 Employment conditions and terms applicable laws LA1. Total workforce by employment type, 18 Product responsibility contract and region PR1. Life cycle stages in which health and safety 8, 10 LA2. Rate of employee turnover by age group, 18 i­mpacts of products and services are assessed gender and region PR3. Type of products and service information required 12–14 LA3. Benefits to full-time employees 17 by procedures, and percentage of products ­subject to such information requirements LA4. Percentage of employees covered 18, AR 37 collective bargaining agreements PR6. Programmes for adherence to laws, 12–14 ­standards and voluntary codes for marketing LA5. Minimum notice period(s) 18, AR 37 c­ommunications regarding operational changes PR9. Monetary value of fines for non-compliance with 21 LA6. Percentage of total workforce represented in 17 regulations concerning the use of products and formal joint management-worker health and services safety committees LA7. Rates of injury, occupational diseases, 18 1) Pertains to trading operations, not staff functions at head offices. lost days, work-related fatalities Text and production: Hallvarsson & Halvarsson in cooperation with Axfood. Design and final art: Hallvarsson & Halvarsson. Photo: Mats Lundqvist, Elisabeth Ohlson Wallin pp. 4, a.o. English translation: NewStart Communications. 22 AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Axfood AB Axfood IT AB Hemköpskedjan AB Dagab SE-107 69 Stockholm SE-107 69 Stockholm SE-107 69 Stockholm Box 640 SE-136 26 Haninge Visitors’ address Visitors’ address Visitors’ address Norra Stationsgatan 80C Norra Stationsgatan 80C Norra Stationsgatan 80C Visitors’ address Lillsjövägen 7 Tel +46-8-553 990 00 Tel +46-8-553 990 00 Tel +46-8-553 990 00 Jordbro Företagspark info@axfood.se info@axfood.se info@hemkop.se Tel +46-8-500 710 00 www.axfood.se www.hemkop.se info@axfood.se Axfood Sverige AB Axfood AB Willys AB Axfood Närlivs SE-107 69 Stockholm Shared Service Center SE-412 86 Göteborg Box 1742 SE-701 17 Örebro Visitors’ address SE-551 93 Jönköping Visitors’ address Norra Stationsgatan 80C Falkenbergsgatan 3 Visitors’ address Visitors’ address Handelsgatan 5 Tel +46-553 990 00 Bataljonsgatan 12 Tel +46-31-733 31 00 Tel +46-19-603 03 50 info@axfood.se Tel +46-36-36 41 00 info@willys.se www.willys.se info@narlivs.se info@axfood.se www.narlivs.se www.snabbgross.se
