2013 Av Carrera 9 #115-06 Edificio Tierra Firme, piso 18, of 1808. Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 2013 Bogotá D.C., Colombia. PBX: (571) 7423338 Fax: (571) 7550067/69/70 Email: info@omegaenergy.co WWW.OMEGAENERGY.CO Contents Strategy and Analysis 4 MESSAGE FROM PRESIDENCY 4 Insights of OMEGA 7 EFFECTS, RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES 8 Risk Management 10 Profile of the Organization 14 Our Organization 14 Our Management System 20 Our Operations 23 Material Aspects and Coverage 32 Pisba / Boyacá Colombia Sustainability Report 2013 Materiality analysis matrix and Materiality test 33 Participation of Stakeholders 35 Our environment, our vision Stakeholders 36 Commitments of Stakeholders 37 This year and the followings, the water and its preserving features prominently on the agenda of OEG and company initiatives in Profile of the Report 38 sustainability and environment are demarcated for this purpose. Governance 39 At Omega Energy, energy is our core business and Governance Structure 39 Policies, roles and responsibilities water is our corporate commitment, this report 41 Internal control 43 gives a special recognition to all water resources in Colombia. Relevant Issues Labor Practices and Human Rights 44 Management and Mitigation of Environmental Impacts 58 Sustainability in the supply chain 80 Responsible relationships with Customers 90 Active Participation and Development of the Community 92 Optimal operational and financial performance 106 High Health and Safety Standards 112 GRI Table 129 Certifications Independent Verification Report of GRI Report 138 crude oil project in the same block with the drilling of three tests on well Medina 1, Block Condor, demonstrated the additional stratigraphic wells, showing the great potential presence of liquid and gaseous hydrocarbons in the formaof tertiary reservoirs. tions lower and upper Mirador, Cuervos and Une. In terms of findings, in field pens, in field Corrales, Block At the end of the year we had another exploratory success: Buenavista, the successful results of well Corrales 5 with the discovery of the well Acordeonero 1 in block Midas with an initial production of 1,400 barrels allowed doubling the an initial production of 2,700 barrels. We have an interest production of this field. Likewise, the positive results of in this block through the shares held in the company North Strategy and Analysis MESSAGE FROM PRESIDENCY *G4-1 facilities and infrastructure, seismic reprocessing and This year it is particularly gratifying for us to submit this others. As a result of the above, our gross production reaSustainability Report. This exercise has been perhaps the ched 855 million barrels, an increase of 173 million barrels first to show in a representative manner how the sustainaas compared to the previous year. Similarly, our production bility initiatives of Omega Energy Group (OEG) have been costs fell 2.82 dollars per barrel. incorporated into our corporate DNA. In the strategic reassessment for 2013, the communities took a priority place By strengthening non-conventional reprocessing technoin our investment plan. Today we can proudly say that logies, we were able to reprocess and reinterpret all 2D we have provided them with a transferred added value of and 3D seismic information from the blocks Buenavista 914,000 dollars equivalent to about 14% of the operating and Condor, which allowed us to improve the image of the benefits received by OEG in this period. subsoil, understand reservoirs and find new exploratory opportunities. The discovery of additional reserves in the Our strategy to increase production and achieve more effiPicacho formation and new prospective structures for the cient operations was materialized in our 2013investment Socha formation in block Buenavista was produced due to plan, which reached close to 18 million dollars in drilling, this work. The above generates the consolidation of the Omar Leal Quiroz / President INSIGHTS OF OMEGA “ Riding and Rend Lake Corp, who operate the block in partjects with high social and environmental impact in the ANA MARIA PEREZ – UTOE RICARDO FERNANDEZ – UTOE nership with Petrolatina. These achievements were great agricultural area with the purpose of creating mechanisms news for our production prospects in 2014. that in addition to contributing to food security, generate “The agreement for Housing Improvement in the Municipality of Corrales achieved as a main “It is a company dedicated and committed to carbon and the recovery and increase of water sources. objective to preserve and keep families in their habitat without causing displacement, and its collaborators life quality, the environment Expanding our international presence, we signed the exFor 2014 our first challenge is to complete the construction contributing in this way to improve their living conditions” and security.” ploration agreement for block Parapiti in Paraguay and of the gas dehydration plant, the compression plant and ANDREA SANCHEZ – UTOE ALEYDA PACHON – OEC acquired 60% of the block La Patria in said country, where the gas sales line from field Corrales to the Belencito termi“OMEGA ENERGY has directed its production process to “As Omega Energy Group, we are committed for caring to the environment, as well our strategy is the production of non-conventional hydronal. In this same region, we will initiate the drilling of three a sustainable sustainable development by raising the as the economic growth, according to them we have established programs for carbons. additional wells in block Buenavista in order to increase respect for nature and the integration of the community’s efficient use of natural resources including advocacy to all our employees and the the production of the block and identify the production area of influence ...” communities where we carry out our activities”. Also, as part of our strategy to consolidate our position as potential of other formations that have not been tested. an energy company, in 2013 we acquired from the comIn block La Punta, the target initial is to drill the wells LAURA RUIZ – OEC LARISA JASBON FADUL – SALVA pany Andean Chemicals, an affiliate of Ecopetrol in the Juape and Ugami and for the end of the year to resume the “We work for and with energy, by joining forces, establishing partnerships, strengthening our “OMEGA ENERGY GROUP understands energy United States, 5,000 acres located in the State of Louidrilling campaign of additional wells that allows us to at human capital and presenting results of high positive impact inside and outside the organization” as a catalyst that enables societies to evolve. siana intended to the cultivation of sugar cane for ethanol least reach a total of six million barrels. production. NELSON RINCON UTOE MICHAEL GARCIA OEC Our strategy is to convert our exploratory assets into pro“The road has not been easy, but exploring and producing excellent oil, “Omega has fostered an environment that allows innovating with Revenues for year 2013 reached 81.4 million dollars with duction assets and increase our acquisitions. Our only we have learned to create and share values in everything we do “ responsibly. Creating is part of our common language, and make it with a growth of 40%, which was reflected in the generation ambition may only be achieved insofar as we maintain quality is the reason for our existence” of EBITDA for 39.8 million dollars, i.e. 8.3 million dollars our philosophy of substantially investing in the prosperity YULY NEIRA NIKOIL ENERGY CORP above the previous year. The sound financial performance and wellbeing of the communities, regions and countries JAIME MONROY UTOE ““Within the company there are programs “OEG has managed to assimilate environments in all dimensions; impacts have been identified, of OEG allowed us accessing to important credit facilities where we carry out our activities. This economic and social for waste management, use and mitigation strategies have been generated and greater opportunities has been found for projects, to fund the acquisition of the share of P1 Energy in Union commitment, accompanied by the best environmental conservation of energy and water efficiency, communities and the environment” Temporal Omega, which through a Service Agreement caconservation practices and the promotion of initiatives in rries out exploration and production activities with Vetra the same field, are for us the only viable way to generate in which we raise awareness to both the ANGIE OSORIO – OEC development of our business activities and ” for the contract of block La Punta. energy for future generations. “We have changed the direction of our purposes, changing from being subjective to be appliance at home” fair; looking for any work that has been planned and executed to procured benefits for In 2013 OEG also fostered an initiative that we have called all parties involved” project “Salva,” which seeks to promote investment proSustainability Report 2013 EFFECTS, RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES *G4-2 contemplate the deployment of infrastructure in the gas tion of hydrocarbons, complement our social and econoDuring 2013 we began the Consulting Project with Prifinancing and careful but effective interaction with the area as an essential component in our business model. mic purpose. cewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) in order to update our communities where we operate, always keeping in mind Strategic Plan, strengthening the Corporate Governance the empowerment of them in our business model. Commercial and logistical efficiencies were achieved in the In the quest to be consistent with our commitment to the structure and our Risk Management through the analysis, distribution chain, which resulted in the improvement of communities and the generation of shared values with characterization and redesign of OEG’s strategic processes. For the effective increase in our reserves and the transthe company’s margin, which means an increase in revethem, we have created the initiative “Salva,” aimed at formation of our portfolio of projects, we have reached a nues regardless of the production volume. The placement sustainable high-impact agricultural production under an The purpose is to adopt and implement best practices that credit agreement with the Bank UBS and we continue maof production was also achieved in the medium term, wheinterdependence model in the communities where we opeensure compliance with strategic objectives in the finannaging the resources obtained from the issuance of bonds reupon future cash flows and the return of the investment rate, initially in Boyaca. cial, environmental and social dimensions, new businesses, issued through the Bank of New York with an impeccable made are guaranteed. human resources, as well as in the Core of our activity, so as behavior. As a result of our strategy, we have reached a state of to ensure all the dimensions for OEG’s sustainability and By diversifying our portfolio and as a complementary alknowledge that has allowed us to a more effective interadditionally to complement existing processes to achieve We have improved engineering designs to streamline proternative to contribute to sustainable development and to pretation of geological information and being pioneers in more efficient operations, increase production, incorporate duction through an ambitious plan of new and renovaachieve global energy efficiency, we have moved forward in the discovery of basins making important findings possinew seismic interpretation technologies to allow optimited infrastructure in our facilities to reduce costs and the our biofuel project by closing the purchase of lands in Louible, mainly in block Buenavista. Each one of the tasks for zing the modeling of reservoirs in our fields, more efficient effects positively reflected in the Opex of the company. We siana (United States) with Ecopetrol, convinced that the the execution of the strategic plan was always accompaproduction and development of fuels of a natural origin in nied by a careful evaluation of its impact to be carried out that country, together with the exploration and exploitain a sustainable manner, in harmony with our business, social and environmental commitment. Pisba / Boyacá Colombia 8 STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS Sustainability Report 2013 Lake Tota, Boyacá, Colombia Risk Management Financial Environment 1. Budget execution: The execution of the budget is 1. Communities: We consider communities as our own, OEG, focused on the benefits for communities, the envirisks that each process may have using all our value chain. vulnerable due to the nature of our industry, this risk therefore they are integrated into our activities in the ronment, collaborators and especially the sustainability At the same time taking into account our continuous imcan be materialized through various contingencies; geographic fronts where we have a presence. of the generation of energy sources, is increasingly aware provement cycle, we are in the process of designing and monitoring and early warnings can mitigate the conof the importance of the role of Risk Management in its implementing the best practices in terms of risk manage2. Public order: Definitely the risk that is most difficult trol over this indicator. processes. ment and administration advised by a company of global to control, it has a very high impact in all our stakeholrecognition, in order to always have exceptional risk indi2. Optimization of working capital: The opportunity ders, the management of the same is in the hands of Currently, each of the areas of the organization has adopcators. cost of the availability of financial resources is an exisexperts. ted the necessary measures within their processes with ting risk; the optimization of cash flows and their pre3. Legal certainty: Due to the dynamics with which the sole purpose of mitigating any event that may geneIn 2013 we achieved an important breakthrough in this cise use in activities that offer the highest return are a the national Government has executed the legal rate a risk, giving the priority and attention necessary so area and focused mainly on the management of the foconstant challenge. framework of the Hydrocarbon sector, it has been these events do not materialize. llowing high-impact risks that have been identified: 3. Indebtedness: Our tolerance level for the debt risk is necessary to strengthen our organizational structulow; for this reason, we monitor every day the respecre in order to address the effects on different fronts OEG supports the management of risks mainly on our tive indicators in order to obtain the best structures in caused by changes in the regulations that govern our Integrated Management System (GIS). We consider the line with our operation. activities. 10 STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS Sustainability Report 2013 Corporate Risk Map Operational Strategic N T ST E R 1. HSEQ incidents: The discipline regarding complian1. Strategic information: Our greatest asset is the M ce with the standards and processes implemented by structural geological knowledge of our fields; the cusON EG our HSEQ department reduces the materialization of tody of this information is a corporate priority. EN AT risks; as a management strategy we have divided the 2. Human capital: Our most sensitive resource; we have V IR Stakeholders IC area into the following specialties: HSE Unit (Health, Communities an interdisciplinary team with expertise in the industry Safety and Quality) and E Unit (Environment), which Incorporation of and long experience in the sector, the high know-how reserves is also in charge of the management of communities. Legal stability that we have could generate a turnover that may ma2. Infrastructure: We are capable of fulfilling the main terialize the risk of know-how leakages. Public order Human Capital Information objective of extracting our hydrocarbons efficiently, Loss 3. Incorporation of reserves: It represents the sustaibut the absence of an appropriate infrastructure for nability that the exploration and production of hythe management of the same may be a problem of Infrastructure Level of debt drocarbons of all energy companies have within their great magnitude that can activate other risks-generaportfolios, for this reason the main core of OEG is to Events HSEQ Optimization ting events. of working concentrate its efforts on activities that are directly capital related to the incorporation of reserves. 4. Relationship with stakeholders: The management Budget of the relationships with each of our stakeholders can over-execution be strategically vital for the sustainability of our core; it is necessary to structure the appropriate organizational team to address the interrelationship with them. 12 RISK MANAGEMENT Sustainability Report 2013 OEG companies began their consolidation process into a business group in 2012, which ended in mid-2013. The new structure of the group is shown below: Omega Energy Group BVI S.A. MF: 28% CF: 72% Panacol Energy INC. Omega Energy 100% International S.A 100% Buenavista Energy NIKOIL ENERGY LTD NIKOIL Profile of the Organization Invesment INC. OEI: 99.95% OEG 0.05% NIGERIA 90% ENERGY CORP BVI 100% Our Organization Integral Drilling Services *G4-3, *G4-4, *G4-5, *G4-9 INC. PANAMA OMEGA ENERGY Hidrocarburos 50% USA LLC Chaco S.A. Omega Energy Group BVI S.A. , hereinafter OEG, is a group of companies engaged in the exploration and production of 100% PARAGUAY hydrocarbons with over 10 years of presence in the market. Today OEG has 112 employees. 33% EXMINCO Pegasus Blending SAS COL International SAS ESP 100% 100% Quality Services & OUR PRODUCTS Investors SAS 100% OE Paraguay Sucursal PE IDS BEI Sucursal Omega Energy NEC Sucursal OIL NATURAL GAS LPG NATURAL GASOLINE Sucursal Sucursal Colombia Colombia Colombia Colombia Colombia 88,9% 3,7% 2,8% 4,6% Line 1. Foundations (Owners) OEG is the result of the growth of three companies: ween Petroleum Equipment International S.A.S (PEI) Line 2. Omega Energy Group BVI (Holding) Omega Energy International (OEI), Pegasus Blending and Nikoil Energy Corp. Suc Colombia (formerly Lukoil Line 3. Panamanian Parent Companies Line 4. Affiliate/Subsidiary Companies (Pan, Nig, BVI, USA and Paraguay) International (PBI), and Nikoil Energy Corp. (Nikoil). Overseas Colombia Ltda.). The administrative headLine 5. Affiliate/Subsidiary Colombian Companies The latter was created from the merger in 2012 betquarters of OEG are located in the city of Bogota. Line 6. Branches (Colombia and Paraguay) 14 PROFILE OF THE ORGANIZATION Sustainability Report 2013 Nikoil Energy MANIFESTO In this report we will inform about the companies of Omega Energy International and their branch office in Colombia, Pegasus Blending International S.A. and Nikoil Energy Corp. Sucursal Colombia, within the framework of the Corp material issues identified for this report. In the development of this report, we will be referring only to these three companies when mentioning Omega Nikoil Energy Corp. Suc Colombia is a Energy Group. branch office in Colombia of the comWe are a group of Oil & Gas We will continue to grow and evolve *G4-20 pany Nikoil Energy Corp (formerly companies that grow through our to consolidate in 2024 as a leading LUKOIL OVERSEAS) incorporated in belief and motivation to generate a corporation in the global energy the British Virgin Islands. This company underwent a process of merger positive impact on human beings and the planet, creating shared sector. Supported on our inspired and committed human talent, Omega Energy Colombia by absorption with the company values with our stakeholders through through innovation and the use and Petroleum Equipment International Omega Energy Colombia is a Colombian branch of Omega Energy International the discovery, transformation and application of technology. S.A.S (PEI), which since 1989 was enS.A. a company incorporated under the laws of Panama; engaged in the exploproduction of energy. gaged in the provision of oil services ration and exploitation of all kinds of minerals and hydrocarbons. Currently, it is and in the exploration and exploithe operator of block Llanos 21, awarded by the National Hydrocarbons Agency tation of hydrocarbons as an active and it is member of Union Temporal Omega, which carries out exploration actimember of Union Temporal Omega vities at block La Punta operated by VETRA S.A. Omega Energy Colombia hosts Energy UTOE, operator of block most of support activities and centralizes the management of other entities, Buenavista. being widely recognized at national level. *G4-56 As a result of the foregoing, Nikoil 1. Equality: Zero tolerance to discrimination. 6. Persistence: Firmness in our purposes. Energy Corp. Suc Colombia is the ope2. Reliability: Security in the value generated. 7. Respect: Tolerance and care to human beings and the Pegasus Blending International rator of block Condor, in conjunction environment. with Ecopetrol and as a member of 3. Inspiration: Exploration. Pegasus Blending International S.A.S. is a Colombian company, engaged in the Union Temporal Omega Energy, ope8. Responsibility: Awareness and value of our acts. 4. Transparency: Access to and reliability of information. processing of condensate gases and the marketing the derivatives thereof, as rates the block Buenavista through 9. Excellence: We decided to be the best. well as in the production of fuels for industrial use. Based on its experience, it an E&E agreement with the National 5. Innovation: Adaptation to evolution. provides services for the construction, assembly and operation of gas procesHydrocarbons Agency. 10. Passion: Courage sing plants and advice for their design. *G4-7 16 PROFILE OF THE ORGANIZATION Sustainability Report 2013 ORGANIZATIONAL CHART The organizational chart covers the structure that supports the business group Omega Energy Group (Bogotá) Presidency OMAR LEAL QUIROZ Executive Vice Presidency G&G Vice Presidency Sofía Santodomingo vacancy Social Corporate PBI Operations Commercial Responability Hernando Leal Luis Rodrigo Tejada and New vacancy Business Juan Carlos Mora Planning and Finance Exploration Exploration Legal Control Department New Business Sonia Ospina Osorio Department Carlos Andres Forero Hermes Quiroz Bravo Carlos Arce Villarrreal Claudia Mora 18 PROFILE OF THE ORGANIZATION Managerial Group Our Management System We were certified by Bureau Veritas in 2008 and recertiAs part of its strategy to become a world-class Organizafied for the first time in 2012, thus demonstrating comtion, in recent years OEG has implemented an Integrated pliance with the organizational standards and requiManagement System (IMS) in accordance with the requirerements set for each of the processes, which maintain ments of the standards NTC-ISO 9001:2008 “Quality Macompliance with the objectives and goals set out in each nagement Systems,” NTC ISO 14001:2004 “Environmental of its characterizations. Management Systems” and NTC OHSAS 18001:2007 “Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems,” and The processes currently certified that allow ensuring the complying with the requirements of national legislation on Organization’s ability to meet the requirements of custoindustrial safety, occupational health, environment and mers, stakeholders and for continuous improvement are the requirements applicable to the activities developed by the following: the organization. Managerial Processes (REQUIREMENTS) CUSTOMER (SATISFACTION) CUSTOMER Managerial HSEQ Operating Processes $ Exploration Operations Commercial Support Processes Human Resource Materials and Infrastructure Management Logistics The objectives and indicators for each of the processes fulfilled the goal with the exception of Safety indicators that were affected by two non-disabling events, which led us to rethink this indicator for 2014. Sustainability Report 2013 Process Objective Goal Compliance 2013 Our Operations *G4-6, *G4-8, *G4-9 Assess the skills of new workers according to the profile OEG operates at national and international level, we started operations in 80% 82% Human resource manageselected. (Trial Period). Colombia and the growth of the group has allowed venturing into Paraguay, ment Determine the loss of personnel in order to take appropriate Suriname, United States and Nigeria. actions to retain key staff and replace deficient personnel. 5% 5% Protect and maintain the information of the company, through Technology infrastructure the fulfillment of the maintenance schedule for critical 80% 100% equipment. Keep the accident rate at zero (Management). 1 0 AT Keep the accident rate at zero (Operations). 1 Protect the integrity of workers in relation to work-related Hseq diseases. 0 EP 100% Protect the environment and mitigate impacts caused by the development of activities. Zero incidents 100% Fully comply with the legal requirements established by the Colombian legislation. Zero penalties 100% Procurement, materials and Work with suppliers/contractors or allied companies with high quality standards, ensuring the excellent provision of services. 100% 100% logistics Meet the needs of customers and provide open communiCommercial cation spaces to improve the service. Zero 100% Maintain the implementation of the Integrated Management Non-conformities zero in Managerial System. follow-up audits 100% To achieve this structure, the Organization has promoted the idea among employees of being an organization certified under international standards and the senior management reflects its commitment everyday in each one of the policies and intends to achieve a second recertification for 2014. 22 PROFILE OF THE ORGANIZATION Sustainability Report 2013 Blocks in Colombia Block Buenavista Block La Punta Block Buenavista, operated by Union Temporal Omega Block La Punta is located in the basin of the Eastern Energy (UTOE), is located in the Basin of the Eastern CorLlanos and is divided into two areas: development La midas dillera and is divided into three areas: Santander, Corrales Punta in production and development phase and midas (which are in exploration and evaluation phase, respectiLa Punta Exploratoria in exploration and evaluation la paloma la paloma vely) and Bolivar, which is in development and production phase. Omega Energy Colombia and Nikoil Energy la rompida la rompida phase. Three wells were drilled during 2011 and five more Corp. are members of Union Temporal Omega (UTO) were drilled in the course of 2012. A stratigraphic well driand are responsible for the exploration delegated in lling campaign was developed in 2013 to identify and evathis Block as to Exploratory Volume, under a Collabuenavista luate potential shallow reservoirs. This campaign validaboration Agreement signed with Vetra. In 2013 two ted the continuity of shallow heavy oil finds and the great more wells were located which will be drilled in the potential for hydrocarbons of the block. first half of 2014. buenavista condor llanos 21 llanos 21 At the same time in year 2013, all 2D and 3D seismic inforOperation: Vetra/UTO la punta mation existing in the block was reprocessed using state Distribution of economic rights and obligations: As of of the art technology. The results were very good and imDecember 31, 2013 the range was 1.000.000-3.000.000 la punta barrels cóndor proved the image of the subsoil and it was thus possible to define the regional structural model. A regional reinterpretation was carried out and new structures and exploratory Range, Oil Barrels Share of Share of ECOPETROL ASSOCIATE opportunities have been identified. The understanding of 0 -200.000 10% 90% the structural subsoil model guaranteed success in locating and drilling a well at the end of December 2013, increa200.001 500.000 15% 85% sing production of field Corrales by 70%. Three wells will be 500.001 1.000.000 35% 65% drilled in block Buenavista in 2014. 1.000.001 3.000.000 40% 60% > 3.000.000 45% 55% Operation: 100 % by UTOE 24 Sustainability Report 2013 Block Llanos 21 Block Condor Block Llanos 21, operated by Omega Energy Colombia, is located in the basin Block Condor, operated by Nikoil of the Eastern Llanos and is in exploration and evaluation phase. During Energy Corp. Suc. Colombia since 2013, 3D seismic information was reinterpreted in search of stratigraphic December of 2012, is located in the prospects. Two exploratory wells will be located based on these results. foothills of the Eastern Cordillera and has an extension of 159,778 has. SeveOperation: 100 % OEC ral workovers have been performed in 2013 in the existing wells of the field Block Paloma and Midas in order to expand the information of Blocks Paloma and Midas, operated by Union Temporal Petrocaribe, are located the reservoir, improve the potential of in the Middle Magdalena basin and are in development and production phase. reserves and the prospectivity of Field Three wells were drilled during 2012 and in 2013 one more was drilled making Medina Block Condor. Some reseran important find that produced volumes of 2,500 BOPD (Well Acordeonero 1). voirs showed potential for hydrocarbons and some of them are currently Distribution of economic obligations and rights at La Paloma: in production. At the same time, the reprocessing OEI has an interest in the company Rend Lake Corp, which is a member of of the block is being carried out using Union Temporal Paloma, equivalent to 5.01% of the Block. cutting-edge technology on the existing 2D and 3D seismic information in order to improve the image of the subsoil and identify exploration prospects. Operation: 100 % Nikoil 26 PROFILE OF THE ORGANIZATION Sustainability Report 2013 Blocks Abroad Investment in Nigeria Block OML 110 It is focused on the exploration, production and develoOperation: In charge of Cavendish Petroleum (local compment of oil fields in block OML 110, located 10 miles off pany), Nikoil acts as technical adviser with an economic the coast, in the Gulf of West Guinea in Africa. The area of share of 40% in the block. shallow waters, with depths between 55 and 65 feet, is located 10 kilometers from the present facilities of Chevron. Block OML 110 shows high prospectivity and is strategic for entering into new onshore and offshore businesses in Nigeria. During the course of 2014 it is expected to restore production in the area and carry out exploratory activities including the drilling of new prospects. OML-110 nigeria nigeria OML-110 28 PROFILE OF THE ORGANIZATION 1 Investment in The United States 3 Investment in Surinam During 2013 we acquired a group of nine properties located mainly in the parish Omega Energy Colombia as a company of the Jefferson Davis in the State of Louisiana, whose aggregated area amounts to group OEG BVI S.A., has a presence in Suriname 4,936.9 acres of land, (1,998.74 has). The report prepared by the real estate since 2013, in the company of the petroleum staappraisers of the company The Pauley Corporation in 2012 states that the LOUISIANA te-owned company Suriname Staatsolie, a comlands have an agricultural purpose and as such can be planted with sugarcane, Omega pany that since 2010develops a project for the fulfilling the premise of “greater and better use” which contemplates the most Omega Surinam production of energy, ethanol and sugar from the New reasonable, legal, and likely use according to the activities carried out in the USA Orleans Cornie Paramaribo processing of sugarcane in the suburb of Wageneighborhood. It is also mentioned in the report that areas adjacent to roads ningen in the District of Nickerie in that country, Nickerie could eventually hold an interest for real estate projects so it is possible and in which it works together with OEG from 2013. legally allowed to subdivide the same into small lots for that purpose. OEG is interested in exploiting the grounds of its property for which it is in search of an The consulting firm Booker Tate (BT) was hired agricultural operator experienced in the management of sugarcane plantations for agricultural development, a company resuland carry out sowing-harvesting projects through commercial arrangements. 1 SURINAM ting from the merger in 1988 of Booker, sugar and food producer, and the renowned Tate & Lyle, 2 Investment in Paraguay marketer of equipment for the production of It is focused on the exploration, production and development of oil sugar and food, thus forming a consulting busiBolivia fields in Block Hernandarias, with an extension of 1,850,000 hec3 ness for the development and administration of Brazil tares and operated by the company Hidrocarburos Chaco, of which agro-industrial projects. In 2004 it was acquired parapity Omega Energy Colombia is a shareholder. The block is in exploration by TSB Sugar Holdings which in turn belongs to la phase. Omega Energy opened a branch office in Paraguay in 2012 the South African investor group Remgro. patria and in the year 2013 MOPC granted permission to Omega Energy 2 hernandarias to survey Block Parapiti with an area of 2,296,038 ha; additionally, In April 2012, BT submits the report titled “Study the memorandum of understanding to acquire rights through the on the Agricultural Solution” where it laid down PARAGUAY company Quincy of 60% of Block La Patria was signed, also with an guidelines for the development of the agriculextension of approximately 2,400,000 has. Prospection programs tural phase of the project, including from the Argentina were initiated in year 2014, starting with the respective Aeromagnedesign parameters of the field to the financial tometry programs. projections of the same. Block Paraguay Parapiti Operation: 100 % OEC Sustainability Report 2013 Materiality analysis matrix Corporate strategy Sector analysis (oil & gas) Expectations of stakeholders Many of the companies in the sector align their Customers: Analysis and improvement plans of customer materiality with: satisfaction survey. Supply chain sustainaThe seven fundamental subjects of ISO 26000. bility. Governance of the organization. Employees: Policy structure, benefits and training plans; Human rights. derived from the follow-up of the psychosocial risk survey and Risk management. Labor practices. performance evaluations. Environment. Management and Fair operation practices. Government: Compliance with the legislation applicable to the mitigation of environCustomers’ affairs. organization. mental impacts. Active participation and development of community. Communities: Support for the development of skills and local Financial performance. economics, jobs creation. In addition, other aspects are observed such as: Safe production. Preparation and response to emergencies and Investors: Relationship of trust, transparency, sustainable environmental incidents. development, profitability, responsible management, risk Global Compact (human Fight against corruption. management and safe operations. rights, fight against Transfer of best practices. Material Aspects and Coverage corruption, environment; Integrity in operations. Suppliers: Fair contractual conditions, compliance with agreelabor practices). Change in energy flow. ments, transparency, strengthening of capabilities, objective Climate change. selection of contractors, development of skills, strategic High health and safety *G4-18, *G4-19, *G4-21 Accountability. alliances. standards. Transparency. We relied on the analysis of the aspects that are relevant for the development of the Operational excellence. Society: Accountability, transparency, strengthening of Renewable energies. operation and strategy, the main aspects related to sustainability of the Oil & Gas sector, Growth of the sector in the region. the sector, Human Rights, safe operations, protection of the Relationships with stakeholders. environment, ethical behavior, reserves, reliable facilities. the expectations of our stakeholders and the materiality test carried out in 2011 for the preparation of this report and the identification of the key issues to be reported. Materiality test Below is shown the materiality analysis matrix prepared for the definition of the material issues of the sustainability Corporate governance report of 2013: Labor Practices and Human Rights Management and Mitigation of Environmental Impacts Sustainability in the supply chain Responsible relationships with Customers Active Participation and Development of the Community Optimal operational and financial performance 32 MATERIAL ASPECTS AND COVERAGE Sustainability Report 2013 After the triangulation of the four variables mentioned above and as a result Verification *G4-33 of the elaborate analysis made, we have identified labor practices and human For this report, the Presidency, Execurights, management and mitigation of environmental impacts, sustainability tive Vice Presidency and the Organiin the supply chain, responsible relationship with customers, active participazation in general decided to carry out tion and development of the community, optimal operational and financial a verification process of the report performance, and high health and safety standards as relevant issues, which with regard to the new requirements are materialized in each of our chapters. The content of the chapters has been of version G4 through an auditing developed under the principles suggested by the Global Reporting Initiative for body that validates the truthfulness the elaboration of sustainability reports, and forms the basis of the report once of the information submitted by us, material issues have been defined. being consistent with the principles of quality and contents established by In order to have a better performance in connection with the materiality printhe Global Reporting Initiative for the ciple, the company has generated improvement initiatives, which include the elaboration of sustainability reports. materiality identification process; this process will allow the organization to mature on sustainability issues and at the same time to strengthen the involveThe decision to verify the report seeks ment of stakeholders. The company has developed a process to identify mateto strengthen the credibility of the riality, including the analysis of the variables shown above as well as risk analysis based on a materiality test conducted in 2011 by an external consulting firm. information to stakeholders and to those to whom this report is addresParticipation of Stakeholders *G4-25 sed, it also seeks the improvement of In order to strengthen this principle, in 2014 the company will develop an the company’s information systems, The definition of our stakeholders began in 2011 through the development of management instructional support document for the definition of materiality that will be to strengthen the control environworkshops in which different stakeholders of companies in the sector were taken linked to the Integral Management System; the instructions will be based on ment that must support any comas reference. The exercise for their definition was carried out under the advice of the the document “From Transparency to Performance” and is intended to estamitment to sustainability and the consultants who supported our two first sustainability reports taking into account the blish a tool that allows identifying issues relevant to the organization in the consistency and traceability of the insignificant impacts generated by the company on each group. framework of its commitment to sustainability. The deployment of these insformation and data to be submitted. tructions will allow us validating our stakeholders and recognize their expecFor this report, we reevaluated the stakeholders defined two years ago, subsequent to the analysis of the impacts getations, identify risks and opportunities for the Oil & Gas sector and articulate It is possible to consult the verificanerated and bearing in mind the fundamental performance represented by the inclusion of new groups in the success the corporate strategy. tion letter of the report on page 138. of OEG, we have identified two additional stakeholders: Suppliers and Customers. 34 MATERIAL ASPECTS AND COVERAGE Sustainability Report 2013 Commitments of Stakeholders Stakeholders *G4-24, *G4-26, *G4-27 The commitment of OEG to stakeholders is defined within the framework of the Social Responsibility Policy. By 2014 we expect to successfully fulfill every commitment and materialize such fulfillment with each player due to the strengthening of communication mechanisms. 1. Relationships with the Community Community Suppliers Employees Government Investors Customers Carry out projects that benefit communities where operations are developed, satisfying their social interests, generating jobs and revenues through indirect social investments and support to the local management, contributing to the improvement of the quality of life of The Organization promotes the participation of stakeholments in the areas of the company, with the aim of having these communities without replacing the State’s obligations. ders as a natural part of the development of operations; appropriate spaces for archiving documents and improve nevertheless, the implementation of the materiality prophysical work conditions. *SO1 2. Relationships with Suppliers cess designed will allow strengthening the mechanisms Promote the mutual benefit in the contractual relationship, foster sustainable development and expanding the scope of participation while consideContractual relations with some of our customers in the and best practices among suppliers and contractors for goods and services, while respecting ring the sustainability context. This report will include a commercial sector were formalized, which translates into the commitments acquired and requiring them to apply effective Social Responsibility pracsocialization process that will allow stakeholders to partia transparent business management to the area, strentices in the activities or agreements performed for OEG. cipate and in turn identify opportunities for improvement. gthening trust and guaranteeing the fulfillment of commitments, even allowing to generate strategic alliances 3. Guidelines for Employees Our participation mechanisms have demonstrated key for the development of new business models; agreeEstablish and design strategies to promote the personal, professional and labor developissues in stakeholders that must be dealt with; some of ments on social investment and salary matters were ment of employees, framed in pleasant and productive work environments. these mechanisms are contribution cards, the occupatioreached, and issues related to the acquisition of goods nal health committee, coexistence committee, welfare and services as well as the recruitment of local workforce 4. Relationships with the Government Committee, Ominoticias, customer and supplier satisfacwere defined. Articulate inter-institutional actions that allow generating a positive impact on public entition surveys, evaluations to suppliers, meetings with comties with a view to institutional strengthening and economic and social development. munities, socializations and community office. As a result While in OEG relationship mechanisms have had a consiof the active participation of some players we showed key derable step forward, we have evidenced opportunities for 5. Relationships with Customers improvements in 2013 that translated into positive results improvement in the course of operations; with the deploPursue customer satisfaction as a constant and dynamic goal, through the better undersfor the company, we will change our headquarters in 2014 yment of the materiality process to be implemented, we tanding of their needs and how to address them. in response to the growth of OEG and due to the participawill be able to strengthen and generate new and more effition of collaborators who expressed the need for improvecient mechanisms. In 2014 we will define our commitments to investors. 36 PARTICIPATION OF STAKEHOLDERS Sustainability Report 2013 Profile of the Report *G4-28, *G4-30, *G4-32 The development of This is our third sustainability report where we inform of the operations carried out our report has enabled during the year 2013; it was developed under the guidelines of the Global Reporting us to have significant Initiative version G4 with the essential option “compliant” and the Oil & Gas sector growth in terms of Sussupplement, maintaining the commitment to submit the report annually. Although tainability; the creation this is not our first corporate report, it is the first report prepared internally; the report of the interdisciplinary was prepared from start to finish by personnel of the company, each of the areas are team for the building involved in it as shown by our commitment to sustainability issues. process of the report allowed us demonstraAll levels of the company participated in the preparation of this report. The Executive ting the opportunities Vice Presidency assumed the leadership of this process being capable of committing all levels of the organization with the development of the report and integrating an for improvement for our Integrated Management Governance *G4-34 interdisciplinary team for the coordination of the same, including the areas of occupaSystem, hence creating In order to contribute to the achievement of the targets proposed, OEG has bylaws and tional health and industrial safety, commercial and business development area and interaction between dea governance structure in place that frame the way in which it manages and directs the the special sustainable investment team known as “Salva.” Additionally, the areas of partments in the comcompany. Therefore we have the General Shareholders’ Assembly and the Board of Human Resources, Finance, Planning, Geology, Operations and Legal also participated pany. Likewise, we were Directors. therein, providing complete coverage at corporate level. able to generate releGovernance Structure vant internal mechanisms for the identificaGeneral Shareholders’ Assembly: tion of our stakeholders It is the highest corporate body of the Organization, which has full powers to direct and decide issues of greater imporand the development tance for the company. It is composed of the total number of shareholders registered in the Share Register, who particiof the relationships pate by themselves or are represented by their attorneys-in-fact or legal representatives, as defined in the bylaws of the between them and the company and the law. company; this report reflects the culture of our It may decide on economic, environmental, social matters, etc. and meets once or twice a year. organization. 38 Sustainability Report 2013 Board of Directors: Policies, roles and responsibilities Quebrada en el Parque Nacional Natural Los Nevados. Ravine in Los Nevados National Park. It is the collegial body responsible for defining the main policies and strateOEG has established a set of policies and guidelines that are used to regulate the activities gies of the Organization; as well as supervising and controlling the develoand processes necessary for the development of operations. Policies demonstrate not pment of the corporate purpose of the entity. It serves as liaison between only our growth, but also the ambition that we have to continue with our development, led the company and its shareholders, and must ensure equitable treatment for by the motivation to give our stakeholders a more attractive and competent company. all stakeholders, the quality of financial and non-financial information, the verification of corporate governance requirements demanded by the law or and vehicles used by workers in the conduct of their tasks, Central Cordillera, Caldas, Risaralda, Quindío and Tolima, Colombia. COMPREHENSIVE HSEQ POLICY: those voluntarily adopted by the company. With it, the company undertakes to prevent the contamithrough these activities: nation of the environment, prevent injuries, occupational Our Board of Directors generates the corporate strategy, controls the perfordiseases and property damages, by effectively managing • Dissemination of the harmful effects and the conmance thereof and defines the strategy and policies concerning the internal the resources necessary for the achievement of the comsequences of alcohol, tobacco, and psychoactive control system, establishes mechanisms for the evaluation of administramitments of the Integrated Management System, working substances in the health, family, labor and social tors’ efforts, ensures the operation of the internal control system, and prowith competent human resources and improve continuously. environment of the person. motes and always protects the rights of shareholders. • Prohibition for collaborators who work under the SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY POLICY: effects of alcohol, who consume, encourage the This body decides on economic, financial, environmental and social matters, Omega Energy Group assumes Social Responsibility as a consumption or work under the influence of psyfor which meetings are held four times a year or as required pursuant to a voluntary commitment that is associated with the applicachoactive substances, structuring a regime of drashigh-impact decision for the company or its stakeholders. tion of the best business practices, the promotion of ethical tic sanctions and monitoring for those who fail to behavior, respect for the environment, harmony in internal comply with the same. In 2014 OEG will consider the creation of committees from the Board of Direcrelations, the improvement of the quality of life of its em• Stimulation of participation in treatment programs tors to support decisions related to strategic affairs of the group and will also ployees and the communities in the area of operations, and for collaborators affected by alcoholism, smoking design Corporate Governance of and Ethics and Conduct Codes. respect for the basic rights of persons. or psychoactive substances. *G4-56 POLICY FOR THE PREVENTION OF ALCOHOL, DRUGS, The governance structure of the company is supported on the Management TOBACCO AND OTHER PSYCHOACTIVE SUBSTANCES The General Management allocates the resources necescommittee, comprised of managers from all areas of the company, which (SPA): sary for the fulfillment of this policy, which is applicable serve to assess, manage, decide and report on the most relevant topics and It is our commitment to preserve, protect and improve the to all OEG collaborators, its suppliers and visitors. Contractranslate the guidelines from the highest governing body into results. health of our collaborators individually and collectively, tors and subcontractors working within the facilities or on maintaining optimal safety levels at all related workplaces behalf of the same are also required to comply with it. 40 GOVERNANCE Sustainability Report 2013 WORKPLACE HARASSMENT PREVENTION POLICY: • Principles of transparency, impartiality and equal LENDING POLICY: maintenance, loss, deterioration, expiration or mal*G4-LA16 Its purpose is to contribute to the improvement of the function of the same. opportunities aimed at the communities in our The organization is committed to the prevention of conarea of influence. quality of life of our employees and their families, through ducts that may constitute workplace harassment, with ROAD SAFETY POLICY: • Full compliance with the Ethical Guidelines and credit lines intended for housing purchase and improvethe consolidation of prevention mechanisms such as the Our commitment as a business group is to maintain the inPrinciples governing the company. ment, tuition for the worker and his family, payment of Workplace Coexistence Committee, which establishes tegral safety of our collaborators and third parties related • Compliance with the procedures and requirements medical treatments not covered by the Mandatory Health activities to raise the collective awareness on healthy to our activities. Promoting the prevention and minimizaestablished for the materials and logistics area Plan (POS) and situations grouped under the heading of coexistence to promote work under decent and fair contion of traffic accidents establishes guidelines aimed at and approved by our integral management system domestic calamity. ditions; the harmony between those who share a working road prevention, in order to control and mitigate the risks (IMS). This policy was designed, developed and approved this life and an appropriate atmosphere in the company and associated with the transportation conditions of heavy year and is to be implemented in 2014. the protection of the privacy, honor, mental health and POLICY FOR THE PROMOTION OF HIGHER loads, light loads, staff, crude oil, equipment and the routes freedom of the people at work. EDUCATION: *G4-LA10 POLICY ON PERSONAL PROTECTION ELEMENTS: that will be used during the performance of operations, Its objective is to give OEG workers economic incentives For the Organization, the safety of its workers comes first; prioritizing their control and continuous improvement. CONFLICT OF INTEREST POLICY: that promote their professional growth. This initiative was that is why this policy implements appropriate controls Its purpose is that each employee adheres to a strict ethics socialized and disseminated again during 2013, which geOur governance model is based on the determination of to minimize work-related accidents and occupational and loyalty standard, so that the interests of the company nerated a positive response; during this year the Organithe roles and responsibilities of our collaborators, in order diseases in its workers; involves them in the correct use always prevail over personal or third-party interests in zation supported 10 collaborators in their undergraduate, to facilitate the order, clarity and empowerment as well as and maintaining personal protection equipment in good the performance of their position or profession, achieving postgraduate and master’s degree studies. the authority levels that associated with the positions and condition in accordance with the instructions received, remaximum transparency in the operations that may be cathe processes and procedures of our IMS. porting immediately to the person in charge any supply, rried out between the company, its workers and external persons. POLICY FOR THE PROCUREMENT OF GOODS AND SERVICES: Internal control Taking into consideration that purchases represent one 70% The company gradually strengthens the control environment for which it not only relies on the statutory 20% of the main components of the administrative system, 10% auditor but also on the development of internal audits, control skills in employees, identification and asfinancial management system and its importance for the sessment of risk and the monitoring of the IMS. In order to carry out an audit process in 2014, OEG was sustainable development of communities directly influenundergraduate advised by PWC to identify opportunities for improvement in different areas of the Organization, allowing specialization ced and supported on our Social Responsibility Policy, any closing the gaps found in the diagnosis. master acquisition of goods and/or services must be based on: 42 GOVERNANCE Sustainability Report 2013 RELEVANT issues Relevant Issues Labor Practices and Human Rights Labor Practices and Because of the achievements obtained during the previous year, 2013 allowed us to project the growth of the company through the creation, consolidation Human Rights and integration of business areas, the recruitment of competent human talent Selection and the continuation of action plans that generate added value to the growth In Grupo Omega Energy we seek to attract the best This is how we were able to establish alliances with Cravo River, Casanare, Colombia of the Organization and its employees. talent in the industry to meet the demands of the headhunter firms, to redefine selection agreements Organization, through the continuous improvement that conformed to the needs of the current year with While it is true that in 2012 we presented the figures without considering the gender variable, for 2013 of our internal processes and the integration of our our suppliers and implement new selection teams and subsequent years we will include it; taking advantage of the maturity of the information system needs with the development of strategic partnerships that support us with inputs to our decision-making developed by us, in our following GRI reports we will have the opportunity to develop this and other that allow us attracting the best profiles, optimizing process. comparatives comprehensively. response times. 44 Total number of employees *G4-9 Distribution of employees by type of agreement and gender *G4-10 Operations Male Female 73 39 63% 0% 2% 34% 1% 0% Indefinite Fixed Services Indefinite Fixed Services Male Female *G4-10 22,3% Overseas 0% Overseas Percentage of employees by 33% 0% 25,9% Caribbean 0,9% Caribbean Region Region Legal Andean Andean 1,8% Region 8% 6,3% Region 0% Department region and gender 2013 Pacific Orinoquia Pacific Orinoquia Region Region Region Region Male Female *G4-LA1 8,7% Overseas 8,7% Overseas Employment agreements 52,2% Caribbean 0% 17,4% Caribbean 0% Planning and Region Region Control Andean Andean 0% Region 8,7% 0% Region 4,3% by region and gender 2013 Pacific Orinoquia Pacific Orinoquia Region Region Region Region Male Female Commercial and new business/ HSEQ/ Procrurement Salva Turnover of employees by gender 2013 Male Female 8% 4% 22% 25% Turnover of employees by Overseas Overseas 67% Caribbean 0% 75% Caribbean 0% Region Region 0% Andean Region 11% 0% Andean Region 0% region and gender 2013 Pacific Orinoquia Pacific Orinoquia Region Region Region Region Male Female Turnover of employees by age and gender 2013 Exploration PB11 0% 44% 33% 11% 11% 50% 25% 25% 0% 0% 18 to 30 31 to 40 41 to 50 51 to 60 Over 60 18 to 30 31 to 40 41 to 50 51 to 60 Over 60 years old years old years old years old years old years old years old years old years old years old Male Female Sustainability Report 2013 Our human talent grew 20% during 2013 and This year a case was submitted new challenges are thus born. to the Coexistence Committee, Training which was solved to the satisOEG has a training program under construction, aimed to enhancing the technical and behavioral OEG protects and respects human rights, guided by the principles expressed in faction of the parties involved. skills of all collaborators. During 2013, the company implemented the annual training budget and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the conventions of the InterLikewise, various trainings on invested the following in the development of our talents: national Labor Organization (ILO). Our internal working regulations guarantee the matter were offered not zero tolerance towards discrimination and harassment. only to its members but also to employees. By 2014 we will Breakdown by category: managerial, administrative and operative strengthen the dissemination 2013 *G4-LA12 At managerial At administraAt operating of the regulations of the comlevel tive level level mittee and the coexistence $819 USD $80.494 USD $16.816 USD manual. *G4-LA16 7% 31% 27% 3% 29% 4% In 2014 we will focus much more Total managerial personnel trained 2013 *G4-LA9 Managerial Administrative Operative Managerial Administrative Operative in the design, development and Male Female implementation of a program We’ve invested $ 98,129 aimed at the fulfillment, proUSD on the development tection and respect for human Male Female Promedio de salarios *G4-LA13 of our human talent. Managerial Managerial rights, within the reference fra25% 33% 2013 USD mework of sources of universal Male Female Managerial $10.861 $12.198 recognition, and OEG’s internal Administrative $2.408 $2.336 commitment to ensure the zero Operative $1.231 $589 tolerance towards discriminaTraining topics at managerial level 2013 *G4-LA9, *G4-HR2 tion, inequality and workplace Tema Total Hours PTo support these guidelines the company also it has a Coexistence Committee harassment, ensuring a safe Petroleum engineering for non-petroleum-engineers advanced level 18 Omega Energy bilingual 96 that was created this year, made up of the representatives of Omega Energy and its workplace and an organizatioAssertive communication 1 employees, which meets quarterly and is available to receive and process requests, nal culture directed to ethical Law 1010 workplace harassment and coexistence committee 1,5 complaints and claims, with the goal of preventing workplace harassment behaviors behavior. Training of comprehensive internal auditors 24 under the Colombian legislation. *G4-53 Work-related accidents and investigation 3 50 LABOR PRACTICES AND HUMAN RIGHTS Sustainability Report 2013 Total administrative personnel trained 2013 Total operative personnel trained 2013 Male Female Male Female Administrative Administrative Operative Operative 63% 100% 96% 100% Training topics at administrative level 2013 Training topics at operative level 2013 Total Total Topic Total Hours Topic Topic Hours Hours The HSEQ area invested 240 hours Oil production diploma course 159 Payroll planning 8 Evacuation 2 Hazardous substances, classification and properties 2 training direct personnel, contractors, Tax update 8 Tax reform update 8 Safe work at heights retraining 5 personnel from temporary service Petroleum engineering for non-petroleumRisk analysis in processes using HAZOP teAssertive communication 2 18 32 engineers basic level chniques companies and security personnel Safe driving 7 Petroleum engineering for non-petroleumTax news of 2013 8 on various topics, including Law 1010 18 Defensive driving 7 engineers advanced level Exchange regime seminar 8 Acidification basic-intermediate level 32 Multi-parameter equipment management training 2 and coexistence committee, assertiDefensive driving course 8 Role of brigade members 2 Safe handling of chemical products 1 ve communication, classification of Comprehensive internal auditor course – OEC 32 First aid 2 Self-care 2 Comprehensive internal auditor course – PBI 24 hazardous substances, defensive driLaw 1010 and coexistence committee 1,5 Comprehensive waste management 2 Work-related accidents and investigation 3 ving, leadership and social relations, Assertive communication 1 Risks of physical inactivity 2 Prevention of pipe clogging 34 Cardiopulmonary resuscitation 2 Handling of chemical substances 2 safe work at heights, first aid, workManual manipulation of loads 1 Comprehensive waste management 1,5 Handling of compressor and bottle filling 2 place ergonomics, handling of chemiSafe motorcycle riding 0,5 Methodology of the 5 S 1 Work-related accident investigation report 2 Road safety for driver 0,5 cal substances, reporting and investiAccident report, duties and rights 1 Occupational health update 2 Food handling 1 gation of work-related accidents and Cardiopulmonary resuscitation 4 Training of comprehensive internal auditors 24 Handling of chemicals 1 First aid 4 Duties and rights ARP 2 incidents, handling of compressor Rig pass 16 Workplace ergonomics 4 Workplace ergonomics 2 and bottle filling and risk of physical Safe work at heights advanced 24 SAP training module PS, MM 50 Basic first aid 3 Best human resource management practices 7 inactivity, among others. Segmentation seminar 8 Rig pass 16 Omega Energy bilingual 96 Safe work at heights advanced 30 Leadership and social relations workshop 2 52 LABOR PRACTICES AND HUMAN RIGHTS Sustainability Report 2013 Training of Internal Auditors Professional Growth In order to strengthen our Integral Management System, the company carried Well-being Committed to the professional development of our coout the first course of Comprehensive Internal Auditors together with SGS Collaborators and in order to promote their growth, Omega lombia S.A., on the standards ISO 9001, 14001 and OHSAS 18001, were collaboCelebrations Energy grants an early leave in the workday to undergrarators from different areas and positions were called. This course lasted for 32 We launched the creation and implementation of the Welduate and postgraduate students during the development hours, it was instructed in the month of November 2013, during four days. OEG fare budget and continued with the institutional welfare of each academic cycle. has eight comprehensive internal auditors. program, celebrating representative dates such as birthQuality of Life days, Women’s Day, Men’s Day, Mother’s Day, Father’s Day, Omega Energy Bilingual *G4-LA10 In search for the balance between the professional and perValentine’s Day and the Children’ Day, as well as the yearWith our Omega Energy Bilingual Spanish-English program we intend our admisonal life of our collaborators, we also develop other activiend holidays for collaborators and children. nistrative employees to become proficient in a second language, regardless of ties aimed at contributing to the wellbeing of everyone. the position and role performed in the company. Our investment in institutional wellbeing during 2013 was • We bolster the use of loans to employees through $94,163 USD. As a result of this 60% of our administrative collaborators (38 collaborators) agreements with Caja Cooperativa Petrolera and participated in this program, completing a level of 96 hours. The arrangements family compensation funds in each one of the regions. were made with International House, leaders and specialists in the internatioMedical Care nal arena of language teaching with native teachers. Learning sessions were During 2013 we covered 99% of our direct employees, i.e. • We enabled a credit line for 15 collaborators and Thermal pools in Santa Rosa de Cabal, Risaralda, Colombia. developed in the company during working hours to facilitate the participation 110 collaborators with prepaid medical assistance with one granted 13 credits with a value of $39,056 USD of stakeholders and Omega Energy assumed 100% of the value of the course. of the best plans in the market, the coverage of which offers through Colsubsidio family compensation fund. first-hand access to health professionals in different areas and services in best hospitals in the country and the peace • We carried out activities to promote sport and Remuneration of mind of having medical support in any eventuality. healthy enjoyment, such as our participation in the During 2013 we continued with the project for the standardization of job desOlympic Games of Acipet and the organization of criptions, an important input to the compensation model; similarly, we parDisabilities the first soccer championship in Block Buenavista. ticipated in the salary survey that gives us a benchmark to work in our remuOmega Energy recognizes 100% of the disabilities to our neration model, bringing increasingly us closer to our goal: consolidate our collaborators, who are the engine of the organization. Thus • Our participation in Acipet focused on compensation model. contributing not only to physical but also to economic bowling, basketball, volleyball and soccer. wellbeing in the medical recovery process of employees. OEG supported its 30 participating athletes 54 LABOR PRACTICES AND HUMAN RIGHTS Sustainability Report 2013 with the payment of the registration fee, the and undergraduate studies, through a bonus for delivery of uniforms depending on the sport the purchase of school supplies. We achieved an and an award for their participation and repreinvestment of $803 USD. sentation. • For the soccer championship in Block Buena• Every morning our collaborators receive a snack at vista our 14 collaborators shared the field with their workplace that seeks to provide energy for the eight teams integrated by the community and development of their daily activities. suppliers, as well as shared memorable moments with the fans of the town. They received • Friday massages free of charge are programmed all OEG’s support for its organization, refereeing for employees, in order to contribute to the physical and sponsorship in the award and allocation of wellbeing of stakeholders. the uniforms for all participating teams. As a result we obtained a well-deserved first place, • We hold the health week for one week a year, in with a pleasant and proud representation. which all collaborators are invited to participate in lectures, workshops, recreational activities, medi• OEG Energy supported the education of the children of cal examinations, vaccination and advice on nutriHSE, Executive Vice presidency, Exploration and Planning and Control our collaborators in the gas plant that completed their tion, among others. daytime kindergarten, basic primary, basic secondary Our Challenges for 2014 1. Redesign, plan and rethink the human resources management process, in order to improve, integrate and standardize it according to the results of the business, clarifying its processes and impacts, to provide a better service while being recognized more and more by a comprehensive management role within the company. 2. Design, develop and implement a program to integrate the concepts of human rights. 3. Implement the lending policy. Human Resources Finance Department 56 LABOR PRACTICES AND HUMAN RIGHTS Sustainability Report 2013 RELEVANT issues Relevant Issues Management and Mitigation Management and Mitigation of of Environmental Impacts Inírida River, Payara torrent. Guainía, Colombia. *G4-14 Environmental Impacts Omega Energy Colombia is certified in the standard ISO 14001 since 2008. This system that was recertified in 2011 allows us to ensure the fulfillment of rities. In 2013 we elaborated the Environmental Management Plan for the Proour commitment to the environment in the context of our operation. ject Corrales 5, which was submitted to the relevant environmental authorities for follow-up. Through this management system, we identify environmental aspects and impacts associated with our activities in order to mitigate and compensate these impacts through the development of plans, Below are the results of our environmental performance during 2013 in Blocks Bueprograms and projects reported through environmental compliance reports to the competent authonavista, Condor and Llanos 21. 58 Sustainability Report 2013 As shown in graph 2, ordinary waste decreased by 80% Drilling cuttings corresponding to special waste are genewhile contaminated waste dropped by 54% versus the rated while drilling. The treatment of drilling cuttings is Waste Management *G4-EN23 waste generated in 2012. Furthermore, recyclable matecarried out through mechanical equipment that decrearials increased in 98%. se humidity, as well as compaction material, agricultural Since 2008 Omega Energy Colombia has an Integral Waste The following information corresponds to the amount of lime and rice husks to stabilize and dehydrate the waste, in Program attached to the Integrated Management System, waste generated in Blocks Buenavista, Condor and Llanos The comparability of the data of blocks Condor and Llanos order to attain a homogeneous mixture, controlling its pH which is intended for the handling and disposal of the waste 21, which are managed by third parties authorized for this 21 with respect to 2012 cannot be established since operawithout exceeding the appropriate level of the soil. generated by the operation in field and at the offices. purpose. tions begun in 2013. *OG7 (Oil & Gas) Block Condor (kg) Block Buenavista (kg) Block Llanos 21 (kg) Ordinary waste Contaminated waste Recyclable residuos ordinarios Contaminated waste Recyclable Ordinary waste Contaminated waste Recyclable Water Discharges in the 1640 2550 632 27050 9739 914 1315 Operation *G4-EN22 The wastewater (AR) resulting from our operation is treaIn Block Condor, ARDs are treated through a WWTP ted in a particular manner for each Block. In Block Buetreatment plant that removes physical, chemical and bioWaste Management *G4-EN23, *G4-EN25 Waste management in block Buenavista (kg) navista, in the case of industrial wastewater (ARI), this logical contaminants in order to produce a reusable effluent In 2013 a total of 30,915 Kg of contaminated solid waste is performed by authorized third parties. Treatment and and solid wastes suitable for disposal and/or reuse, which were generated (waste generated by the operation such stabilization pools are used in Block Condor, in which these are subsequently transferred to a pool for stabilization and as contaminated tows, filters and EPPs) at the production Ordinary Contaminated waters are chemically treated to be subsequently dischardisposal in the spray area. stage and were transported and treated by the companies waste waste 1 Recyclable ged. In Block Llanos 21, industrial wastewater was geneSERPET and ALBEDO, 3,186 Kg of ordinary waste, (waste 632 27050 9739 2012 2013 rated at the drilling stage and was treated through pools In Block Llanos 21, the affluent of the ARDs was treated generated by daily activities such as food waste, food wrappers) were handed over to third parties who are licen3084 35666 41 and subsequently transported by a third party for its final through a WWTP and was then stabilized in a pool to be transdisposal. ported, treated and disposed of by authorized third parties. sed to dispose of the same in sanitary landfills and 9,739 Kg of recyclable materials (paper and cardboard). 1 It refers to waste generated by the operation such as tows, filters and gloves. 60 MANAGEMENT AND MITIGATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS Sustainability Report 2013 Water discharges in the operation of Block Buenavista 2012 – 2013 Water discharges in the operation of blocks 2013 *G4-EN22 Amount in barrels (Bbl) Amount in barrels (Bbl) total Block 0 0 0 0 0 2200 2200 2200 2200 2200 0 1100 12.100 Condor Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dic total 101702 2013 6688 5801 6577 6323 8071 6194 7764 6376 13317 10500 11320 12771 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dic total 2012 4319 4040 4082 3998 6219 5626 2918 7070 4785 6583 6446 6701 62787 The increase in the discharge of production water at Block In order to take advantage of the wastewater from Block Buenavista with respect to 2012 corresponds to the behaBuenavista, the reinjection permit pending approval from total Block 6688 5801 6577 6323 8071 6194 7764 6376 13317 10500 11320 12771 101702 vior of the reservoirs of some wells that reflected an inthe competent authority was included in the modification Buenavista crease in water level. of the environmental license. Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dic In Block Buenavista, 63% of the wastewater generaBlock total 2500 1400 4960 980 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 9840 ted, corresponding to the drilling stage, was disposed of Llanos 21 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dic through spray in internal and access roads to the location. The remaining percentage (37%), which corresponds to A portion of wastewater (5,036 Bbl) generated in Block Moreover, all the wastewater generated in Block Plains the production stage, was transported, treated and dispoCondor during 2013 from workover activities that did not 21 was handed over to third parties for its handling and sed of through authorized third parties. meet the parameters established by the standard for disdisposal. Inirida River, Guainía, Colombia. charge, was disposed of by an authorized third party. Blocks Condor and Llanos 21 lack discharge-related inforProduction wastewater that meets discharge parameters mation for 2012 since operations in these fields started is disposed of by the spray method in the zone establisin 2013. hed by the environmental license for that purpose. 62 MANAGEMENT AND MITIGATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS Sustainability Report 2013 Generation of Domestic Wastewater *G4-EN22 No domestic wastewaters were generated in Block Buenaeffluent and solid waste suitable for disposal and/or reuse, vista since portable toilets are used for the handling of the which subsequently is transferred to a pool for stabilizasame. These toilets receive maintenance every week by an tion and discharge in the spray area authorized by the enauthorized third party, who is in charge of collecting, transvironmental license. Block total 0 680 440 600 500 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2220 porting, treating, and disposing of these waters. Llanos 21 For Block Llanos 21, the effluent is cleaned through a Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dic In Block Condor, ARDs are treated through a WWTP WWTP plant and is then stabilized in a pool to be transtreatment plant which removes physical, chemical and ported, treated and disposed of by an authorized third Domestic wastewater in Block Buenavista 2012 – 2013 biological contaminants in order to produce a reusable party, pursuant to the environmental license. Amount in barrels (Bbl) total 2013 5.6 6.43 4.38 5.12 8.29 7.29 7.26 4.21 4.79 6.1 3.57 564.48 627.52 Aguas residuales domésticas por bloques 2013 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dic Cantidad en barriles (Bls) total 2012 3.81 5.71 5.71 5.71 5.24 3.81 3.81 8.10 5.71 4.29 7.14 5.71 64.76 Block total 0 0 0 0 0 380 180 0 0 80 0 80 720 Condor The graph shows the increase in the generation of domesported, treated and disposed of by a third party. Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dic tic wastewater in Block Buenavista in 2013 as compared to the previous year, as a result of the increase in production During the months of April, August, September and Noactivities, i.e. due to the specific works in each well (workovember 2013, the generation of wastewater with respect ver, isolation of areas, mechanical attrition, among others), to 2012 was lower due to the decrease in specific producwhich increased the number of personnel in the field, and tion operations. total 627,52 therefore the increase of domestic sewage waters. It is Block Buenavista 5.6 6.43 4.38 5.12 8.29 7.29 7.26 4.21 4.79 6.1 3.57 564.48 worth noting that this increase did not generate environAs mentioned before, there is only 2013 information avaiJan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dic mental impacts, since as mentioned above, domestic waslable for the Blocks Condor and Llanos 21. tewaters are generated by portable toilets and are trans64 MANAGEMENT AND MITIGATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS Sustainability Report 2013 Consumption of drinking water in Block Condor Bbl Water Resource *G4-EN9 Production environmental authority are limited, as is the case of The measurement of water consumption is the most Buenavista and Llanos 21, the catchment is carried out Domestic total effective means to improve the rational use of this resouthrough the acquisition of water from companies authori20 18 25 20 20 15 20 10 17 20 20 25 230 rce, for this reason we performed a monthly follow-up zed to provide this service. In Block Condor, the catchment consumption of consumption in each of the fields. Then we listed the of water is made through two reservoirs authorized by the total Industrial Human amounts of water used for domestic activities, human and Environmental License. 40 industrial consumption of our projects. 2 3 2 2 2 5 5 5 5 2 2 5 It must be noted that we do no affect any water sources in consumption consumption For projects where the catchment permits issued by the the development of our operations. total 3 5 5 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 13 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dic Water Consumption in Block Condor *G4-EN8 The figures of water consumption for this Block correspond to the water used in 2013 in drilling (workover) and producWater Consumption in Block Llanos 21 *G4-EN8 tion stages. The figures of water consumption for this Block correspond to the water used in 2013 in the drilling stage. Consumption of drinking water in Block Condor Bbl Consumption of drinking water in Block 21 Bbl Workover Domestic Industrial Human Domestic total total 2650 0 950 1100 600 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 consumption 0 0 0 0 0 538 634 1363 0 0 420 415 3370 Industrial Human total consumption consumption consumption total 22,6 26,3 0 6,7 5,3 7,1 3,5 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 5,6 4,5 6,2 0 0 4 6 consumption consumption total 0 7500 6800 5400 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 19700 total 0 0 0 0 0 432 257 450 0 0 100 130 1375 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dic 66 MANAGEMENT AND MITIGATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS Sustainability Report 2013 Consumption of drinking water in Block Buenavista 2012 – 2013 (Bbl) *G4-EN8 Industrial consumption Drilling Domestic consumption total 1234 2013 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1234 total 13252 2013 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dic 942 942 942 942 942 942 942 942 1482 1662 1302 1270 total 2012 1359 1280 82,8 0 1435 1696 1109 36,29 38,99 1212 1335 1645 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dic 11229,08 2012 530 530 530 530 530 530 600 680 700 730 800 800 total 7490 Human consumption total 0 2013 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 The increase in water Unit), where equipment such as centrifuges, storage compartments and Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dic consumption in Block mechanical separation (flocculation units), sludge tanks (cash tank) were total 2012 1,76 3,52 1,63 0 1,5 0,06 1,19 2,83 0,31 0,69 2,26 3,77 19,52 Buenavista versus 2012 in the used, among others, then the water coming out from the sludge tank is production stage is the result sent to a storage tank (frack tank) and recirculates constantly in the preIndustrial consumption of the increase in the activities paration of sludge. In Block Condor, production water was reused in the total 5485 2013 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 5485 of the operation. With regard to process for the preparation of brine in the works carried out at the well. Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dic the drilling stage, no activities total 2012 3388 3309 430 0 3601 3789 3097 4497 10 3231 3094 3408 31854 were carried out in the period *OG7 (Oil & Gas) between January to November Production therefore water consumption Domestic consumption was zero. total 397,7 2013 32,7 34,5 30,6 34,8 35,5 31,6 30,2 32,2 30,5 33,7 35,7 35,7 As part of our commitment to the Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dic rational use of water, we carry out Block Condor Block Buenavista total 2012 14 14 14 14 14 14 14 14 14 14 14 14 168 processes for the reutilization this resource in our operations. In Block Reused water Bbl 2013 Reused water Bbl 2013 5.594 1.455 Human consumption Llanos 21 and Block Buenavista, total water was reused during the drilling 44,7 2013 9,1 3,9 3,9 3,2 3,3 3,8 3,1 3,2 2,7 4 2,7 1,8 phase through the optimization of the Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dic sludge treatment system (Dewatering total 2012 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 48 *G4-EN10 68 MANAGEMENT AND MITIGATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS Sustainability Report 2013 During the drilling in Block Llanos 21, the industrial wasresponsibility, an inventory of the reservoirs in operation tewater resulting from the process was treated in comat Block Buenavista is carried out, since it is a common Energy Efficiency *G4-EN3 pliance with the parameters laid down by the standard practice in the area for the catchment of water, someEnergy in Omega Energy Colombia is primarily obtained we generate energy from diesel plants, specifically in the and was sent by the operator to the city of Yopal through a times without permission from the local environmenthrough the connection to the electrical networks of diffeBlock Condor from June 2013 and for the drilling project of third party authorized for its final disposal. tal authority. This report is notified to the Corporation, rent companies that provide this service; on a smaller scale Block Llanos 21. which determines its legality and subsequent actions to In addition and as part of the Company’s environmental be followed. By 2014 we expect to start with the self-generation of energy from gas in Block Buenavista, a project that is planned from 2012. *G4-EN27 Energy consumption Kw/h *G4-EN3 In 2011, the company focused on the construction of the PoAs (Program of Block Buenavista Management and Mitigation Activities) structured under the Clean Development Mechanism (MDL) of the Framework Convention on Climate Change (CM NUCC) of the United Nations. Of Environmental Impacts The PoA gathers a large number of large-scale emission reduction activities, which generates carbon offsets. 2012 was a significant year for the company total as it carried out the process for the registration of two PoAs that allow the 732,764 2013 63,848 67,002 46,012 69,110 51,464 54,410 65,403 70,700 70,173 54,879 59,251 60,512 issuance of carbon offsets in the coming years through the recovery and use of Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dic c 2 associated petroleum gas normally burned in oil fields and through the gene2012 59,680 61,608 62,706 54,008 52,804 53,105 53,357 87,433 81,389 55,098 58,146 59,096 total 738,43 ration of electricity from methane gas normally burned in oil fields. CARBON OFFSETS The PoA was successfully registered during 2013 for the recovery and use of The decline in the consumption of energy in 2013 corresties for computers, air conditioners, printers, microwaves, associated gas, for which the Ministry of the Environment and Sustainable Deponded to the decrease of certain operational activities. refrigerators and lighting. velopment sent us their sincere congratulations for the successful registration Our Program for the Rational Use of Electric Energy has *G4-EN6 of the program, highlighting the efforts made by the company and providing allowed us to minimize and control the consumption of The energy consumption data for 2012 in Blocks Condor support for future stages. electricity in all the facilities of the Company and proand Llanos 21 have not been reported since no operations jects (offices, camps and facilities), this program includes were carried out during that period. awareness, signage, maintenance and renovation activi70 MANAGEMENT AND MITIGATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS Sustainability Report 2013 The air quality sampling in the Emissions *G4-EN15 area of direct influence of Block Buenavista showed normal acThe monitoring of the air quality of each one of the proThe results obtained are compared with Resolution tivity. The average concentrajects where drilling and production activities were carried 610/2010 that sets forth the air quality or emission level tions of all contaminants tested continued in 2013, in order to measure and track each of standard for the entire national territory. The maximum in sampling stations are below the gaseous pollutants such as total suspended particupermissible values of the pollutants are shown in the fothe maximum values allowed late matter (TSP), suspended particulate matter of less llowing tables per Block: by the standard. than 10 microns (PM₁₀) Nitrogen Dioxide (NO₂), Sulfur Dioxide (SO₂), Carbon Monoxide (CO). Currently, we are reducing emissions by burning due to the gas plant commissioned in 2012 in Air quality monitoring in Block Condor µg/m³ Block Buenavista, which was CRITERIA MAXIMUM PERMISSIBLE STATION 1 STATION 2 STATION 3 optimized in 2013 in order to inLake Tota / Boyacá Colombia TSP 300 12,65 14,25 11,45 crease the amount of gas sold PM₁₀ 50 7,91 8,22 7,97 at the wellhead, which is transSO₂ 80 5,6 4,16 3,32 NO₂ 100 6,32 5,42 5,07 ported through a Virtual PipeCO 10,000 4429,6 4590,14 993,04 line (approximately 1,500,000 MPCPD), resulting in reduced burning volumes. Air quality monitoring in Block Buenavista 2012 2013 µg/m³ Maximum permissible Station 1 Station 1 Station 2 Station 2 Station 3 Station 3 Criteria Air quality monitoring in Block Llanos 21 µg/m³ standard 610µG/M³ 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 Criteria Maximum permissible Station 1 Station 2 Station 3 TSP 300 20,77 85,8 29,67 75,5 21,68 61 TSP 300 96,45 130,02 88,21 SO₂ 250 0,63 26,3 0,36 26,1 0,57 9,6 PM₁₀ 50 56,2 125,95 80,18 NO₂ 150 0,69 25 0,71 22,5 1,1 16,8 SO₂ 80 13,36 11,99 13,33 CO 10000 1945,56 1455,2 0 1374 0 883,1 NO₂ 100 8,45 9,44 5,28 CO 0 0 0 0 72 MANAGEMENT AND MITIGATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS Sustainability Report 2013 Gas Burning in Torches Biodiversity *G4-EN11, *OG4 (Oil & Gas) To prevent the emission of particulate matter and gaseous pollutants that sigThe areas where we develop our operations are nificantly affect the ozone layer, a burning system for gas in torches is used with not considered as protected areas. the respective corrections as authorized in the Environmental License, which allows avoiding the release of gaseous hydrocarbons into the atmosphere. Forest harvesting is not allowed by the license Maintenance is performed on a bi-annual basis to the torch system and the spill for Block Buenavista as well as in that for Block control system. Llanos 21, hence the criteria for the location of *G4-EN20 surface prospects do not impact ecosystems of During 2013, estimated GHG emissions were 137 kilotons of CO2e, in line with ecological and environmental importance since the above and according to OEG’s commitment to the environment, during 2013 its location is prioritized towards grasslands Flooded savanna, Casanare, Colombia various projects designed to significantly reduce emissions and encourage the and/or areas already affected. efficient use of energy were started. These projects as a whole would prevent the annual release of approximately 308 Kt of CO2, starting by phases in 2014. In Block Condor, intervention activities were The main projects are focused on: carried out at the time of the construction of the facilities. To this end and according to the Environmental License, a compensation plan • Station for the transport of CNG (Compressed Natural Gas) avoiding the Environmental Costs forest was conducted which included the refoburning of 44 Kt of CO2 every year. *G4-EN31 restation of strategic areas. The reforestation • Electricity generation system avoiding the burning of 44 Kt of CO2 per The company earmarks process that are carried out with respect to paryear. more than USD 2,407,000 ticular projects from previous periods, continue • Pipeline of 10 km for interconnection of fields with the national gas pifor its operations and developing and we expect them to culminate peline system avoiding the burning of 220.4 Kt of CO2. the implementation in 2014 and to proceed to their delivery to the *OG6 (Oil & Gas), *G4-EN15, *G4-EN27 of the environmental respective Regional Autonomous Corporations. management system in (Guavio 2D and 3D, Condor 3-6). each of the Blocks. *G4-EN12, *G4-EN13 No spill has been produced during the conduct of our operations that may have caused environmental impacts or affected communities. *G4-EN24 74 MANAGEMENT AND MITIGATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS Sustainability Report 2013 At this meeting, the community expressed their questions and concerns with respect to the activities of the project, and UTOE answered every concern, clarifying these activities. This meeting was attended by the new business development management, the enInvolvement of Communities in environmental matters. vironmental and social management and the consultant team who gathered and analyzed the information submitted in the environ*G4-26, *G4-27 mental studies. Public Environmental Hearing General’s Office, Comptroller’s Office, ANH, among others). Union Temporal Omega Energy is in the process of amenThe activities of the draft amendment of the environmental licending the environmental license to expand its operational These socializations are carried out with the objective of se were exposed in environmental public hearing, which focused on activities and natural resources permits, in which the exinforming the community in general of the modification showing the participatory methodology for the collection and analysis pansion of the area licensed to the entire Block is requests to the Environmental License, the activities requested and of information of environmental studies, the possible impacts identiand as a result the municipalities of the area of influenthe impacts identified for the project and environmental fied and monitoring, mitigation and control strategies and measures. ce would change from 4 (Floresta, Nobsa, Corrales and management measures raised as a mitigation and comTopaga) to 9 (Floresta, Nobsa, Corrales, Topaga, Mongui, pensation strategy for these impacts. Mayors and representatives of the municipalities of the area of inMongua, Busbanza, Gameza and Sogamoso). The briefing was developed at Coliseo Alfonso Patiño Rofluence of the project participated in this hearing on their own right selli in the city of Sogamoso on June 26, 2013, from 8 in the according to the provisions of Decree 330/2007. Similarly, all naTop, community participation in the briefing, asking questions about the project. Within this process and as a mechanism for citizen partimorning. tural and legal persons who wanted to participate had to register cipation, regulated under Decree 330/2007, the Mayor’s themselves with each representative’s office of the aforementioAbove, environmental public hearing held on July 12, 2013. Approximately 600 people Office of Sogamoso requested the conduction of an envined municipalities and submit, if they choose to do it, a paper for participated. ronmental public hearing. In the development of this acmaking their presentation on the day of the public hearing. tivity and in compliance with the rule governing the same, 2 meetings were developed: one (1) prior informative As a result of this participatory event, the massive turnout of the meeting and one (1) environmental public hearing. These community and the high participation achieved stand out, which meetings are attended by the National Authority of Enviallowed UTOE to present the definition, clarification and scope ronmental Licenses ANLA, and the mayor’s offices and of the amendment to the environmental license to the largest designated representatives of the municipalities that are number of people in the area of influence of the project, clearing Briefing on June 26, 2013. Participation of approximately 250 part of the project participate, as well as different control doubts and concerns about the operation, impacts, management persons. and monitoring agencies (Ombudsman’s Office, Attorney measures, and permits for the use of natural resources. 76 MANAGEMENT AND MITIGATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS Environmental Management Pegasus Blending International (PBI) PBI has not had direct environmental intervention since the requirements, processes and procedures required by Drawing winner from Yeisson David Hernandez Camacho it is covered by the Environmental License for the Block the standard ISO 14001, in order to operate in complianLa Punta, which was awarded to a third party (UTO), and ce with international environmental standards and with it is responsible for environmental assurance. However, the intention of being certified next year. it must be noted that during 2013 PBI implemented all Water is one of our most important resources; it is our responsibility to know how we can make part of its protection and proper use. In OEG communities are involved with training and sensitization regarding this resource. As evidence of corporate commitment, workshops on the water cycle were done, directed to elementary students at schools in the areas of direct influence by the block Buenavista. A drawing contest was drive by the company and the winners were: Place Name Grade Institution Municipality 1 Yeisson David Hernandez Camacho 3° Juan José Samaniego Corrales 2 Tatiana Fajardo Martinez 1° 3 Astrid Yulieth Paipa Vado Castro Sede vergel Tópaga 4 Yesica Mayerly Araque 4° 5 Pedro Nel Araque 4° Juan José Samaniego Corrales Sustainability Report 2013 RELEVANT issues Relevant Issues Sustainability in the supply chain of San Luis de Gaceno. We also developed the pronical knowledge can be developed in the best way curement area in the municipality of Mani, Casanare, possible. Lake Otún, Risaralda, Colombia. Sustainability in the with the operations of Field La Punta. The growth that our company has had in recent years and the geographical Our 224 suppliers are part of the success of the comsupply chain expansion of our operations have allowed the acquisition of goods and Our suppliers and contractors are highly important pany, providing high-level services, including technoservices to be a fundamental process in the development of each one of to the Organization thereupon we promote respect logies, they additionally have a great history and rethe projects of OEG, where our management becomes feasible through our and trust, we maintain clear rules, stipulate contraccognition both in Colombia and internationally; with Integrated Management System (IMS). tual conditions that must be respected, and manage their experience and work in social, environmental direct relationships with each supplier; they constiand labor responsibility that give an added value to The acquisition of local goods and services is focused on the Department of Boyaca, the procurement tute a strategic ally for the Organization, as the sucour operations. process from previous years in the region continued during 2013. With operations in Block Llanos 21, cess of the operation is largely based on the products we started with the acquisition of goods in the foothills of Llanos and Block Condor in the region and services provided by each supplier, so that tech80 Sustainability Report 2013 tion is carried out by the HSEQ area in order to inform again and Our Supply Chain *G4-12, *G4-EN33 emphasize at the time of entry into any of our fields of operations, in which labor and environmental practices and the entry Our supply chain starts with the requirements of each of the areas of the comOur Goods and Services Acquisition and safety requirements for the operations are reported, allowing pany to carry out certain activities, which involves the procurement of products Policy allows us to strengthen relathe direct and active communication with suppliers through OEG or services. The procurement, logistic and materials department begins its work tionships with stakeholders, establisofficials. Inductions carried out in field are directed to the staff through the management of different providers that meet the needs of each hing socially responsible guidelines of contractors, visitors and personnel, a card is delivered to each area, then a selection is made based on the best economic, technical, quality and and practices that allow assuring the person with a validity of one year from the induction and awareavailability offer, among other criteria. Once the suppliers have been selected, procurement of goods and services, ness of safety procedures. In 2013 we performed a greater number the department generates the service or purchase order and proceeds to carry the active participation of contractors of inductions, which was reflected in the entry of staff from conLaguna glacier, Nevado del Cocuy National Park. Boyacá, Arauca and Casanare, Colombia the order out. We perform annual assessments to our suppliers where our satisand suppliers both from areas of intractors who worked in the different field operations such as drifaction with the services or products acquired is evidenced, always taking into fluence and other regions is promoted. lling, workover, civil works, among others. A new induction must account the elements of HSEQ; this assessment allows us to materialize the conbe carried out if there is any change in the HSEQ practices, even if tinuity of the provision of services with each of our suppliers. it is within the year of validity. Audits were performed to some of our contractors, among them we find the following hydrocarbon transporters: Transportes Assurance of Labor Practices in the Supply Chain Caribe, Transportes Humadea and Movitransportes. An audit was *G4-LA15, *G4-EC8, *G4-HR5, *G4-HR6, *G4-HR11 also conducted to Multiservipetrol, provider of civil works services, to Su Oportuno Servicio (S.O.S.), provider of surveillance services, The impact that our suppliers may generate through industo ensure the effective and adequate protection of Human GEACOM, company responsible for the Gas plant and IDS, a civil try operations in the places where the company has a preRights and the International Humanitarian Law, as well as works company. Compliance with HSEQ by the last three compasence is high; under this premise, our suppliers are chosen their responsibility to their employees and dependents on nies mentioned above was also monitored during the same year. strategically. In the search for the mitigation of impact and the same issue and subject to audit when deemed necesthe reduction of risks, in 2013 we implemented an annex sary by OEG. The company holds meetings in which safety and environment to contractual clauses and orders, which clearly establish issues are discussed, in past years the invitation has been extenthe compliance required by the Law on health, industrial After the disclosure of the HSEQ policies, the recruitment ded to suppliers and contractors for them to attend voluntarily safety, environment, ethics and human rights; through of local labor and the procurement of goods and services and be aware of the issues addressed. By 2014 these talks will be these clauses, the contractor undertakes to respect and during the negotiations and contracting phase, an inducincluded in the contractor training plan. 82 SUSTAINABILITY IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN Sustainability Report 2013 Inductions in Inductions in Block Buenavista Block Buenavista 2013 57 125 2012 2013 Monitoring to action plans in 1424 1705 Open Closed Block Buenavista 2012 93 246 Environmental impacts of the supply chain *G4-EN33 Visits were conducted to suppliers on environmental matters, with the purpo*G4-EC9 OEG is interested in its continuous imTotal procurement of goods and services in 2013 (Figures in USD) se of monitoring the transportation, treatment and final disposal procedures provement, audits are a mechanism Company Amount Invoiced 2012 Amount Invoiced 2013 of each solid and liquid waste generated in Block Buenavista. Amid the visited to find gaps that bring us closer to NIKOIL $$ 5.625.685,62 companies we find Ecoplanta, Bamocol, Bañomovil, Edepsa and Ecoentorno, continuous improvements in operaOMEGA $ 2.883.254,07 $ 9.320.762,38 providers of transportation, treatment and final disposal services of production tions; the result of the audits carried PBI $ 1.762.384,61 $ 2.215.201,47 UTOE $ 34.661.633,14 $ 21.834.125,37 water, wastewater from portable sanitary units, and solid waste generated in out to our suppliers translates into Total $ 39.307.271,82 $ 38.995.774,84 Block Buenavista. action plans, product resulting from the observations made in visits by The companies Bañomovil and Ecoentorno were contracted for the first time different environmental authorities, Amount Invoiced 2012 / Total 100,00% Amount Invoiced 2012 / Total 100,00% in 2013; during the same year there was no contractual termination with any in internal and external audits, consupplier due to actual and potential significant impacts. tribution cards, among other. The observations made are monitored in the area identified (safety, quality, wellbeing) and are closed according 2013 4 3 to the efforts undertaken and the reMonitoring activities in Block Buenavista Audit Visit sults obtained according to the area 2012 6 5 in charge. NIKOIL OMEGA PBI UTOE NIKOIL OMEGA PBI UTOE 0% 7,34% 4,48% 88,18% 14,43% 23,90% 5,68% 55,99% 84 SUSTAINABILITY IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN Sustainability Report 2013 Procurement by Block in 2013 (Figures in USD) *G4-EC9 Procurement by Regions in 2013 / Buenavista *G4-EC9 Purchase value of goods and services in areas of influence Block Block Block Field Buenavista Llanos 21 Condor La Punta $ 1.440.615 $ 691.513 $ 1.019.746 $ 418.209 Total $3.570.082 Total 100% / 224 Bogotá Sogamoso Yopal Corrales Nobsa Duitama Cota Bucaramanga OTHERS suppliers 40,35% 19,37% 28,56% 11,71% Total 100% 53,57% 21,43% 4,02% 3,57% 2,68% 2,68% 1,79% 1,34% 8,83% 120 suppliers 48 suppliers 9 suppliers 8 suppliers 6 suppliers 6 suppliers 4 suppliers 3 suppliers 20 suppliers Pisba / Boyacá Colombia Lake Tota, Boyacá, Colombia 86 SUSTAINABILITY IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN Sustainability Report 2013 Our Challenges for 2014 Contratación por Bloques 2013 / Cóndor *G4-EC9 1. Strengthen control on suppliers and contractors, channeled through the responsible areas, especially HSEQ. 2. Strengthen the actions taken through the assessment to suppliers; each area that evaluates the performance of suppliers will have the opportunity in 2014 to extend the aspect of the assessment to comply with HSEQ, social responsibility, ethical and human rights issues. Total 100% / 74 Bogotá Sogamoso San Luis de Yopal Tunja Bucaramanga OTHERS suppliers 3. Through field managers, comply with the goods and services procurement policy of the community to the extent 70,27% 8,11% Gaceno 4,05% 2,70% 2,70% 6,75% 52 suppliers 6 suppliers 5,41% 3 suppliers 2 suppliers 2 suppliers 5 suppliers possible for each process. 4 suppliers Contratación por Bloques 2013 / Llanos 21 *G4-EC9 Total 100% / 196 Bogotá Trinidad Yopal Sogamoso Cali Medellín Nobsa Bucaramanga Barranquilla OTHERS suppliers 75,51% 9,18% 3,57% 2,04% 2,04% 1,02% 1,02% 1,02% 1,02% 3,57% 148 suppliers 18 suppliers 7 suppliers 4 suppliers 4 suppliers 2 suppliers 2 suppliers 2 suppliers 2 suppliers 7 suppliers 88 SUSTAINABILITY IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN Sustainability Report 2013 RELEVANT issues Magdalena River, adjacent to the Bethany dam. Huila, Colombia. Relevant Issues Relación responsable con Responsible relationships Our customer satisfaction survey carried out during the deadlines and the deliverables schedule agreed los Clientes with Customers 2013 allows us to verify the satisfaction of business upon, attention to field staff for deliveries at werelationships with our customers. These assessments llheads and related issues such as liquidations and take into account our commercial management, wiinvoicing. In 2013 two of our customers, including Our main customer is Ecopetrol S.A.; however, we have others such as llingness, diligence and solvency, effectiveness in Ecopetrol S.A., described the management of the Australian Bunker Suppliers, Codis S.A., Trayectoria Oil and Gas and the the communication channel with the commercial company as very positive in all the aforementioned National Hydrocarbons Agency. During 2013 we generated new business team and the company, claims and observations, the aspects. relationships to strengthen our presence in the market; our challenge is to quality of the product, the level of understanding *G4-PR5 demonstrate commercial improvements during 2014. of business needs of customers, compliance with 90 Sustainability Report 2013 RELEVANT issues Asuntos Relevantes Active Participation and Development of the Community Participación Activa y Desarrollo Mavecure Hills, Guainía, Colombia. The relationship with communities in the areas of influence is a priority during the development of Our social endeavors rely on the Integrated Manathe attention to community manifestations and the our operations, directly evidencing the communication with the community and stakeholders. The de la Comunidad gement System, which governs our business manaengagement of unskilled labor, it also regulates the commitments to the improvement of the quality of life of our communities in the areas of direct ingement in a comprehensive manner. As part of our prior consultation process with the objective of enfluence are closely related to the application of the best business practices, we are focused on mainSocial Responsibility Policy we have found guidelisuring the participation of ethnic groups in legal and taining and continuously improving good neighbor practices and we constantly generate direct and nes for the involvement of communities in the areas administrative decisions, when projects, works or actimely communication spaces. We are interested in promoting the social, civic and economic progress of influence and social investment guidelines; the tivities are to be carried out within their territories. of people through concrete actions, previously reviewed with municipal authorities, community leasystem has procedures in place that regulate social, ders and direct beneficiaries, as set out in our Community Relationship Policy. communication and socialization efforts, as well as 92 Sustainability Report 2013 Society Communication and addressing of concerns *G4-EN34, *G4-HR12, *G4-SO1 We operated three blocks during 2013: Condor, Llanos 21, and Buenavista. As one of our priority issues, we handle different comBlock Buenavista munication channels between the communities and the Our areas of direct influence by block are Floresta 54% Corrales Company, for Omega it is important to know all nonconCompliance the following: buenavista formities, requests, complaints or claims (IPQR) that may Tópaga Nobsa 1. Block Buenavista: Municipalities of SOGAMOSO llanos 21 be generated as a result of the projects carried out in the 48 Topaga, Floresta, Nobsa and Corrales blocks and to be able to give answers or solutions as soon Communications 2012 received Town as, each block has its own measures for the addressing of located in the Department of Boyaca. Los Chochos IPQR, taking into account the volume of the same and the 26 Communications 2. Block Condor: Municipality of San processed operations conducted. Luis de Gaceno, Boyaca. 3. Block Llanos 21: Town Los Chochos . In 2012 we identified in Block Buenavista the need to improve the ability to respond to the concerns received from cóndor the community; for this reason in 2013 we opened our comSan Luis munity attention office in the municipality of Corrales, at de Gaceno Carrera 2 No. 7-08; the main objective of this measure was to generate greater accessibility and effective communica53 Communications 2013 received tion between the communities of the area of influence of Block Buenavista and OEG. 53 Communications processed During 2013 the communications received by from community doubled as compared to the previous year and as 100% a response to the need to improve evidenced in 2012 we Compliance have complied by answering to all requests that we have received. *G4-SO11 94 ACTIVE PARTICIPATION AND DEVELOPMENT OF THE COMMUNITY Sustainability Report 2013 There are four requests from 2012 that are pending an performed and proposed by the community, the socializaIn the initial phase of the activities in Block Condor for New impacts answer, which will be processed during 2014; one of these tions of environmental management plans (EMPs) of each 2013, through the social management area we held ten soWe frame our activities in the socioeconomic development was transformed in a lawsuit against OEG, which at preof the wells where operations are performed, the needs of cialization meetings of the projects Condor 1 and Condor 2, of the region, we seek to strengthen relationships with the sent is managed by the Legal Management; to prevent qualified and unqualified workforce for each project. and two socialization meetings for Medina 1. communities, authorities and institutions in the area of the reoccurrence of this situation, the company has re*G4-14, *G4-SO1 direct and indirect influence of the operation of our blocks. viewed the procedure for the processing of community Therefore, the contingency plan for the exploratory well A proposal was presented by the communities and it turned OEG policies are focused on economic, social and environmanifestations during 2013, because it showed weakYekota was socialized and we announced the three out to be of great importance for the company: the formamental strengthening through the procurement of local nesses that were strengthened during the same year, phases of the project: preoperative, operative and postotion of monitoring and assessment committees begun in goods and services for the projects, generation of local jobs, allowing the positive closing of all of IPQR filed by the perative; we also presented the workovers performed in 2013, in which we opened spaces through monthly meeimprovement of infrastructure, housing, among others. community in that year. wells Corrales 1.1, Corrales 2, Corrales West and Corrales 4, tings, creating new strategies and allowing the company to *G4-SO2 the EMP for Corrales 5 and subsequently the socialization appreciate alternatives of improvement regarding impact A social contingency occurred in Block Condor during April, Below are summarized the different scenarios of commuof the drilling of the well. It is important to mention that assessment and management practices. just a month before the start of our operations. It arose by nity involvement in Buenavista: at these meetings on the works to be carried out at the historical exploration events in the area and by the prowells, we always presented the policies of the company, In Block Llanos 21 we performed three socializations, two tests that had occurred at national level, negative and hosour objectives, and we talk about industrial safety and corresponding to project Llanos 21 as a whole, in which we tile attitudes of some people involved in the conflict that took into account the concerns of the community with presented topics related to social investment, and one sohad an incidence in these activities. The contingency was respect to the projects. cialization specifically for the operations that would comfinally solved in a peaceful manner with the community 2013 9 33 mence in wells Camacho and Rocamao. creating agreements between parties that will not affect Community the commencement of the company’s operations. Block Buenavista Socializations In 2013, the social manager of Blocks Condor and Llanos Meeting 21 was directly in charge of receiving the different types of Within our opportunities for improvement we identified *OG-10 (Oil & Gas) 6 22 2012 communications, there is also an alternate communicathe need to classify IPQRs in terms of social, environmental tion channel for these blocks through community action or other issues; while our response to the communications groups. Respectively, we received 58 and 17 communicareceived successfully met the challenge raised the previous tions from the community, among petitions, letters of year, in 2014 we will strengthen our IPQR systematization Seven socializations were carried out in 2013 with the comappreciation, requests for information, support, and asmechanisms in order to know the behavior of our commumunity of Block Buenavista, the topics discussed in them sistance; under the same channel we corporately sent 100 nities and identify the most relevant trends. were mainly about social investments carried out during communications from Condor and nine from Llanos 21, as the year 2012, the management of the social investment invitations to socializations, requests for permission and to be carried out during 2013, the receipt of projects to be delivery of management reports, among other. 96 ACTIVE PARTICIPATION AND DEVELOPMENT OF THE COMMUNITY Sustainability Report 2013 • Chief of Security. Supervises the activities of seAccording to the profiles required by the superintendence The operations started in Bock Condor caused the enrollRecruitment of qualified curity companies in the projects of Block Buenavisof the block and the coordination offices of the different ment of most of the community in the area of direct inand unqualified labor ta, ensuring the physical safety of the people that enter the field. areas (Operational, HSEQ, Social, Safety, etc.), OEG maintains and increases the direct recruitment of qualified staff fluence and the region. • Social Manager. Executes the social management from the communities of the area of influence in the muRecruitment in Block Condor 2013 There is a recruitment procedure in place in the Integrated plan assigned to the projects and ensures the nicipalities corresponding to each block. During 2013, OEG Management System, directly related to the hiring of unsmaintenance of sound relations with the commutrained five people in the Diploma Course on Petroleum killed labor, as we prioritize the recruitment of personnel nities in the areas of direct or indirect influence of Operations, which with a duration of 159 hours gave the 2013 55% 15% 30% from the areas of direct influence and the region. Community Region Third Parties Block Buenavista. opportunity to directly contract skilled workers as staff of • HSEQ Coordinator. Performs follow-up to the fulthe company, as they entered as Production Assistants B, During 2013 we generated indirect jobs in the communities fillment of the specific EMP of the project and the resulting in better work benefits. of Block Buenavista, as in the case of drivers with the comadministrative acts issued by environmental authopletion of preventive maintenance for vehicles, the use of rities; performs activities related to the inspection of The recruitment of 100% of the unskilled labor from the All the unskilled labor available from the community parking lots and the transportation of hydrocarbons. equipment, control and follow-up on occupational community of Buenavista continued. was hired in Block Llanos 21. Since it is a specific short safety and health issues, and carried out the plans *G4-EC8 drilling and testing project, the demand for qualified The direct jobs generated in Bock Buenavista include the in the field of health, safety and environment in the labor for specific activities (sludge engineers, MWD, difollowing: locations where the company operates. rectional, well site) was high, is it therefore reflected in • Electrical Mechanic. Ensures the functionality a percentage similar to that hired in the community. • Field Superintendent. In charge of organizing and operation of the electrical and mechanical equipplanning hydrocarbon production processes, taking Recruitment of labor in Block Buenavista ment of the company. into account their technical, human, environmen• Senior Production Operator. Ensures the normal tal and financial components, directly in the field. • Field Manager. His purpose is to ensure the normal hydrocarbons production operation in field. 2013 61% 14% 25% Recruitment of labor in Block Llanos 21 • Social Assistant. Supports the execution of the Community Region Third Parties development of field administrative and logistics activities. social management plan assigned to the projects. 2012 58% 20% 22% • HSEQ Assistant. Supports the execution of 2013 42% 13% 45% • Jr. Engineer. Supports the Field Superintendent Community Region Third Parties health, safety and environmental plans. in planning and organization activities of hydro• Production Assistant A and B. Support produccarbon production processes while taking into action operators in field operation activities and procount their components. duction reporting. 98 ACTIVE PARTICIPATION AND DEVELOPMENT OF THE COMMUNITY Sustainability Report 2013 The minimum salary for unskiWe delivered 70,000 books for the Colombia program to the road and the improvement of houses; the project was lled labor is determined accorSocial Investment which the company is linked and fulfilled with the delivery carried out by the Interinstitutional Agreement of Wills No. ding to the region of operation of the same to the libraries of municipal schools in Topaga 1 between the Municipality of Corrales and the company We promote the development of the regions where we operate through voluntary inand exceeds the Minimum and Corrales; this donation of educational materials was Omega Energy, in which it was agreed that the company vestment lines, which are defined according to the needs evidenced by the company Legal Wage applicable estacarried out through the acquisition of copies with Fundawould provide the design and resources for the construcand the requests from the community. They can be materialized in the projects exeblished by the National Govercion Libro por Libro, the purchase of the books was made tion of houses with every habitability condition. The benecuted throughout the area where we operate; OEG has strategic investments and spenment. in Spain and seeks the bibliographic enrichment of two ficiaries of this project are the neighbors of the property. cific community projects that are previously arranged according to the needs of each schools in Topaga, the Municipal School and the of the CulThe relocation of the houses in Portachuelo advanced community, allowing us to strengthen sustainability strategies and significant social The hiring of unqualified labor ture of Corrales, for the children of the community to have during 2013 culminating with 80% of the whole project; practices. is always carried out keeping access to excellent quality academic books. the keys will be delivered in 2014 in accordance with civil in mind the needs of the comworks projections and a final delivery with the expansion In consensus with the communities and local authorities of Buenavista, it was requespany, contractors or subconFrom 2012 Omega evidenced the need to create spaces for and paving of the sector is projected. ted to generate at least one project of significant impact per year, without any need to *G4-EC7 tractors, a requirement that conversation with the Mayor of Corrales in order to reach distribute our investment in the lines mentioned above. is made to Community Action agreements that will benefit the community; the first Culture, recreation and sports are relevant areas for the Groups, Representative’s Offiagreements were held in 2013 with the Mayor’s Office by development of the region, as they strengthen the ties in Our Integrated Management System has a procedure in place to carry out social invesces and Mayoralties through concentrating most of its social investment resources in the spaces created for this purpose. During 2013, Omega tment projects; It is important to hold meetings with community leaders, local authoa call. The company or the infrastructure and basic sanitation. The main agreements contributed with the uniforms of the Municipal School rities and the community in general, in which we learn of the needs expressed by the contractor is autonomous as signed corresponded to social projects for Housing ImproBand of Corrales, promoted the event Mining Skills in community itself, the projects to be executed and the investment items to be socialized to their internal staff selecvement, “Construyendo Sueños con Omega,” in which we Topaga, and as an incentive to sports, delivered sports according to the relevance are agreed upon therein. tion and recruitment process delivered 100% of the materials to benefit families who sweatshirts and sweatpants for the team “Corraleños.” Social investment is given to the communities of the areas directly influenced by the during 2013. The selection of previously had properties in the town of Modeca and CoWe also contributed with the investment for the project project. The percentage and/or item of Social Investment are allocated according to personnel is carried out directly rrales and which the Mayor’s Office supported with the “Paisajismo del sector Vado Castro,” in the municipality the production obtained in the development of projects; our contributions are not by the communities, backed by design; in July we delivered 12 health and housing units. of Topaga, a project that initiated in 2012 given the imgiven in cash money but in specific community projects. Mayor’s Offices. For qualified portance of the sector because it communicates Sogapersonnel, it includes profesBuenavista The project for the relocation of the homes in Portachuemoso with the municipalities of Topaga, Mongui, Mongua, sionals that meet the profile In 2013 in Buenavista we delivered 300 school kits for the municipalities of Topaga lo that were close to the main transit road of tank trucks Gameza, Corrales and the central north highway; the prooffered in operation areas. and Corrales, trainings were also held in Compost, Microbial Soup and Worm Culture was conducted in December 2013; the proximity of which ject sought the cofinancing of the Government, for this for the inhabitants of the towns of Modeca and Corrales and the inhabitants of the affected the dwellings and for that reason it was agreed to reason an agreement was reached between the three village of San Juan de Nepomuceno. relocate them in such a way that allowed the expansion of parties involved: the Mayor’s Office, the Government and 100 ACTIVE PARTICIPATION AND DEVELOPMENT OF THE COMMUNITY Sustainability Report 2013 OEG, in which each player performed their respective role. de Gaceno, Trinidad Casanare and Sogamoso, for our comCondor Social investments were carried out in the towns of La In our case we assumed 10% of the work, represented by munities to have access to the royalties of the region through In Condor we support the logistics in the training of the Mesa, Monumento, Guamalito and Guamal, in the frathe design, construction of bays, landscaping and recothe proposal of projects that generate development. National Police (PONAL), focused on Road Education, mework of the six investment lines of the company; these very of the town Vado Castro. aimed at children and adolescents from the educational investments consisted of the delivery of materials for the These trainings are part of our strategic projects, they have institutions of Horizontes, Caño Grande, Guamal, Guamaimprovement and extension of aqueducts, improvement The Company is carrying out efforts in the area of direct been focused on generating support to the community in lito, Monumento, La Mesa and Palmeritas, in order to preof storage tanks of the existing aqueducts, maintenance influence of Bock Buenavista from 2011; the intention is the management of royalties, through professional travent the occurrence of incidents or accidents on the roads. of road networks, construction of community kitchens, for the community to see Omega as a partner, capable of ining, advise and consultancy, supporting the municipal We likewise support the training in “Red Unidos,” focused construction of a community pen, improvements in comcontributing to the development of the region. Under this planning secretary’s office and the Mayoralties in the foron healthy eating and savings, with the aim of improving puter rooms, remodeling of schools and the eradication intention, the Group provided resources to support the mulation of projects aimed at the management of royalfood quality, promote self-management, banking and saof weeds from crops, among others. All of these activities specific needs that were requested by the Mayoralties of ties. The main objective is to achieve, through community vings. Encouraging the working force in the community, are aimed at improving the quality of life of the inhabiCorrales, Topaga, Nobsa and Sogamoso, regardless of the representatives, the submission of projects that promote Omega supported the training in food handling Red Unitants of each town, promote education, facilitate access social investment contemplated for 2013. development and that the necessary resources are obtaidos-SENA, allowing the attendees to gain experience that to new technologies, reduce child mortality and contribuned; we have worked with the company Garcia Valderrama would allow them to apply for new job opportunities. te to the improvement of the health of the mothers in the For December, OEG contributed with the Christmas celeDueñas Asociados S.A. GVD, which has qualified personnel community. bration, delivering gifts to children in the community of the to advise this initiative. One hundred percent of the community mothers that are town of Modeca, Corrales and Topaga. *G4-SO1 part of the program “Hogares ICBF” were trained for them Our monetary investments in this block are summarized We evidence the materialization of the social investment to have higher education quality in the early childhood. as follows: We started general trainings in the New General Royalty that we make in each of the communities in our area of System and provided advice to Mayoralties to propose proinfluence in numbers; we are in a constant search of improjects for the municipalities of Mongui, Mongua, Corrales, vements and contributions to the community, always with Gameza, Nobsa, Busbanza, Topaga, Paratebueno, San Luis clear development objectives. Social Investment 2013 Condor $USD *G4-EC7 Social Investment – Buenavista $USD *G4-EC7 total $587.810,34 2013 $ 10.985,61 $12.995,56 $ 33.031,42 $ 535,02 $ 38.995,79 total 2013 $ 12.660,02 $ 68.253,72 $ 58.934,46 $ 447.962,14 $96.543,40 Recreation, culture Education and Infrastructure and Health and Strategic Recreation, culture Education and Strategic Infrastructure and and sports training basic sanitation environment investments and sports training investments basic sanitation total 2012 $5.831,68 $3.523,30 $ 98.250,14 $2.621,58 $110.226,71 102 ACTIVE PARTICIPATION AND DEVELOPMENT OF THE COMMUNITY Sustainability Report 2013 Llanos 21 In Llanos 21 we focused on road infrastructure and minor civil works, by investing in the maintenance of the road A “Summer Plan” was carried out, which consisted in carrying out permanent irrigation in the access road from TriOur Challenges for 2014 that leads from Rocamao station to Primavera station (the nidad to the town of Los Chochos, in association with the latter corresponds to the company Lewis), benefiting the company Lewis which supplied water, Omega assumed the Buenavista inhabitants of the town Los Chochos and road users. Simitransport for irrigation with the objective of reducing the 1. To continue strengthening the ability of communities to provide responses, differentiating those representing social larly, with the investments in road maintenance we benefit effect on air quality due to the transit of vehicles. For the impacts to the community. the community of Trinidad, the urban area and neighboring execution of this project $113,183 USD were invested, co2. To implement and channel the recruitment of qualified staff through the Employment Promotion Office of SENA municipalities. rresponding to 241 transportation services for irrigation. An taking into account the personnel in the areas of direct influence as a priority. investment was also made in nutritional matters for livesWe support the investment line in recreation, culture and tock; by generating an alternative food for animals, grazing 3. To implement and execute self-sustaining productive projects with communities in the area of direct influence, sports through the delivery of materials for the construction in areas near the main road is prevented as well as the pulallowing the community to have other sources of revenues. of walls and enclosures for the sports center of the town of monary effect of consuming grass with dust particles. 4. Within the framework of our social-environmental responsibility, we will carry out the inventory of water resources Guamal, to promote sports and recreational events; prowithin the areas of direct influence of the projects, in order to contribute to their future conservation and preservation. motion and sponsorship to the female basketball team of We support the school of the town of Los Chochos by perthe educational institution ‘San Luis de Gaceno,’ and proviforming maintenance and repairs to the power plant. 5. To encourage the participation of the community in contingency plans. ded materials for the commemoration of the culture week and the birthday number 50 of that institution. Our social investment in Block Llanos 21 in 2013 was: Condor 1. To provide and project possible commitments to be assumed with communities in order to optimize the fulfillment Social investment 2013 Llanos 21 $USD *G4-EC7 of the same in the shortest possible time. 2. To establish standards for the evaluation and control for the Royalty Management Project in Condor, Buenavista and Llanos 21. 2013 $ 1.520,35 $113.182,82 $ 98.783,52 $ 16.121,19 total $229.607,87 Strategic Health and Infrastructure and Community productive investments environment basic sanitation projects 104 ACTIVE PARTICIPATION AND DEVELOPMENT OF THE COMMUNITY Sustainability Report 2013 RELEVANT issues Relevant Issues Optimal operational and Afluente del río Apaporis, Vaupés, Colombia financial performance Optimal operational and financial performance Increase in Increase in Investments production sales Ebitda Capex Financing 148.659 40,73% $39.854 Usd $17.849 Usd 46 million Barrels Thousand USD 2013 USD Drilling, infrastructure, Ubs Credit agreement facilities $23.698 106 Sustainability Report 2013 Financial Performance Economic value created and distributed Main indicators as of December 31 USD Thousand 2012 2013 Var % Economic value created 2012 2013 Var % Barrels sold [bbl] 632.062 780.721 23,52% Revenues 58.186 81.884 40,73% Current assets 38.302 64.855 69,33% Economic value distributed 2012 2013 Non-current assets 218.105 222.273 1,91% Operating costs 16.883 29.570 75,15% Total assets 256.407 287.128 11,98% Total salaries and social benefits to employees 2.913 3.828 31,41% Current liabilities 51.943 97.844 88,37% Taxes 2.552 5.106 100,08% Non-current liabilities 50.248 51.961 3,41% Royalties 5.224 6.733 28,88% Total liabilities 102.191 149.805 46,59% Community investments 181 914 404,95% Equity 154.216 137.323 -10,95% Revenues 58.186 81.884 40,73% Operational profits 29.495 6.695 -77,30% *G4-8, *G4-EC1 Liquidity indicators 2012 2013 Working capital -18.931 -32.989 74,26% Current ratio 0,74 0,66 -10,11% The average 2013 price of WTI crude oil of USD 98 was used Economic value distributed, USD Thousand Acid test ratio 0,52 0,66 27,47% for the calculation of the value of the royalties, according 50.000 Indebtedness indicators 2012 2013 Indebtedness 35,00% 52,17% 49,07% to figures reported on Ecopetrol’s webpage. 40.000 Profitability indicators 2012 2013 30.000 Operative margin 54,00% 63,00% 16,67% ROA 9,00% 2,46% -72,63% Economic value created, USD Thousand 20.000 ROE 15,00% 4,59% -69,38% 90.000 10.000 EBITDA 31.529,00 39.854,00 26,40% 80.000 EBITDA margin 54,20% 43,00% -20,66% 70.000 0 60.000 2012 2013 50.000 *G4-9 40.000 Revenues Revenues 30.000 58.186 81.884 Community investments 20.000 Royalties 10.000 Taxes 0 Total salaries and social benefits to employees 2012 2013 Operational costs 108 OPTIMAL OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Sustainability Report 2013 Operational (Production) Total blocks Reserves Net production OEG (bbl) Block Buenavista [Bbl] *OG1 (Oil & Gas) Crude oil production 2.593.842 Oil [MBBbl] Total block Total block 1P 2P 3P 524.193 7.106 8,70 14,86 27,47 1.626.905 Total block Total block Total blocks 14.696 428.048 Gas [MMcf] 2.162 1P 2P 3P 2013 421.105 335.725 13.520 18.933 789.283 Total bloques Block Buenavista Block La Punta Block Condor Block Paloma and Midas Total blocks Average daily 9,90 14,16 19,97 production Barrels of Oil Equivalent [Mboe] ** 2012 501.117 121.957 377 8.986 632.437 1.733 1P 2P 3P 10,44 17,34 30,97 ** ** Conversion factor to BOE from 5.7 Mcf:1 Bbl Reserves according to internal calculations *G4-9, *OG1 (Oil & Gas) CAPEX 2013 USD Drilling and workover operations 2013 Drilling & Facilities and Seismic Wells in Wells in Wells in Block Total completion infrastructure and others WO Evaluation WO Sole Stratigraphic Exploratory Development Evaluation Buenavista $ 10.796 $ 215 $ 482 $ 11.493 Area Risk Wells Condor $ 4.329 $$$ 4.329 Phase Phase Phase Wo Corrales 3 La punta $ 337 $ 1.419 $$ 1.756 Others $ 232,40 $ 23,73 $ 11,87 $ 268 Completion Block Yekota 1 PE-S-3 Total blocks $ 15.694,40 $ 1.657,73 $ 493,87 $ 17.846 0 Corrales 5 Corrales 4 0 Buenavista Bolívar NW1 PE-CO-4 Completion Capital investments in 2013 corresponded to: Corrales 2 Medina 1 1. Drilling of three exploration wells, geology studies, drilling of stratigraBlock Condor 0 0 0 0 Cóndor 1 0 phic wells, workover and production facilities in Block Buenavista. Cóndor 2 2. Construction of production lines, expansion of production facilities at Rocamao 1 Block La Punta. Block Llanos (Abandoned) 0 0 0 0 0 21 Calacho 1 3. In Block Condor workover was carried out in the wells Condor 1 and 2 and (Suspended) Medina. 110 OPTIMAL OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Sustainability Report 2013 RELEVANT issues Relevant Issues High Health and Safety Cachivera Aracapuri, Vaupés River.Vaupes, Colombia. High Health and Safety Standards Standards The management commitment to health and safety is outstanding and is evidenced by maintaining an Integrated Management System under the When we speak of an integrated system that inclusynergies towards the same objective: avoid workstandards ISO 9001, 14001 and OHSAS 18001 since 2008. The system is des health and safety, it is necessary to mention that related accidents and diseases. based on continuous improvement and the search for safe habits to raise occupational health is divided into three pillars: Preawareness among visitors, direct and indirect contractors, to reflect our real ventive and Work Medicine, Industrial Hygiene, InThis chapter presents the most outstanding achiecommitment to physical and operational integrity. dustrial Safety and Occupational Health, achieving vements and challenges of our management: 112 Sustainability Report 2013 PVE Musculoskeletal PVE – Public Health PVE – Cardiovascular PVE – Psychosocial Risk Examinations. Preventive and Work Medicine. Anti-smoking campaigns. Paraclinical examinations Active breaks (twice per Its purpose is the promotion, prevention and control of the health of employees with regard to occupational risk factors. of lipid and blood sugar week). Awareness rising in health Application of the battery of Different activities were carried out during 2013 for the achievement of this goal. profiles. issues. the Ministry of Labor. Physical anti-spasm theraEntry, periodical and retirement occupational medical Nutritional screening, body examinations pies (once a week). Vaccination sessions (teDevelopment of skills in mass index (BMI) and tanus, yellow fever, influeneffective communication. weight. Each activity has different risks, for which a profession tirement, workers are on the same or better health condiErgonomic inspections za, HPV). chart has been designed according to the position and type tions than those under which they entered the company. (once a year). Development of skills in Training in healthy eating of risk, in order to have an appropriate medical opinion of Assurance of the “Prevenstress management and habits. the health of workers at the time of entry, with annual The following occupational medical examinations were Training in “healthy worktion of alcohol, drugs, tobaccontrol. examinations and finally to ensure that in the event of recarried out during 2013: places.” co and other psychoactive Promotion of sports with substances” policy. participation in internal and external championships and sports Olympics. Omega Energy PBI UTOE NIKOIL Entry 5 Entry 4 Entry 3 Entry 2 It is noteworthy that: Exit 0 Exit 0 Exit 2 Exit 0 The vaccine against the human papillomavirus was included for the first Periodical 54 Periodical 8 Periodical 20 Periodical 0 time for the entire female population (32 women). As a result of the application of the battery of the Ministry of Labor to assess psychosocial risk, questionnaires for the evaluation of stress, nonEpidemiological Surveillance Activities (PVE) labor psychosocial factors and intra-labor psychosocial risk factors were included, having as result a “Low Psychosocial Risk” at organizational They are programs designed to assess and control diseases related to occupational risk factors identified; this year the level. A preventive psychosocial risk program has been implemented and Organization successfully developed activities in each of the programs, in order to strengthen the prevention and miniis associated with institutional wellbeing programs. mization of risks of work-related accidents or diseases. 114 HIGH HEALTH AND SAFETY STANDARDS Sustainability Report 2013 Monitoring of Absenteeism. Industrial Hygiene. The factors that cause absenteeism are subject to statisThe following table shows the days lost by different types tical monitoring in order to identify occupational health of absenteeism in these two years, a significant increase is Industrial Hygiene is the science of the anticipation, identiIn the noise study of Block Buenavista 16 samples were behaviors of workers to make timely decisions and impleobserved in 2013 as a result of maternity leaves. Regarding fication, evaluation and control of the risks that arise in the taken, of which 81% corresponded to low exposure and ment preventive actions for the exposure to occupational common origin disease, it is observed that these increased workplace or in relation to it and that may put at risk the 19% to critical exposure; Pegasus Blending International risk factors, which allow minimizing this phenomenon and in approximately three times due to a series of 30-day dihealth and wellbeing of workers; its fundamental objecti(PBI) took five points of which 60% correspond to low exits impact on the organization. sabilities that prolonged due to the fracture of a lower limb ve is to protect and promote the health and wellbeing of posure and 40% to critical exposure. Notwithstanding the of a worker. the same, as well as to protect the environment in general. foregoing, the attenuation caused by personal protection elements (earplugs) and the time of exposure are taken To meet this goal, during these last two years the organizainto account, the level of risk corresponds to low exposure Concept of Absenteeism tion has continued to make following these measurements and the organization is within the allowable limits. periodically: In each of the blocks we have teams specialized in the measurement of gases, which show us the permissible parameters in terms of: benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene, xylene, BTEX methanol, particulate matter, inhalable Lighting studies in fraction and breathable fraction. These measurements workplaces are taken daily to ensure work in a permissible environment and no negative impacts to the health of workers. 2013 276 50 5 392 15 6 1 5 51 Work-related There is a calibration program of own equipment in place Common Work-related origin CompensatoryWedding Maternity Paternity Mourning Suspension and services and services Thermal comfort to ensure the effectiveness of these measures and exterpermit leave leave* leave* leave accident – disease accident Contractors nal third parties are requested to calibrate all the equipment used to carry out such studies and measurements in 2012 87 41 16 0 0 5 2 0 0 accordance with the specifications of the manufacturer. *4 employees who took maternity leave and 2 who took paternity leave returned to work after the leave had ended. Noise study *G4-LA3 116 HIGH HEALTH AND SAFETY STANDARDS Sustainability Report 2013 With respect to the previous year it is observed that Industrial Safety and Occupational Health the accident rate was affected by a non-disabling 2012 INDICATORS COMPANY This subprogram is responsible for establishing and deveTaking this concept as a reference, it is possible to observe accident in Omega Energy and UTOE, this signifiIF IS ILI IFA IA UTOE 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 loping general guidelines for the management of risks in below OEG’s safety indicators during these last two years. cantly increased the rate of accidents of contracPBI LA PUNTA 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 the development of our industrial activities; its purpose is tors, generating an alert inside the organization, OMEGA ENERGY 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 to prevent work-related accidents and diseases. which will implement HSE controls stricter than CONTRACTORS 0,0 0,0 0,0 1,0 1,2 existing with the aim of reducing work-related ac2013 Accident rate cidents and incidents. INDICATORS COMPANY IF IS ILI IFA IA Work Then accident indicators can be: UTOE 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 4,0 related 1 0 1 0 1 8 NIKOIL – CÓNDOR 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 accidents PBI LA PUNTA 0,0 102,1 0,0 0,0 5,9 LLANOS 21 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 Work related 0 0 0 0 0 9 OMEGA ENERGY 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 1,4 incidents CONTRACTORS 9,5 81,1 0,8 0,0 3,6 IF= Frequency Index; IS= Severity Index; Man ILI= Index of Disabling Injuries. hours 389.348 7.200 48.960 50.376 201.600 629.232 The constant K= 1,000,000 is used and corresponds to 1,000,000 hours worked contractors 2012 2013 Paramo de Pisba Boyacá, Colombia UTOE NIKOIL PBI LA PUNTA LLANOS 21 OMEGA ENERGY CONTRACTORS The following must be noted according to these values from the previous year: • No processes for work-related diseases were Man hours 609.828 0 40.320 0 187.200 609.828 reported or initiated. *G4-LA7 workers • The disabling accident rate of contractors was very high, affecting the indexes with Work related i 0 0 0 0 0 10 respect to the previous year. ncidents • No fatalities occurred during 2013, neither of the company nor contractors. Work related 0 0 0 0 0 2 accidents *G4-LA6, OG13 (Oil & Gas) 118 HIGH HEALTH AND SAFETY STANDARDS Sustainability Report 2013 ¿What actions have we adopted to prevent accidents? Safety inspections We begin with the identification of hazards in each one of the activities developed, of which high risks emerge showing Inspections are systematic observations to identify the hazards, risks or unsafe conditions at the workplace that otherwise us where we must establish controls (Administrative / Operative) to avoid them materializing and becoming accidents. may be ignored. It is possible to observe below the types of inspections that we carry out for this purpose: For this purpose we have developed the following activities: 2012 2013 Type of Inspections / Amount Buenavista Buenavista La Punta Condor Llanos 21 Administrative – Order and Cleaning 12 10 3 Drills Operative 3 Safety harness 12 12 36 48 12 It is an activity that mimics a real event to take the necessary safety measures should it occur; a script is previously Personal protection elements 6 5 prepared, participants are advised and the awareness on the emergency plan and its importance is raised, then the First aid kit 12 12 8 12 7 reaction to this activity is assessed and an action plan is carried out with the opportunities for improvement that have Fire extinguishers 12 12 9 12 11 Stretcher 12 12 2 been identified. Station – Eye bath 1 11 Standpipes 12 Below is shown the increase in drills over the previous year, which were carried out with the support of contractors and Heavy vehicles for the transport of crude oil and water 2199 1190 88 96 46 emergency brigades from each of the projects. Light vehicles 29 50 24 Tools 12 14 24 Drilling machinery / equipment 5 4 12 11 Environmental emergency kit 1 12 5 2012 2013 Environment 6 6 12 TYPE OF DRILL / AMOUNT Ambulance 12 Buenavista Management Buenavista La Punta Condor Llanos 21 Fire outbreak 1 Managerial 1 1 Rescue of injured persons 1 Industrial safety 12 12 Spillage of hydrocarbons in continental waters 1 Access roads 6 6 Medical emergency first aid 1 2 4 1 It is possible to evidence a significant increase in inspections due to the strengthening of the HSEQ area of Pegasus Blending Well stoppage with medical evacuation 2 2 1 Transfer of victims 1 International in field La Punta and the alignment to Nikoil’s integrated management system in field Condor. Well stoppage with evacuation of staff 1 Evacuation 1 1 1 Work permits Evacuation by earthquake 2 2 It is a written authorization and approval that specifies the location and the type of work that will be performed. It is Rescue from heights 1 Evacuation under pressure 2 filled out for critical activities. In addition, permits certify that hazards have been assessed by trained persons and that Presence of H2S 2 the necessary protection measures have been taken so that the worker performing them does not suffer any accident. Environmental Contingency 3 This information is reflected in the “Safe Work Analysis” (ATS) which are attached to these permits. 120 HIGH HEALTH AND SAFETY STANDARDS Sustainability Report 2013 This information helps us visualize the Work Permits / Amount Training in HSE amount of critical works that have been The training necessary in HSE issues is established each year and the performance thereof is monitored. The training in performed corresponding to those involRIG-PASS, safe work at heights course, defensive driving and the program “Click”, supporting virtual training, excelled Hot 59 59 60 4 208 ving work permits; for other critical tasks during 2013. Buenavista Buenavista La punta Condor Llanos 21 such as works at height, confined spaces, 2012 2013 2013 2013 2013 presence of hazardous energies, ionizing Cold 500 299 265 34 79 The following table shows the significant increase in training with respect to the previous year and the inclusion of new radiations and excavation, the same blocks, showing a comprehensive training plan covering all employees and workers from other companies or with a servirisk analysis is performed but records of ce agreement for the development of our activities. “Support Permits” are generated. Daily Training preoperational talk Blood alcohol level tests program Supporting the Policy for the Prevention of Alcohol, Drugs, Tobacco and Other Psychoactive Substances included in the 45% 66% Public Health PVE, blood alcohol level tests are carried out to any person upon entry into each of the fields in order to This activity has a duraensure the integrity of workers, visitors, contractors and all those related to the operation; an “Informed Consent” was Buenavista Buenavista Management tion of five minutes and included in 2013 for this process, a document that states that the worker or visitor is aware of the objective of this test 73% 2012 2013 2013 it is always performed and agree to perform it as many times as he/she enters the field or when deemed necessary by the Organization. at the beginning of each 88% 100% 100% For 2013 it is possible to note that shift or working day and Blood alcohol level tests the number of positive tests inits objective is to raise creased in Bock Buenavista with awareness among worrespect to the previous year. It kers in the different sceshould be noted that positive narios that may occur tests correspond 100% to conand how can we stay La Punta Condor Llanos 21 tractors. Thereupon by 2014 will 2013 2013 2013 alert to prevent their have the challenge of reducing occurrence or in some Resultados Total 46.988 30.000 1.683 6.376 626 100% 90% 100% cases include lessons these numbers, ensuring greater Buenavista Buenavista La punta Condor Llanos 21 99% 100% 85% coverage by contractors in prelearned from incidents Results performed 2012 2013 2013 2013 2013 Compliance indicator in the sector. 8 15 0 0 0 vention campaigns. Coverage indicator 122 HIGH HEALTH AND SAFETY STANDARDS Sustainability Report 2013 Management Programs 2012 2013 Contributions / Block Buenavista Buenavista Management La Punta Condor Llanos 21 Management programs are intended to avoid or mitigate accidents or risks assessed as “High” and are preventive in Total reported 39 72 17 37 3 10 nature, the following are included between those developed during 2013: Opened 12 15 0 2 0 1 Closed 19 54 17 35 3 9 ROAD SAFETY PROGRAM: Rejected 8 6 0 0 0 0 Directed 90% to suppliers that provide vehicle services especially for the transportation of personnel, which consists of a vehicle inspection and preventive maintenance follow-up program, road campaigns and a compulsory defensive driving It is possible to observe that from one year to another this Pegasus Blending International (PBI) were audited. course given once a year by the Organization. tool has gained momentum and is reflected in improve• External audit: Carried out by the certifying body ments to premises, culture, environment and processes. Bureau Veritas: The commissioning of the IntegraHEIGHT PROGRAM: ted Management System was evidenced by the Height risk is considering high, therefore in support of the Colombian legislation, every worker who performs works in JOINT OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH COMMITTEE (COPASO): Zero Nonconformities found in Omega’s system places with a height exceeding 1.50 meters must be included in this program, which consists of training in the safe work It is necessary to ensure the fulfillment of annual HSE proand a positive certification opinion was generated at heights course advanced level, annual retraining, special medical examinations for this work and periodic inspections grams and schedules and the efforts of each worker either for Pegasus Blending International (PBI). of the equipment used for such works. indirectly or through contribution cards, for which a Copaso • Third party audits: We were audited by the Natiohas been created in each block composed of an equal numnal Hydrocarbons agency (ANH) in Block Llanos 21, bers of representatives of the employers and workers, who from March20 to 22; six findings were found by conmeet every month and in addition provide support through tractors, corrective and preventive measures were Generation of culture inspections and investigations of work-related accidents. taken and the action plan was successfully closed. On safety issues, the main obstacle is the resistance to change and the generation of culture; thereupon the organization *G4-LA5 In Block Buenavista on February 14 and 15, the ANH develops measures that so far have been effective because they have involved each of the direct employees and contracAUDITING PROGRAM: It is necessary to conduct a critical closed the action plan opened in the previous year tors throughout the year, excelling in: and systematic review of each one of the processes of the with 11 opportunities for improvement. Integrated Management System and how is it implemen• Contractor assurance audits: Six audits were caREPORT OF “CONTRIBUTION” CARDS: ted in each of the blocks, as well as the alignment or the rried out during 2013 in Block Buenavista to critical This tool has been implemented and its purpose is for each worker to identify both occupational and environmental minimum requirements of this system by critical suppliers; suppliers and five follow-up visits were conducted unsafe conditions and actions observed in the development of their work; in addition to this includes the possibility of rean auditing program was developed during 2013 for this to the action plans raised the previous year. porting whether improvements to processes have been identified. Contributions are deposited in mailboxes strategically purpose, which included: *G4-LA16 located in each of the fields and are reviewed by the Joint Occupational Health Committee (Copaso) every month, which For greater detail refer to the chapter on Sustainability of decides whether to accept or refuse the contribution in terms of viability and in the case of the improvement in processes, • Internal audits: In the search of growth and opthe supply chain. the card or the contribution is addressed to the corresponding for the respective evaluation. *G4-LA16 portunities for improvement, Energy Omega and 124 HIGH HEALTH AND SAFETY STANDARDS Sustainability Report 2013 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH WEEK (SEMANASO): The “SEMANASO” has been established from this year. It is a week directed to the entire working population, Our Challenges for 2014 contractors and visitors participating during the development of activities. The activities from the different 1. Reduce the levels of positive blood alcohol tests in our contractors. occupational health subprograms mentioned in the course of this chapter are included. 2. Certify PBI’s Integrated Management System. 3. Certify Nikoil’s Integrated Management System. • HSE incentive and recognition program: Paramo de Pisba Boyacá, Colombia This program was launched this year at the ope4. Zero accidents. ning of the Occupational Health Week, which is 5. Reduce the impact of accidents on our contractors. based on an educational methodology involving the encouragement and recognition of the 6. Develop social-environmental campaigns that stimulate the environmental awareness of employees. active participation of the individuals linked to the organization (workers/ contractors) in the performance of the activities established for compliance with the Integrated Management Policy. It has three major awards (Emerald, Ruby and Diamond) and minor recognitions for the segments of the program in each of the categories included, thus fostering a culture of work under a scheme of greater commitment to the objectives set. This program is reflected in each of the blocks with the aim of achieving unity and homogeneity in OEG. The awards ceremony will be held at the closing of the Occupational Health Week of 2014. 126 HIGH HEALTH AND SAFETY STANDARDS Glossary External Indicator Description Page Omissions Comments Verification STRATEGY & ANALYSIS Declaration of the main decision maker of the Reinjection: The injection of water G4-1 4 Yes Not Applicable organization Local: Local community. People or from the reservoir back to producing G4-2 Describe main effects, risks and opportunities. 8 Yes Not Applicable groups of people who live or work in formations in order to carry out a PROFILE OF THE ORGANIZATION G4-3 Name of the organization 14 Yes Not Applicable areas that are affected (positively or disposal or as an improved recovery The organization's brands, products and most negatively) from the economic, social method to increase hydrocarbon G4-4 important services. 14 Yes Not Applicable or environmental standpoint by the production. The reinjection of all the G4-5 Location of the organization's headquarters 14 Yes Not Applicable Indicate countries of operation and those that operations of the Organization. The water produced helps avoiding imG4-6 have significant operations in terms of sustai23 Yes Not Applicable local community can be composed of pacts on surface waters caused by nability people living in areas adjacent to the high salinity, high temperature and G4-7 Nature of ownership and its legal form. 17 Yes Not Applicable G4-8 Indicate which markets it serves. 23, 108 Yes Not Applicable operations or in settlements isolated high content of metals in such waters. 14, 23, 46, away from them and who may be imG4-9 Determine the scale of the organization. Yes Not Applicable 109, 110 pacted. Reservoir: A natural or artificial area Socio demographic and contractual inforsustained and used to store water. G4-10 mation on employees and employees 46 Yes Not Applicable outsourced by contractors. OEG: Omega Energy Group. Percentage of employees covered by collective The organization currently has no IMS: Integrated Management G4-11 agreements. GRI Table Yes Not Applicable collective agreements or unions. Environmental Management Plan: System. G4-12 Describe the organization's supply chain. 82 Yes Not Applicable It is a document which sets out in Significant changes in the organization's size, There were no significant changes G4-13 structure, stock ownership or supply chain. GRI Table Yes Not Applicable during 2013. detail the actions needed to preDischarge: The controlled disposal Indicate how the organization deals with the vent, mitigate, monitor, offset and or not of domestic, industrial, urban, G4-14 precautionary principle, if appropriate. 58, 96 Yes Not Applicable Make a list of charts, principles or other correct possible negative environagricultural, mining and other liquid external initiatives for economic, environmental effects or impacts caused in wastes, either to a body of water or a G4-15 mental and social character which the Cover Yes Not Applicable organization subscribes to or has adopted. the development of a project, work specific area defined for this purpose. The organization does not belong or activity; it also includes follow-up, G4-16 Make a list of associations. GRI Table Yes Not Applicable to any national or international evaluation and monitoring, and conassociation. tingency plans. External External Indicator Description Page Omissions Comments Indicator Description Page Omissions Comments Verification Verification MATERIAL ASPECTS AND COVERAGE STAKEHOLDERS’ PARTICIPATION The entities included in financial G4-24 List of stakeholders linked to the organization. 36 Yes Not Applicable statements are: Omega Energy Selection of stakeholders with whom they Colombian branch, Quality Services G4-25 work. 35 Yes Not Applicable and Investors sas, Nikoil Energy Organizational approacg to the participation Corp. BVI, Nikoil Energy Corp G4-26 of stakeholders. 36, 76 Yes Not Applicable Colombian branch, Buenavista Point out issues arising from the participation Make a list of entities listed in the Energy Investments Inc, Buenavista G4-17 organization's consolidated financial stateGRI Table Yes Not Applicable Energy Investments Inc Colombian G4-27 of stakeholders, describe the assessment 36, 76 Yes Not Applicable ments and other equivalent documents. made by the organization, among other branch, Pegasus Blendig Internaaspects. tional S.A.S. , listed for this report REPORT PROFILE Omega Energy Colombian branch, Nikoil energy Corp Colombian G4-28 Period covered in the report. 38 Yes Not Applicable branch and Pegasus Blendig InterThe 2012 report was submitted in G4-29 Date of the last report GRI Table Yes Not Applicable September 2013 national S.A.S. a. Process that has been followed G4-30 Report presentation cycle 38 Yes Not Applicable to determine the content of the Person to contact to resolve any doubts that lruiz@omegaenergy.co G4-31 may arise in relation to the report content. GRI Table Yes Not Applicable fleal@omegaenergy.co report and coverage of each aspect. G4-18 b. How the organization has applied the 32 Yes Not Applicable Indicate the option in accordance with the Principles of report preparation to determine G4-32 chosen guide, index of the chosen option. 38, 138, 139 Yes Not Applicable the Content of the report Organization policies and practices regarding List aspects of materials identified during the G4-33 external verification of the report. 34 Yes Not Applicable G4-19 process of defining the content of the report. 32 Yes Not Applicable GOVERNMENT Coverage of each material aspect within the G4-34 Government structure of the organization. 39 Yes Not Applicable G4-20 organization. 17 Yes Not Applicable Coverage of each material aspect outside of How stakeholders’ views are sought and G4-21 the organization. 32 Yes Not Applicable taken into account regarding remuneration, Describe the consequences of reformulating G4-53 including the results of votes on remuneration 50 Yes Not Applicable There were no consequences of G4-22 information provided in earlier reports and the GRI Table Yes Not Applicable reformulating information. policies and proposals, if applicable. causes. The Company recognizes two stakeETHICS AND INTEGRITY holders (customers and suppliers) G4-56 Valores, principios, estándares y normas 16, 40 Yes Not Applicable and sets their expectations as a Significant changes in the scope and coverage material issue for the organization, G4-23 of every aspect compared to previous reports. GRI Table Yes Not Applicable expanding the scope and coverage of the report, this report includes Nikoil Corp. Colombian Branch operations. External External Indicator Description Page Omissions Comments Indicator Description Page Omissions Comments Verification Verification MATERIAL ASPECTS G4-EN13 Protected or restored habitats 75 Yes Not Applicable CATEGORY: ECONOMY OG4 Operating sites where biodiversity has been 75 Yes Not Applicable (Oil & Gas) evaluated and monitored. ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE ASPECTO: EMISIONES Direct economic value, both generated and G4-EC1 distributed 108 Yes Not Applicable G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions 72, 74 Yes Not Applicable ASPECT: MARKET PRESENCE OG6 Volume of burned and vented hydrocarbons 74 Yes Not Applicable (Oil & Gas) Senior managers from the local community The Field Superintendent of the G4-EC6 at locations where significant operations are GRI Table Yes Not Applicable Buenavista Block belongs to the OG7 Amount of drilling residue (drilling and cutting 61, 69 Yes Not Applicable carried out. region. (Oil & Gas) sludge) ASPECT: DIRECT ECONOMIC CONSEQUENCES G4-EN20 Emissions from ozone-depleting substances 74 Yes Not Applicable Development and impact of investment in 101, 102, ASPECT: EFFLUENT AND RESIDUE G4-EC7 infrastructure and types of services. Yes Not Applicable Shedding of water, according to quality and 103, 104 G4-EN22 destination 61, 63, 64 Yes Not Applicable Significant indirect economic impact and Total weight of residue, according to type and G4-EC8 scope. 82, 99 Yes Not Applicable G4-EN23 60 Yes Not Applicable treatment method ASPECT: ACQUISITION PRACTICES G4-EN24 Significant spills 74, GRI Table Yes Not Applicable There were no spills during 2013. Expenditure in places with significant opera85, 86, 87, Weight of transported, imported, exported G4-EC9 Yes Not Applicable tions corresponding to local suppliers. 88 G4-EN25 or treated residue that has been deemed 60 Yes Not Applicable hazardous OG1 Volume and type of estimated tested reserves 110, 111 Yes Not Applicable (Oil & Gas) and production ASPECT: PRODUCTS AND SERVICES CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENT Degree of mitigation on the environmental G4-EN27 impact of products and services 70, 74 Yes Not Applicable ASPECT: ENERGY ASPECTO: CUMPLIMIENTO REGULATORIO G4-EN3 Internal energy consumption 71 Yes Not Applicable Monetary value of significant fines and number No fines or penalties of any kind G4-EN6 Reduction in energy consumption 71 Yes Not Applicable G4-EN29 of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance GRI Table Yes Not Applicable were presented for breach of legisASPECT: WATER with environmental laws and regulations lation. Total water withdrawal according to the G4-EN8 source. 66, 67, 68 Yes Not Applicable ASPECTO: GENERAL G4-EN31 Breakdown of costs and environmental investments Yes Not Applicable Water sources that have been significantly G4-EN9 affected by water withdrawal. 66 Yes Not Applicable ASPECTO: EVALUACIÓN AMBIENTAL DE LOS PROVEEDORES Actual and potential significant adverse G4-EN10 Recycled and reused water. 69 Yes Not Applicable G4-EN33 environmental impacts in the supply chain 82, 84 Yes Not Applicable ASPECT. BIODIVERSITY ASPECTO: MECANISMOS DE RECLAMACIÓN AMBIENTAL Operating facilities that are owned, leased, There is an open request from 2012, managed that are adjacent to, contain or are G4-EN11 located in protected and unprotected areas of 75 Yes Not Applicable Number Of Environmental Complaints that and during 2013 there was a request from the NHA on environmental and great value in terms of biodiversity. G4-EN34 have been filed, addressed and resolved 95, GRI Table Yes Not Applicable social information for the Buenavista Significant impacts on biodiversity in protected through Formal Complaint Mechanisms E & P contract and it was presented G4-EN12 or unprotected areas of great value in terms of 75 Yes Not Applicable and closed on March 20th 2013. biodiversity arising from company activities. External External Indicator Description Page Omissions Comments Indicator Description Page Omissions Comments Verification Verification CATEGORY: SOCIAL PERFORMANCE ASPECT: COMPLAINT MECHANISMS FOR LABOR PRACTICES SUBCATEGORY: LABOR AND DIGNIFIED WORK PRACTICES Number Of Complaints on Labor Practices 42, 50, 124, ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT G4-LA16 that have been filed, addressed and resolved Yes Not Applicable through Formal Complaint Mechanisms 125 G4-LA1 Contracts and average employee turnover 46 Yes Not Applicable SUBCATEGORY: HUMAN RIGHTS Fringe benefits like Prepaid medicine G4-LA2 Benefits for temporary or part-time employees GRI Table Yes Not Applicable do not extend to mission workers. ASPECT: INVESTMENT Rates of return to work after maternity or There were 7 significant investment G4-LA3 paternity leave. 116 Yes Not Applicable agreements in 2013, significant for Contracts and significant investment agreeOEG in terms of their potential for ASPECT: HEALTH AND SAFETY AT WORK G4-HR1 ments that include human rights clauses. GRI Table Yes Not Applicable increased production and portfolio Percentage of workers on formal committees diversification. Neither contain for health and safety of management and G4-LA5 employees that help monitor and assess 125 Yes Not Applicable clauses on Human Rights. occupational health and safety Hours of employee training on policies and Work related injuries, occupational diseases, G4-HR2 procedures concerning aspects of human 51 Yes Not Applicable G4-LA6 lost days, absenteeism and fatalities. 119 Yes Not Applicable rights relevant to their activities. ASPECT: NON DISCRIMINATION Workers whose profession has a high incidence G4-LA7 or risk of disease 119 Yes Not Applicable Number of discrimination incidents and There were no discrimination G4-HR3 corrective actions taken. GRI Table Yes Not Applicable incidents. Health and safety matters covered in formal The organization does not have G4-LA8 agreements with unions. GRI Table Yes Not Applicable unions. ASPECT: FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION Identification of significant suppliers and OEG will develop training to promote centers where the freedom of association individual and collective human G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per 51 Yes Not Applicable G4-HR4 and the right to collective bargaining may be GRI Table Yes Not Applicable rights within the employees of the employee (by sex and employment category) infringed upon or threatened. company. Skills management and continuous training ASPECT: CHILD LABOR G4-LA10 programs that foster employability and career 42, 54 Yes Not Applicable management. Identification of facilities and providers with Regular performance evaluations and profes88% of workers were evaluated in a significant risk for incidents of child exploiG4-LA11 GRI Table Yes Not Applicable G4-HR5 tation, and measures taken to contribute to 82 Yes Not Applicable sional development 2013 based on their performance. ASPECT: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY the abolition of child labor ASPECT: FORCED LABOR Composition of governing bodies and G4-LA12 breakdown of employees by professional 50 Yes Not Applicable Centers and suppliers with a significant risk category and sex G4-HR6 for incidents of forced labor and prevention 82 Yes Not Applicable ASPECT: EQUAL PAY AMONG MEN AND WOMEN measures. ASPECT: SAFETY MEASURES G4-LA13 Basic salary ratio of men to women 50 Yes Not Applicable The organization's ecurity personnel ASPECT: EVALUATION OF SUPPLIERS’ LABOR PRACTICES is outsourced. All contractors are Actual and potential significant negative Safety personnel trained on the organization's G4-LA15 impacts on labor practices in the supply chain 82 Yes Not Applicable G4-HR7 policies and procedures on human rights GRI Table Yes Not Applicable included in the general induction program, which includes topics relevant to operations. related to comprehensive care, safety and preservation of life. External External Indicator Description Page Omissions Comments Indicator Description Page Omissions Comments Verification Verification ASPECT: INDIGENOUS POPULATION RIGHTS We don't have operations in which OG12 Involuntary resettlement GRI Table Yes Not Applicable involuntary resettlement has been OEG does not have operations in (Oil & Gas) Number of incidents where the rights of G4-HR8 indigenous peoples were violated. GRI Table Yes Not Applicable areas where Indigenous Commucarried out. nities are present. There were no claims on Safety of OEG does not have operations in processes. To ensure the integrity OG9 Presence of Indigenous Communities in areas GRI Table Yes Not Applicable areas where Indigenous Commuof assets, the company constantly (Oil & Gas) of operation. nities are present. OG13 Process safety claims. 119, GRI Table Yes Not Applicable performs a preventive and corrective ASPECT: HUMAN RIGHTS EVALUATION OF SUPPLIERS (Oil & Gas) maintenance process. During 2014 Impactos negativos significativos en materia The HSEQ audits will expand training will be held for operational risks and HAZOP methodology will G4-HR11 de derechos humanos, reales y potenciales en 82 Yes Not Applicable outreach to corporate social responla cadena de suministro sibility. be implemented. ASPECT: HUMAN RIGHTS COMPLAINT MECHANISMS SUBCATEGORY: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY For 2012, two human rights ASPECT: CLIENT HEALTH AND SAFETY Number Of Complaints on Human Rights Results of surveys measuring customer satiscomplaints remain open and for G4-HR12 that have been filed, addressed and resolved 95 Yes Not Applicable G4-PR5 faction 91 Yes Not Applicable 2013 6 were brought about and through formal complaint mechanisms. No complaints were filed about closed satisfactorily. Number of founded complaints about the SUBCATEGORY: SOCIETY G4-PR8 violation of privacy and loss of customer data GRI Table Yes Not Applicable violation of customer privacy and ASPECT: LOCAL COMMUNITIES data leakage. Monetary value of significant fines for Percentage of centers that have implemented 36, 95, 96, noncompliance with laws and regulations No fines or penalties of any kind for G4-SO1 development programs, impact assessments Yes Not Applicable G4-PR9 GRI Table Yes Not Applicable 102 concerning the provision and use of products breach of legislation were presented. and the participation of the local community and services OG10 Number of significant disputes with commu97 Yes Indigenous and local community (Oil & Gas) nities. Not Applicable litigation. OG14 Volume of biofuels produced, bought and sold. GRI Table Yes Not Applicable Our biofuel projects are in early (Oil & Gas) stages and are not yet in production. In 2013 the Rocamao well was OG11 Number of places that have been dismantled GRI Table Yes Not Applicable abandoned and in 2014 the Calacho (Oil & Gas) or are in the process of dismantling. well located in the Llanos 21 is in the process of abandonment. Operation centers with possible or actual G4-SO2 significant negative effects on local commu97 Yes Not Applicable nities. ASPECT: FIGHT AGAINST CORRUPTION Confirmed cases of corruption and actions To date there are no confirmed cases G4-SO5 taken GRI Table Yes Not Applicable of corruption or cases processing. Monetary value of significant fines and number The organization has not had any G4-SO8 of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance GRI Table Yes Not Applicable breach of the regulations or laws. with laws and regulations Number of complaints on social impacts G4-SO11 that have been filed, addressed and resolved 95 Yes Not Applicable through formal grievance mechanisms. Certifications Independent Verification Report of GRI Report This sustainability report was conducted Design and Layout: with the cooperation of the entire juancamiloafanador.com company and the GRI team: Style Correction Ricardo Jaramillo rijara20@gmail.com Photographs: Water resources Archivo IM Editores Juan Camilo Afanador Lina Hernandez Estudio Fotográfico Maldonado Sofía Santodomingo – Executive Vice Presidency Fina Mary Leal – HSEQ Department Laura Ruiz – Commercial department Larisa Jasbón – Salva Sergio Upegui – Salva Caño Cristales, Meta, Colombia.
