Communication on Progress 14 Reporting on Bording’s CSR initiatives related to Global Compact F.E. Bording A/S Communication On Progress 2014 Table of contents Brief description of nature of business 3 Statement of support 4 Bording’s view on Corporate Social Responsibility 5 Bording’s CSR hierarchy 6 The ethical guidelines of Bording 6 Global Compact Human Rights 7 Principle One 7 Principle Two 8 Principle Three 8 Principle Four 9 Principle Five 9 Principle Six 10 Principle Seven 10 Principle Eight 11 Principle Nine 11 Principle Ten 12 Bording’s next Communication on Progress 12 Page 2 of 12 F.E. Bording A/S Communication On Progress 2014 Brief description of nature of business F.E. Bording A/S The F.E. Bording Group with origin in the graphical business has developed into a Scandinavian business committed to customer communication. The transformation from primarily being a printing house, to becoming a Group that offers our customers a broad range of products and solutions for commercial and marketing communication, has been a necessary part of being able to innovate, develop and survive on the fast developing global market. To day the common thread for the Group’s activities is that we put communication into practice. Bording can do what we do today because we have developed our skills, our solutions and our product line to match customer needs and as changing technology has opened up new opportunities. COMPANY DETAILS F.E. Bording A/S CVR.Nr.: 16229415 Turbinevej 4-6 Established: April 12, 1918 2860 Søborg Domicile: Gladsaxe Phone: +45 7011 5011 Member of Global Compact since: www.febording.dk September 9, 2009 info@bording.dk Page 3 of 12 F.E. Bording A/S Communication On Progress 2014 Statement of support Different focus increases the relevance As a Scandinavian Group with our division in Bangladesh, Bording vista Ltd. and our Lithotech-Bording division, selling election materials to third world countries, the attention on human rights, labor rights, environment and anti-corruption differ. In Denmark, Sweden and Norway it is first and foremost the environment that is prioritized and found relevant, whereas in Bording Vista Ltd. and Lithotech-Bording it is important to send clear signals on humanand labour rights as well as anti-corruption. In the year to come we will continue to back the 10 principles of Global Compact and commit ourselves to making a difference in human rights, labor rights, environment and anti-corruption whenever we have an opportunity. The Bording Group believes in the importance of helping children. In our work with CSR in 2014 we have continued supporting children and their families in need. This year we have made donations to three different Danish organizations, Danmarks Indsamling, Kræftens Bekæmpelse and Julehjælpen. The donation to Danmarks Indsamling supports a part of 12 specific projects, which in their own way helps children who lack their mother, and prevents mothers die from their children for reasons that can be prevented. The projects support many different things, from hardcore medical care during childbirth in Afghanistan, the efforts to prevent dangerous teenage pregnancies in Guatemala, for the project to help orphans in Zambia, where more than a million children have lost a parent. Julehjælpen is an association that acts as a kind of intermediary between people who need a helping hand and people who have the ability to donate. By making a donation we help Danish families to be able to have a traditional Christmas with traditional Christmas food and presents for the children. To read more about Dansk Indsamling’s work please visit: http://www.danmarksindsamling.dk/ To read more about Kræftens Bekæmpelse’s work please visit: http://www.cancer.dk/ To read more about Julehjælpen’s work please visit: http://www.julehjaelpen.dk/ Yours faithfully Hans Therp & Raimo Issal Managing/Executive Director Chairman On the following pages you will find the Group’s second Communication on Progress from December 4, 2013 till November 28, 2014. Page 4 of 12 F.E. Bording A/S Communication On Progress 2014 Bording’s view on Corporate Social Responsibility Bording believes that responsibility means taking on responsibility for making a difference when we have an opportunity to do so. Responsibility also means that we and our suppliers are responsible for each other, for our customers and the environment. Bording and the principles With a history as primarily a printing house, Bording has thought environmental concerns and opportunities in to our working procedures for a long time. Our long focus on the environment means that we have a unique basis for suggesting and to some extent demanding improvements to our suppliers. The Bording Group realizes that we can not change the whole world, but by looking at Global Compact as a strategic framework for our work with social, ethical and environmental responsibility, we believe that we take an important step in the right direction. In Bording we continue to see CSR and our support to Global Compact as an opportunity to work constructively with the challenges that we come across in our business operations. The strength of the UN’s Global Compact is that the 10 principles are built upon internationally recognized conventions. The principles help us match expectations when we do business across national and cultural borders. Furthermore, it gives us a strategic tool when it comes to sending our customers a clear signal on responsibility and our non-tolerance towards corruption. To a division such as Lithotech-Bording, who serves as a supplier of election material in third world countries, where corruption is a part of the everyday life, we believe it is important to send this clear signal. For further information about UN’s work with Global Compact please visit: http://www.unglobalcompact.org/ Page 5 of 12 F.E. Bording A/S Communication On Progress 2014 Bording’s CSR hierarchy Since we joined Global Compact, we have worked on getting an overview of our current achievements. In this context we have drawn up a CSR hierarchy, which can be seen below. The ethical guidelines of Bording As a Scandinavian Group we see globalisation as an opportunity to expand our market and to participate in international projects. But associated with these opportunities are the risks and challenges of doing business across different legal and cultural traditions. Bording has acknowledged the risk and challenges, which together with the increasing demands from the world for guidelines have lead to a process of making our own set of ethical guidelines. We have combined UN’s 10 principles about human rights, labour rights, environment and anti-corruption with setting a good example, honesty and trustworthiness and have come up with a set of ethical guidelines, which have become an integrated part of our daily operations. Bording’s Code of Conduct (ethical guidelines) is meant as a guide to our management, employees, customers, suppliers and other cooperative partners about our behavior and values in the Bording Group. Bording has the goal always to follow the highest ethical standards and to reduce the impact our business has on the surrounding environment as much as possible. At the same time we value trustworthiness and honesty more than short-term earnings. Page 6 of 12 F.E. Bording A/S Communication On Progress 2014 Global Compact Human Rights Principle One: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Focus: We recognize the Rights of the Child and the child’s right to life, survival and development, and respect for the views of the child. We respect the rights of our employees and support all of the international conventions. We believe that all of our employees have the right to a safe and healthy workplace. Systems: Bording distributes teaching material from our website to children in poverty all over the world. Bording has made a set of ethical guidelines. Bording has a specific personnel policy in Bangladesh. ISO 14001 environmental management system is integrated in Denmark. Activities: In Bording Vista Ltd. (Bangladesh) all of the employees have contracts of employment, job description, job specifications, salary contracts and an employee policy manual. We have APV meetings and plan of action. We carry out continuous review of conditions at offices in Denmark, Sweden and Norway. Results: Free download of teaching material. The project is made possible in collaboration between The Copenhagen Post, Rotary International, Bording Vista and F.E. Bording. To read more please visit: http://www.febording.dk/fe-bording/download-free-education-material Page 7 of 12 F.E. Bording A/S Communication On Progress 2014 Principle Two: Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Focus: We do our outmost to ensure that we do not enter into business with cooperative partners who do not accept the human rights and anti-corruption. Systems: Bording has made a set of ethical guidelines. Activities: This year there has not been the need for activities. Results: There have been no issues on this area. Global Compact Labour Rights Principle Three: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Focus: We believe in the right to voluntary unionism and collective negotiation and do not enter into business with cooperative partners who do not accept these rights. Systems: Bording has made a set of ethical guidelines. Bording has a specific personnel policy in Bangladesh. Activities: This year there has not been the need for activities. Results: There have been no issues on this area. Page 8 of 12 F.E. Bording A/S Communication On Progress 2014 Principle Four: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Focus: We do not tolerate oppression of minorities or any other human being. Systems: Bording has made a set of ethical guidelines. Bording has a specific personnel policy in Bangladesh. Activities: This year there has not been the need for activities. Results: There have been no issues on this area. Principle Five: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Focus: We do not tolerate or accept child labour. We do not cooperate with organizations that use child labour. Systems: Bording has made a set of ethical guidelines. Bording has a specific personnel policy in Bangladesh. Activities: This year there has not been the need for activities. Results: There have been no issues on this area. Page 9 of 12 F.E. Bording A/S Communication On Progress 2014 Principle Six: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Focus: We see diversity as a resource and do not accept oppression of minorities. Systems: We always encourage everybody to apply for our advertised vacancies, no matter sex, religion or ethical origin. Activities: Bording Vista Ltd. (Bangladesh) the personnel handbook and the daily management place emphasis on the soft values such as diversity and recognition. Each employee is respected regardless of position, sex and religion. Results: There have been no issues on this area. Global Compact Environment Principle Seven: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Focus: The transformation and change of our core business have resulted in an environmental policy where our focus still lies on the impact we have on the environment. Systems: We ensure the implementation of Bording’s environmental policy through structured work with recognized environmental standards, management systems and certifications. This means that whenever it is relevant the Bording companies are certified with ISO 14001, environmental management system, working with ISO 9000, has a Nordic Eco Label and/or FSC license. We only do business with suppliers who have a formulated environmental policy. We require of our suppliers that they are suitable certified and besides that we encourage that they work methodically with environmental issues. Activities: The Group focuses on reviewing our own companies’ and sub suppliers’ environmental policies and plans. Page 10 of 12 F.E. Bording A/S Communication On Progress 2014 Results: Through focused efforts we have achieved to deliver and certify printed matter, showing consideration towards the environment. To learn more about Bording Instore please visit: http://www.bordinginstore.se/ To learn more about KLS Grafisk Hus please visit: http://www.kls.dk/ Principle Eight: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Focus: F.E. Bording still has had a great focus on how to reduce the energy consumption in the different companies. The Group’s strategy is to participate in the consolidation of the graphic industry. Bording has a focus on energy savings in connection to structural changes related to overcapacity in the graphic industry. Systems: The Board of Directors and Management regularly assess the possibilities for minimizing the energy consumption on the Group’s units. We have well-defined roles showing who is responsible for all applicable working environment and environmental rules and standards are followed. Activities: The unit in Søborg still has a focus on ways to reduce the electricity and energy consumption. Results: There are no new results in this area. Principle Nine: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Focus: We are committed to develop products within our product portfolio, which are environmental friendly/ eco-friendly. Systems: Here the focus is especially on the fact that the necessary knowledge is present, leaving the Bording Group to emphasize on where to contribute the most and best. In this context we have formed an environment network across the group companies making sure that we provide knowledge about environmental considerations and make these available to each other. Activities: Since 2008 A-Mail Kuverter and our German partner Mayer-Kuvert-Network have worked targeted to continuously develop production methods and hence products that are environmental friendly/ecofriendly. Page 11 of 12 F.E. Bording A/S Communication On Progress 2014 Electrical cars for personal and goods transportation have been bought at our associated company KLS Grafisk Hus, making them a pioneer in this area. To read more please visit: http://www.kls.dk/ Results: On the product side Bording has introduced Scandinavia’s first envelope, Envirelope, manufactured of CO2 neutral paper, which combines sustainability with quality. Global Compact Anti-corruption Principle Ten: Businesses should work against corruptions in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Focus: Our mission in Bording has the clear goal that we must follow the highest ethical standards. Therefore, we put integrity and honesty above short profits. Systems: The ethical guidelines of Bording about our behavior and values within the Bording Group are a guideline to our management, employees, customers, suppliers and other business partners. Activities: If anyone in or outside the group hears, sees or meets corruption in any form, we encourage him/her to get in contact with us. See contact information. Results: We have not had any business activities that have put us in a dilemma in relation to corruption. Bording’s next Communication on Progress Our next Communication on Progress will be uploaded on UN’s digital platform before November 28, 2015. Feel free to contact us If you have any questions to our work with CSR, this progress report or anything relating, please do not hesitate to contact Rikke Rodenkam Jørgensen, e-mail: rrj@bording.dk Page 12 of 12
