STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER (CEO) PERIOD COVERED BY OUR COMMUNICATION ON P ROGRESS FROM: FEBRUARY 27, 201 3 TO FEBRUARY 27, 2014 Edelman has been a participant of the United Nations Global Compact since March 2001. I am proud to affirm my continued support of the company’s commitment towards the Compact and its principles. Since our last Communication on Progress in February 2013, we published our FY 2013 Citizenship Report: “Honoring our Heritage, Building a Shared Future” to communicate our continued commitment to practicing responsible business from the inside out:  Empowering our employees to work and live well Human Rights, Employee Training, and Labour Rights Principles  Upholding our suppliers and business partners to high ethical standards Labour and Anti-Corruption Principles  Reducing our impact on the environment Environment Principles, 5 GHG reduction policies, Citizenship Dashboards  Doing good in the communities where we operate It’s Who We Are, Community Investment Grants, Volunteerism To view our FY 2013 Citizenship Report, please click here. With a firm and lasting commitment to social good, we have turned our attention to achieving progress in the area of environmental sustainability. In order to better control our global emissions we implemented five key target areas – use of 50% recycled paper and double-sided printing, energy-efficient lighting retrofits, video conferencing, more robust green teams, and e-waste recycling through the use of a global IT asset disposal service. In order to track and enforce these policies, we announced the creation of the Citizenship Dashboard, a tracking mechanism with 10 environmental and societal KPIs to be released to each global office in FY 2014. In FY 2013, we provided 30,483 hours of total volunteerism, amounting to US$3,951,380 of cash, noncash (volunteerism) and in-kind giving to our communities. This included sharing our professional expertise with NGOs working to eradicate hunger and poverty, and contributing our time and enthusiasm to a variety of other causes. Edelman continues to support the United Nations by collaborating on projects with United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) and United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). Edelman is also actively engaged in the World Economic Forum’s Partnering Against Corruption Initiative (PACI), reflecting our commitment to the tenth Principle of the United Nations Global Compact. As a company, we are committed to ensuring that business is performed in a sustainable and ethical manner. We look forward to our continued participation with the United Nations Global Compact as we move forward with our commitments to the Compact principles. Sincerely, Richard Edelman President & CEO
