We took root in the Earth. We protect it with our love. We know our responsibilities. As Brisa Family, we strive to leave next generations a World that is as beautiful as it is now. Every step we take, you are there, the Earth! 2 ABOUT THE REPORT We continue our sustainability reporting practice, which we started in 2012 as Brisa Sabancı Tyre Manufacturing and Trading Inc., with the purpose of providing our stakeholders with up-to-date and integrated information about Brisa, in line with our principles of transparency and accountability. In this second report, which we prepared to present you, our stakeholders, with our sustainability performance between 01.01.2013 and 31.12.2013, we share the social, economic and environmental impacts of our operations alongside our managerial approach, performance results and goals. In contradistinction to our previous report, we have ensured external audit in the areas of energy consumption, carbondioxide emissions, water consumption, total waste amount by type, occupational health and safety and training hours for this year’s report, meeting the requirements of the ‘A+’ application level of Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standard. We have reviewed, in the reporting period, the Materiality Matrix we had formed in 2012, based on the Sustainability Survey Study we had conducted with our stakeholders and on the GRI Standard, and we opted to make use of it in this year’s report in order to pursue a consistent sustainability strategy. We have generated the performance data included in this study from data we have acquired through standards and systems applied within the company, based on GRI Reporting Principles. The framework of our report encompasses all our Turkey operations, while our performance regarding non-tyre products is out of scope. Non-tyre products constitute less than 1% of our total turnover. We are committed to improve our sustainability reporting practice in line with the expectations of our stakeholders. We place great emphasis on the feedback from our stakeholders in order to enhance our reporting performance. You may send your remarks and suggestions about our report to sustainability@brisa.com.tr. 3 CONTENTS 5 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD 6-7 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO 8-9 MESSAGES FROM OUR SUSTAINABILITY WORK GROUPS 10-15 ABOUT BRISA 16-25 OUR SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY 18 Our Corporate Governance Structure 21 Our Sustainability Structuring 26-39 OUR VALUE CHAIN 30 Responsible Purchasing Practices 31 Our Customers 32 Our Business Partners 34 Innovation 40-53 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL APPROACH 42 Combating Climate Change 46 Natural Resource Use 51 Our Environment-Friendly Products and Services 54-65 OUR WORKING LIFE 56-57 Our Corporate Development Journey 58-59 Our Employees’ Leadership and Development Journey 60 Our Business Ethics Approach 61 Labor Relations and Union Rights 63 Our Occupational Health and Safety Approach 66-73 OUR CONTRIBUTION TO SOCIETY 68 Our Contribution to Traffic Safety 70 Our Contribution to Sectoral Practices 70 Our Contribution to Education and Sports 4 5 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD Our Chairman of the Board Güler Sabancı's vision that lights the way for our company: “As Sabancı Group, we are committed to our growth targets focused on a sustainable world. In Turkey and in all our operational geography, we work to do better every day with the awareness of our social and environmental responsibilities towards the community we live in.” 6 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Dear Stakeholders, I am glad to share with you our second Sustainability Report published in accordance with Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) principles concerning our sustainability priorities. We continue to ensure the integration of sustainability to all our processes with the mission of “to provide superior values to society through sustainable growth.” One of the most significant developments in the reporting period, for us, was the signing of the UN Global Compact, which we regard as a way to reinforce our sustainability commitments. We also have strengthened our sustainability practices through improvement and efficiency studies we implemented in line with objectives we have set. In the reporting period, we have opened the Brisa Museum to share our memories, experiences and knowledge store which we have accumulated over the past years. We continued to gain strength and grow through our new investments, rich product and service range, innovative solutions, effective communication and social responsibility practices. We left behind a year when the global tyre industry grew by 4% and the total tyre demand in Turkey rose in parallel with global dynamics. However, fluctuations in exchange rates have negatively influenced businesses whose inputs are mostly based on foreign currencies. As Brisa, we are proud to have displayed a performance above the market average in 2013, when both positive developments and difficulties were experienced. I would like to emphasize that since the year 2008, we have quintupled our annual net profit and redoubled our total annual net sales revenue. In the same period, we have increased our production by 12% and employment by 20%. In 2013, as we celebrated the 25th year of our partnership with Sabancı Holding and Bridgestone Corporation, we have increased our net sales revenue to 1.489 million TL, recording a 5% raise, and we realized our net profit as 144 million TL, with a 51% increase. We are honored to sustain the contribution we make to our stakeholders through our profitable growth. In the reporting period, we have completed investments worth 900 million USD which we have realized since our establishment, and we aim to raise our turnover to the level of 1 billion USD in the year 2015. We continue to contribute to the national economy increasingly every year. In this regard, a significant development in the year 2013 was the announcement that we will establish our second factory, in addition to our production facilities in Izmit, in Aksaray Organized Industrial Zone with a 300 million USD investment. We aim to increase our production capacity through our new facility, which we will launch as of 2018. We are successfully managing the process of transition from a manufacturing-oriented industrial company to a customer-oriented innovation company. The Digital Revolution has reshaped the society and customer needs in the same way the Industrial Revolution has shaped tyre and tyre technology. As the level of awareness increases, expectations from companies also change. We are aware that it is impossible to stand against this transformation. We try to create a difference with our innovative ideas, by touching our customers and business partners and drawing on their needs and opinions. 7 We place innovation at the heart of all our practices for the perfect customer experience. We aim for our customers to have a perfect experience through our innovative services and solutions, most of which are a first in our sector. We will continue to grow through our innovative products and solutions offered in line with customer expectations and pursue our investments in line with our objective to raise our production capacity over 14 million pcs. For the near future, we are working to be exporting to 75 countries and to have 200 Lassa sales points abroad. In 2013, we were ranked 36th in “Turkey’s Most Valuable Brands Survey” conducted by the international brand rating institution Brand Finance, with 131 million USD, and we were selected “The World’s Most Valuable Tyre Brand” with our Bridgestone brand. We continue to strengthen our corporate reputation and brand value which was recorded once again this year. We are aware of the risks and opportunities that climate change and the carbon markets and environmental regulations, which might arise accordingly, may reveal for our company. In 2014, we plan to implement studies aimed at determining strategic steps to be taken in relation to climate change. We believe supply chain practices to have a significant impact on sustainability management. We develop responsible supply chain practices to increase cooperation with our business partners in our supply chain on this matter and to raise awareness. We add value to both our sector and the national economy with our increasing export trend, the employment we provide for over 1.800 employees and our expanding supply chain. We take pride in being among the pioneering institutions on the way to sustainable growth objectives by including all our stakeholders, primarily our employees, customers and business partners, in our sustainability journey. We will continue to create the best journey ahead with all our stakeholders, with the awareness of the responsibility we bear. Sincerely, Hakan Bayman CEO 8 MESSAGES FROM OUR SUSTAINABILITY WORK GROUPS We are attempting to transform from a functional organization into a flexible and agile organization. In order to manage and sustain change in all its aspects, we need to either improve our systems or adopt and develop new systems. Brisa Strategy House, which is focused on our new vision, is one of the primary initiatives we have started in order to manage change in every field. Through Brisa Strategy House, we ensure that everybody at Brisa speaks the same language about strategy management and execution. At Brisa, we believe that managing change is our “continuous and unending” goal. Nilgün Özkan Human Resources and Corporate Development Director In a world where the population rapidly increases, natural resources are in danger of depletion and the impacts of climate change are gradually expanding, sustainability is in the agenda of every institution. We are aware that companies involved in large scale industrial production, such as Brisa, have a greater responsibility. With the awareness we have, we periodically monitor our environmental performance and we conduct improvement studies in line with environmental management systems. We make a tremendous effort to continuously decrease our environmental impact via the projects we develop and the objectives we determine. In this regard, we place great emphasis on innovation and support our attempts to reduce our environmental impact with our innovative products and solutions. With the belief that sustainability is not a preference but a responsibility, we conduct studies aimed at rational use of natural resources. Technical Functions Work Group 9 In our economic activities, we act with the awareness of our responsibility towards all our stakeholders; primarily our shareholders, suppliers and business partners and we make our investments and choices accordingly. We know that our commercial activities do not only have an impact on us but on a large stakeholder network Supply Chain Work Group The issue of tyre and traffic safety is always among the highest priorities of our agenda. We reflect this priority in all our processes, from the development of every product and service we offer to consumers to after sales services. We significantly contribute to driving and traffic safety, especially through investments we make in social responsibility projects and activities aimed at raising awareness. Besides, we continue our support for education, culture & arts and sports with the participation of our employees, business partners and other stakeholders, in order to contribute to society in line with our social responsibility approach. Marketing and Sales Work Group We regard it as our primary responsibility to provide our employees, who are among our most valuable capital, with an equitable, safe and healthy working environment. We invest in the development of our employees through various programs and strengthen their competencies and awareness with training programs we prepare. We act in a responsible manner towards our employees regarding the maintenance of work-life balance. Support Functions Work Group 10 ABOUT BRİSA Brisa, established with the initiative of Sabancı Holding and its partners in 1974, started manufacturing tyres under the brand Lassa in 1978. In 1988, the company was named Brisa with an equal partnership realized between Sabancı Holding and the worldwide tyre industry leader Bridgestone Corporation. Brisa won its first National Quality Award in 1993 and it became the first Turkish company to win the European Quality Award in virtue of the outstanding performance it demonstrated in business excellence in 1996. In 2010, Brisa bought the American based rubber coating company Bandag's Turkey operations from Bridgestone’s European subsidiary Bandag AG, thus diversifying its service portfolio. Early in 2013, it has signed a distributorship agreement with the worldwide leading battery brand Energizer and the Italian accessory brand Bottari, thereby extending its product range. Brisa, which owns one of the largest tyre factories under a single roof worldwide and is Europe’s 7th largest tyre manufacturer, carries out its activities in a 361.000 m2 indoor area in Izmit, a facility with a production capacity of 11 million pcs. per a year. Employing some 2,000 personnel directly, Brisa's total amount of investment up to the present is around 900 million USD. Brisa was ranked 50th in the ISO 500 list, which identifies Turkey’s largest industrial enterprises, and 36th in Turkey's Most Valuable Brands Survey realized by the international brand rating institution Brand Finance with 131 million USD, in 2013. It moved up from the 77th place to the 75th place in the “Fortune 500 Turkey” list. Bridgestone, produced in Turkey and marketed by Brisa, was named “The World’s Most Valuable Tyre Brand” in the research conducted by Brand Finance. Besides, the Lassa brand is supported within the scope of the brand support incentive Turquality provided by the Undersecretariat of Foreign Trade. Brisa produces tyres for passenger vehicles, light commercial vehicles, buses, trucks, agricultural and construction equipment at international standards in terms of safety and quality criteria, with the brands Bridgestone and Lassa. It imports Firestone agricultural tyres and Bridgestone motorcycle tyres to put on the domestic market. While offering this product portfolio on the home market through 930 authorized sales points all around Turkey, Brisa continues to grow on its export journey through sales points under a Lassa Tyres signboard whose numbers have reached 100, in the year 2013. Tyres manufactured under the trademark Lassa meet vehicle owners at 201 points in over 60 countries through more than 80 local business partners. Brisa also provides original equipment products for automotive manufacturers such as Renault, Toyota, Ford, Fiat, Honda, Hyundai, Mercedes Benz, BMC, Temsa, Isuzu, Otokar, Karsan, TürkTraktör and MAN. 11 NON-TYRE PRODUCTS SERVICES SALES CHANNELS TYRES 12 OUR MISSION To provide superior values to society through sustainable growth OUR VALUES Safety, Innovation, Customer Oriented, Team Work, Business Excellence, Sustainability OUR MOTTO Change to Change OUR VISION To create the best journey ahead Supply Chain Marketing Technical We offer Finance & Sales HR & LR Groups ourstakeholders the We lighten the road Brisa Family creates We make our We create the best best value with the for the best journey leadership the roadmap to the journey ahead with lowest cost through ahead. sustainable best journey a sense of fast, flexible and through value together. ownership. innovative supply creation processes. 13 60 930 1,5 BILLION TL NUMBER OF COUNTRIES WE EXPORT TO UNDER OUR NUMBER OF SALES POINTS OUR NET SALES REVENUE WE HAVE BUILT UNDER LASSA BRAND OUR OWN CONCEPTS IN THE YEAR 2013 6,1 3,4 NUMBER OF TYRES NUMBER OF TYRES 900 MILLION USD SOLD BY BRISA SOLD BY BRISA IN TURKEY ABROAD TOTAL AMOUNT OF INVESTMENT MILLION TL DURING 2013 MILLION DURING 2013 REALIZED BY BRISA IN TURKEY 9 51 20 % OUR ENERGY CONSUMPTION % OUR WELL WATER % OUR DIRECT AND SAVINGS RATE PER CONSUMPTION INDIRECT CO2 PRODUCTION TON SAVINGS RATE REDUCTION RATE PER SINCE 2008 SINCE 2008 PRODUCTION TON SINCE 2005 3.500 NUMBER OF TRAILERS ON WHICH 550 REFLECTORS WERE INSTALLED FREE OF CHARGE AS PART NUMBER OF TYRES OF THE “LASSA REFLECTOR NUMBER OF IDEAS RETREADED AS PART OF THE BANDAG SERVICE FOR FARMERS” PROJECT COLLECTED THROUGH 2.500 DURING THE YEAR 2013 140.000 NUMBER OF HEAVY VEHICLE OPERATORS WHO WENT THROUGH A BODY MASS THE BRISA INNOVATION INDEX EXAMINATION AS PART OF THE TEAM STUDIES YOLA SAĞLAM ÇIK PROJECT NUMBER OF OUR NUMBER OF 30,71 NUMBER OF LOCAL NUMBER CUSTOMERS WHO EMPLOYEES SUPPLIERS OF TOOK CUSTOMER AVERAGE HOURS WE WORK WITH 1.818 SATISFACTION SURVEY OF ANNUAL TRAINING 1.500 WORK-RELATED PER PERSON FOR 36.985 OUR EMPLOYEES FATALITIES 14 AWARDS WE RECEIVED DURING THE REPORTING PERIOD Customer Oriented Service Innovation Award We received the “Customer Oriented Service Innovation Award” with Mobilfix, the first and only mobile truck maintenance service in the world, at the award ceremony organized within the scope of Turkey Innovation Week. First Prize at the Golden Spider Web Awards “Banner” Category We were awarded the first prize at the Golden Spider Web Awards “Banner” category with our Rich Media Banner work. Interactive Media Awards Outstanding Achievement Award Turkey’s first ‘social travel’ platform, Tripin, was rewarded with the “Outstanding Achievement” award in the Lifestyle category at the Interactive Media Awards (IMA) among 141 applications. Market Orientation Award We won the “Market Orientation” award at Sabancı Golden Collar Awards for the second time. TSE Quality Award We received the “Quality Award” awarded to institutions with a Turkish Standards Institute (TSE) certificate, adopting a sustainable sense of quality at national and international standards and having realized successful implementations in the fields of standardization and quality. Interactive Media Awards Best in Class Award The lastik.com.tr application, which is a first in the Turkish tyre sector, was selected first with outstanding success among 182 applications made in the e-commerce category at the International Interactive Media Awards, organized for the 7th time this year by the Interactive Media Council, earning 482 points out of 500. 15 Strategic Planning Award We were entitled for the “Strategic Planning Award” at the Innovation Awards organized by Istanbul Chamber of Industry with the Brisa Innovation Portal created by Brisa Innovation Team. Impetus Revo: Most Successful Tyre Lassa Impetus Revo completed the TÜV SÜD Automotive GmbH Qualification Testing, participated by its American, European, Far Eastern and local competitors, in the first place. First Prize for “Layer Slitter M/C Capacity Building and Standardization Studies” Project The Brisa team, who secured the first place at the Brisa 9thSuru-Raku Conference with the “Layer Slitter M/C Capacity Building and Standardization Studies” project thereby qualifying to participate in the 4th Bridgestone Global TQM (Total Quality Management) Conference, won the first prize after the jury’s evaluation at the conference, where 16 improvement projects from various Bridgestone factories around the world were presented. Third Prize for our Mobile Phone Application, Load and Pressure The Brisa Field Engineering team was awarded the Third Prize in the competition, where participants from Bridgestone factories worldwide presented the “best practices” in their countries, at the Bridgestone Global Field Engineering Meeting (GFEM) held in Japan, with the application “Mobile Phone Application, Load and Pressure”. Global Risk Award Our Brisa Risk Management Manager received the “Risk Management Professional of the Year” award at the Global Risk Awards organization. Ensured the deployment of our sustainability strategies in all our organization with the Strategy House. The number of our corporate Signed the United Nations 30 Global Compact. memberships WON THE GLOBAL RISK AWARD. Had a benchmarking study conducted to evaluate our corporate performance in the field of sustainability. Completed the audits of 9 business processes 11 Number of awards out of the 61 in our we received with audit system. regards to our various products and services OUR SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY We add value to all our processes and stakeholders on our journey of sustainability. We aim to extend the culture and awareness of sustainability to all our stakeholders. We direct our journey of sustainability in the light of our Corporate Management Principles based on transparency, fairness, responsibility and accountability, our Business Ethics Guidelines, Excellence, Occupational Health and Safety and our Social Responsibility Policies. We determine and follow up our corporate business objectives accordingly, carry out improvement works in accordance with stakeholder expectations, risk assessments and performance realizations and we share the results we attain with the public. 18 The most valuable heritage carried over from its forty-year long history by Brisa, the pioneer of the Turkish tyre industry, is its superior understanding of ethics and management and its work culture focused on constant development and institutionalization. Our aim is to improve this heritage with modern managerial principles and systems and carry it into the future. To achieve this aim, we carry out our activities with strong corporate governance, effective risk management, responsible understanding of sustainability, top-end standards and systems. OUR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE OUR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE TRANSPARENCY FAIRNESS RESPONSIBILITY ACCOUNTABILITY UNDERSTANDING We believe that the importance we attach to fair competition reinforces our reputation. Accordingly, we consider it the individual responsibility of every employee to comply with the requirements of the Competition Law. Brisa’s management structure is a system with a Board of Directors and an Executive Committee. At Brisa, the posts of the General Manager and the Chairman of the Board are occupied by different individuals. Our Board of Directors, appointed by the General Assembly, is comprised of 11 members, of which three are executive members and two are independent auditors. All members of our Board of Directors are responsible for the company’s performance. The Audit Committee, Corporate Governance Committee and Early Identification of Risk Committee serve within the body of the Board of Directors. An Executive Committee, consisting of the General Manager, Executive Coordinator, Chief Technical Officer, Assistant General Manager-Marketing, Assistant General Manager-Finance and the Financial Assistant, is assigned to assist the Board of Directors in the planning and implementation of strategic orientations for the activities of our company and the pursuit of investments. Our Executive Committee is responsible for our company’s performance in social and environmental issues. You can reach detailed information about Brisa’s corporate governance structure, members of the Board of Directors and senior managers through the “Investor Relations” tab at www.brisa.com.tr. The number 30 of our corporate memberships 19 “Risk Management Professional of the Year” Award for Brisa Dr. CumhurBilgili, the Risk Management manager at Brisa, was granted the “Risk Management Professional of the Year” award at the Global Risk Awards 2014, organized by the Institute of Risk Management (IRM), for WON THE his performance during the year 2013. Dr. GLOBAL RISK Bilgili, who was elected from amongst 5 AWARD. candidates, is the first manager from Turkey to be nominated for and win this award. Risk Management Our risk management works encompass financial, strategic, operational and compatibility risks. We have a Risk Committee and a Risk Management Department for ensuring the early identification of all risks, their effective management and their integration with company strategies and processes. The Risk Committee consists of the members of the Executive Committee, which comprises the General Manager, Executive Coordinator, Chief Technical Officer, Assistant General Manager-Marketing, Assistant General Manager-Finance and the Financial Assistant, and the Risk Manager. Risk management issues and reports are discussed and relevant decisions are made by the Executive Committee, at executive meetings held periodically. Risk management issues are proactively tackled with at all Executive Committee meetings, allowing senior management to adopt a risk based decision making systematic. Our Risk Management Department is responsible for coordinating the constitution, review and application of business continuity planning works and carries out the deployment of business continuity policies and plans throughout the corporation and their testing. Risk management is part of our corporate strategy. In the process of risk management, we recognize for all employees –from senior management to lower levelsthe importance of understanding the concept of risk and the risks of the corporation, having a collective risk consciousness, determining and appropriating risk management responsibilities, tracking and reporting alterations and improve the process with an understanding of continuous improvement. We consider these to be critical success factors and regard them as one of the primary strategic objectives of the company. Our Board of Directors is preeminently responsible for establishing and sustaining an effective risk management system in our company. The Early Identification of Risk Committee realizes a situation assessment for critical risks in the report it presents to the Board of Directors every other month, in light of the information received from the Risk Management Department and the Risk Committee. It also evaluates the efficiency of the company’s risk management system once a year. 20 The ultimate goal of our risk management program is to ensure the sustainability of our products, services, operation, people, reputation and financial strength thereby creating the highest value for our stakeholders. For this purpose, we share our knowledge and experiences about corporate risk management with the business world, universities and other nongovernmental organizations. We take ISO 31000 and other international standards and guidelines as references for the organization and execution of the risk management system. EARLY BOARD BRISA RISK IDENTIFICATION OF RISK MANAGEMENT OF RISK DIRECTORS COMMITTEE DEPARTMENT COMMITTEE Internal Audit and Internal Control We regularly perform audits aiming for the active, reliable and continuous implementation of our activities and services; the development of risk management, control system and corporate governance practices; contributing to the realization of corporate and economic objectives and ensuring the integrity, consistency and reliability of information supplied by the accounting and financial reporting system. The presence, operation and activity of internal auditing and internal controls are administered by our Audit Committee formed within the body of our Board of Directors. Our Audit Committee holds Completed the audits of regular meetings with our Internal Audit Department to discuss the sufficiency of the internal 9 business processes out of the 61 in our control system and informs the Board of Directors. We have identified controllable processes audit system. through the Audit universe constituted within the body of the company and determined residual risk scores according to natural risk factors and the status of internal control systems. Hereunder we have completed the auditing of 9 business processes out of 61, in 2013, and presented the results to the Audit Committee as a report. We have followed up the actions taken by company managers in relation to internal control deficiencies observed within the framework of Audit Reports, questioned the sufficiency of the actions taken by observing their impact on the level of risk and reported the results to the Audit Committee. In 2014, we plan to complete the auditing of 18% of our business processes. Our members responsible for internal auditing have received awareness and competency trainings in the issues of risk management, irregularity auditing and investigation and financial analysis, and they possess the Certificate in Risk Management Assurance (CRMA) which certifies their knowledge and professionalism. We acknowledge opposing bribery and corruption as one of our primary responsibilities against the society and humanity. In this direction, the systematic we implement within the context of our internal audits and internal controls includes the issues of opposing bribery and corruption as part of its structure. Besides our inter-corporate systematic, we also adopt Sabancı Group’s SA-ETIK principles as a guide in this matter. You can reach detailed information about SA-ETİK Business Ethics Guidelines at www.sabanci.com.tr 21 OUR SUSTAINABILITY STRUCTURE We adopt sustainability as a business manner by including it in corporate strategies with a holistic perspective and we support this understanding with processes such as strategic planning and risk management. We reconsider our current practices from the perspective of sustainability, implement improvements and increase our exemplary practices. Had a benchmarking We form our “Brisa Way of Sustainability” approach reinforced by study conducted to Bridgestone Corporation’s global accumulation of knowledge and the local evaluate our corporate experiences of Sabancı Holding. We combine the Bridgestone CSR-22 performance in the approach and Sabancı Holding’s sustainability approach with our own field of sustainability. corporate policies, strategies, processes and projects and we build on international standards such as EFQM and GRI. We are planning improvements aiming at strengthening the inter-corporate integration of our sustainability approach, in light of the benchmarking study we conducted in 2013. In the upcoming period, we aim to increase the weight of benchmarking studies in our sustainability strategy. Through Brisa Strategy House, which aims to make the issues of sustainability, risk and innovation a part of all our processes and decisions, we include all our employees in processes of strategy formulation and management. In this way, we strengthen the motivation and performance of our teams and we manage sustainability proactively. We aim to be an international best practice with Brisa Strategy House. We strengthen the harmony between our corporate strategies and systems through Brisa Process Management and Brisa Project Portfolio Management projects, which we are conducting within the scope of Brisa Strategy House. Thanks to Brinsan Human Resources Portal, we match the individual objectives of our employees to our corporate strategies, thereby ensuring that our employees contribute to the success of our company more effectively and that individual performance is evaluated in this direction. In this way, we extend our sustainability strategies throughout the corporation and ensure their adoption by employees. HR & Corporate Sustainability Executive Development CEO Work Group Committee (Sustainability Management Sponsors & Coordination) Technology, Production, Customer, Economic & Supply OHS & Product Social Chain Environmental Processes Processes Processes Processes 22 In 2013, we strenghtened our sustainability approach, which we adopt in Signed order to leave future generations with a more livable world, by signing the the United Nations United Nations Global Compact. Thus we commit to make the 10 basic principles, under the headings of human rights, working conditions, Global Compact. environment and opposing corruption, an integral part of all our operational processes and our business culture. Murat Ayan Brisa Management Systems Manager Sustainability Management In the beginning of our sustainability journey, we have defined our main objectives as adding value to all our processes and stakeholders, forming our own sustainability approach with economic, environmental and social dimensions, prioritizing this vision in every activity we conduct and starting thinking with sustainability. Sustainability reporting forms on of our most significant outcomes. Our activities in this regard disciplines our sustainability approach throughout the operation and helps us create good practices. Compared to last year, I think, this second report has matured. Our sustainability-based studies are reinforced and performances directed at strategies are increased, thanks to the leadership of our senior management and the embracement and contributions by our employees. We carry on to take responsibilities in sustainability area in order to form a powerful economic structure coherent with environment and society, with the engagement of our stakeholders. Our Stakeholders In accordance with our transparent, accountable and participatory management understanding, we regard the expectations and opinions of our stakeholders as a key component in improving our performance. We determine dialog channels and practice frequency in accordance with our stakeholders’ positions in our activities. We regularly evaluate the expectations and demands of our stakeholders at Executive Committee and interdepartmental meetings and we include them in our business processes and strategies. We come together with stakeholders on various platforms in order to solve problems in the areas of industry development, environment and society. We meet the demands of state institutions and participate in technical workshops within the framework of the Tyre Subcommittee (LAK), operating within the body of the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, of which we hold the presidency. Besides, we also participate in the Tyre and Life Safety workshops within the body of the Ministry of Transportation, Maritime Affairs and Communications. We have become a full member of the European Tyre and Rim Technical Organization (ETRTO) and we ensured regular participation in meetings related to tyre regulations. 23 BRİSA Sabancı Employees Media Employees Corporate Website, Social Corporate Website, Sabancı Extranet, Media, Brisa Academy, Mailing List, Corporate Social Media, Brisa Blog Sabancı Extranet, Media, Brisa Responsibility (CSR) Blog, Corporate Social Activities, Advertising and Responsibility (CSR) Activities, Marketing Studies, Corporate and Financial Interview and Talks Communication, E-Newsletter Investors Local Community NGOs Corporate Website, Corporate Social Corporate Website, Corporate and Financial Responsibility (CSR) Various Memberships, Communication Financial Activities, Donations Joint Projects Reports, Investor and Sponsorships, Presentations, Financial Annual Reports Performance Reports Business End Users Partners Corporate Website, Universities Corporate Website, Social Media, Sabancı Corporate Website, Social Media, E-Academy, Extranet, Media, Brisa Scholarships and Media, Brisa Blog, Blog, Corporate Social Training Opportunities, Corporate and Marketing Responsibility (CSR) Sponsorships and Communication, Activities, Advertisement Supports Performance Magazine, and Marketing Studies Brisa Academy, Dealer Meetings Customers Potential State Institutions Suppliers Members of Meetings and Government Conferences, Face to Face Brisa Audits, Annual Meetings, Annual Corporate Annual Reports, Meetings Reports Reports, Suppliers Website, Social and Conferences Audits Media COMMUNICATION WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS 24 WHAT ARE OUR GOALS IN 2014? We aim to achieve an international best practice with Brisa Strategy House, To complete the auditing of 18% of the business processes in our audit universe, To increase the weight of benchmarking studies in our sustainability strategy, To form more systematic methods for enhancing communication and stakeholder engagement. Our Priority Issues During the reporting period, we have reviewed the Materiality Matrix based on the results of the survey realized with the participation of our stakeholders in 2012 and the considerations of the Sustainability Work Group. Brisa Materiality Matrix 1st Priority Aspects Emphasis on Occupational Health and Safety High Emphasis on Customer Importance to Stakeholders Renewable or More Efficient Health and Safety by Energy Consumption Operations and Products Sold Less Waste More Environmentally Friendly Products Anti-corruption and Anti-bribery Measures Take Investment in Employee Efficient Less Emission Education and Training Water Usage Elimination of Child Labor Across All Stakeholders Including Suppliers and Business Partners More Efficient Medium Fair Wage and Raw Material Usage Compliance with Environmental Regulations Employment Conditions Respect for Environmental Expenditure & Biodiversity Dedication for Fair Competition Investments Higher Economic Value Better Employee Fair Labor Relations Generated and Distributed Benefit Plans Fair Product Labeling Management and Collective Customer Privacy Equal Employment Opportunity Bargaining Measures Taken Across Genders and Minorities Investment in Local Community’s Economic Prosperity Local Community Environmental Awareness Involvement During Logistics Operations Involvement in Policy Making for Environmental and Social Protection Local Hiring Increased Usage of 2nd Priority Aspects Low Government Incentives Low Medium High Importance to Brisa 25 Our Sustainability Priorities According to Stakeholder Groups Executive Business Local Board Customers Partners Employees Suppliers Managers Higher Economic Value Generated and Distributed Investment in Local Community’s Economic Prosperity Better Employee Benefit Plans Increased Usage of Government Incentives Increase of local supplier spending More Efficient Raw Material Usage Renewable or More Efficient Energy Consumption Efficient Water Usage Respect for Biodiversity Less Emission Less Waste More Environmentally Friendly Products Compliance with Environmental Regulations Environmental Awareness During Logistics Operations Environmental Expenditure& Investments Fair Wage and Employment Conditions Equal Employment Opportunity Across Genders and Minorities Emphasis on Occupational Health and Safety Investment in Employee Education and Training Fair Labor Relations Management and Collective Bargaining Elimination of Child Labor Across All Stakeholders Including Suppliers and Business Partners Dedication for Fair Competition Anti-corruption and Anti-bribery Measures Taken Local Hiring Local Community Involvement Involvement in Policy Making for Environmental and Social Protection Fair Product Labeling Emphasis on Customer Health and Safety by Operations and Products Sold Customer Privacy Measures Taken % 36,2 Ratio of 36.985 Number of customers 5DAYS Targeted and realized local supply who took Guarantee Examination and Reply Time Customer Satisfaction Survey Provided 452 man-hours of Suru-Raku training Actualized our ProPratik and 930 THE NUMBER OF SALES POINTS to 31 employees. Profleet services. WE HAVE BUILT UNDER OUR OWN CONCEPTS Won the Strategic Planning Won the Outstanding Awardwith the Brisa Success Award with our Innovation Portal. Tripin application. Provided a total of 16.353 hours of 120 Ideas Being deemed worthy of the training for 2.734 15 1 “Customer Oriented Service employees of our Innovation Award” with Solutions Prototype Mobilfix, the first and only business partners mobile truck maintenance service in the world. with Brisa Academy. 3 Elaborated Solutions OUR VALUE CHAIN We design the best journey ahead together with all our stakeholders. We maintain our sustainability approach in our value chain all along the product lifecycle, starting with the procurement of raw materials for our products until they reach our end users. We act in unison with our stakeholders for this purpose. We behave respectfully and justly, we exercise due care to fulfill our responsibilities on time throughout our value chain. We carefully protect the confidential information of our suppliers, business partners and customers. 28 The product responsibility understanding of Brisa starts with the process of the conformity of raw materials we use to manufacture our products, with required quality standards. Quality practices in production processes continue with product labeling processes, provision of safe and durable products, as well as high value added services for our customers. Compliance with standards and management systems has a great importance on our journey of quality. We regularly inform the Ministry of Environment and Urban Planning of the raw materials we use in production in accordance with the Regulation on Inventory and Control of Chemicals. We currently hold ISO 14001, ISO TS 16949, TS EN ISO-IEC 17025, ISO 9001, TSE EN ISO 9001, TS EN ISO 10002 and OHSAS 18001 management system certificates. Our Suru-Raku Philosophy We adopt the Suru-Raku understanding, which makes standardization the principal approach in all operational processes, from production to services, determines Provided 452 deviations of current practices from standards and makes improvement activities a man-hours of part of the everyday work life. In the year 2013, 31 of our employees received 452 Suru-Raku training man*hours of Suru-Raku training. The number of employees we have offered trainings to, with the aim of deploying the Suru-Raku philosophy, has reached 131; while a total to 31 employees. of 1,910 hours of training was provided. Sacit Tekin Brisa Production Development Manager We confirm the success of our Suru-Raku approach with the awards we receive. On September 26th, 2013, the Brisa team was deemed worthy of the “Best TQM Award” awarded only to 4 participants among 16 projects at the Bridgestone 4th TQM Conference organized in Nashville, USA. BSJ Member of the Board of Directors and COO Kazuhisa Nishigai expressed that “the project realized by the Brisa team has all the spirit of SEQCD (Safety-Environment-Quality-Cost-Delivery) and that he especially appreciated the ergonomic approach of the work” during the award ceremony. We encourage the deployment of the Suru-Raku philosophy and the participation of our employees in projects to create good practices. 29 Supply Chain %36,2 63,8% Local Suppliers Global Suppliers Raw Material • Natural rubber • Synthetic rubber • Carbon black • Steel cord Raw material • Cord fabric • Chemicals warehouse Other goods and services Production PRODUCTION PROCESSES PRODUCT WAREHOUSE Izmit Production Facility 1 Compound preparation – Mixer 2 Extruder / Calendaring Annual Capacity: 11 million tyres 3 Tyre building Indoor area: 361.000 m2 4 Curing 2012 Marketing and Sales 2013 DOMESTIC FOREIGN TOTAL Domestic Renewal Domestic OEM 60 Countries 930 Branded 15 Automotive Foreign Export Sales Points Manufacturers 30 RESPONSIBLE PROCUREMENT PRACTICES At Brisa, procurement is realized in two processes, namely raw material procurement and the procurement of other goods and services. Since some of the raw materials we use only grow in certain regions in the world and local production does not meet all our demand, we procure most of our raw materials from abroad. This process, which we conduct in cooperation with Bridgestone Global, includes long term supply plans, new source recommendations and approvals and information about short-term available raw material amounts and prices from suppliers. Our Supply Chain Management Director is responsible for our product supply planning, procurement and logistic operations. We work with approximately 1.500 local suppliers across our operations. In the reporting % 36,2 Ratio of period, we have provided 36,2% local supply. We conduct various localization studies for import-dependent raw materials, with the aim of increasing our local procurement rate. As part of our responsible procurement practices, companies supplying us with raw local supply materials are evaluated by our purchasing, technology and quality departments, within the context of the Supplier Management System Standard. We evaluate our suppliers, whose share in raw material procurements is greater than 0,1%, with the “Supplier Evaluation Form”. We review the results within the scope of the “Supplier Evaluation Meeting”, determine the companies to be audited and share evaluation results with suppliers. Besides, we inspect the environmental activities of supplier companies with annual programs, within the context of ISO 14001 Environmental Management System, thereby indirectly evaluating their impacts on biodiversity. All our raw material suppliers declare that they will perfectly comply with relevant issues by confirming the “General Procurement Rules and Conditions” online, prior to the procurement. Our purchase contracts include our principles of responsible procurement. We work together with suppliers that provide a safe working environment and comply strictly with legal regulations including working hours and compensation. We guarantee the compliance of our suppliers with legal disciplinary practices through our contracts. We expect our suppliers to perfectly conform to basic human rights and our business ethics principles in their operations. There were no suppliers whose contract we annulled due to noncompliance in 2013. As part of the practice started in the year 2010, we send our main suppliers a self-assessment form and analyze the results. The self-assessment form provides an opportunity to evaluate suppliers under the main headings of corporate social responsibility awareness, human and employee rights, employee health and safety, environment, fair trade, information security. Under the main heading of human and employee rights, we ask our suppliers to evaluate themselves under the subheadings of “respect for freedom of organization”, “prevention of forced labor” and “prevention of child labor”. We ensure that subcontractor company employees undergo the Orientation Training Program which includes briefings and professional technical trainings and trainings about occupational health and safety, 31 environment, appropriate for their task and responsibilities, on the basis of organization and processes. In this context, our subcontractor company employees have received 2.784 man*hours of training, in the reporting period. OUR CUSTOMERS Customer orientation is at the center of our long termed plans and strategies. We support customers throughout the product lifecycle. We act in accordance with the principle of ensuring customer satisfaction in all our processes from the stage of procurement to after sales services. Customer management practices are particularly significant for understanding customer expectations and needs in the most correct way. We focus on managing customer satisfaction, rather than complaints, with our practices that create innovative values. As part of Customer Touch Points Management practices, we regularly keep in touch with every customer buying our tyres throughout the lifecycle of the tyre and we inform them. We regard our consumers’ evaluation of our dealers as the Brisa image of our end users. We have been conducting Consumer Satisfaction Surveys on a regular basis since 2009, with the aim of regularly measuring the quality performance and success level of Brisa dealers in relation to the services they offer and determining the satisfaction level of our customers who use these services. In this context, a total of 36.985 people were interviewed during the reporting period. We aim to raise this figure to the level of 54.000 in 2014. Customer Satisfaction Survey (%) 86,0 84,0 36.985 83,9 83,8 83,6 83,7 Number of customers who took Customer Satisfaction Survey 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (Target) Customer opinions and remarks are recorded, watched, analyzed and dealt with according to their significance and priority through our Customer Application Management (MBY) System. 5DAYS Targeted and realized Within the scope of our practice of writing letters accompanied by photographs specific to individuals and tyres, which we started in the year 2010, we have replied to 97.6% of our customers with photographs. By this means, we have realized the Guarantee Guarantee Examination and Reply Time of our products as 5 days, achieving the Examination and Reply Time target we had set for this reporting period. We continue our works in relation with our objective of maintaining this duration which we have improved by 60% as against the year 2009. 32 We have developed a customer experience and innovation management approach in order to further strengthen our customer focus. Our objective is to ensure that customer experience invariably results in satisfaction and ensures continuity at our every point of touch with the end user within the framework of customer experience. We have grouped the experiences of our end users under the 4 main categories of store, call center, online and communicational experience. In relation to store experience, we conduct model studies and practices for customer experience and create solutions to suggest to other business partners in our Model Shop, which we manage as Brisa. We also develop improvement projects in other areas in our endeavor to standardize and perpetuate customer experience. Informing our customers on our products correctly and completely goes beyond DON’T SETTLE FOR %30 legal necessities, it is one of the most significant indicators of our responsible business manner. Within the framework of the Tyre Labeling System which took effect in Turkey and the EU countries contemporaneously in the year 2012, tyre performance is evaluated according to 3 different criteria, namely fuel efficiency, wet grip and exterior noise. We give our customers the message that they shouldn’t be contented with these 3 criteria, through our website, brochures and booklets, as label communication. These criteria mentioned by the regulations in terms of environmental responsibility and driving safety account for 30% of total tyre performance. Therefore we fully support these three criteria of the tyre labeling system while also informing vehicle owners about other substantial criteria. In line with our mission of ensuring a balanced performance, we also attach a high level of importance to the issues of economy, safety and comfort. In consequence of this understanding, we produce tyres with a balanced performance, meeting driving requirements by focusing on more than 50 performance criteria within the framework of integrated product responsibility. OUR BUSINESS PARTNERS 930 We place great importance in the development of our dealers which constitute our most critical point of contact with end users. We actualize various practices in order THE NUMBER OF SALES POINTS to enhance our dealers’ competencies. As of 2013 year-end, the number of sales WE HAVE BUILT UNDER OUR OWN CONCEPTS points we have built under our own concepts have reached 930. We create projects for our business partners and share consumer satisfaction survey results with them through Development Projects. Besides, our sales teams visit our business partners to give them advices them about issues to be improved. Provided a total of All information flow intended for our business partners and users can be 16.353 hours of training for 2.734 realized in an integrated manner through Brisa CRM Model, besides employees of our interactive briefings given at general and local meetings which covers all our business partners with Brisa Academy. dealers. 33 We regard the feedback received from our business partners about our company’s performance in the issues of environment, working conditions, business processes and supplier practices within the framework of their own sustainability approach as critical inputs. We inform our business partners on the subject of tyre lifecycle. During the reporting period, we have providedtrainings to employees of our business partners on the subjects of basic tyre, product, retail dealing, wholesale business, fleet management, export and service through Brisa Academy. Turgay Büyükkarcı CEO, İzmir EMF Büyükkarcı ProPratik We contribute to the “Turnalar Hep Uçsun” (Let Cranes Fly Forever) project, conducted by Brisa in collaboration with World Wildlife Foundation-Turkey, for every tyre sold at our EMF Büyükkarcı ProPratik store. We are glad to have thereby carried our business partnership with Brisa, which has been continuing for the last two decades, beyond commercial relations in order to also share their sustainability and social responsibility approach. Tevfik Yıldırım Silifke Business Partner Mersin We took into consideration the suggestions made by Brisa sales team regarding improvements on our workplace and businesses, and realized various business enriching projects. As a result of a study we conducted, we started to provide free check-ups during vehicle admissions. In these controls, we provide corrective services as we determine headlight and brake negativities that our customers are not aware of. In consequence, we realized an increase in customer satisfaction. In another business enriching project, we started to provide exhaust emission calculation service. We have seen that this service, which is legally valid and competent, has strengthened our reliability for our customers. All these projects that we realize contribute to the continuity of our business as they increase customer loyalty and satisfaction. WHAT ARE OUR GOALS IN 2014? We aim to increase our local procurement rate, To raise the scope of the Customer Satisfaction Survey to the level of 54.000 people in the year 2014, To realize the level of customer satisfaction at the rate of 86%, To acquire ISO 27001 Information Security Management System certification, To maintain our 5-day Guarantee Examination and Response Time. 34 INNOVATION We believe in the necessity of continuous development and improvement through innovation. We match our innovation studies to our corporate strategies and culture. Hence, we take care to carry out our innovative implementations in parallel with our sustainability approach. We have determined our strategies in relation to customer experience and innovation approach and we ensured their deployment to functions. Our senior management show great interest in and support our innovation works, which have an important position in our strategies. Our Brisa Innovation Team, which comprises employees from different functions, coordinates our innovation studies. We have specifically designed an Innovation room for the effective execution of team works. We have carried the NOVA system, which was formed to support innovation 120 Ideas and allow for innovative ideas, one step further to create Brisa Innovation Team. Brisa Innovation Team has obtained a total of 600 ideas, 30 15 1 solutions, 8 elaborated solutions and 2 prototypes so far, by receiving innovation trainings and conducting idea generation studies. We have Solutions Prototype collected 550 ideas at the latest idea generation study. 3 To deploy the culture of innovation throughout the company is our team’s Elaborated priority. In this direction, we have shared innovation cards facilitating idea Solutions generation in order to encourage our employees. We also share our innovation strategy and studies with Sabancı Group companies, thereby contributing to the deployment of innovation. Put yourself in Draw when thinking. magine resources Be a superhero. someone else’s shoes. to be abundant. Consider how you When you are thinking Imagine the resource Imagine you are would deal with the on an issue, always limitations on your Spiderman. You can issue at hand if you draw it out. This problem no longer now overcome all were the General way, you will be able exist. Tyres last for problems thanks to Manager. Or, how to discern elusive 100 years or your your superpowers. would you solve the aspects of the matter. internet speed is 1 How can you actualize problem you are million megabits. these superpowers in dealing with if you real life? were a grocer? 35 CORPORATE ENTREPRENEURSHIP PROJECTS SUPPORT SELECTION, EVALUATION, TRAINING AND PROTOTYPE IDEA GENERATION CORPORATE CUSTOMER NEEDS ENTREPRENEURSHIP TOOLS DEPARTMENT-BASED PROBLEMS & OPPORTUNITIES HYPER TRENDS, GLOBAL RISKS At the stage of idea, in contradistinction to other companies, we carry out studies aimed at nurturing the idea, by focusing on idea background rather than idea generation. We realize idea generation as the 4th step of our process, after having evaluated inputs such as trends, risks, problems and opportunities, customer needs in our process. 36 Turkey Innovation Week Sponsorship Brisa was among the sponsors of Turkey Innovation Week organized at Istanbul Congress Center in November. The organization, which drew nationwide attention to innovation and R&D, aims for innovation studies in Turkey to be recognized worldwide. We have opened our open innovation portal to our employees’ access. We are conducting studies to allow access to our customers and business partners by 2015. Brisa Innovation Portal was evaluated according criteria such as allocating sufficient human resource, time, physical space and financial resource to support innovation activities and won the Strategic Planning Award at the Innovation Awards organized by Istanbul Chamber of Industry in 2013. You can reach the portal at http://bip.brisa.com.tr. We have structured our portal and our idea gathering process in line with the experiences of our innovation team. Speak the same language Determine needs Form your idea Send your idea Let your idea be voted, and wait for surprises Support for Innovative Sustainability Competition Brisa supported the Innovative Sustainability Competition, organized by the Business World and Sustainable Development Foundation (SKD), by undertaking sponsorship as well as taking part in the selection subcommittee and playing an active role in the organization of the selection stage of the competition. 37 We have actualized crucial innovative ideas in line with the investments we made. In line with our understanding of customer orientation and our strategy of embracing the phenomenon of travel, we have created a worldwide social travel application. The mobile application Tripin, Turkey’s first social travel platform, allows users to digitally record all routes on their travels and to share photos, stops, notes and videos of their routes with their friends by marking them on the route. Tripin, which is among the first corporate entrepreneurship projects in Turkey, was deemed worthy of the Outstanding Success Award in the lifestyle category of International Media Awards (IMA), in the year 2013.www.tripin.com.tr We offer novelties to our stakeholders through creative services apart from our innovative products. We aim to provide passenger and light commercial vehicle consumers with an outlet where they can access different products and services all together at “OtoPratik” stores. We realize new service innovations by taking inspiration from the real customer experience we have at our model shop. We provide our consumers with the opportunity to get their tyres mounted on their vehicles at their homes or workplaces by appointment through the website www.lastik.com.tr. With our “LastikOteli” service, we ensure summer and winter tyres are insured and kept under suitable conditions during the periods they are out of use. By putting ourselves in our fleet customers’ place, we realized that we need to provide solutions for both individual use and fleets in the segment of heavy commercial vehicle customers. With the first ProPratik store opened in the year 2013, we enabled customers to access Bandag tyre retreading, basic tools and tyre maintenance services under the same roof. With Profleet fleet management solutions we actualize, for the first time in Turkey, an ensemble of products and services, which can answer the expectations of commercial fleets completely, with the understanding of “360 degrees counseling” thereby adding economic and environmental value to fleets. We offer the opportunity of onsite maintenance for heavy commercial vehicles with our mobile truck service Mobilfix, which we developed within the scope of Profleet in the reporting period. In this way, we ensure that vehicle owners and fleets save on time and costs and maintain their business continuity. The first time we had to make catalogues, we put our prejudices about catalogue aside and i-Cat was shaped. Through i-Cat we always stay in touch with our business partners and make sure updated information about new products and services and about Brisa can be instantly accessed. We do not spend paper for printed brochures and catalogues. You can reach the i-Cat application at http://icat.brisa.com.tr/. For more detailed information regarding innovative products and services we have come to realize as Brisa: http://bip.brisa.com.tr 38 Summer tyres are taken back from where they were put last If the tyre tread depth is reduced and When summer comes, needs to be replaced, you can renew year, Lastik Oteli, and winter summer tyres are mounted. them at our sales and service points tyres are put instead. throughout Turkey. With lastik.com.tr, tyres are purchased with one click and renewed at the wished location. Brisa Call Center is there for you for all your questions. With Tripin application, trip route is determined, shared with friends. All crew gets ready panoply. We ride all summer at the beaches, on the sand, dust and earth all over at the camp. Before the trip, our expert personnel conducts Good times are enjoyed vehicle control and maintenance with latest-technology at events we sponsor. equipment in services aiming at 100% customer satisfaction. 39 Summer ends. Vehicle is cleaned When winter comes, winter tyres are mounted. at OtoPak. Summer tyres are put into Lastik Oteli. The difference of winter tyres are experienced in our special activities. LS Road Support and BS Alo Yol Dostu are there with you 7/24. Expired tyres are collected by LASDER, utilized with recycling and brought in for reuse. When time comes for tyre change and rotation, Brisa reminds via SMSs. %51 Our well water %21 Our waste %20 We reduced our direct and indirect consumption amount emission rate per production ton savings rate improvement as against the year 2005. since 2008 rate since 2010 x11 Prepared our CDP report. We increased our energy savings as against 2008, through efficiency projects. 1.198.410 USD Environmental Protection and Investment Expenditure in 2013 Supported the process of collecting and recycling 140.000 end-of-life tyres for tyres retreaded the benefit of the environment within the scope Started the LEED Certification and economy carried out of the Bandag process of the building where by LASDER. service. Brisa Academy and Brisa Museum are located, which was designed under the concept of Green Building, as it began its activities. Developed the “Turnalar Hep Ucsun” (Let Cranes Fly Forever) project devoted to cranes inhabiting Anatolia, in collaboration with World Wildlife Foundation-Turkey. OUR ENVIRONMENTAL APPROACH We act with the awareness that climate change may affect our production efficiency and natural resource use in a negative manner, we act along the goals that we have determined to minimize our environmental impact. In line with our environmental sustainability understanding, we make a tremendous effort to control in the impacts of our production processes on natural resources, biological diversity and climate change. We draw our strength in actualizing our philosophy of environmental sustainability from our employees and administrative levels. We realize project partnerships and collaborations with all our stakeholders, from suppliers to customers, on the subject of environmental protection, with an active and fully participatory approach. We create new projects for a better world and we pursue improvement studies beyond legal requirements. 42 We fully comply with environmental regulations in all our operations. We implement our Environmental Management studies within the context of management system standards. We certified the compliance of our studies with standards for the first time with BS7750 Environmental Management System standard in 1995. We sustain and regularly renew our benchmarking, evaluation, improvement and training practices, which we have structured in line with ISO 14001:2004 Environmental Management System certificate which we hold. We have been reporting the amount of carbon emitted during our operations within the Prepared our framework of the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), since the year 2010. Also, we started to CDP report. have our carbondioxide emission calculations verified by accredited institutions within the framework of ISO 14064 Standard, as of 2013. In the year 2013, we contributed to the studies of the multilateral emission trade forum International Carbon Action Partnership where best practices and experiences in the field of carbon reduction are shared with a view to environmental sustainability. We commit to reduce the environmental impact of our operations through improvement studies we implement. Environmental Protection & Investment Expenditures (USD) 1.198.410 1.098.097 880.195 724.544 349.860 1.198.410 USD Environmental Protection and Investment Expenditure 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 in 2013 The cause of increase in environmental spendings after 2010 is the investments focused on improvements for efficient resource management and climate change adaptation studies. COMBATING CLIMATE CHANGE We constantly implement improvement studies in order to keep under control and reduce our environmental impact, with the awareness of the risks that climate change poses for all the business world. The efficient use of technologies in terms of fuel consumption and carbon emission is of great importance for both the air we breathe and the natural resources we depend on. In this direction, we develop products supporting a more environment-friendly performance without compromising on safety. When designing our products, we take into account the need for environmental protection throughout the product lifecycle, within the framework of our integrated product responsibility. We have reduced our direct and indirect total emission rate per production ton by 8% as against the year 2008, through improvement studies we implemented. 43 We have started the LEED Certification process of our Brisa Academy and Brisa Museum, which we have designed under the concept of Green Building. The features of Brisa Academy and Brisa Museum building within the scope of LEED Certification process are: Furniture made All water need is from met by water treatment units recycled material %20 ratio of energy supplied through solar panels 300 TON annual water saving realized Parking area for with rain water environmentally-friendly storage system and less fuel consuming cars Elevator Electric car Bicycle for the handicapped people recharge station parking space More Efficient Energy Consumption The efficient use of energy and the removal of wasted or unproductive energy is one the building stones of our business manner. We use natural gas and diesel fuel as direct energy sources; electricity and steam as indirect energy sources in our operations. Indirect consumption accounts for a considerable part of our energy consumption. Direct/Indirect Energy Consumption Breakdown for the years 2008-2013 (%) (Total = 100) Direct %11,2 Indirect %88,8 44 As a result of systematic improvement studies we conducted in order to ensure efficiency in energy consumption, we have achieved an eleven-fold increase in our energy savings since the year 2008. Mixer hydraulic system improvements, heat transfer insulation practices during the curing process, energy visualization project and curing time optimization studies are a few examples to improvement projects. Energy Savings Achieved through Effeciency Projects (Cumulative Index GJ/Production ton, Basis 2008=100) 593 830 968 1106 1218 x11 We increased our energy 389 savings as against 2008, through efficiency projects. 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (TARGET) In the year 2013, we have reduced our direct energy consumption per production ton by 21%* and our indirect energy consumption by 1%* thereby improving our total energy consumption by 4%* respectively as against the year 2012. Total Energy Consumption (Index GJ/Production ton, Basis: 2008=100) 107 94 89 95 91 89 2009 2010 2011 2012** 2013** 2014 (TARGET) Less Emission We have been pursuing studies devoted to reducing carbon dioxide emissions since the year 2005. In this direction, we continue systematic studies to measure and reduce emissions caused by our operations.Our long-term target is to reduce, by the year 2020,direct and indirect carbon emissions per unit of rubber consumption by 25%, as against the year 2005. As of the year 2013, we have realized the figure for this long-term objective by 9.5% with respect to year 2005. With the awareness that improvements achieved in production technologies have a significant potential of reducing natural resource use and the impact of chemicals, we receive support from our partner Bridgestone in related issues and materialize new approaches. *See: Limited Assurance Report **While related ratios are indexed with regards to 2008, only real values belonging to years 2012 and 2013 are incorporated in limited assurance studies. Index information according to 2008 is excluded from limited assurance scope. 45 Direct carbondioxide emission (Scope 1) (ton CO2-E/Production ton) (Index, Basis: 2008=100) 177 185 131 125 111 2009 2010 2011 2012** 2013** Indirect greenhouse gas emission (Scope 2) (ton CO2-E/Production ton) (Index, Basis: 2008=100) %20 We reduced our direct and indirect 106 emission rate per production ton 94 88 91 90 as against the year 2005. 2009 2010 2011 2012** 2013** In 2013, we have reduced our direct carbondioxide emission per ton by 29%* and indirect carbondioxide emission per ton by 1%*; reducing the total carbondioxide emission by 4%* with regards to year 2012. As of the year 2013, we have achieved a 36% reduction in per production-ton of indirect carbon dioxide emissions (Scope 3), which we have been monitoring since 2010. Other related indirect carbondioxide emissions (Scope 3) (ton CO2-E/Production ton) (Index, Basis: 2010=100) 100 95 93 64 2010 2011 2012 2013 46 With the awareness of the environmental impact of our logistic operations, we prioritize maritime transportation, which has less environmental impact, to transport our products. Through studies we have conducted, we reduced the emission amount per production-ton caused by our logistic operations by 35% as against the year 2010. We aim to minimize the CO2 emission caused by domestic tyre distribution, by improving our route planning approach. Logistic Operations (ton CO2-E/Production ton) (Index, Basis: 2010=100) 100 92 93 65 2010 2011 2012 2013 NATURAL RESOURCE USE By evaluating the impact of all kinds of natural resources, we sustain natural resource use most effectively with our uncompromising choices in this matter. We form a green office culture through waste parsing, e-document studies, less paper use, water and electric consumption reduction studies and in-plant electric vehicle uses. We considerably contribute immensely to the protection of natural resources with our environment-friendly products and services. We aim to start the Green Office practice carried out by WWF to make changes in office practices and raise awareness among employees in relation to energy saving, renewable resources, conscious use of natural resources and change of lifestyle. In this direction, we have conducted cooperative studies with WWF in the year 2013. We endeavor to improve methods that will reduce our negative environmental impact by transforming our offices into green offices. Our contribution to the natural use of resources as BRİSA: 51 21 % OUR WELL WATER % OUR HAZARDOUS CONSUMPTION WASTE AMOUNT SAVINGS RATE IMPROVEMENT RATE SINCE 2008 SINCE 2010 47 More Efficient Water Consumption In line with our environmental approach, we have established long-term business plans for the efficient use of the water resource, which is among the most crucial inputs of the production sector and whose reserves are predicted to continue decreasing further over time. By the year 2020, we aim to have reduced our water consumption by 61% as against the year 2008. As of the year 2013, we have realized a reduction of 51% against the year of 2008 of which value was 910.627 tons; thereby getting one step closer to achieving our target. During the reporting period, we have used 443.755 m3 of well water, improving our well water usage by 16%* as against the year 2012. Our municipal water usage, which we have reported for the first time this year, was realized as 69.704 m3. Total Well Water Use (m3) %51 635.523 677.934 567.362 530.738 443.755 Our well water consumption savings rate 2009 2010 2011 2012* 2013* since 2008 Once we have treated the domestic wastewater generated by our operations at our biological treatment facility, we discharge them to the Izmit Water and Sewerage Administration collector. In the year 2013, we have discharged a total of 319.662 m3 of water. We use part of the water we treat at our treatment facility to irrigate the green spaces at the Brisa Academy and Museum building. We continue our studies to achieve our aim of “zero waste water discharge” by ensuring that the rest of the treated water is reclaimed in different fields within our operation. We monitor the performance of our treatment facility and its compliance with legal limits through periodic controls, continuous measurements as well as chemical analyses performed twice monthly. 48 Less Waste Considering the environmental impact of the use and consumption of our products at the stage of design, we care to use raw materials with no pollution and health risk. We continuously keep under control probable pollution sources in the production process. We aim for continuous improvement and minimization of hazardous waste amount through our waste management studies. We primarily focus on preventing waste generation at its source in the studies we conduct. Subsequently, we strive to ensure the reuse, recovery or recycling of the generated waste in processes.We keep wastes generated by production, which may have a high potential of polluting the air, such as dust and gas, in the treatment systems in order to preserve air quality. In consequence of our studies to reduce waste amount, in the year 2013 we have achieved a 21% improvement in the amount of generated hazardous waste, as against the year 2010. In the year 2013, we have reduced the amount of stored domestic waste per production ton by 31% as against the previous year, by composting organic wastes which account for a considerable portion of nonhazardous wastes. Our studies for the optimization of waste continue. Hazardous Wastes (Ton) %21 958 761 681 640 Our waste amount improvement 2010 2011 2012* 2013* rate since 2010 Domestic Nonhazardous Waste (Kg/Production ton) 5,20 3,70 3,82 2,71 2,64 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 49 Supported the process of We support the process of the collecting, in compliance with collecting and recycling regulations, and recycling of end-of-life tyres for the benefit of the end-of-life tyres for environment and economy carried out by Tyre Industrialists Association the benefit of the environment (LASDER), of which we are the founding member. In the year 2013, and economy carried out LASDER collected a total of 106.200 tons of tyres for recycling. by LASDER. We register the packaging waste generated by our operations. In line with Packaging Waste Control Regulations, we ensure that a certain portion of the packaging materials of marketed products, set according to annually increasing recovery goals, are collected and recycled through the agency of Environmental Protection and Packaging Waste Recovery and Recycling Foundation (ÇEVKO). In the year 2013, the packaging waste collected and recycled in this way amounted to 0,44 tons. We avoid any process Within the context of the that might endanger Environmental Impact Assessment biodiversity in all our operations. (ÇED) Regulations, we evaluate the risks presented by our new investments for biodiversity. We shape our environmental strategies with the awareness of the negative impacts of the global climate change on biodiversity and the ecosystem. We have developed the “Turnalar Hep Ucsun” (Let Cranes Fly Forever) project devoted to cranes inhabiting Anatolia, in collaboration with World Wild life Foundation-Turkey. In the year 2013, we developed a project for the cranes of Anatolia in collaboration with WWF-Turkey (World Wildlife Foundation). Within the scope of the “Turnalar Hep Uçsun” (Let Cranes Fly Forever) project, we work to sustain the endangered crane population inhabiting Turkey. With the project, which will be conducted in the Çukurova delta where 95% of the cranes spending the winter in our country take shelter, we aim to expose the current status of the species in the wintering ground and to ensure the subsistence of cranes safely in their natural habitat. We provide support for the project through funds we transfer from the incomes of Brisa Academy e-training and Brisa Museum. The project will also contribute to the National Crane Action Plan being prepared by the Directorate of Nature Conservation and National Parks for the preservation of the species. 50 Tolga Baştak WWF-Turkey World Wildlife Foundation General Manager Our country is home to unmatched natural spaces and species. Harmonizing human activities with nature as well as organizing the business processes of companies in a manner that will protect nature are crucial for the preservation of this wealth and its transfer to future generations. At the present, many species are endangered due to loss of habitat, pollution, climate change, extreme and illegal hunting. One of these species is the crane! Turnalar Hep Uçsun (Let Cranes Fly Forever) Project, which we are carrying out in the Çukurova Delta with the support of Brisa, aims for cranes to subsist in their natural habitat where they can spend the winter in safety. Besides, Brisa includes more nature in their business by planning their participation in the Green Office Program which aims to use natural resources rationally, to raise awareness of nature conservation and to improve and save on all kinds of consumption in offices. We believe this multifaceted collaboration, which we have formed on the field in Çukurova and plan to develop in offices with the Green Office Program, will be a good example to collaborations between the business world and NGOs. WHAT ARE OUR GOALS FOR 2014? We aim to combine durability, fuel saving and lifetime performances with our first environment-friendly passenger vehicle product Greenways, which we will launch in the year 2014, To localize our EP150 product in the year 2014, To have reduced our well water consumption by 61% as against the year 2008, in the year 2020, To have reduced direct and indirect carbon dioxide emission per unit of rubber consumption by 25% as against the year 2005, in the year 2020, To minimize the CO2 emission caused by our logistic operations through route planning implementations for our domestic tyre distribution, To begin Green Office studies in collaboration with WWF, To retread 150,000 tyres within the scope of our Bandag service. 51 OUR ENVIRONMENT-FRIENDLY PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Considering new tendencies in relation to climate change that are shaped in the world, we strive for our products and services to be “environment-friendly”. We consider the environmental impacts of products subsequent to their use as well as during the production stage. On the one hand, we work for new concept products with lower rolling resistance, lower noise emission and less weight. While on the other hand, we take into consideration the environmental impacts caused by current products after their use. In line with our environment sensitivity in the production process, we present our customers with environmentalist products and solutions. One of the most significant steps we have taken in line with our understanding of producing more environment-friendly products is the Ecopia series of environment-friendly tyres. In addition to this, we plan to enrich our environmentalist product portfolio with our first environment-friendly passenger vehicle product Greenways, which we will launch under the Lassa brand in the year 2014. We monitor our strategy of “enhancing our environment-friendly product portfolio”, which we have determined in the year 2012, through the parameters of “weighted average rolling resistance of the products we sold” and “environment-friendly product portfolio rate” and we implement projects in this direction. Reducing rolling resistance, which contributes directly to fuel saving, and enhancement of the environment-friendly product portfolio help environmental protection. Gürsu Başaran Raw material Brisa –Commercial Products % 4,1 Marketing Manager (12,2 kg CO2) “The environmental impact of the tyre Production during product lifecycle” % 1,5 (4 kg CO2) 87% of the total CO2 emitted by the tyre arises during use on the vehicle. In other words, the less Logistics fuel consumed by the tyre when on the vehicle, the % 0,2 less harm is done to the environment. (0,5 kg CO2) The rolling resistance of tyres developed with new Usage generation pattern designs and components, without % 87 compromising on the element of safety, is reduced (258 kg CO2) which ensures fuel saving and a consequent decrease in carbon emission. Recycling % 7,2 In addition to this, new generation tyres designed to (21,3 kg CO2) have a lighter construction reduce natural resource use. i CO2 emission for every 185/70R14 passenger car tyre. All these innovative solutions that are offered Total CO2 emission: 296,4 kg per tyre. strengthen the harmony of tyre with nature. Source: Japan Rubber Manufacturers Association 52 Ecopia EP150, Nature’s safety tyre With Ecopia EP150, we provide high efficiency in fuel consumption by reducing the rolling resistance of the tyre without compromising on safety. We aim to localize our EP150 product in the year 2014. 9% lighter construction 14% less rolling resistance 1,7% fuel efficiency 5% shorter wet ground stopping distance 15% more durable Under normal conditions: According to TUV test results, compared to the previous generation Bridgestone. According to Brisa field test results; compared to competing tyres. Greenways Environment-Friendly Tyre We aim to combine durability, fuel saving and lifetime performances with our first environment-friendly passenger vehicle product Greenways which we will launch under the Lassa brand in the year 2014. The nano-pro technology used in Greenways tyres reduces rolling resistance and accordingly fuel consumption. Thanks to its special environment-friendly pattern, Greenways facilitates gripping on dry and wet ground and ensures a quiet and comfortable ride with its light construction and innovative design. 7% lighter construction 37% less rolling resistance 5,5% fuel efficiency 8% shorter wet ground stopping distance 30% more durable Under normal conditions: According to TUV test results, compared to the previous generation Lassa According to Brisa field test results; compared to competing tyres We reduce natural resource use with Bandag retreading service With our Bandag retreading service which falls within the scope of our tyre management, we save up to 40% in the tyre costs of fleets while substantially contributing to the protection of natural resources and to the national economy through quality materials and the right production conditions. By retreading and reusing tyres, we triple their lifecycle and we contribute to environmental 140.000 protection through less tyre waste. Through the retreading of a truck or bus tyres retreaded tyre, 55 kg can be saved on raw material use, 60 kg of waste can be within the scope prevented and CO2emission can be reduced by 30%. In addition, the of the Bandag retreading process consumes about 70% less diesel than the production service. process. In the reporting period, we have retreaded 140.000 tyres as part of the Bandag service. 53 Ahmet Didim Samuklar Business Partner – Nilüfer, Bursa-Machinery Supply Coordinator In consequence of the retreading of truck tyres and the Profleet fleet management cooperation we have achieved retreading performance in our fleet for five times. I am thankful to all Brisa employees for your services and supports in implementing these works. I wish you continued success in your works. We offer fleet management solutions with Profleet We ensure the economical use of natural resources with Profleet fleet management solutions, our consultancy service intended for heavy vehicle fleets. Through our solutions within the scope of Profleet, we ensure fuel saving and minimize environmental impact with less waste. In the year 2013, we have examined the customer field and provided trainings in 2.050 regions across Turkey, within the scope of Profleet. We have also analyzed 276.375 tyres during our visits. We have saved 7,2 million liters of diesel oil and 12.000 tyres thanks to vehicle and tyre maintenances we performed after our analyses. We aim to save 12 million liters of diesel oil and 20.000 tyres in 2014. Shared our vision Ensured the Actualized our Strategy House and objectives for externalization of our and Process House systems the future with strategy of becoming as well as a recruitment our employees at employer of choice module on our Brinsan platform. our Vision Meeting. in all corporate and function strategy scorecards. Measured our organizational culture and climate and planned our actions with 30,71* 67 managers during a one day workshop. Organized a Sustainability Conference with the participation of 170 AVERAGE HOURS employees with the aim of Celebrated our ensuring the generalization OF TRAINING PER 25th year of the concept of sustainability throughout the corporation EMPLOYEE together with all the Brisa family. and raising awareness. Our incidence rate Signed the was realized as %18 “Equality at Work Declaration” devoted to 0,71 We increased and our severity rate as enhancing the representation of our female employee number 13,42 women in business life. Provided a total Provided a total of Started the Launched the of 23.013 hours 5.644 hours of “Occupational Safety Occupational Safety of training to 4.078 training to 1.329 Basic Activities” simulation center. people at employees at practice drawing Brisa Academy. Brisa MEC. on global experiences. OUR WORKING LIFE We continue to add value to business life in line with our essential strategy of “Become Employer of Choice”. We approach our employees honestly and fairly, and we form a nondiscriminatory, safe and healthy working environment. We ensure that our employees take advantage of their personal rights fully and aright. With the awareness of our social responsibility, we make the necessary efforts for the individual development of our employees and support them in volunteering for social activities. Besides, we care to maintain work-life balance. 56 OUR CORPORATE DEVELOPMENT JOURNEY On our corporate development journey, we aim to strengthen our communication with employees, to create good practice models and a participatory working environment which has internalized innovation, entrepreneurship and change, by ensuring the development of our organization and processes. We act with the principle of fairness in performance evaluation processes and we strive to strengthen the harmonization of the individual objectives of our employees with corporate strategies. Organizational Culture We conduct studies in relation to the process-based and customer-oriented culture which we have been aiming at since 2009 when we started change management. We have been investing in creativity and innovation and encouraging entrepreneurship since the year 2009, thereby approximating our current culture to the culture we aim for. Climate & Management Styles Since the year 2007, we have been measuring Climate and Management Styles annually. We try to understand the difference between the ideal climate and our current climate. We have achieved 26% realization in 6 climate dimensions. We have determined improvement steps to achieve our goal of 20%. ORGANIZATIONAL Employee Engagement Survey DEVELOPMENT We measure Employee Engagement every two years and we focus our improvement plans on its results. According to our Employee Engagement evaluation for the year 2012, Turkey average was 52, while Brisa’s evaluation was 61. Performance Management We implement our Corporate and Individual performance evaluation process through the deployment of corporate strategies and objectives in all functions, departments and employees. We have performed the 360 °competency evaluation for 355 of our employees. Career Management We create potential, backup and rotation maps of our company and plan organization scenarios involving all our organization. We ensure that our employees are personally evaluated in relation to their strengths and development areas and that they are offered feedback through the development center practice in the process of promotion. A total of 78 employees participated in the development center and received personal feedback Our performance management process includes the stages of target setting, mid-term evaluation and year-end evaluation. With our project Brinsan, we ensure the harmonization of our strategies defined at Brisa Strategy House with individual performance targets. In this way, we motivate our employees about achieving their individual targets and contributing to our vision and strategic targets. We ensure that all our white collar employees are interviewed, at least twice during an evaluation period; in relation to their performance level and development needs and that they receive feedback. We organize trainings and development programs in order to deploy the culture of feedback. We ensure the effective implementation of the feedback process through Brinsan performance module. 57 Benchmarking Every year, we realize interviews and make action plans for prioritized areas. We performed 10 benchmarking studies for our corporate development projects. Brinsan Through Brinsan, we review all human resources processes and keep them under the same roof by including improvements. We actualized our Recruitment Module and reminder system into live service Strategy House PROCESS We link our strategies to individual objectives and make strategy management everyone’s job. DEVELOPMENT We actualized our strategy management system “Strategy House” into live service. Process House We model our processes in line with our strategies to measure their performance, make improvements and materialize change. We actualized our process management system “Process House” into live service. Project House We determine and prioritize our projects and project portfolio in line with our strategies. We maximize the impact of our projects by making adequate use of our resources. We completed the conceptual context design of our new Project portfolio management system “Project House”. 58 OUR EMPLOYEES’ LEADERSHIP AND DEVELOPMENT JOURNEY We support the personal development of our employees in the process we call Brisa Journey. We also design and implement development programs for future Brisa leaders according to their competences. Besides providing our employees with professional competences, we offer them environments that strengthen their motivation and we carry out projects and activities that allow them to transfer their experiences to the society. 30,71* SALT Sabancı Leader Team We evaluate our senior management based on the climate they create, their management style and 360° AVERAGE HOURS competences annually and we support them through development programs such as personal coaching. OF TRAINING PER * We brought to gether our senior management with the “Design the Life You Love” program and the “Raising EMPLOYEE Your Game” workshop we organized with the participation of Prof. Bates from London Business School. * We refreshed the coaching trainings of all our senior management team. Mid-Level Managers We include our mid-level managers in programs that will develop their leadership competences. •Mentoring • 360 Evaluation and Leadership WS • Manager as Coach / Coaching Supervision • Performance Management / Recruitment Techniques • Development Planning / One-to-one Coaching • Management Simulation • Future Forums (Sabancı Market Orientation Program) * We learned how to reflect design methods to our jobs and our private lives with our manageresses at the “Design the Work You Love” program. * 67 of our managers benefited from coaching programs and 65 of them benefited from mentoring programs. Leader Development Program (LGP) We support the leadership competences of our supervisors and foremen through our development program consisting of personal development and follow-up programs. We completed our 2nd leadership development program aimed at First Level Managers with the participation of 12 people. ELYP –Team Leader Development We equip our blue collar employees preparing for team leadership with an extensive program supporting their personal, technical and leadership competences for their journey. 122 employees have hitherto attended our program, which is the first in its sector.until now. LEADERSHIP JOURNEY 59 Orientation We start off all our employees with our orientation process about Brisa and our practices. • Brisa Overview (All Departments& Model Shop&Field Trip& Museum) • Occupational Health & Safety • SA-Etik • Competition Law • Information Security We provided 256 hours of ethics training within the scope of our orientation program. Employees Contributing to the Climate We provided We invest in all our employees through our programs for developing their personal competences 4.078 people with and their business skills. a total of 23.013 hours • Competences and Self Knowledge • Conﬂict Management & Inﬂuence Persuasion • Finance for of training with non-ﬁnanciers • Presentation Techniques • Business Simulations • Outdoor Brisa Academy. A total of 148 employees have attended this program to this day. BRİSA MEC Brisa Manufacturing Education Center We support the technical knowledge and skills of our employees in our Technical Groups function within the scope of a systematic program with the structuring of MEC. We provided 1.329 employees We provided 1.329 employees with a total of 5,644 hours of training. with a total of 5.644 hours of training with Brisa Academy. Brisa Academy We communicate our vision and processes related to the market and our business models to our business partners and sales & marketing teams through Brisa Academy. We provided 4.078 people with a total of 23.013 hours of training. Technical Professional Development & Management Systems We develop programs to support our change and development processes in parallel with We organized a corporate strategies and convey them to our employees promptly. Sustainability Conference * We organized a Sustainability Conference with the participation of 170 employees in order to ensure the with the participation of deployment of the concept of sustainability within the corporation and to raise awareness. 170 employees in order * We ensured the participation of 2 of our employees in the Corporate Sustainability certificate program. to ensure the deployment of the concept of sustainability within Global Training Program the corporation and Together with our partner, we provide an opportunity for our employees to learn and gain global to raise awareness business experience by working at Bridgestone establishments around the world. A total of 6 employees from our Production, Technology and Marketing functions participated in this program. DEVELOPMENT JOURNEY 60 As Brisa, we are aware that the value placed in employees is a significant aspect of our sustainable business manner. We manage our processes devoted to employees with the coordination of Human Resources and Corporate Development and Labor Relations functions, which are also members of the Executive Committee. Our Human Resources and Corporate Development, Labor Relations Policy, which will help materialize and sustain the medium and long-term business objectives of our company: • To be conscious of our social responsibilities, • To create a workplace where employees are proud and happy to work, • To be a “change leader”, • To ensure and sustain labor peace, • To be “the most preferred workplace” where occupational health and safety and environmental consciousness, ethical values and fairness are priorities, • To sustain these with entrepreneurial and innovative employees who have high desire to succeed, open to change and development. OUR BUSINESS ETHICS APPROACH The main priority of our human resources approach is respect for human rights. We adopt the principle of “Providing Equal Opportunities for Persons under Equal Conditions” within the framework of our Human Resources Policy. We make it a rule to treat all employees fairly and we take precautions to prevent discrimination based on religion, language, race and gender and to protect employees from maltreatments. We support our principles of compliance with laws, regulations and labor legislation in issues such as equality of opportunity and “Forbidding Child Labor and Forced and Compulsory Labor” with our policies. In the reporting period, we have provided Human Rights training to 457 of our employees. We regularly review our Human Rights approach and conduct improvement studies. We impose a disciplinary penalty or take criminal action in cases of Human Rights violation. In the year 2013, we have signed the Equality at Work Declaration led by the Ministry of Family and Social Policies, aimed at enhancing the representation of women in business life. 61 We adopt the values and working principles of Sabancı Group Business Ethics Guidelines (SA-ETIK), which involve the creation and maintenance of a fair working environment, as our Business Ethics approach. We share our Business Ethics guidelines with our stakeholders through our website. With regard to the continuity of awareness, we ensure the informing of our employees by publishing the guidelines on the corporate internal communication portal, distributing printed booklets to all employees and conducting information trainings. Besides, employees update their knowledge of business ethics guidelines with an e-training program and renew their commitment to business ethics guidelines with a “Business Ethics Compliance Statement” they fill in yearly. In the reporting period, we have provided a total of 256 hours of Business Ethics training and 1.552 hours of Competition Law training. We receive support from the guidance of our Ethics Consultant and the Ethics Committee to ensure the healthy implementation of Business Ethics guidelines. The committee is responsible for investigating and resolving complaints and feedbacks regarding the violation of the codes of conduct, within the scope of SA-ETIK. We regularly review our implementation processes and conduct improvement studies. There have been no complaints to the Ethics Consultant and Ethics Committee during the reporting period. There were also no complaints related to discrimination, child labor or forced labor during this period. We promise to answer transparently in case we receive a complaint from our stakeholders regarding our operations. We conduct inter-corporate investigations regarding any accusations we become aware of. LABOR RELATIONS AND UNION RIGHTS We conduct our relations with employees and the union transparently, based on mutual love, respect and trust and within the framework of our ethics guidelines. In line with the importance we attach to sustainable labor peace, the Company Management is in communication based on transparent and mutual trust with the Union Management. All our processes and practices involving our employees are in compliance with the Labor and Social Security Legislation and our Ethics Guidelines. We respect our employees’ rights of organization, unionization and collective bargaining, which are their most basic rights emanating from the constitution and the ILO Convention No 87 and we recognize the union as a significant stakeholder. All our blue-collar workers are members of the Turkish Union of Petrol, Chemistry and Tyre Industry Workers (Lastik-Is). Besides improvements made in employees’ wages and side benefits, regulations concerning Occupational Health and Safety and other details such as health checks, workplace hygiene and ergonomics are included in the collective contract made with the union. All blue-collar employees are covered by Private Health Insurance, in addition to being covered by the Social Security Institution (SGK). We cover all our blue collar and white collar employees by the Private Pension System. We provide life insurance to our white collar employees and benefits such as death benefit, maternity benefit, matrimony benefit, education support, fuel aid, holiday allowance, annual leave allowance, maternity benefit, death benefit, matrimony benefit, education support, family-food aid, child allowance to our blue collar employees. In cases that labor contract is ended, we apply the judgments of labor legislation and collective labor agreement. 62 Zeynep Gürler Brisa Corporate Communications Specialist Brisa Journey I have been working in Brisa for 2 years. In the meantime, I have attended trainings and workshops, which are directly related to my position, such as marketing, communication, and corporate entrepreneurship; as well as those which are related to personal development. I believe that especially the trainings in sustainability area and creative thinking studies, which I attended as a member of Brisa Innovation Team, will contribute not only to my work but also to the other aspects of my life. Moreover, I found the opportunity to attend projects whereby colleagues from various departments contributed with their own outlooks. I have experienced team-sprit, customer-orientation and innovation values in these studies. I think that in Brisa, there is a joyous working environment, which provides opportunities for employees that are open to change and learning. I am pleased with this journey. WHAT ARE OUR GOALS FOR 2014? We aim to formulate an action plan for our “Employer Branding” project, To review and plan our processes in relation to our new investment, To carry out the pilot development program devoted to the development of entrepreneurial competence, To organize information meetings with our managers and employees about climate & culture and engagement results, To repeat our Employee Engagement survey, To prepare and monitor individual development plans for our employees in line with 360° evaluation reports, To develop a time management module through Brinsan and to form improvement steps in all existing modules, to conduct the Brinsan satisfaction survey with all our users, To create a new logo and visual design for our Training& Development programs, To design a training program dealing with the concept of Sustainability holistically, in a way that will introduce the concept to all our employees during their orientation and to actualize the “Sustainability Journey” orienteering program, To provide Competition Law trainings for new recruits as part of the Orientation program, To sustain our practices of Occupational Safety Basic Activities, To continue CDP reporting, To sustain calculating carbon dioxide emissions caused by our activities and having our calculations verified by a third party, in the context of ISO 14064 Standard. 63 OUR OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY APPROACH Occupational Health and Safety is an integral part of everything we do and it has fundamental priority in all our operations. As Brisa, we comply with international standards besides legal regulations in order to provide a healthy and safe working environment for employees in our facilities. We have certified the compliance of our facilities with OHSAS 18001:2007 Occupational Health and Safety Management System Certificate, in the year 2012. We constantly make improvements in occupational health and safety activities in order to achieve our objective of “Zero Work Accident”. In the context of Bridgestone Safety Mission Statement, studies for preventing work accidents are conducted at Brisa through awareness raising studies, systematic approaches and engineering approaches. Our Occupational Health and Safety Committee, which includes an Occupational Health and Safety Management Representative who represents all the workforce, occupational safety experts, workplace doctors, administrative level representatives and union representatives, monitors and evaluates occupational safety performance monthly. 64 Incidence Rate (IR) 1,37 1,07 0,74 0,69 0,71 2009 2010 2011 2012* 2013* Incidence Rate (IR) = Lost work day incident *200,000/Annual working hours Reducing and sustainable performance is good. Our incidence rate was realized as Severity Rate (SR) 0,71 and our severity rate as 26,91 13,42 17,22 15,13 14,79 13,42 2009 2010 2011 2012* 2013* Severity Rate (SR)= Lost work days*200,000 / Annual working hours Reducing and sustainable performance is good. We perform machine, activity and behavior oriented risk analyses within the context of preventive approaches. In consequence of these analyses, we prepare action plans aiming at the elimination of risks. Via Through Behavior Oriented Safety Management Practices, we seek to prevent misconducts and working accidents they might cause. We prepare visual operation standards to prevent our operators from deviating from the defined standards of production activities. Through the Suggestion and Notification of Near-Miss Events System we actively utilize in order to achieve and sustain our goal of being Accident-Free , we encourage, recognize and reward the reporting of near-miss events and suggestions. To prevent similar working accidents from recurring, we analyze every working accident and we prepare prevention plans for every finding we identify. We carry out the follow up of these measures monthly, at the managerial level, in Occupational Safety and Environment Committee and Occupational Health and Safety Board Meetings. Apart from occupational health and safety trainings, we provide our employees with natural disaster management, fire and first-aid trainings which include practices they can employ in their professional and personal lives. 65 We assure that stakeholders such as sub-employers and suppliers receive OHS and Environment orientation trainings in line with the management of accident-free performance and we track their Occupational Safety and Environment performances through periodically held meetings. We also inspect equipment and hand tools used by employees twice yearly.Within the context of industrial hygiene studies, we perform periodical indoor noise, vibration, thermal comfort, lighting and air quality measurements in our facilities yearly. In the year 2013, we started “Occupational Safety Basic Activities” practices drawing on global experiences. We believe in the significance of Occupational Safety for employees to acquire Safe Behavior habits and turn them into a lifestyle. We offer occupational safety orientation training to all new recruits. In the year 2013, we started training Started the studies within the scope of the activities of Brisa MEC (Manufacturing “Occupational Launched the Education Center), which we have structured in order to plan and Occupational Safety Safety Basic execute trainings more effectively, for the realization of Safe simulation Activities” Production. In the reporting period, we provided Disaster Prevention center. practice drawing (Fire and Earthquake) training to 1.124 employees and Occupational on global experiences. Health and Safety training to 174 employees with the Standard Training Program. We aim for all our blue collar employees to complete these two trainings by the end of 2014. Within the context of Brisa-MEC studies, we have launched our Occupational Safety Simulation Center in the year 2013. We plan for our operators to simulate probable working accidents in this center designed specifically for Occupational Safety Simulation Training. We aim for 734 of our employees to participate in trainings by the end of 2014. Measured the tyre tread depth of over In the context of Lassa Reflector 5.000 for Farmers Campaign, we have mounted reflectors vehicles as part of Bridgestone Safety on a total of 2.500 trailers Tyre Campaign. in 8 provinces free of charge. Provided counseling to Turkey’s first 3.500 truck drivers tyre museum at 45 points on the issues of healthy living, We opened and traffic safety with Brisa Museum Yola Sağlam Çık Roadshow practice. Took our place in the Corporate Traffic Safety Declaration. Continued providing Contributed to over Won a total of 118 medals, support 300 students to this day of which 61 first places, for public institutions and we continue to provide 35 second places and and civil initiatives. scholarships for 65 students, 22 third places, through Brisa Members with our Brisaspor team. Educational Support Association. OUR CONTRIBUTION TO SOCIETY We embrace the understanding of “social responsibility conscious management” whereby expectations of customers, employees, shareholders, suppliers, business partners, competitors and the society are reflected on our business manner, culture and values. Having left behind forty years as a corporation, we have fitted many social contribution projects in this period. We regard contributing to the issue of traffic driving safety, which specifically matches with our products, as our foremost priority. Besides, reaching and contributing to every segment of the society in different areas ranging from education to culture and from sports to experience sharing is among our priorities. 68 Our social responsibility approach constitutes an important part of our sustainability strategy. We aim to contribute to Turkey’s social development through our studies in this field. We organize our studies by acting in accordance with the principles of maintaining good relationships with the society and contributing to social, cultural and economic development, while also ensuring the active participation of our stakeholders. We make a point of carrying out our procurement activities through local suppliers and we comply with the principle of local employment in our recruitments. On the one hand, we strive to promote systematic and effective communication with the local community. While on the other hand, we measure the impact of our operations on local communities and keep them under control. Besides our positive contribution to national economy, we create added value through our socio-economic implementations. Alongside our support for social responsibility projects conducted by H. Ömer Sabancı Foundation, we carry out our own projects with our equity capital and the participation of our stakeholders. OUR CONTRIBUTION TO TRAFFIC SAFETY Traffic safety is the primary issue to which we attach particular importance in the field social responsibility. For this reason,we build and support projects aiming to emphasize the importance of traffic safety and to raise awareness. In the reporting period, we actualized various training and support projects along projects we developed for our products. Güvenli Yolculuk için Lastik Başına (To the Tyre for a Safe Journey) We realized Güvenli Yolculuk İçin Lastik Başına (To the Tyre for a Safe Journey) project in order to raise awareness about the importance of tyre tread depth. In the context of our project, our skilled service staffs in our OtoPratik stores perform tyre tread depth measurements for all vehicles getting service and attach a tread depth measurement result card and a card informing about Turnalar Hep Uçsun (Let Cranes Fly Forever) Project to the rearview mirror or the door handle. In this way, we both provide information about the importance of tyre tread depth for safe driving and contribute to the preservation of cranes. Measured the tyre tread Bridgestone Safety Tyre depth of over 5.000 With Bridgestone Safety Tyre campaign, we emphasize the importance of the safety belt while bringing to the attention of consumers the vehicles as part of concernment of Bridgestone with safety in its products. We have Bridgestone Safety Tyre Campaign. measured the tyre tread depth of over 5.000 vehicles prior to national holidays as part of the campaign. In the context of Lassa Reflector for Farmers Lassa Reflector for Farmers Campaign Campaign, we have mounted reflectors on a total of We contribute to reducing trailer accidents by installing reflectors on 2.500 trailers tractor trailers to allow them to be spotted in the dark. Within the in 8 provinces free of charge. context of the project which we realized under our Lassa brand, we have mounted reflectors on a total of 2.500 trailers in 8 provinces free of charge, in the year 2013. 69 Yola Sağlam Çık Provided counseling to We continue to create social awareness through informative projects we 3.500 truck drivers at 45 points on the prepare for heavy vehicle operators on the issue of healthy nutrition with the issues of healthy living, slogan “Yola Sağlam Çık”. In the year 2013, Yola Sağlam Çık project was and traffic safety with deemed worthy of Public Health Award. We offered counseling about healthy Yola Sağlam Çık living and traffic safety to 3.500 truck drivers at 45 points with Yola Sağlam Roadshow practice. Çık Roadshow practice. As part of the practice, body mass index controls were performed, the results were individually examined by our dietitian and individual feedbacks were provided. The infographic generated subsequent to the Roadshow was shared in industry specific and local publications. Ülker Özarslan Bilgin Dietitian With Brisa “Yola Sağlam Çık” project, we measured the weight of approximately 3.500 truck drivers and provided trainings to them on “healthy living and healthy nutrition.” We have determined that 75% of the drivers have obesity problems due to imbalanced, irregular and over nutrition. As drivers eat one or two times a day, stay hungry for long durations and eat exceedingly per meals, they suffer problems such as inattention, headache, tiredness, sleepiness and exhaustion during driving. In addition to these, they are face to face with serious health problems related to obesity, such as cardiovascular diseases, hypertension, diabetes, aches in joints and knees, degradation in sleeping quality and sleep apnea. All these diseases and nutritive condition have negative impacts over driving safety and increase the risk for accidents. We are receiving positive feedback from drivers who began to take care of their health and to lose weight as a result of the training. In 2014, we have determined the ratio of drivers who did not gain weight or lost weight with regards to the previous year, as 46%. I thank Brisa for contributing to traffic safety with “Yola Sağlam Çık” project. Traffic Safety Platform By actively participating in the Traffic Safety Platform, which aims to raise awareness about traffic safety and to play an active role in the determination of public policies, we support Took our place in the pioneering studies for reducing traffic accidents and deaths caused by Corporate Traffic traffic. In the context of the 4th Highway Traffic Safety Symposium and Safety Declaration. Exhibition, we took our place as Brisa in the Corporate Traffic Safety Declaration signed by corporations taking responsibility in this field. 70 OUR CONTRIBUTION TO SECTORAL PRACTICES Continued providing We share our industry specific knowledge and experience on several platforms support constituted by various public institutions and nongovernmental organizations. for public institutions We take part of the Tyre Subcommittee (LAK) affiliated with the Motor Vehicles and civil initiatives. Technical Committee (MARTEK) of the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology and we provide technical support to the committee. In the year 2013, we continued sharing our industry specific knowledge at the Tyre and Life Safety Workshop organized by the Ministry of Transportation, Maritime Affairs and Communications. Besides, our managers continued to share their knowledge and experience by giving lectures at universities and the Tyre Academy within the scope of Sabancı Managers in Class Program. Corporate Support for the Corporate Volunteer Association We continued to collaborate with Corporate Volunteer Association (ÖSGD), which was established to encourage projects undertaken by private companies, aiming for national development, and to provide corporate support for the association in the areas of management and project development. Brisa Improvement Conferences We bring together professionals of the industry and establish an efficient platform for experience sharing with our nationally and internationally recognized Improvement Conference activities, which we organize biennially. We include model practices adding value in the fields of society, environment and economy in the Improvement Conference, in order to raise awareness about the subject of choice. Brisa Museum During the reporting period, we opened Brisa Museum, Turkey’s first tyre museum. In our museum, we present developments that shed light on the history of Turkish tyre industry as well as milestones of Lassa and Brisa, chapters of the story of tyre and many other details Turkey’s first tyre museum through interactive applications that will attract the attention of visitors. We opened Brisa Museum OUR CONTRIBUTION TO EDUCATION AND SPORTS We continue our support for education and sports since our establishment. We are proud of helping financially struggling youth go into profession with Brisa Members Educational Support Association and representing our country in national teams and Olympics with our athletes at Brisaspor. “ 71 Brisa Members Educational Support Association We continued our support for Brisa Members Educational Support Association which was founded to provide scholarships for youth who cannot receive education due to financial difficulties. We aim to support the association, whose total number of supporters reached over 800, through coaching studies for preparing scholar girls to the business life in the Contributed to over 300 forthcoming period. We have contributed to over 300 students to this day students to this day and we and we continue to provide scholarships for 65 students through the continue to provide scholarships association. We transfer the contribution made by our business partners for for 65 students, through Brisa the online training application offered at Brisa Academy to Brisa Members Members Educational Support Educational Support Association works. Association. Brisa Snowball Volunteers We continue “Brisa Snowball Volunteers” studies by participating in the Volunteer Training Program and Workshop with the support of Corporate Volunteer Association (ÖSGD). We continue our activities in line with our mission of “raising social responsibility awareness among Brisa employees and stakeholders and transferring our knowledge, accumulation and skills to the society sustainably”, defined with the support of Corporate Volunteer Association. We provided coaching support for 4 female vocational school students interning at Brisa. In the year 2014, we aim to increase our number of coaches and students. Won a total of 118 medals, Brisaspor of which 61 first places, 35 second places and We contribute to the popularization of cycling with our sports 22 third places, with our Brisaspor team. club Brisaspor, which we proudly support. WHAT ARE OUR GOALS FOR 2014? We aim to continue our “Yola Sağlam Çık” project, To continue our support for public institutions and civil initiatives, To open Brisa Museum, Turkey’s first tyre museum, to the public, To maintain our support for education through Brisa Members Educational Support Association, To continue our contribution to sports with Brisaspor, To give priority to traffic safety and to enrich our studies, To establish more systematic relations with the society by developing stakeholder communication and feedback methods. 72 BRİSASPOR IN 2013 Brisaspor Team Number of Athletes: 17 Average Age: 22 Attended Categories and Races 9 39 7 56 9 45 International National Mountain Countries and Cities Races Starts Road Races Starts Bike Races Starts Senior Men Junior Men Star Men 140 Total Races 9 Countries: Serbia 14 Different Master Men in 5 Categories Iran Romania Cities: Bulgaria Istanbul, Mersin, Senior Women Bosnia-Herzegovina Mugla, Antalya, Italy Adana, Karabuk, Germany Kastamonu, Nigde, Czech Republic Bursa, Sivas, Turkey Ankara, Aksaray, Sanliurfa, Kocaeli, 73 Brisaspor’s Successes Brisaspor’s Training Performance won 118 medals 3 1 2 310 DAYS Trained 85% of the year 22 61 35 Third Place First Place Second Place Distance Covered in Races and Trainings Brisaspor A Team covered 30,000 kilometers. This distance is equivalent to 18 Edirne-Agri trips. Calories Burned Daily Calories Burned in Trainings 1000-4000 kcal 1-4 Hamburgers Number of Changed Tyres Average Calories Burned per Day 2000 kcal 4 Medium Pizzas 150 – Road Bikes Average Calories Burned per Month 42 – Mountain Bikes 45000-52000 kcal 100 Portions of French Fries A total of 192 tyres were used and subsequently recycled. 74 OUR CORPORATE MEMBERSHIPS 1. Business World and Sustainable 17. European Tyre and Rubber Manufacturers Development Foundation Association (ETRMA) / European Tyre Industry 2. Tyre Industrialists Association (LASDER) Coordination Activity (ETICA) 3. Economic Research Foundation 18. Tyre Subcommittee (LAK) 4. Corporate Volunteer Association 19. The European Tyre and Rim Technical Organization 5. Foreign Economic Relations Board (DEIK) (ETRTO) 6. Association of Advertisers 20. Rubber Liners’ Association 7. Istanbul Chamber of Industry 21. Kocaeli Volunteer Firefighters’ Association 8. Yased International Investors Association 22. Kocaeli Chamber of Medicine 9. AIESEC Kocaeli 23. Chamber of Industrial Engineers 10. Uludağ Exporters’ Association 24. Chamber of Metallurgical Engineers 11. Turkish Industrialists’ and Businessmen’s 25. Chamber of Mechanical Engineers Association (TUSIAD) 26. KALDER 12. Turkey Researchers’ Association 27. EFQM 13. Corporate Risk Management Institute 28. Traffic Safety Platform 14. Turkey Internal Auditing Institute 29. Corporate Governance Association of Turkey (TKYD) 15. Turkish Association of Agricultural 30. Risk and Insurance Management Society Inc.(RIMS) Machinery & Equipment Manufacturers 16. PERYÖN Turkey Personnel Management Association 75 ECONOMIC AND ADMINISTRATIVE PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Income(TL) 789.771.399 993.530.845 1.368.845.521 1.451.919.360 1.522.032.545 Operating Costs (TL) 511.076.876 717.941.727 1.070.391.964 1.027.613.373 1.027.744.179 Employee Wages and Other Provided Benefits (TL) 121.318.948 147.006.012 165.496.251 188.512.109 201.899.957 Payments to Pecuniary Resource Providers (TL) 40.942.195 47.063.952 79.808.998 122.703.715 131.564.956 Payments to the State (TL) 11.883.847 17.183.206 20.478.732 23.470.772 24.311.200 Social Investments (TL) 1.548 20.820 478.090 330.441 1.269.906 Protected Economic Value (TL) 104.547.985 64.315.128 32.191.486 89.288.950 155.887.307 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Raw Material Group Supply Values (%) Energy Consumption (GJ/ton) (Index, Basis:2008=100) Total 107 94 89 95** 91** Direct 125 112 115 159** 125** Indirect 105 92 86 89** 88** Energy Savings Realized with Efficiency Projects 389 593 830 968 1106 (GJ/ton) (Cumulative Index, Basis:2008=100) Total Well Water Consumption (m3) 635.523 677.934 567.362 530.738* 443.755* Recycled and Reused Water Consumption (m3, %) Total Water Discharge by Destination (m3) N/A N/A N/A 268.854 319.662 Greenhouse Gas Emission (Scope 1&Scope 2) (ton CO2-e/Production ton) (Index, Basis: 2008=100) Total (Scope 1&Scope 2) 107 95 93 96** 92** Direct (Scope 1) 125 111 177 185** 131** Indirect (Scope 2) 106 94 88 91** 90** Other Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 3) (ton CO2 -e/Üretim ton) (Indeks,Baz: 2010=100) Total (Scope 3) N/A 100 102 92 64 Logistic Activities N/A 100 100 90 65 Employee Transportation N/A 100 117 121 48 Nox, Sox and Other Significant Air Emissions by Type and Weight (Ton CO2-e/Production Ton) (Index, Basis: 2008=100) Total 107 100 94 99 96 NOx 107 100 94 100 97 CH4, CO and N2O 107 100 95 96 92 Total Waste Amount by Type (Ton) Total N/A 7.031 6.841 6.934* 7.035* Hazardous Waste N/A 958 681 640* 761* Non-hazardous Waste N/A 6.073 6.160 6.293* 6.274* Total Waste Amount by Process Type (Ton) Total N/A 7.031 6.841 6.934* 7.035* Reuse N/A 552 202 183 161 Recycle N/A 2.687 3.137 3.240 3.442 Recover N/A 2.926 2.759 2.676 2.626 Incineration N/A 266 265 234 298 Safe Landfill N/A 599 479 602 509 Environmental Protection and Investment 724.544 349.860 880.195 1.098.097 1.198.410 Expenditures (USD) “The figures highlighted in blue indicate modified data with regards to Brisa 2012 Sustainability Report” * See: Limited Assurance Report ** While related ratios are indexed with regards to 2008, only real values belonging to years 2012 and 2013 are incorporated in limited assurance studies. Index information according to 2008 is excluded from limited assurance scope. 76 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Total Number of Employees 1.562 1.722 1.785 1.745 1.818 Employee Breakdown by Gender and Status(Numeral, %) Blue Collar Female 0 (0) 0 (0) 0 (0) 0 (0) 0 (0) Blue Collar Male 1.159 (100) 1.291 (100) 1.337 (100) 1.305 (100) 1.361 (100) White Collar Female 52 (13,2) 63 (14,9) 62 (14,1) 67 (15,5) 79 (18) White Collar Male 342 (86,8) 360 (85,1) 378 (85,9) 366 (84,4) 371 (82) Employee Breakdown by Contract Type(Numeral) Permanent Female 52 63 62 67 79 Temporary Female 1 2 0 0 1 Permanent Male 1.501 1.651 1.715 1.671 1.732 Temporary Male 8 6 7 1 1 Employee Breakdown by Age Groups <30 (%) White Collar 27,9 28,7 27,1 23,9 18,4 Blue Collar 40,2 40,8 34,8 27,6 27,3 <30-50> (%) White Collar 66,9 65,2 65,2 68,8 76,2 Blue Collar 59,3 58,6 64,7 71,9 72,5 50> (%) White Collar 5,2 6,1 7,6 7,4 5,3 Blue Collar 0,6 0,5 0,5 0,5 0,1 Employees Covered by Collective Bargaining 74 75 75 75 75 Agreement (%) Employee Trainings (hour/person) Blue Collar 20,59 14,69 18,51 24,85* 17,7* White Collar 51,21 58,89 58,08 53,11* 71,6* Incidence Rate (IR) 1,07 1,37 0,74 0,69* 0,71* Severity Rate (SR) 17,22 26,91 15,13 14,79* 13,42* Absentee Rate (%) 5,37 4,66 5,36 5,68 5,09 Top Management by Age Groups (%) Board of Directors Female 11,1 9,1 9,1 11,1 9,1 Board of Directors Male 88,9 90,9 90,9 89,9 90,9 Executive Committee Female 0 0 0 0 0 Executive Committee Male 100 100 100 100 100 Top Management by Age Groups (%) <30 (%) Board of Directors 0 0 0 0 0 Executive Committee 0 0 0 0 0 <30-50> (%) Board of Directors 44,4 36,4 44,4 44,4 44,4 Executive Committee 33,3 33,3 66,7 66,7 66,7 50> (%) Board of Directors 55,6 63,6 55,6 55,6 55,6 Executive Committee 66,7 66,7 33,3 33,3 33,3 77 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Hired Employees by Gender (Numeral, %) Blue Collar Female 0 0(0) 0(0) 0(0) 0(0) Blue Collar Male 0 234 (100) 78 (100) 42 (100) 96(100) White Collar Female 9 (17,3) 13 (16,7) 11 (12,9) 10 (18,2) 18(30) White Collar Male 43 (82,7) 65 (83,3) 74 (87,1) 45 (81,8) 42(70) Leaving Employees by Gender (Numeral, %) Blue Collar Female 2 (1,7) 0 (0) 0 (0) 0 (0) 0 (0) Blue Collar Male 97 (98,3) 30 (100) 32 (100) 39 (100) 38(100) White Collar Female 0 (0) 3 (6,1) 11 (17,7) 6 (9,8) 6(13) White Collar Male 16 (100) 46 (93,9) 53 (82,3) 55 (90,2) 40(87) Hired Employees by Age Groups (Numeral, %) Blue Collar<30 0 231 (98,7) 77 (98,7) 39 (92,9) 91(94,8) Blue Collar<30-50> 0 3 (1,3) 1 (1,3) 3 (7,1) 5(5,2) Blue Collar 50> 0 0 (0) 0 (0) 0 (0) 0 (0) White Collar <30 35 (67,3) 47 (60,3) 58 (68,2) 29 (52,7) 37(61,7) White Collar <30-50> 16 (30,8) 31 (39,7) 27 (31,8) 25 (45,5) 22(36,7) White Collar 50> 1 (1,9) 0 (0) 0 (0) 1 (1,8) 1(1,7) Leaving Employees by Age Groups (Numeral, %) Blue Collar <30 19 (19,2) 2 (6,7) 2 (6,3) 1 (2,6) 0(0) Blue Collar <30-50> 77 (77,8) 25 (83,3) 29 (90,6) 33 (84,6) 35(92,1) Blue Collar 50> 3 (3) 3 (10) 1 (3,1) 5 (12,8) 3(7,9) White Collar <30 6 (37,5) 23 (46,9) 19 (29,7) 14 (23) 18(39,1) White Collar <30-50> 8 (50) 22 (44,9) 34 (53,1) 39 (63,9) 25(54,3) White Collar 50> 2 (12,5) 4 (8,2) 11 (17,2) 8 (13,1) 3(6,5) Entry Level Wage by Minimum Wage Blue Collar 4,11 4,05 3,91 3,8 3,91 White Collar 4,62 4,21 3,94 3,51 3,52 78 GRI REFERENCE PAGE NOTE RESPONSE INDICATORS PROFIL INDICATORS 1.1 Message from the CEO 6-7 Full Messages from Sustainability Work Groups 8-9 1.2 Message from the CEO 6-7 Full Messages from Sustainability Work Groups 8-9 2.1 About the Report 2 Full 2.2 About Brisa 10-13 Full 2.3 About Brisa 10-13 Full 2.4 Contact Cover Full 2.5 About Brisa 10-13 Full 2.6 2013 Annual Report 12 Full 2.7 About Brisa 10-13 Full 2.8 About Brisa 10-13 Full 2013 Annual Report 15-42 2.9 Corporate Website http://www.brisa.com.tr/English/Brisa/Investor-Relations Full /Public-Disclosure-of-Special-Circumstances.aspx 2.10 Awards We Received During the Reporting Period 14 Full 3.1 About the Report 2 Full 3.2 About the Report 2 Full 3.3 About the Report 2 Full 3.4 About the Report 2 Full 3.5 Our Sustainability Structure 21-22 Full 3.6 About the Report 2 Full GRI Indicators Table 78 The scope of the report covers Turkey operations. 3.7 About the Report 2 Full 3.8 About the Report 2 Full 3.9 About the Report 2 Full GRI Indicators Table 78 The realized data has been prepared with regards to approaches, standards and systems which are employed within the company and are subjected to development in line with continuous improvment culture. Our objectives are displayed in line with our Budget (annual plan) and MTP (5-year mid term plan). 3.10 About the Report 2 Full 3.11 About the Report 2 Full 3.12 GRI Indicators Table 78-81 Full 3.13 GRI Indicators Table 78 Besides assurance there is no other business relationship Full exists between assurance company and Brisa. About the Report 2 4.1 Our Corporate Governance Structure 18 Full 4.2 Our Corporate Governance Structure 18 Full 4.3 2013 Annual Report 22 Full 4.4 2013 Annual Report 56,61-62 Full 4.5 2013 Annual Report 70 Full 4.6 2013 Annual Report 65 Full 4.7 2013 Annual Report 63-65 Full 4.8 2013 Annual Report 62-63 Full Our Business Ethics Approach 60-61 4.9 Message from the CEO 6-7 Full Risk Management 19-20 Our Sustainability Structure 21-22 4.10 2013 Annual Report 63-65 Full 4.11 Risk Management 19-20 Full 4.12 Our Sustainability Structure 21-22 Full 4.13 Our Corporate Memberships 74 Full 4.14 Our Stakeholders 22-23 Full 4.15 Our Sustainability Structure 21-22 Full GRI Indicators Table 78 In 2011, with the participation of senior executives representing all departments, we have implemented a Sustainability workshop in which stakeholder groups, methods and frequency of communication with relevant stakeholder groups has been determined by Brisa. 4.16 Our Stakeholders 22-23 Full 4.17 Our Sustainability Structure 21-22 Full Our Stakeholders 22-23 About the Report 2 79 GRI REFERENCE PAGE NOTE RESPONSE INDICATORS MANAGEMENT APPROACH DMA EC Performance Indicators Table p.75-77; Combating Climate Full Change p.42; Messages from Sustainability Work Groups p.8-9; Message from the CEO pp.6-7; Our Environment Friendly Product and Services pp.51-53; Working Relations and Union Rights p.61; 2013 Annual Report p.24-26, 52, 99; Direct Answer EC5, EC6; Responsible Procurement Practices p.30-31; Our Contribution to Society pp. 66-73; Our Customers pp.31-32; Our Business Partners p.32-33 DMA EN Direct Answer EN1, EN2, EN3, EN4, EN9, EN10, EN11, Full EN12, EN13, EN15, EN19, EN23, EN24, EN25, EN28; Performance Indicators Table p.75; More Efficient Energy Consumption p.43-44; Our Environment Friendly Product and Services pp.51-53; Less Emission p.44-46; More Efficient Water Consumption p.47; Our Environmental Approach s.49; Less Waste p.48-49; Our Customers pp. 31-32; Combating Climate Change p.42 DMA LA Performance Indicators Table p.76-77; Direct Answer LA1, Full LA3, LA15, LA7, LA10, LA12, LA14 ; 2013 Annual Report p.52; Labor Relations and Union Rights p.61; Our Occupational Health and Safety Approach pp.63-65; Our Employees’ Leadership and Development Journey pp.58-60; Our Corporate Development Journey pp.56-57; Our Business Ethics Approach p.60-61 DMA HR Responsible Procurement Practices p.30-31; Our Business Full Ethics Approach p.60-61; Labor Relations and Union Rights p.61; Direct Answer HR3, HR8, HR9, HR11; Internal Audit and Internal Control p.20 DMA SO Our Environmental Approach s.49; Our Contribution To Full Society p.66-63; Direct Answer SO10, SO2, S04, SO6, SO7, SO8; Internal Audit and Internal Control p.20; Our Business Ethics Approach p.60-61; Our Stakeholders p.22-23; Our Contribution To Sectoral Practices p.70; Our Corporate Memberships p.74; Our Corporate Governance Structure p.18 DMA PR Our Value Chain pp.27-29; Our Environmental Friendly Full Product and Services p.51-53; Our Customers p.31-32; Our Business Partners p.32-33; Innovation p.34-37; Direct Answer PR2, PR4, PR7, PR8, PR9 PERFORMANS INDICATORS EC1 Performance Indicators Table 75 Full EC2 Combating Climate Change 42 Full Messages from Sustainability Work Groups 8-9 Message from the CEO 6-7 Our Environment Friendly Product and Services 51-53 EC3 Working Relations and Union Rights 61 Full 2013 Annual Report 52 EC4 2013 Annual Report 99 Full EC5 Performance Indicators Table 77 Full GRI Indicators Table 79 Minimum wage does not differ with regards to gender. EC 6 Responsible Procurement Practices 30-31 Full GRI Indicators Table 79 Local means geographic area inside the border of Turkey EC7 Our Contribution to Society 66-73 Full 2013 Annual Report 24-26 EC8 Our Contribution to Society 66-73 Full EC9 Our Contribution to Society 66-73 Full Responsible Procurement Studies 30-31 Our Customers 31-32 Our Business Partners 32-33 EN1 GRI Indicators Table 79 Proprietary information. Not EN2 GRI Indicators Table 79 Recycled raw material is not used in production. Full 80 GRI REFERENCE PAGE NOTE RESPONSE INDICATORS PERFORMANCE INDICATORS EN3 Performance Indicators Table 75 Partial GRI Indicators Table 80 Resource breakdown cannot be revealed for reasonsof confidentiality. EN4 Performance Indicators Table 75 Partial GRI Indicators Table 80 Resource breakdown cannot be revealed for reasons of confidentiality. EN5 More Efficient Energy Consumption 43-44 Full EN6 Our Environment Friendly Product and Services 51-53 Full EN7 More Efficient Energy Consumption 43-44 Full Less Emission 44-46 EN8 More Efficient Water Consumption 47 Full Performance Indicators Table 75 EN9 GRI Indicators Table 80 Our facilities do not reside in RAMSAR areas. Full EN10 GRI Indicators Table 80 Data is planned to be reported in 2015. Not EN11 GRI Indicators Table 80 Brisa does not own protected or restored areas. Full EN12 Respecting Biodiversity 49 Full GRI Indicators Table 80 Brisa does not own protected or restored areas. EN13 GRI Indicators Table 80 Brisa does not own protected or restored areas. Full EN14 Respecting Biodiversity 49 Full EN15 GRI Indicators Table 80 No species are affected by our activities. Full EN16 Less Emission 44-46 Full Performance Indicators Table 75 EN17 Less Emission 44-46 Full Performance Indicators Table 75 EN18 Less Emission 44-46 Full EN19 GRI Indicators Table 80 Do not included in report due to its effect, which is lower than 5% of total GHG emissions. Not EN20 Performance Indicators Table 75 Full EN21 More Efficient Water Consumption 47 Full Performance Indicators Table 75 EN22 Less Waste 48-49 Full Performance Indicators Table 75 EN23 GRI Indicators Table 80 No spills have taken place during the reporting period. Full EN24 GRI Indicators Table 80 Not Applicable Not EN25 More Efficient Water Consumption 47 GRI Indicators Table 80 Discharge of water to receiving environment is not present. Wastewater discharge is made to municipality sewage system within the legal limits. Thus, there is no negative impact over habitat. Full EN26 Our Environmental Friendly Product and Services 51-53 Full Our Customers 31-32 Combating Climate Change 42 EN27 Less Waste 48-49 Full EN28 GRI Indicators Table 80 No sanctions were received for non-compliance with environmental regulations during the reporting period. Full EN29 Less Emission 44-46 Full Performance Indicators Table 75 EN30 Performance Indicators Table 75 Full LA1 Performance Indicators Table 76 Full GRI Indicators Table 80 LA2 Performance Indicators Table 77 Full LA3 2013 Annual Report 52 Full GRI Indicators Table 80 No part-time employees are present. LA15 GRI Indicators Table 80 In the reporting period, return to work rate is 100% for both male and female employees. Full LA4 Performance Indicators Table 76 Full LA5 Working Relations and Union Rights 61 Full LA6 Our Occupational Health and Safety Approach 63-65 Full LA7 Performance Indicators Table 76 Full GRI Indicators Table 80 As there are no Blue-Collar women workers, gender breakdown is not presented. 81 GRI REFERANS SAYFA AÇIKLAMALAR RAPORLAMA GÖSTERGELERİ DÜZEYİ LA8 Our Occupational Health and Safety Approach 63-65 Full LA9 Working Relations and Union Rights 61 Full LA10 Performance Indicators Table 76 Partial GRI Indicators Table 81 Related data will be reported as of 2014 with gender breakdown. LA11 Our Employees’ Leadership And Development Journey 58-60 Full LA12 Our Corporate Development Journey 56-57 Full GRI Indicators Table 81 All white collar employees are included in the related system. LA13 Performance Indicators Table 76 Full LA14 Our Business Ethics Approach 60-61 Full GRI Indicators Table 81 There is no gender discrimination in remuneration of employees. HR1 Responsible Procurement Practices 30-31 Full HR2 Responsible Procurement Practices 30-31 Full HR3 Our Business Ethics Approach 60-61 Full GRI Indicators Table 81 Trainings provided to our employees during the reporting period involve human rights issues HR4 Our Business Ethics Approach 60-61 Full HR5 Working Relations and Union Rights 61 Full Responsible Procurement Practices 30-31 HR6 Responsible Procurement Practices 30-31 Our Business Ethics Approach 60-61 Full HR7 Responsible Procurement Practices 30-31 Our Business Ethics Approach 60-61 HR8 GRI Indicators Table 81 Private security services are provided by a third party. All security personnel are trained on human rights policy and legal obligations. Full HR9 GRI Indicators Table 81 No related incident has taken place during the reporting period. Full HR10 Internal Audit and Internal Control 20 Full Responsible Procurement Practices 30-31 HR11 GRI Indicators Table 81 No related incident has taken place during the reporting period. Full SO1 Respecting Biodiversity 49 Full Our Contribution to Society 66-73 SO9 Our Contribution to Society 66-73 Full SO10 GRI Indicators Table 81 Negative impacts are measured and controlled. The systems are improved with preventive approaches (technological innovations, benchmarking studies, suggestion systems, etc.) Full SO2 Internal Audit and Internal Control 20 Full GRI Indicators Table 81 During the reporting period 15% of our business units were audited. SO3 Our Business Ethics Approach 60-61 Full Internal Audit and Internal Control 20 SO4 Our Business Ethics Approach 60-61 Full Internal Audit and Internal Control 20 GRI Indicators Table 81 No incident regarding corruption has taken place during the reporting period. SO5 Our Stakeholders 22-23 Full Our Contribution To Sectoral Practices 70 Our Corporate Memberships 74 SO6 GRI Indicators Table 81 No financial or in-kind contribution is made for political parties, politicians and related institutions. Full SO7 Our Corporate Governance Structure 18 Full GRI Indicators Table 81 No incident regarding non-compliance with Competition Law has taken place during the reporting period. SO8 GRI Indicators Table 81 No significant fines were paid for non-compliance with laws and regulations during the reporting period. Full PR1 Our Value Chain 27-29 Full Our Environmental Friendly Product and Services 51-53 Our Customers 31-32 Our Business Partners 32-33 Innovation 34-37 PR2 GRI Indicators Table 81 No related incident has taken place during the reporting period. Full PR3 Our Customers 31-32 Full PR4 GRI Indicators Table 81 No related incident has taken place during the reporting period. Full PR5 Our Customers 31-32 Full PR6 Our Value Chain 27-29 Full Our Customers 31-32 PR7 GRI Indicators Table 81 No related incident has taken place during the reporting period. Full PR8 GRI Indicators Table 81 No related incident has taken place during the reporting period. Full PR9 GRI Indicators Table 81 No related incident has taken place during the reporting period. Full 82 UN Global Compact Progress Statement Indicators Table Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and pp.30-31; pp.60-61 Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. abuses. pp.30-31; pp.60-61 Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; p.61 Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; pp.60-61 Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and pp.60-61 Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. pp.60-61 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; pp.40-53 Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and pp.40-53 Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. pp.40-53 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. p.20; pp.60-61 83 Brisa Sabancı Lastik Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. Energy Consumption, Carbon Dioxide Emission, Water Consumption, Training Hours, Occupational Health and Safety and Waste Amount per TypeIndicators Reporting Guidance This Reporting Guidance (“Guidance”) supports the preparation and reporting of energy consumption, carbon dioxide emission, water consumption, training hours, occupational health and safety and waste amount per type of Brisa Sabancı Lastik Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. (the “Company”). It is the responsibility of the Company management to ensure that appropriate procedures are in place to prepare the indicators mentioned above in line with, in all material respects, the Guidance. Scope of Reporting The scope of our report includes the results of operations in Turkey and excludes the performance related to non-tyreproduction.Non-tyre products constitute 1% of the total revenue. The data until FY 2013 (until the fiscal year ended 31 December 2013) is reported (including the information as of 31 December 2013). General Reporting Principles In preparing this guidance document, the following principles have been considered: • Preparation of Information;relevant and reliable preparation of information is main principle. • Reporting of Information; the main principles have been deﬁned as to be comparability / consistency of information with other data including prior year and understandability / transparency providing clarity to users. Key Definitions and Data Preparation Energy Consumption “Energy” consists of electricity, steam, natural gas, fuel oil, and LPG. For the purpose of this report, energy does not include alternative forms of fuel, such as bio-waste, bio-mass, bio-diesel, or renewable sources of energy (such as wind or solar energy) which collectively represent an insignificant share of total energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. “Energy consumption” means the energy used during the reporting year (1 January to 31 December), being the energy purchased during the period.Energy consumption data includes energy used in all manufacturing processes and secondary facilities, including electrical systems, heating, lighting, on-site transportation and air circulation (HVAC system). The results of the transportation services provided by third parties including the supplying process are excluded. “Direct energy Consumption”, refers to primary energy sources such as natural gas, LPG, fuel, etc. which are consumed for own operations. “Indirect Energy Consumption”,refers to the electricity and steam that is produced outside the company and consumed by company. “Volume of production (tone)”,refers to annual production volume warehoused in terms of tone. The information is provided by accounting unit. Energy consumption data are obtained from supplier invoices. The conversion factors presented in the Table.1 are used in the calculation of energy consumption ratios. Energy Consumption Rate (The energy consumption per production tone): Energy Consumption (GJ) / Volume of Production (tone) In the scope of assurance, direct and indirect energy consumption per production tonnage are provided. The data is indexed to due confidentiality. Carbon Dioxide Emission “Carbon dioxide emissions”, means the carbon emitted as a result of the energy consumption during the reporting year (1 January to 31 December) and refers to the impact of our all tyre production processes, uses of sources, chemicals and logistic operations located in İzmit. The term of “facility” includes the production, administration, social service, warehousing and technology buildings. Where the Company has on-site generated energy, the related energy consumption is defined as direct energy consumption. “Direct Greenhouse Gas Emission”, refers the emission generated by the source that is owned or kept down by company. (Scope-1) 84 “Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emission”,refers the emission generated by company operations, but the source of emission is owned or kept down by different organization. • “Energy indirect”, refers the emission generated by electric and steam that is bought and consumed in operational line of company. (Scope-2) • “Other indirect”, refers the emission generate by logistic services that is outsourced by company. (Scope-3) Greenhouse gas emissions are calculated depending on the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC -2006) reference methods and measurements. In calculation of energy consumption, lower heating values in Annex 2 in Regulation of Increasing Efficiency in Energy Resources and Use (Enerji Kaynaklarının Ve Enerjinin Kullanımında Verimliliğin Artırılmasına Dair Yönetmelik (RG: 27.10.2011/ 28097 )EK 2 ) are used.Values are presented in Table1. Carbon dioxide emission is calculated depending on the conversion factors of energy resources. Conversion factor is used to determine the amount of carbon dioxide emission for one unit of energy. Different types of energy sources have different conversion factors reflecting their carbon dioxide intensity. In future periods, conversion factors may be updated to reflect changes to and/or improvements in published data. The conversion factors are presented in Table 2. Table 1.Lower Heating Values of Energy Sources Table 2. Energy and Greenhouse Gas Emissions Conversion Factors Fuel / Material Lower Heating Value Unit Conversion Factors (kg/TJ) Fuel / Material Scope Ref. Doğalgaz 8.250 kCal/m3 CO2 CH4 N2O Motorin 10.200.000 kCal/ton Natural Gas Direct 56.100,00 1,00 0,10 a LPG 27.000 kCal/m3 Diesel Oil Direct 74.100,00 3,00 0,60 a Benzin 10.400.000 kCal/ton Diesel Oil Other Indirect 74.100,00 3,90 3,90 b Elektrik 860 kCal/kWh LPG Direct 63.100,00 1,00 0,10 a Buhar 574.300 kCal/ton Oil Direct 69.300,00 25,00 8,00 b *4,186 and 1000 values are used for Kj/Kcal and Electricity Energy Indirect 0,472 c Mj/Kj conversion respectively. Steam Energy Indirect 0,167 d a. 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories -Volume 2-Chapter 2 Stationary Combustion Table 2.3 b. 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories -Volume 2-Chapter 3 Mobile Combustion Table 3.2.2 c. IEA Statistics 2013 Edition Turkey ( Tier 2 Country Specific Emission Factor) CO2 emissions per kWh from electricity generation * page: 110 d. Supplier's declaration Carbon Dioxide Emission Rate (CO2emission ton per production tonnage):Carbon Dioxide Emission (ton CO2) / Production Volume (ton) In the scope of assurance, scope 1 and 2 emission per production tonnage is provided. The data is indexed to due confidentiality. Water Consumption ‘Water’ consists of all kinds of water used at the facility including well and municipality water. Well water consumption values are presented during the reporting year (the period between 1 January and 31 December). Well water consumption data includes water used forproduction, cooling (contactandnon-contact), cleaning, back-washing filters, irrigation, washing trucks, toilets and sinks and fire control. Water consumption data is obtained from supplier invoices. In the scope of assurance, well water consumption m3 is provided. 85 Training Hours “Total Training Hours”, represent total hours of training (personal development, occupational safety, technical, on-the-job trainings, outdoor, orientation and etc.) that have been provided by the Company or any third party training institution to white and blue collar employees. Training hours represent all hours of training provided during the reporting year (the period between 1 January and 31 December). “Number of Employees” represents total number of white and blue collar employees in the Company. Personal information of each employee who starts to work in the Company is registered to the SAP system that is created for human resources applications, by Labor Relations Unit. The program generates data such as employee breakdown data by status (blue/white collar).The number of employees is determined based on the information as of year-end. Name of the training, details of participant and total hours of the training offered to white and blue collar employees are registered to participatory forms. The information on these forms is registered to the SAP system by the related Human Resources Department. One-day training is considered to be 8 hours. Training hour per person (Hour/Man) :Total training hour / Total Number of Employees In the scope of assurance, total training hours per person, blue and white collar breakdown are provided. Occupational Health and Safety Indicators “Monthly Working Hour”, represents total number of hours worked within the boundaries of workplace by white and blue collar employees during the corresponding month. Working hours of blue collar employees are calculated via Personnel Attendance Control System (PDKS) software which keeps data of time of entrance and departure of employees. Working hours of white collar employees are calculated via following formula; White collar employees working hours (monthly) = Number of white collar employees * Total number of working days (monthly) * 7,5 hours “Lost Day Cases”, represent total number of working days in which the Company’s employees are affected physically and incapable of working due to accidents or death. Number of “Lost Days” represents the total number of working days lost due to accidents. It is calculated by determining the period of incapable of working days of an employee comparing with the incapacity report of the employee given by health institution. Incident Rate-IR :Lost Day Cases*200.000/Monthly Working Hours Severity Rate-SR :Lost Days*200.000 /Monthly Working Hours In the scope of assurance, incident and severity rates are provided. Waste Amount Per Type “Hazardous waste (tone)”, refers the amount of waste which is classified and recovered/disposed outside the company depending on the General Principle of Waste Management (Atık Yönetimi Genel Esaslarına İlişkin Yönetmelik-05.07.2008 / 26927). Hazardous waste amount is the summation of the amount reported in National Waste Transportation Form (Ulusal Atık Taşıma Formları) which is composed by licenced companies for waste transportation. “Non-hazardous waste,” is the amount of waste outside the hazardous waste and recycled/recovered/disposed outside the company except waste water. Non-hazardous waste amount is the summation of tonnage in dispatch note which is composed while sending non-hazardous waste to licensed companies. In the scope of assurance, hazardous and non-hazardous waste tonnages are provided. Restatements The measuring and reporting of assured environmental data inevitably involves a degree of estimation.In exceptional circumstances, restatements for prior year reported data may be required. Restatements are considered where the data differs by more than 5% at the Company level. 86 87 88 Report Consultant: www.kiymetiharbiye.com Limited Assurance Study: Report Design: www.folkbca.com Print: LEGAL DISCLAIMER Sustainability Report (Report) was prepared by Brisa Bridgestone Sabancı Lastik San. ve Tic. A.Ş. in line with the reporting principles of GRI (Global Reporting Initiative). All information and opinions expressed in this report, which are not of a complete nature, were provided by Brisa Bridgestone Sabancı Lastik San. ve Tic. A.Ş. The report is solely prepared for informative purposes and does not aim to constitute a basis fo r investment decisions. No information expressed in this report forms a proposal or part of a proposal regarding the sale of Brisa Bridgestone Sabancı Lastik San. ve Tic. A.Ş. shares, or an invitation to this kind of process. The publishing of this report does not mean that a legal relationship of this kind has been established. All featured information and related documents are believed to be accurate at the time of this report’s preparation and all information has been provided in good faith and relies on trustworthy sources. However, Brisa Bridgestone Sabancı Lastik San. ve Tic. A.Ş. does not make any kind of declaration, guarantee or promise in relation to this information. Accordingly, no company belonging to Brisa Bridgestone Sabancı Lastik San. ve Tic. A.Ş., nor their Board Committee members, advisors or employees are responsible for any loss or damage in curred directly or indirectly by a person as a result of any information or communication provided within this report, or any information based on or not included in this report.
