Sustainability Report 2013 Contents Important events during 2013........................................... 3 From the CEO................................................................ 4-5 Peab in brief................................................................... 6-9 Stakeholder dialogue and focus areas....................... 10-13 Employees................................................................. 14-17 Ethics and anti-corruption.......................................... 18-19 Environment and energy............................................ 20-23 Suppliers and customers........................................... 24-27 Active memberships....................................................... 28 Glossary......................................................................... 29 GRI and UN Global Compact index........................... 30-31 A B O U T T H E S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T This is Peab's third Sustainability Report. It describes Peab's work on issues of sustainability and covers the calendar year 2013, unless stated otherwise in the text. Our two previous sustainability reports, which were published in April 2012 and 2011 respectively, were written in accordance with the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) version G3.1. This year's report follows the latest version of the GRI's framework, G4, and it is our assessment that it satisfies the criteria for the base level core. The report has not been examined by external auditors. Peab intends to continue to publish an annual sustainability report in connection with the publication of our annual report. Since Peab signed the UN Global Compact 2012, our Sustainability Report also serves as our COP report (Communication on Progress), as we describe our work on the ten principles of the Global Compact in the report. Unless otherwise specified in the text, the report is valid for the whole of Peab's business in Sweden, Norway and Finland. Suppliers with operations outside of the Nordic countries are also considered in the report. The majority of our international purchases are made in Estonia, Lithuania, Czech Republic and Poland. Hired businesses, part-owned subsidiaries and leased facilities such as some of our office premises where other companies are responsible for operations are not included in the report. The reason for this is that we have decided to focus the report on our core business. In accordance with the new version of the GRI, we have focused our report on the areas identified as most important in the materiality analysis for the year. This means that there are some new indicators for us this year, while some of the areas we described in the past are not given as much coverage. More information about Peab is available on our website: www.peab.com. If you have any questions about the report or about Peab's sustainability work, please contact Kristina Gabrielii, Sustainability Manager at Peab, by email: kristina.gabrielii@peab.se or on tel. +46 (0) 733 375690. Important events during 2013 Peab's 2013 customer surveys revealed an increased SCI (Satisfied Customer Index) for both business customers and residential customers (page 26-27). The project Brf Compagniet at Västra Eriksberg in Gothenburg was Peab's first in-house project to achieve Miljöbyggnad certification (page 21). An extended, in-depth stakeholder dialogue took place in the autumn of 2013 with a focus on sustainability (page 10-13). During the year, the Peab School was involved in the rebuilding of Utøya in Norway (page 15). A focus week on the subject working environment was held throughout the whole Group, with management groups visiting approximately 450 workplaces (page 16). Peab appointed a Sustainability Manager and created the Group function CSR – Social Responsibility (page 8-9). During Almedalen Week, Peab organised two well-attended seminars on housing, education and jobs for young people. During 2013, Peab developed an employee profile and a managerial profile, involving 600 employees in the process. These profiles are easy to relate to and provide a clear view of how we work (page 17). During the spring, Peab took over the baton in the Responsibility Relay , an initiative launched in 2011 by HSB Göteborg in order to promote sustainability and social responsibility in the housing sector. Peab Oy received two new system certificates OHSAS 18001 for occupational health and safety and ISO 14001 for environment. The quality system received an ISO 9001 certificate in 2009. These three certified systems together represent the business management system in Finland (page 14). There was a major focus on online telephony during the year with the facility to hold web conferences, and this reduced traveling and benefited the environment, finances and the working environment for employees (page 23). Peab's skills development programme has been revised and will be implemented in 2014 (page 16). Peab set up a new crisis organisation in Norway to deal with serious accidents. A new, competence-based recruitment process was launched, representing one step in our work to achieve greater diversity in Peab (page 17). As of 2013 we issue safety warnings when serious incidents or accidents occur. These safety warnings are disseminated through the organisation and contain information about what has happened and how similar events can be prevented at other workplaces (page 14). PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 3 A journey of change towards a sustainable business organisation. The objectives will be more important areas of sustainability will be relevant and measurable when the busiprioritised for the next strategy period. They ness areas assume greater responsibility have been chosen on the basis of what is for defining objectives for 2015-2017 for most relevant for our stakeholders and for their own specific activities. Peab's business. I can confirm that we face During the process of change we challenges in many of these areas. reviewed the sustainability work at Peab. In We have made major investments and order to put a greater focus on the issue, a achieved success in health and working Sustainability Manager was appointed and environment, but this is an area in which we created a Group function, CSR – Social we must never ease up. Safety is a chalResponsibility, which reports directly to the lenge for the whole industry. We want executive management. It is our ambition to everyone at our workplaces to be safe, feel raise the minimum level within all areas that secure and be healthy. We have a zero contribute to a sustainable business. vision for accidents at the workplace. Peab Peab signed the UN Global Compact in had no fatal accidents in 2013, but there 2012. This has contributed to enhanced was an increase in the number of accidents awareness and competence, for example at the workplace. through the methodical follow-up that we have committed to pursue. Jesper Göransson, President and CEO COMMUNITY BUILDER ASSUMES RESPONSIBILITY “– that Intensive and challenging is how I would describe Intensive and challenging – that is how I the past year at Peab ” Peab influences society and the would describe the past year at Peab. environment for the people who live Following the change of CEO in spring with what we build and install, both 2013, the new management team put now and in the future. Peab is also forward a powerful package of measures to a major employer. We want to assume a Ethics and anti-corruption is one transform the Group's unsatisfactory finanholistic responsibility and contribute to area where we are continuing to train our cial result into a sustainable profit. It is clear society by adding value financially, environemployees. In 2013 our internal audit disthat Peab must deliver value and a return mentally and socially in what we do. Peab's covered irregularities, which is unacceptfor its shareholders, in both the short term vision is to be the Nordic Community able. Peab must stand for good business and the long term. This is why we carried Builder. ethics and transparency. To achieve this, out a major reorganisation of the ConstrucSociety at large makes demands of every single person must assume personal tion business, alongside wide-ranging effitrade and industry to assume greater responsibility for their behaviour. ciency improvements and savings. responsibility for sustainable enterprise. One major challenge is equal opportuShareholders and the Board were Investors and analysts define sustainability nity and diversity, where Peab has much expecting decisive, rapid action, and now as an increasingly important parameter in work to do before our employees reflect that the year has ended I can confirm that their valuations, and customers demand society from a diversity perspective. During the planned measures have been implesustainable homes, premises and installathe year we revised the recruitment process mented, one by one. Peab starts 2014 with tions. Through our work, we can help them and managerial development programme, an organisation and a structure that support to achieve their own sustainability objecwhich I consider to be important starting its core business and benefit future comtives. We have a shared responsibility for points, although more measures will be petitiveness and profitability. the future. needed to bring about a change. SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS We have developed new methodology OBJECTIVES PRIORITISED AREAS and a new range of offers in the field of We are striving to integrate sustainability In order to better understand the expectaskills and career development in order to into all areas of the business and have tions placed on us, we deepened and satisfy our future competence requiredecided to develop sustainable business extended the dialogue with Peab's stakements. In connection with this, an employee objectives instead of separate sustainability holders in 2013. The results of these profile and a managerial profile were objectives. Through this, it also becomes dialogues were used as a basis for strategic launched, specifying expectations of clear that sustainability in Peab is directly sustainability work, and it will also be employees and managers. The profiles connected to our business and our profitavaluable input to the development of our were based on our core values, which bility. This will be a clear undertaking for the sustainable business objectives. Eight form the very foundation of Peab: down-to4 PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 FROM THE CEO earth, developing, personal and reliable. Peab's strengths is the local entrepreneurthese areas, we can take the business to In the environmental area, the phasing ship and our roots in the local communities the next level. Our employees and their out of substances that are hazardous to where we operate. In our customer relacompetence are crucial for Peab's health or the environment is a task that tions we need to be receptive to the prefercontinued success, and sustainability is we will drive and develop closer to the proences and expectations that exist, and to becoming increasingly important in our duction. Of equal importance is work on look after our customers in the best possible being the attractive employer we want to greater energy efficiency, an area with way. The results of the SCI (Satisfied be. Peab has both challenges and ambistrong links to profitability, efficiency and Customer Index) improved for both busitions to deal with as the journey towards reduced environmental impact. We work ness and residential customers in the 2013 being a sustainable business continues. with various kinds of certifications, and dursurveys. Another high-priority area is our Förslöv, April 2014 ing the year we had our very first in-house supplier relations. We need to develop project to be certified under the Miljöbyggwork on follow-up and documentation, nad scheme. I believe in making efficient where we have large potential for improveuse of our resources and carrying out enviment. There is a trend towards companies ronmental work where it makes a difference assuming greater responsibility for sustainJesper Göransson – close to production. ability work in the supply chain. President and CEO We depend on good relations. One of I am convinced that if we focus on PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 5 Peab in brief Peab AB is one of the Nordic region's companies and 82 (94) part-owned compaThis means a local organisation with a focus biggest construction and civil engineernies in the Peab Group. For a list of all on customers, employees and production. ing companies, with operations in companies in the Peab Group, see note 42 All residential development is now run Sweden, Norway and Finland. Peab is in the financial report. Turnover from operin the Project Development business area. publicly listed and has its head office ations in 2013 was SEK 42,933 (45,997) The Project Development business area in Förslöv, on the Bjäre Peninsula in million. About 2,200 (2,000) new projects thus includes all Peab's development of Southern Sweden, where Peab was started in the Construction and Civil Engihomes and properties. founded in 1959 as a family firm. neering business during 2012, about 2,500 Construction Together with other players in the com(3,400) projects were completed and as of The Construction business area covers the munity-building sector, Peab develops 31 December 2013 approximately 6,200 Group's resources with regard to construcand builds the sustainable communities (6,400) projects were in progress. tion-related services. Construction carries of the future. Wide-ranging programme of measures out contract works for external customers In 2013, a wide-ranging programme of and also for internal customers. The busiOPERATIONAL BUSINESS measures was carried out by the Nordic ness is run through 12 regions in Sweden, Peab has business operations in Sweden, construction business with a view to two in Norway and two in Finland. Of the Norway and Finland. The business is creating a cost-efficient organisation based Swedish regions, three specialise in residivided into four Nordic business areas: on local entrepreneurship. The change dential production in Stockholm/MälardConstruction, Civil Engineering, Industry meant that the previous eight divisions and alen, Gothenburg and in the Öresund and Project Development. On 31 December 30 regions were replaced by 12 regions in region. Construction service activities are 2013 there were 280 (287) wholly owned Sweden, two in Norway and two in Finland. run in a national region with a primary focus Business concept Vision – The Nordic Community Builder “Peab is a construction and civil engineering Peab builds the sustainable communities of the future company that puts total quality in every step of We are the obvious partner for community building in the Nordic region. We come up with ideas, take initiative and break new ground. the construction process first. Through innovaWe conserve resources and our climate smart solutions have speartion combined with solid professional skills we headed developments. Our work is sustainable throughout its entire make the customer’s interest our own and life cycle. thereby build for the future. Peab is the Nordic company Our entire organization works together to exceed our customers’ expectations. Peab is always close to our customers no matter whether they operate locally, nationally or globally. Satisfied customers contribute to our success in the entire Nordic region. Core values Peab is a magnet for highly skilled people Down-to-earth We are the number one Nordic employer. Our values are simple and Developing clear. Our personnel is deeply engaged and our leaders committed to Personal helping people develop. When our employees grow, Peab grows. Reliable Sustainable Building of Group strategies Communities – Peab’s definition Cost-efficient business Everything we plan and implement will be fully in line with our Long-term profitable operation ethical guidelines and be designed responsibly and for the To be seen and heard long term. In this way we will satisfy environmental, economic Sustainability integrated in Peab’s operations and social aspects. Strengthen and develop Peab’s customer relations Best workplace 6 PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 PEAB IN BRIEF Operating turnover by Operating turnover by Operating turnover by business area, 2013 customer type, 2013 geographical market, 2013 Other Finland Project Development, 11% (10%) 16% (17%) 6% (6%) Public Norway 29% (27%) 12% (13%) Industry, 21% (20%) Construction, 46% (47%) Private Civil 55% (56%) Engineering, 22% (23%) Sweden 82% (81%) PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 7 PEAB IN BRIEF on the metropolitan areas. Other regions SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE accessible for all suppliers. It is supplecarry out all kinds of construction works Sustainability is integrated into Peab's mented by a number of underlying policies within their geographical area. vision and business strategies; we strive to and guidelines such as Peab's ethical integrate sustainability into all areas of the guidelines. All employees sign an employCivil Engineering The Civil Engineering business area underbusiness. Responsibilities and mandates ment contract that includes a commitment takes assignments such as the construction are delegated to the business areas, and to apply by Peab’s Code of Conduct and of major infrastructure projects and civil support is provided by specialist expertise ethical guidelines. An indroduction training engineering works, as well as smaller in the areas of the environment, ethics and is given to all new employees, it covers projects in local markets. Civil Engineering social issues at various levels in the organiamong other things the ethical guidelines also carries out operations and maintesation, as well as a number of steering and and Peab’s sustainability work. nance of roads and municipal installations. supporting documents. In 2013, the posiThe business is run through geographically-­ tion of Sustainability Manager at Peab was SHAREHOLDER STRUCTURE based regions in Sweden, Norway and filled, and the Group function CSR – Social Peab AB is a publicly listed company, with Finland. Clients are Transport AdministraResponsibility was created at Group level. the share listed on the NASDAQ OMX tions, municipalities and local businesses. The CSR function reports to the executive Stockholm Stock Exchange, in the Large management. This function's undertaking is Cap list. As of 31 December 2013 there Industry to coordinate and develop the Group's were approximately 32,000 shareholders in Business activities in the Industry business message, processes and strategies in two Peab. Mats Paulsson and his companies area are run through the following seven areas of responsibility: sustainability and constituted the biggest single shareholder product segments: Asphalt, Concrete, ethics. This work is carried out in collaborawith 15.9 per cent of capital and 22.3 per Gravel and Rock, Transport and Machinery, tion with Peab's four business areas and cent of votes. At the year-end, the total Foundations, Leasing and Industrial other Group functions in a way that promotes shareholding associated with the compaConstruction. All product segments focus on responsible enterprise. ny's founders, Mats and Erik Paulsson with the Nordic construction and civil engineering their families and companies, totalled 29 market. Customers comprise primarily Policies per cent of capital and 65 per cent of votes. Nordic construction and civil engineering A number of policies constitute steering companies. Most of the turnover is generdocuments in the field of sustainability. ated by the Swedish market. The business Peab's Code of Conduct, which is a general is run in a larger number of companies and policy based on the ten principles in the UN under a number of different brands. The Global Compact, covers environmental, biggest brands are Swerock, Cliffton, social and anti-corruption issues. According Lambertsson, Skandinaviska Byggelement, to the Code of Conduct, we do not accept Peab Asfalt and Peab Grundläggning. any form of crime against human rights, Project Development discrimination, child labour or corruption. The Project Development business area Products and services that Peab buys must includes all Peab's development of homes be manufactured or provided by people and properties. The business is run in two who have chosen freely to work, who have sections, Residential Development and the right to work in a working environment Property Development. A joint approach to that is in accordance with national working all project development gives Peab a good environment legislation and to form unions overview over the process of acquisition and organise themselves as they wish. The and disposal. Project Development is also Code of Conduct is rooted in the general responsible for Peab's various holdings in company policy, which is an integrated associated companies in the field of propenvironment, quality and working environerty development, for example Tornet and ment policy. The Code of Conduct is transCatena. lated into a number of languages to be Financial summary Jan-Dec Jan-Dec Jan-Dec 2013 2012 2011 Net turnover from operations, SEK million 42,733 45,997 44,015 Net turnover, SEK million 43,095 46,840 43,539 Operating profit from operations, SEK million 593 1,002 1,483 Operating margin, % 1.4 2.2 3.4 Operating profit, MSEK 614 1,055 1,505 Operating margin, % 1.4 2.3 3.5 Profit before taxes, SEK million 383 813 1,195 Earnings per share before dilution, SEK 1.01 2.47 3.26 Dividend per share, SEK 1) 1.80 1.60 2.10 Return on equity, % 3.8 9.2 12.1 Equity/assets ratio, % 24.1 24.9 25.4 Cash flow before financing, SEK million 602 974 –1,071 Net debt, SEK million 5,944 6,470 6,626 1) For 2013, dividend proposed by the Board. 8 PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 PEAB IN BRIEF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE IN PEAB the procurement of services from the auditors other than the audit. The audit committee Election Shareholders Election maintains ongoing contact with the compaNomination Auditors Constitute the Annual ny's auditors, evaluates the audit assignment General Meeting Committee Information Proposals and represents the nomination committee in Election the preparation of proposals for and payment of fees to the auditors. Finance committee Information Board of Directors Remuneration committee Executive Management Audit committee The President, who is also the CEO, Goals Strategies Reports manages the business in accordance with Governance mechanisms Internal audit the framework adopted by the Board of Ethics Council Directors and is responsible for the ongoing CEO and Group functions Executive management administration and control of the Group. Sustainability Council Peab's executive management team in 2013 consisted of six people, none of them a member of the Board. Civil Project Construction Industry Development Engineering Group functions Peab has a number of Group-wide funcShareholders members and two deputies. Eight of the tions. The Group function CSR – Social All shareholders, including minority interests, members are elected by the AGM and three Responsibility was created in 2013, with can influence the company by exercising permanent members and two deputies are an undertaking to coordinate and develop their voting rights at the Annual General appointed by employees' organisations. Of the Group's message, processes and stratMeeting, Peab's ultimate decision-making the eight members elected by the AGM, five egies in the areas of responsibility of body. The Annual General Meeting provides are considered to be independent and three sustainability and ethics. a forum for shareholders to ask questions dependent in relation to the company and Business areas and submit comments on the company's company management and in relation to The business area managers are responsustainability work. Questions asked at the the company's major shareholders. sible for integrating work on sustainability AGM in 2013 included how we guarantee Employees have an opportunity to influinto the organisation by delegating responsustainability in the supply chain. Our work ence Peab's business via their employees' sibilities and mandates, thus making in the supply chain is described in more representatives. sustainability issues an integral part of daily detail in the section entitled Suppliers and operations. Finance committee customers on page 24-27. The finance committee, which consists of The Sustainability Council and Nomination committee three Board members, handles and makes the Ethical Council The nomination committee consists of four decisions on financial matters in accordance Peab's Sustainability Council and Ethical members: the Chairman of the Board and with the adopted Finance Policy. Council support executive management. three members representing Peab's large The Sustainability Council includes a repreRemuneration committee and small shareholders. One of the nominasentative of executive management in the The remuneration committee, which consists tion committee's main tasks is to nominate form of the HR Director. The chair of the of three Board members, draws up guidecandidates for election to the Board of Council is the Sustainability Manager, and lines and frameworks for senior executives Directors at the AGM. the other members are the Group Legal in respect of salaries and other remuneraAuditors tion, in accordance with the Remuneration Advisor, the Purchasing Manager, the The AGM selects the auditors. The auditors Policy adopted by the AGM. Assistant Head of Business Area Construcexamine Peab's financial statements. tion and the Sustainability Coordinator. The Audit committee Group functions for HR, safety and legal Board of Directors The audit committee consists of the eight affairs make up the Ethical Council, which Peab's Board of Directors is ultimately Board members elected by the AGM. The deals with any breaches of Peab's ethical responsible for the business, and thus also committee prepares the work of the Board guidelines. for work on sustainability. The Board of of Directors to quality-­assure the company's Directors comprises a total of eleven financial reporting and define guidelines for Age and gender distribution 2013 (2012) Number of Percentage of Percentage of Percentage of Percentage of Percentage of members women (%) men (%) people people aged people aged < 30 (%) 30-50 (%) aged > 50 (%) Board of Directors (incl. deputies) 13 (13) 23 (23) 77 (77) 0 (0) 38 (31) 62 (69) Executive Management 6 (8) 17 (12) 83 (88) 0 (0) 67 (50) 33 (50) Finance and remuneration committees 3 (3) 0 (0) 100 (100) 0 (0) 0 (0) 100 (100) Audit committee 8 (8) 25 (25) 75 (75) 0 (0) 25 (25) 75 (75) Auditors (incl. deputies) 4 (4) 0 (0) 100 (100) 0 (0) 0 (25) 100 (75) Nomination committee 4 (4) 0 (0) 100 (100) 0 (0) 25 (25) 75 (75) PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 9 Stakeholder dialogue and focus areas We strive to achieve long-term relationformer Customers group into “Business objective was to double the number of ships and good collaboration with our customers” and “Residential customers”. stakeholder groups and the number of stakeholders. In order to achieve a responses, and also to employ both interbetter understanding of what is expected EXTENDED, DEEPER views and questionnaires. We chose to of our work, we deepened and extended STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE deepen the dialogue by interviewing our sustainability-oriented stakeholder Peab interacts with stakeholders regularly representatives of those groups that had dialogues in 2013. The results of these though a number of different forums in responded by questionnaire the year dialogues have been used as a basis for order to enhance relations and to be recepbefore, and a total of 23 interviews were our strategic sustainability work and in tive to preferences and expectations of us conducted. A web-based questionnaire order to identify focus areas for this as a player in the community-building was sent to representatives of another five report. sector. This takes place in the form of, for stakeholder groups, which we felt have a example, customer meetings and customer major influence on us and a major interest STAKEHOLDER IDENTIFICATION surveys, participation in networks, informain our business. We received a total of 157 Ahead of our first sustainability-oriented tion meetings in residential areas and responses to the questionnaire. stakeholder dialogues in 2012, we conducted dialogues with authorities and administraInterviews and questionnaires were a wide-ranging process to identify Peab's tors. Our local connections also mean that based on the same base data and quesstakeholders in a workshop involving execwe conduct an ongoing dialogue with tions. However, the opportunity provided utive management and the heads of Group stakeholders at a local level, and at the during the interviews to conduct a dialogue functions. The groups of stakeholders were same time we have regular contacts at a on the various issues does provide a then weighted according to their level of regional and national level. greater insight into stakeholders' views. interest in and influence on Peab. In 2012 was the first time that Peab conThe dialogues dealt with areas such as how selecting the stakeholder groups ahead of ducted sustainability-oriented stakeholder stakeholders perceive our sustainability the dialogues in 2013, we started with the dialogues. At that time, we asked four work at present, whether they feel that we groups identified during the 2012 workstakeholder groups to state which areas of are performing well or inadequately in a few shop, with some modification of the division sustainability they feel we should focus on areas and what they believe we should priinto groups. This year, for example, we in particular by means of a web-based oritise and focus on more in the future. The divided the former group Current and questionnaire, which resulted in a total of results from the stakeholder dialogues have potential employees into Students and 70 responses. Ahead of the sustainability-­ provided valuable base data for Peab's Employees , and we also divided the oriented stakeholder dialogues in 2013, our strategic work and at the same time have Identification of stakeholders and form of dialogue 2013 Stakeholder groups with which Peab conducted interviews in 2013 14 (questionnaire 2012) Stakeholder groups who were questioned via a questionnaire in 2013 7 9 13 3 4 Stakeholder groups who were not questioned in Peab's sustainability-­ oriented stakeholder dialogues in 2013 6 12 1. Business customers 5 1011 1 2 2. Residential customers 8 Interest 3. Employees 4. Students 5. Employees' organisation 6. Industry and employers' organisations 7. Research & institutes of higher education 8. Suppliers 9. NGOs and lobbyists 10. Peab's Board of Directors 11. Fund managers and analysts 12. Authorities and administrations 13. Politicians 14. Media Influence 10 PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 S TA K E H O L D E R D I A L O G U E A N D F O C U S A R E A S formed a basis of the focus of this sustainaemphasise that all areas are important to supplier relations and skills and career bility report. We intend to continue to hold Peab; our ambition is to continue to develop development. These eight areas, which all annual stakeholder dialogues, and also as a sustainable company with a high base are relevant to all our business areas, will plan to further develop the methods. level in all areas. Prioritisation serves to be integrated into the business strategy identify where we need to put in extra work work that Peab will undertake in 2014. On MATERIALITY ANALYSIS in order to satisfy the requirements and the basis of the business strategy, each Peab's materiality analysis is a combination expectations of our stakeholders. business area will then develop business of the results from the stakeholder dialogues objectives for their own businesses. Inteand an internal prioritisation conducted by FOCUS AREAS grating sustainability throughout the whole Peab's Sustainability Council in 2013. The materiality analysis shows the eight business was one of the eight general According to Peab and most of our stakework areas that are considered most imporfocus areas that we presented in last year's holders, sustainability is largely about a tant, internally and externally, for Peab to sustainability report. This year's work on holistic perspective and about maintaining prioritise over the next strategy period. the focus areas has resulted in our a high base level in all areas. Many stakeHealth and working environment, ethics choosing consciously to shift away from the holders commented on the difficulty of and anti-corruption, equal opportunity and notion of having separate sustainability simply choosing a small number of areas diversity, substances hazardous to the objectives, we want instead to develop that should be prioritised. We want to environment and health, customer relations, sustainable business objectives. Materiality analysis – Internal and external perspective This chart depicts a summary of our materiality analysis. The internal perspective is based on prioritisations made by members of the Sustainability Council. The external perspective consists of the nine stakeholder groups with which we conducted a stakeholder dialogue, through interviews or questionnaires. The ranking within each stakeholder group has been summarised, with equal weighting applied to the opinions from each group. 1 Very important 3 Areas in which Peab performs well according to our stakeholders . 5 Areas in which Peab has potential for improvements according to our stakeholders. Highlight the areas that are most important according to external and internal stake2 holders, also the areas in focus of this sustainability report. 4 All 14 categories 10 1. Health and working environment 6 2. Ethics and anti-corruption External 3. Energy efficiency 8 4. Equal opportunity and diversity 5. Substances hazardous to the environment and 12 health 6. Customer relations 11 7 7. Supplier relations 8. Skills and career development 13 Important 9. Efficiency improvement methods 14 10. Resource utilisation and waste 9 11. Social engagement 12. Innovation and development 13. Transport & carbon dioxide 14. Certified building Important Very important Internal PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 11 S TA K E H O L D E R D I A L O G U E A N D F O C U S A R E A S Key areas according to the stakeholder groups Stakeholder group Selection Dialogue Number of Key areas method dialogues (of approched) Business customers Biggest customers in the Civil Interview 10 (14) • Ethics and anti-corruption Engineering, Construction and • Innovation and development Industry business areas. • Substances hazardous to the environment and health • Supplier relations • Energy efficiency • Resource utilisation and waste Residential customers Private customers who have Questionnaire 34 (58) • Substances hazardous to the environment and health bought, or are considering • Energy efficiency buying, homes from Peab. • Customer relations • Resource utilisation and waste • Health and working environment Employees Random selection distributed in Questionnaire 42 (60) • Health and working environment accordance with number of • Energy efficiency employees per business area. • Customer relations • Efficiency improvement methods • Social engagement Students The Peab School together with Questionnaire 30 (60) • Equal opportunity and diversity road and water engineers from • Health and working environment the Royal Institute of Technology, Luleå University of • Skills and career development Technology and Chalmers • Substances hazardous to the environment and health University of Technology. • Social engagement Employee The most common trade unions Interview 4 (5) • Equal opportunity and diversity organisations for employees at Peab. • Skills and career development • Health and working environment • Ethics and anti-corruption • Supplier relations Industry and employers’ Organisations in the fields of Questionnaire 13 (14) • Energy efficiency organisations construction, civil engineering • Equal opportunity and diversity and industry. • Substances hazardous to the environment and health • Ethics and anti-corruption • Health and working environment Suppliers Biggest suppliers based on Questionnaire 38 (60) • Health and working environment purchasing volume, all business • Energy efficiency areas. • Substances hazardous to the environment and health • Supplier relations • Resource utilisation Peab’s Board of Directors Random selection. Interview 5 (5) • Skills and career development • Supplier relations • Ethics and anti-corruption • Customer relations • Health and working environment • Energy efficiency Fund managers and analysts Random selection. Interview 4 (5) • Ethics and anti-corruption • Health and working environment • Substances hazardous to the environment and health • Energy efficiency • Resource utilisation and waste 12 PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 S TA K E H O L D E R D I A L O G U E A N D F O C U S A R E A S ÄLVSJÖ RESECENTRUM Älvsjö PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 13 Employees Peab is continuing to develop thanks to employees in Sweden, Norway and Finland the basis of our work on the working envithe partnerships and synergies that are hired under collective bargaining ronment. Peab has long been working emerge when thousands of committed agreements. systematically on health and working enviemployees work together with responronment issues, fully in accordance with the Working environment organisation sible managers. We want to offer a requirements of the regulations in current Work on the working environment at Peab legislation in the countries where we operate. secure, inspiring working environment is organised under the HR function. There In Sweden we follow the requirements of in which everyone can grow and develis a high degree of competence in this field AFS 2001:1 and in Norway we work in op. This year's materiality analysis at all levels in the organisation. Strategic accordance with the Working Environment identified three prioritised areas relating work is run at Group and business area Act and the current regulations for the to employees. This section focuses on level. Responsibilities and mandates for construction and civil engineering industry. issues relating to the working environment them: health and working environment, In Finland we achieved certification for the have been delegated to the organisation skills and career development, and working environment during the year in and are an integral element of daily operaequal opportunity and diversity. accordance with OHSAS 18001. tions. In addition to the 73 employees who work on working environment issues in Preventive work on the various parts of the organisation, there are working environment HEALTH AND WORKING ENVIRONMENT also health and safety officers appointed by Peab has a zero vision for accidents at the For us, health and the working environemployees who represent employees on workplace. We want to offer safe, secure ment have been a high priority for a long working environment issues in every single workplaces for both our own employees time, as we want to be able to offer secure, project. The number of health and safety and hired staff and subcontractors. Peab developmental working environments that officers has risen during the year in all works preventively to avert accidents by attract committed people and make them countries. We have about 580 (575) health providing safe equipment, quality-assured content and stay with the company for a and safety officers in the Swedish business, work methods and training in this field. long time. The industry has traditionally 100 (44) in Norway and 45 (40) in Finland. When employees and subcontractors arrive been physically demanding and dangerous. Together, the health and safety officers and at a new workplace, they are given an introTo be able to create a safe and secure those who work on working environment duction to and a review of risks at the workworking environment is becoming a crucial issues on a daily basis make up approxiplace. We also offer targeted information parameter when we select projects. We mately six per cent of all employees at packages that describe how we at Peab work preventively with communication and Peab. work to create safe, secure workplaces. A clear dissemination of information about Systematic work on the new initiative for 2013 is that we also issue the rules in force at our workplaces in order working environment safety warnings when serious incidents or to avoid misunderstandings and risks that Peab's working environment policy, which accidents have occurred. These consist of can result in accidents. 100 per cent of our is integrated into the company policy, forms brief information about what has happened Number of employees by country, gender and employee category – 13,290 in total, of whom 10.7 per cent are women Sweden Norway Finland Peab in total Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Salaried employees in managerial positions 1,475 112 247 23 53 6 1,775 141 Other salaried employees 2,109 934 179 77 166 25 2,454 1,036 Skilled workers 6,555 211 830 12 260 16 7,645 239 Total 10,139 1,257 1,256 112 479 47 11,874 1,416 Workplace accidents per Sick leave Contracts of employment for all employees 1 million hours worked Men Women Number % 60 2013 6 Permanent employees 9,857 1,171 2013 50 2012 5 2012 Project/temporary employees 761 133 2011 2011 40 4 30 3 Type of employment for permanent 20 2 employees 10 1 Men Women 0 0 Sweden Norway Finland Sweden Norway Finland Full-time employees 9,779 1,065 Part-time employees 78 106 2013 2012 2011 As of 2012, the statistics from Finland for workplace accidents include all business areas. Statistics for contracts and types of employment include the Swedish and For 2011, the statistics from Finland only covered construction. Finnish businesses. As a consequence of the large reorganisation, these number have not been possible to compile in Norway. 14 PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 EMPLOYEES An emotional work placement STUDENTS FROM THE PEAB SCHOOL TAKE PART IN THE REBUILDING OF UTØYA In July 2011, 69 people, most of them youngsters, were killed in the attack on the AUF's (Workers' Youth League) summer camp on Utøya. Work is now under way to make it possible eventually to resume activities on the island. Buildings are to be demolished or renovated, and new ones built. Peab has assumed responsibility as construction manager in partnership with the AUF. One of the buildings being renovated is Skolestua , where students from the Peab School did an unusual work placement over four weeks in autumn 2013. I felt deep down that this was something we wanted to do. The students can do an important construction work placement, while at the same time we can of course discuss issues of democracy and tolerance, says Fredrik Samuelsson, Head of Peab School Ängelholm. A total of 20 third-year students studying Construction lived and worked on Utøya in Norway, one week at a time. I like the idea of preserving and renovating this building in particular, where so many actually survived. You've read and heard about what happened, but when we came here it was suddenly all so real. It generated thoughts and emotions. I think it's amazing to be involved in renovating the Skolestua building and making a contribution to this island, explains Tommy Troedsson, one of the students. Construction teacher Jojje Levin is proud of what the students have managed to achieve. They have replaced corner boards and parts of the panelling, and the whole building has been painted and drained. A new kitchen has been fitted, alongside new doors, casings and skirting boards. It's great to do teaching out on the job. Being here means a lot, says Jojje Levin. The students grow as people, while at the same time they can use their professional skills. Salaried employees in managerial positions by gender Other salaried employees by gender Skilled workers by gender 7% 3% 30% Women Men 70% 93% 97% 1,916 people in total 3,490 people in total 7,884 people in total Salaried employees in managerial positions by age Other salaried employees by age Skilled workers by age 4% 18% 27% 25% < 30 years old 32% 38% 30-50 years old 58% > 50 years old 55% 43% PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 15 EMPLOYEES and recommendations on how to prevent Work to promote health should work on skills development. Of similar occurrences. At Peab there is ongoing work to make it course, we continued to develop our Statistics on accidents at the workplace possible to attract, develop and retain employees in 2013, but the main focus are based on accidents that have caused skilled employees. This means that a work during the year was on analysing our develan absence of at least eight hours. During method that promotes health is an imporopment need, developing a methodology 2013, the ratio of accidents at the worktant strategic issue for Peab, and we work that suits our culture and our future chalplace per million hours worked rose slightly systematically on promotional, preventive lenges, and creating the right range of in Sweden and Norway, while it fell in Finand rehabilitative health work. A balance development options. land. The Finnish way of applying rules on between work and leisure is a precondition Analytical work started in the business sick leave to accidents at the workplace for good health and the ability to do a good – in all, more than 1,000 employees took differs from the practice in Norway and job. We offer our employees a broad range part in the dialogue, based on the quesSweden, hence the higher figures for Finland. of activities in the areas of exercise and tions: How do we best develop in our work? We did not have any fatal accidents at our culture, as well as keep-fit subsidies and What kind of leadership do we need to workplaces during 2013. When there are other benefits. Sick leave fell slightly during develop to be the best workplace? In paralserious accidents, Peab's crisis organisathe year. lel with the employee dialogue, we listened tion becomes involved. The crisis organisaUnfortunately, the number of occupato a lot of other companies, within and tion is trained by MSB, the Swedish Civil tional illnesses registered in the company beyond our industry, and conducted a conContingencies Agency. All accidents are rose during 2013, from 59 to 71. Our current tinuous dialogue with researchers in this investigated meticulously and appropriate system does not allow us to see what kind field. The picture that emerged was clear action is taken to avoid any recurrence. of occupational illness has caused sick – at Peab, we develop through being leave. However, the Swedish Work Enviinvolved, through real challenges, through Follow-up and improvement work ronment Authority has conducted an invescollaboration and dialogue. This is why the All incidents and accidents must be tigation into occupational illnesses in the new programme, which is being launched reported and followed up. In Sweden this industry and identified loading factors as in 2014, is based on the well-established takes place via a web-based system for the the biggest cause (65 per cent) of occupa70-20-10 model. Peab is striving to ensure reporting and registration of accidents tional illnesses in the industry. At Peab, we that 70 per cent of the skills development (OTR Accident and Incident Reporting), in have for a number of years been training takes place in day-to-day work, 20 per cent Norway they use a similar web-based site managers and health and safety officers through networks and 10 per cent through system known as RUH (Registration of together in ergonomics. This training is proformal training. Formal training and courses Undesired Events) and in Finland reporting vided by our partner company for occupaare important for framework skills and takes place directly to the Working Environtional healthcare. The training includes thespecialist knowledge, but we develop and ment Manager. A number of workplace ory, team work and ergonomic reviews of embed skills and abilities best when learnaudits are also conducted every year in all the participants workplaces. ing is a part of our work. The consequence countries where we operate. Peab analof this is that the number of hours spent on yses the results annually and identifies SKILLS AND CAREER DEVELOPMENT courses is reduced, while the number of causal relationships from employee statisThe competence of its employees is crucial development hours increases. tics, employee surveys, employee appraisal for Peab's success, and at the same time meetings, workplace audits and occupaEmployee appraisals their opportunities for development are vital tional healthcare services. This then forms The employee appraisal is an important for their being content and wanting to stay the basis of decisions on prioritised areas element of Peab's business development with the company. Prioritising skills and of action, objectives and measures. process and one of the most important career development is therefore closely The working environment is a highly management tools. All employees must be linked to commercial benefit as well as prioritised area at Peab. During 2013 we offered an employee appraisal every year. building the brand for Peab. There is high continued our work to further improve the This is an opportunity to discuss the demand in the industry for skilled engineers working environment in the company by employee's potential skills development and skilled workers, and we want to be able means of communication initiatives for needs in order to be able to achieve the to offer a developmental, attractive workincreased awareness in the form of newsobjectives set out in the business plan. place. letters and safety warnings, training courses, Successful appraisals lead to continuous follow-up on our Order and Safety Rules Skills development development of the company, the workand participation in research projects on the At the end of 2012, executive management place, managers and employees. safety climate. A focus week saw around decided to put large parts of our internal At Peab we usually conduct a wide-­ 450 visits being made by representatives of training courses on hold, in order to adopt ranging employee survey every year involvmanagement teams at various levels. a totally new approach to how we at Peab ing all employees. One of the questions we Average number of training hours Average number of training hours per Correlation between average pay of women per employee and gender employee and employee category and men per employee category (women's pay/men's pay) Hours Hours Ratio 20 40 2,0 15 30 1,5 10 20 1,0 5 10 0,5 0 0 0,0 2013 2012 2013 2012 Women Salaried employees in Skilled workers Salaried employees in Skilled workers Men managerial positions managerial positions Other salaried employees Other salaried employees During 2013, large parts of our internal training programmes were put on hold in order that we could adopt a totally new The chart shows the average pay of women in relation to approach to how we should work on skills development, hence the lower number of training hours in 2013 than in 2012. the average pay of men per employee category. The The statistics are based on our business in Sweden and Norway. A follow-up system for training hours in Finland will be average pay of women is divided by the average pay of implemented in 2014. men, meaning that the ratio is 1 when the average pay levels are equal. The statistics are based on our Swedish business and the investigation into pay at Peab that was 16 PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 conducted in 2013. EMPLOYEES It is popular to encourage school students EMPLOYEES TALK ABOUT THEIR PROFESSIONAL LIFE THROUGH MENTOR The opportunity to volunteer to be a job mentor generates engagement at Peab. In 2013, 25 or so employees chose to visit schools and talk to students in the 13-16 age group and to inspire and encourage young people with reference to their own experiences. Mentor Sweden is a non-profit-making organisation that works with mentoring in order to help young people aged 13-17 to have faith in the future and to turn away from violence and drugs. Peab has been supporting Mentor since 2009 in a partnership that involves mentoring, presentations and various social projects. It's fun talking about my choice of profession, which I'm really proud of, and I hope to be able to attract some of the young people to join the industry, says Fredrik Lundgren, craftsman and Job Mentor. The world of work might seem distant to a student in year eight or nine, but their upper secondary school choices are not far away. Through Job Mentor, students can be visited by working adults who describe life outside school. It's our aim that more employees will become involved as Job Mentors. You spend about three hours each time at a school for students in the 13-16 age group, says Tina Hermansson Berg, HR Director, who believes that a small effort makes a big difference. ask is whether the person has had an representatives were interviewed in the Holistic approach ahead employee appraisal with his/her manager development phase. There were high levels Equal opportunity and diversity has been during the past year. Our last employee of engagement and interest, and percepidentified as a focus area for Peab. In 2013 survey was conducted in 2011, but as 2013 tions were unanimous: we must base the we identified the need for action, and in was a year characterised by reorganisation profiles on our core values, and we want to 2014 we will be launching a Group-wide and reviews at Peab, it was decided that know what applies in Peab. project to develop a strategy for equal the employee survey should be developed These profiles steer Peab’s ongoing opportunity and diversity at Peab. This and postponed until 2014. In order to fill the work on skills development. They will also strategy will contain, among other things, statistical gap regarding employee appraisform the basis of employee appraisals, definitions of what the terms equal opportuals, we conducted a short questionnaire when we define goals and when we recruit. nity and diversity mean at Peab, goals and survey by email with a random selection of Work to embed the profiles in the organisaexpected results, as well as concrete employees. 420 people responded to the tion was started by the HR function in measures and methods of follow-up. questionnaire, revealing that 80 per cent of autumn 2013, and this work will continue in Equal pay men and 82 per cent of women had had collaboration with managers during 2014. Every other year there is an investigation employee appraisals during 2013. If we At the end of 2013 a decision was also into pay at Peab in order to make sure that break this down by personnel category made to include the threshold values, salaries are competitive and that they are instead, 85 per cent of salaried employees based on the managerial profile, in the equal for equivalent duties, experiences in managerial positions, 85 per cent of other bonus system. The aim is that the 450 or so and responsibilities. The chart depicting the salaried employees and 55 per cent of skilled employees at Peab with bonus entitlement differences between average salaries for workers had employee appraisals during shall work actively on the managerial profile men and women in our employee catego2013. We would, however, point out that the on the basis of goals and action plans that ries shows us that there is complete base data were limited, especially in the they define together with their manager. equality for skilled workers. In the other category of skilled workers, where only 68 salaried employees category, the average people responded, meaning that the statisEQUAL OPPORTUNITY AND DIVERSITY salary for men is slightly higher than for tics are uncertain. We will continue to follow women, while the average salary for up on the number of employee appraisals There are major opportunities and development potential throughout the whole industry women is slightly higher in the salaried held in the future employee surveys. employees in managerial positions catein the area of diversity. Women are tradiEmployee and managerial profile tionally less represented than men in the gory. This variation may be due to, among For us, it is important that everyone in Peab industry, but we are convinced that greater other things, the fact that our rough breakis united when it comes to our core values diversity would create developmental down of employee categories, with three Down-to-Earth, Developing, Personal and working environments that benefit all general groups, actually includes a number Reliable, both internally and when dealing employees and the company as a whole. of different positions and titles with very with customers, suppliers and other stakeDuring 2013 we updated our recruitment different responsibilities and requirements holders. One way of achieving this is the process and are working actively to develop for experience. Bonus pay is based on the employee and managerial profiles launched leadership at Peab in accordance with our basic salary and is governed by collective in autumn 2013. The employee profile new managerial profile. This is one element agreements, the Group's policies and/or applies to all employees in Peab, while the of a new, holistic approach to equal opporposition. There are no differences made managerial profile is for those who manage tunity and diversity at Peab, through which between men and women within the same people, projects or processes. Around 600 we hope to be able to attract a greater professional group. employees, young people and trade union diversity. PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 17 Ethics and anti-corruption At Peab, ethics is about our actions in We are convinced that good business THE ETHICAL COUNCIL relation to one another and our stakeethics and transparency strengthen our Peab has an Ethical Council that consists holders. By means of good ethics and customer relations and contribute to a safe of one representative of executive managetransparency, we create trust and working environment. The level of ambition ment, three from Group functions and, strengthen our relationships. We work for our business ethics is therefore high, where applicable, the senior manager with training and information on ethics and the ethical guidelines go well beyond (business area manager or Group function and anti-corruption, which was identiwhat is required under legislation and manager) under whose business area the fied as being one of our focus areas in international declarations. Supplementary area in question belongs. The Ethical this year's materiality analysis. documents, such as the manual for enterCouncil reports directly to executive tainment and procedures for the attestation management. The Ethical Council's underETHICS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION – of invoices, contain rules on how we at taking is to answer questions of an ethical AN IMPORTANT FOCUS Peab behave in specific matters. If anyone nature from the business and employees, Peab's preventive work against corruption is unsure about how to behave in a given to communicate Peab's approach to ethical and breaches of our ethical guidelines was situation, help is available from their issues, both internally and externally, and to intensified through the Ethics Round manager, from administrative functions or prepare and make decisions on issues training programme that started in 2009. from the Ethical Council. when the ethical guidelines are breached. We can now see the result of this work. Action that can be taken in connection with Among other things, it has made the culture PREVENTIVE TRAINING ON ETHICS breaches can be anything from a verbal in Peab more transparent, and there is an As an element of preventive work against warning and information about what applies openness to discuss ethical issues at the corruption and breaches of Peab's ethical at the workplace to a written warning, the workplace. Awareness of potentially inapguidelines, the wide-ranging training serving of notice, dismissal and reporting to propriate relationships is being highlighted, programme known as the Ethics Round the police. The Ethical Council makes sure which may be viewed as a risk but for us it was started in 2009. Since then, about that incidents that occur in the Group are has been an opportunity. Through an open 3,700 salaried employees in Sweden, handled in the same way, regardless of dialogue with, and engagement from, our Norway and Finland have completed the within which part of the business they occur employees, we are making our workplaces course. The course has been customised to and the position of the person who transparent and more attractive, which is in meet Peab's needs, and contains situations committed the breach. turn attracting new employees. It is our that illustrate various ethical dilemmas that employees who, on the basis of Peab's can arise in the business. The intention ETHICS ARE EVERYONE'S ethical guidelines, create long-term value behind the course is to provide participants RESPONSIBILITY for the customer, the company and society. with an opportunity to calibrate their ethical Peab must stand for good business ethics We are now happy to see our employees compass against the standards and rules and transparency. To achieve this, everyone demanding and taking forward the process that apply within Peab and to provide a is encouraged to assume personal responof our work on ethics. method of identifying and finding solutions sibility for their behaviour. Peab's managers to various kinds of ethical dilemmas. have a major responsibility to inform and OUR ETHICAL GUIDELINES Everyone who has completed the Ethics communicate awareness among Peab's ethical guidelines summarise how Round signs an undertaking to the effect employees of the content and importance we will conduct ourselves in the company, that in their work they will always observe of the guidelines. It is also the job of in society and in our business dealings. The the values on which the ethical guidelines managers to follow up and make sure that steering document containing our ethical and the Code of Conduct are based. Peab employees have become acquainted with guidelines is updated regularly and adopted will continue to train its employees in these and accepted the guidelines and that they by executive management in order to guarissues during the years ahead. All senior act accordingly. All of Peab's managers antee a current, modern document to which managers also attend a one-day course on must act as role models in the organisation everyone can relate. competition law. and practise what they preach. The principle Number of employees trained in ethics and anti-corruption Number 1 200 There was a major initiative on training in ethics in 2011, which is why more people were trained then than in 2012. During 2013 we reviewed 1 000 and developed our internal skills development programme, which will 800 be launched in 2014. This is why there was also a fall in the number of courses on ethics and anti-corruption in 2013. 600 The Ethics Round training programme has primarily been directed towards managers and leaders in Peab, as they should be role 400 models of good ethics. Ethics will be included in the introduction programme from now on, which is an education for all new employees. 200 We are also going to carry out ethics education for our skilled 0 workers. 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 Salaried employees in Other salaried Skilled workers managerial positions employees 18 PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ETHICS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION RÅCK 16 Råcksta in Peab is that if an employee is unwilling or which promotes transparency and honesty were notified. An investigation is under way unable to raise an issue with his or her in these issues and combats defamation and legal proceedings will start in spring immediate manager, they can always and the spreading of rumours. The Ethical 2014 in respect of a suspected case of contact their manager's manager. There is Council guarantees the anonymity of serious bribery. also an opportunity to contact the Ethical anyone submitting a report if they wish. No cases of anti-competitive activities, Council via a form on which comments can breaches of competition law or monopolistic be put forward either anonymously or EVENTS DURING THE YEAR behaviour leading to legal action occurred openly. Peab has chosen to work with the During 2013 one case of suspected corrupduring the year. Nor were there any cases Ethical Council as a whistle-blowing function tion or other financial irregularity was of corruption incidents that resulted in the instead of using an external party, as long discovered. A project manager arranged for termination of contracts with suppliers or experience has taught us that handling subcontractors to sponsor the project business partners during the year. ethical issues internally builds up trust manager’s private projects. The project between the company and its employees, manager was dismissed and the police PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 19 Environment and energy Strategic environmental work is an intement in day-to-day activities. Environmental Group. The fundamental principle for the gral part of Peab's business. Last year's work in the operational business is passed system and our work method is that every­ reorganisation resulted in environmenon to subcontractors and suppliers when thing shall be based on and governed by tal work now being carried out and we sign agreements, by means of project the business's needs. Implementation is developed close to production within plans and day-to-day work. planned to commence during 2014. Large the various business areas. In accordparts of our business are currently certified ance with last year's materiality analySYSTEMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL in accordance with ISO or other national sis, this section focuses on the areas of WORK certification systems. substances hazardous to environment Peab's environmental management system and health, and energy efficiency. is integrated into the business management SUBSTANCES HAZARDOUS TO THE system. Our environmental policy forms the ENVIRONMENT AND HEALTH ENVIRONMENTAL ORGANISATION basis of strategic environmental and energy Historically, our industry has used a number Peab's environmental and energy work work. The policy is integrated into Peab's of substances that have recently proven to takes place at all levels of the organisation company policy and is in harmony with the be hazardous to people and the environand is an integral part of the business. In Code of Conduct, which is based on the ment. There is now greater knowledge, and connection with the reorganisation carried principles of the UN Global Compact. The the industry in general has a more proactive out in 2013, development work in the field environmental policy also satisfies all of the approach to substances that are hazardous of environment and energy was focused at requirements of ISO 14001:2004. Peab to the environment and health. Peab operbusiness area level. The business areas works systematically on environmental ates according to the precautionary prinnow have a greater responsibility to manage issues in accordance with the precautionary ciple, as we strive to phase out substances and develop energy and environmental principle. We are aware that our industry and groups of substances that are still work within their businesses. Development traditionally has, and has had, a significant permitted, but that represent a potential risk work takes place in line with Group-wide impact on the environment, and we are to health or the environment. The ambition strategies and focus areas. Within each working to reduce Peab’s negative impact. is to be able to offer products and services business area there are also resources at During 2013, development work was that have a minimal negative impact on regional or company level that support undertaken to create a level-oriented busipeople and the environment, during both ongoing work on energy and the environness management system for the whole production and user phases. Fuel consumption, total 461,628 (482,978) MWh Carbon dioxide emissions Carbon dioxide emissions, total MWh 167,335 (148,416) tons 400,000 The chart shows fuel consumption in Sweden for 2011-2013; we have 350,000 no systems for follow-up in Finland and Norway. The statistics are 300,000 calculated on the basis of the 250,000 number of liters bought, converted into MWh using the conversion 200,000 factors listed in GRI version 3.1. Peab does not sell energy. 150,000 100,000 2013 50,000 2012 2011 Scope 1 Scope 2 0 Oil Gasoline Diesel E85 Fuel oil, 26,347 tons Electricity, 29,231 tons Gasoline, 909 tons District heating, 1,412 tons Diesel, 94,178 tons Scope 3 E85, 16 tons Waste management incl. waste Electricity and district heating consumption, total 250,814 (158,584) MWh transportation, 15,242 tons MWh 250,000 The figures for 2013 include the business in Sweden and Finland. The diagram above shows Peab’s CO2 emissions in 200,000 There is no system for follow-up in Norway. Regarding electricity our Swedish operations. The emissions are calcuconsumption, in previous years in Sweden we only referred to lated through the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. We 150,000 electricity bought via a central contract supplier, but this year we have reported our CO2 emissions ever since our first also include other electricity that is registered in the finance sustainability report in 2011 but this is the first year we 100,000 system by using an average price of SEK 395/MWh (this element have included Scope 3 emissions. is shaded with lines in the bar chart). Electrical consumption in 50,000 Finland is also calculated on the basis of the finance system, as 0 is all district heating consumption. Swedish district heating 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 consumption is based on an average price of SEK 792.7/MWh Energy District Heating and Finnish consumption on EUR 74/MWh. 20 PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ENVIRONMENT AND ENERGY Silver to Compagniet COOPERATIVE APARTMENTS BECAME FIRST AS MILJÖBYGGNAD Peab’s ambition is that all in-house residential projects in Sweden should be certified according to the Miljöbyggnad scheme. We have also noticed that more and more often, customers are demanding environmental certification in order to obtain an objective assessment of the building's environmental performance. Miljöbyggnad is a system based on Swedish conditions. At the end of 2013 there were around 100 certified and around 1,000 registered projects in the system. The very first of Peab's in-house residential projects to achieve Miljöbyggnad certification was Brf Compagniet at Eriksberg in Gothenburg in autumn 2013. Compagniet reaches silver level out of the three assessment levels gold, silver and bronze. An assessments according to the Miljöbyggnad certification scheme considers healthy material selection, quiet indoor environment, high degree of moisture control, good ventilation and efficient energy utilisation. The energy use in Compagniet's 120 cooperative apartments is estimated to be 40 per cent lower than the requirement for these apartments, which is max. 110 kWh/m2 a year. The precondition for a successful certification is that environmental issues are involved at an early stage. The criteria were defined early on in the planning stage and were well integrated into the project. During the production period we took great care at all times with changes, to make sure that they didn't compromise the certification. Excellent planning and good work in accordance with Peab's procedures resulted in Miljöbyggnad Silver, says Johan Lorentzon, contracting engineer in the project. PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 21 ENVIRONMENT AND ENERGY Phasing out of hazardous substances we have no KPIs in this area, nor do we limited. We follow and take part in the In Sweden, Peab primarily uses two believe that any of the GRI indicators relate development of biofuels and strive to systems for the environmental assessment to the area. achieve a broader level of utilisation. We of products: BASTA and Byggvarubedalso train drivers in eco-driving, and use ömningen. BASTA is an industry-wide ENERGY EFFICIENCY electrically powered vehicles and system that aims to phase out hazardous We operate in an energy-intensive industry, machines. substances in building products. Suppliers which makes it important that we do as Peab's subsidiary company Cliffton are offered the opportunity to sign agreemuch as possible to reduce energy Mining transports ore from Kaunisvaara to ments to register their products in BASTA. consumption and minimise the environPitkäjärvi near Svappavaara, a journey of Byggvarubedömningen assesses building mental and climate impact we cause. There around 160 km. At present there are 24 products from a life cycle perspective and is also an obvious correlation between 90-tonne units driving around the clock, 365 publishes these assessments in a dataenergy efficiency and financial savings. By days a year, but within a year there will be base. Both systems define chemical offering energy-efficient solutions, we see 60 vehicles. They will then be consuming composition criteria for the phasing out of opportunities to create competitive advanaround 35,000 litres of diesel a day. Work to substances hazardous to the environment tages at lower production costs. Proactive reduce diesel consumption, and the enviand health. Peab is involved in work to work on energy means we are better ronmental impact that this consumption develop both systems. We are represented equipped for future regulation, stricter causes, is therefore a high priority. in the science council of BASTA and hold project requirements and developments in All new drivers are given a one-day one position on the Board. We also have a the industry. course in eco-driving, which is provided by position on the Board for ByggvarubedEnergy efficiency in the business Scania. The vehicles are equipped with a ömningen and are responsible for the At Peab we focus on finding energy-efficient modern aid for drivers, which enables them system's criteria group. solutions in our production, and also for the to monitor their driving in real time and to In Finland we use TUKES (Finnish products we hand over to the customer see how well they have driven over a secSafety and Chemicals Agency) safety upon completion. Peab strives to build tion, for example accelerating too much or sheets in order to make sure that we are homes with energy consumption levels that not enough through a curve. Every week, using approved products in production and are lower than the standard requirements. supervisors receive a summary from Scain connection with subcontractors. TUKES We control the energy balance in projects nia. This reports changed and actual fuel monitors products, services and production by performing an energy calculation at an consumption as well as carbon dioxide systems in areas such as building products, early stage and following up on it through­out emissions. A dialogue then takes place with consumer safety and the energy efficiency the whole project. The process is based on the drivers on the basis of the report. At and ecological efficiency of products, and Sveby's industry standard for energy , a present it is estimated that action taken has implements legislation in these areas. In programme that includes information about resulted in a reduction in diesel consumpNorway we use an electronic system called user data and aids for agreements on tion of around ten per cent. CoBuilder/BASS. All suppliers must register energy consumption. We develop the Over the last decade, Peab Asfalt has goods supplied in the database in which competence of our employees on energy been working intensively to develop asphalt Peab has established an automatic filter issues and have expert competence availthat is energy-efficient to manufacture and based on State criteria on hazardous subable in projects. Together with certain has less impact on the environment. By stances as well as criteria defined in-house. clients we have started to apply Energy reducing the laying temperature of the During the year, Peab's purchasing and Agreement 12, an industry standard for asphalt by around 30 degrees, it is estimated environmental organisations in Sweden energy consumption in line with Sveby, in a that energy consumption is cut by about 20 collaborated with a number of suppliers to number of our projects. We also work with per cent and carbon dioxide emissions by develop a function in Peab's web-based environmental certification for buildings 30 per cent. In 2013, lower temperature purchasing system. This function allows within many of our projects, both at the asphalt represented 3.3 per cent of our total someone wanting to buy a product to see at client's request and in our in-house projects. asphalt laid in Sweden and Norway. In our once whether the product satisfies Peab's Working in accordance with environmental asphalt production we are also working to environmental requirements in respect of certification systems means that we achieve increase the amount of recycled material in the content of hazardous substances. This better control over energy use in our order to avoid using too much virgin matefirst stage focused on chemical products. projects. rial. In 2013, about 9.4 per cent of the matePeab has taken part in a development Our business activities involve the use rial used in our asphalt production in Sweproject to produce a tool to prioritise prodof large volumes of vehicle fuel for transport den and Norway consisted of recycled uct groups for environmental assessment. operations and contracting machinery. By material. The purpose of the project was to focus on means of a number of different initiatives, We believe that employees who underthose product groups with the highest we are seeking energy-efficient solutions stand the essence of various initiatives are occurrences of hazardous substances. with less environmental and climate impact. more engaged. This is why we develop the The project manager was the IVL Swedish As an example of this, we are conducting competence of our employees continuously Environmental Research Institute. trials with alternative fuels in the form of in a number of energy-related issues. TrainPeab has purchasing procedures for non-fossil fuel oil and diesel with different ing courses in the various environmental the application of systems and various initikinds of ingredients, such as pine oil or certification systems and eco-driving are atives to reduce the occurrence of subdiesel produced from slaughterhouse examples of this. stances hazardous to the environment and waste. However, making the transition to health. One example is Peab's subsidiary alternative fuels is not entirely uncomplicompany Drift & Underhåll in Malmö, which cated. We have noticed an increased risk of has taken the initiative to replace all sandbacterial growth, and at low temperatures pits and park benches made of presalso a risk of crystal formation in tanks sure-treated timber with oak, which has associated to some blends of non-fossil more natural resistance to decay. However, fuels. To some degree, supplies are also 22 PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ENVIRONMENT AND ENERGY OTHER ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS In accordance with the materiality analysis, we have chosen to focus the environment and energy section on substances hazardous to the environment and health, and energy efficiency. As all areas are important, we also present those indicators in other environmental areas on which we maintain continuous follow-up. How we work with these areas is described in more detail on our website. Environmental and sustainability certification of products Licensable and notifiable business activities Number of projects Percentage of turnover 50 Certified 10 Ongoing 40 8 30 6 20 4 10 2 0 0 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 Miljöbyggnad BREEAM LEED Green Buildning Licensable Notifiable This chart shows the number of projects that has been certified and projects that have an ongoing certification Peab operates licensable and notifiable business process. An ongoing project is one that has been registered with the organization responsible for the certification activities in Sweden and Finland. These comprise system. A project that is certified is one that has received certification, although not necessarily the final certificarock and gravel quarries, water operations, transport tion that is provided after a certain verification period. The chart includes both projects carried out in-house in of waste and hazardous waste, asphalt works, which Peab is responsible for certification and projects in which Peab is building for a client. concrete production and aggregate operations. Permits are renewed and supplemented on an ongoing basis. Number of online meetings and Waste videoconferencing hours Online meetings Processing method, non-hazardous Processing method, hazardous waste Number waste in Sweden in Sweden 30,000 91,961 (122,806) tonnes 2,550 (2,652) tonnes 25,000 <1% 0% 20,000 <1% 15,000 14% 12% 10,000 5,000 0 36% 17% 2013 2012 2011 31% There was a major focus on online telephony during 63% the year, with the facility to hold online meetings, and this reduced physical travel and benefited the environment, finances and employees. 19% Videoconferencing hours Landfill site Incineration Recycling Reuse Composting Hours The statistics on processing methods for non-hazarThe statistics on processing methods for hazardous 10,000 dous waste are based on the Swedish operations and waste are based on the Swedish operations and 8,000 limited to the waste that has been processed by one limited to the waste that has been processed by one of our central partners for waste management. of our central partners for waste management. 6,000 4,000 2,000 0 2013 2012 2011 We can see a slight fall in the number of videoconferencing hours in 2013. One reason may be that employees are replacing videoconferences with online meetings. PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 23 Suppliers and customers Peab's suppliers, from suppliers of raw that the biggest risk areas regarding our first In connection with the end of the project, materials to contractors, are an extenlevel suppliers relate to financial deficiencies. an evaluation must be performed of the sion of our own business. Delivering Illicit work and tax evasion may be examples suppliers that are considered to have a high quality and meeting customers' of this. We are well aware that the challenges decisive influence on the project and expectations are a precondition for us may look different for the suppliers to our customer undertaking with an emphasis on to continue being competitive. This secfirst level suppliers. Hence, our next step will quality and environment. In a normal tion focuses on assuming respon­sibility be to identify and map our supply chain in project in the construction business, around in the supply chain and towards several levels. ten of the companies that have the most customers, as these were identified In Sweden, since 2011 Peab has had a impact on the environment and quality are as some of the most important areas national agreement with the Swedish Tax evaluated. In largers projects there may be in our materiality analysis. Agency to improve checks on subcontracgood reason to evaluate more. The main tors and to combat financial crime. This purpose of the evaluations is to make use RESPONSIBILITY IN THE partnership means that Peab gains access of the experiences that Peab has of a SUPPLY CHAIN to information about subcontractors' paycompany that has been engaged and to It is Peab's ambition to be able to guarantee ments of taxes and employer's contributransfer this information to future projects. that our suppliers live up to our sustainations. This helps with the identification of The evaluation also forms the basis, where bility requirements. Our basic requirements rogue businesses and increases the opporapplicable, of developing the company in are that suppliers must comply with internatunities of excluding criminal elements. question. Peab’s current processes for tional conventions and national laws, as Assessment and evaluation assessments will be modified to include all well as Peab's Code of Conduct, which is Peab's project purchasing process contains sustainability aspects. We will also further based on the UN Global Compact's 10 prinprocedures with supporting templates for develop the processes of evaluation and ciples. Follow-up of, and support to, the both assessment before purchases and follow up with specified criteria for when suppliers are vital to be able to guarantee evaluation after purchases of suppliers. and how to conduct audits. that all suppliers in our supply chain apply The assessments to be carried out before a Work is currently under way to launch a by our Code of Conduct. This is a highly supplier is hired represent one stage of new purchasing portal that allows assessprioritised area for our continued work on securing the project's requirements in areas ments and evaluations of suppliers to be sustainability. such as quality, environment, working envicollated digitally, available to all buyers. At ronment and total cost. The purpose of the present documentation of assessments Risks and opportunities and evaluations is kept together with other Assessments and evaluations of suppliers supplier assessments is to assess whether the supplier: documentation from projects, which limits make secure business transactions possible the opportunities to summarise the number from which all parties benefit. Supplier has the financial capabilities to be able of assessments and evaluations for the assessments also constitute a risk analysis to fulfil its commitment Group during the year. that makes sure that we select responsible has fulfilled its statutory registration suppliers with the necessary conditions to obligations International purchases meet the projects' requirements. As of today, has paid its taxes and social insurance Peab has leading-edge competence we have mapped all our first level suppliers. costs centrally and at regional level, to work The majority of these operate in the Nordic has the right competence and sufficient with and offer support with international countries, which have extensive regulations resources for the project in question purchases. Supplier assessments are covering aspects of sustainability, such as works actively on issues in areas such conducted ahead of any purchases outside child labour and forced labour, human rights as environment, quality and working the Nordic region, often in connection with and the working environment. We believe environment. a site visit to the company in question. 24 PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 SUPPLIERS AND CUSTOMERS UARDA 1 Solna Purchasing volume (SEK million) in countries outside the Nordic region PURCHASES 2013 Peab’s total purchasing volume during 2013 was around Estonia, 156 Latvia, 14 SEK 38 billion. Lithuania, 82 Netherlands, 9 The purchasing volume outside of the Nordic countris was around SEK 460 million (1.2 per cent of the total). Czech Republic, 79 Germany, 4 The majority of our purchases were of contract work, i.e. Poland, 34 China, 3 including both materials and labour. Italy, 28 Ireland, 3 Numbers of suppliers, approximately 43,000. Spain, 27 Austria, 0,4 Around 1,300 suppliers accounted for approximately 80 per cent of the total purchasing volume. Belgium, 20 We are working to centralise purchasing functions to achive more uniform methods of operations and reduce International purchases were made during 2013 to a value of around SEK 460 million, the numbers of suppliers. This will enable us to address representing approximately 1.2 per cent of Peab's total purchasing volume. About 95 per cent of the purchases were of contract works, i.e. including both materials and labour. sustainability issues together with our suppliers. PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 25 SUPPLIERS AND CUSTOMERS International purchases were made to a ducted for the first time with our business ment potential. The results are analysed at value of around SEK 460 million during customers. In 2013 we extended the coverGroup, business area, regional and super2013. This represents around 1.2 per cent age area to include the Construction, Civil visor level. On the basis of the results, of the total purchasing volume. About 95 Engineering and Industry businesses in action plans are set up so that we can per cent of purchases were contract works, Sweden, Norway and Finland. Future better meet our customers' requirements i.e. included both material and labour. surveys in 2014 will also include business and expectations. There were 34 site visits during 2013 customers of our Project Development We started measuring the SCI for ahead of potential purchases outside the business. The questionnaire, which is sent Peab's residential customers in 2010. The Nordic region. Three of these were to out in online format, is totally anonymous survey, which is industry-wide, is also suppliers' subcontractors. The site visits for respondents, who can also choose to conducted together with Prognoscentret. includes an exhaustive review of the comsubmit written comments if they want to put All private residential customers receive pany's work in areas such as environment forward specific views. a questionnaire about two months after and quality, working environment and Compared with 2012, the actual nummoving in. The SCI surveys for residential human rights, as well as finance. Processes ber of questionnaire respondents increased customers deal with the following areas: for assessment, evaluation and procedures from 1,164 to a total of 1,400, although the personnel, the home, reliability, information, for documentation will be further developed response rate dropped from 45.5 per cent environmental awareness, outside the ahead. to 41.5 per cent. According to Prognoscenhome and choice of interior design. In 2013 tret, this is still a relatively high response we received 373 questionnaire responses, RESPONSIBLE CUSTOMER rate compared with similar businesses. representing a response rate of 56 per RELATIONS Business customers receive an email from cent. Since we started to measure SCI, Good customer relations are based on Peab's CEO containing preparatory inforwe have improved satisfaction among our credibility and receptiveness. Peab strives mation about the imminent arrival of the residential buyers, and this is a process of to achieve long-term customer relations. questionnaire from Prognoscentret, which continuous development. In 2013, the averFor us, as the Nordic Community Builder, we believe has a positive effect on the age score on a scale of 100 rose from 69 in Group customers and customers in local response rate. the previous year to 73. markets are equally important. We see a The SCI questionnaire covers customer clear correlation between satisfied satisfaction within eight general areas: work customers and profitability – for both Peab method, documentation, company ethics, and the customer. personnel, value for money, product/serSatisfied Customer Index vice, reliability and scheduling. The 2013 To investigate how customers perceive surveys indicate an increase in satisfaction their contact with us and how we are in all areas. The Group's average score meeting their expectations, we use SCI increased from 74 (2012) on a scale from surveys (Satisfied Customer Index). The 1-100 to 77 during 2013. The area in which SCI surveys follow an international customers rate us highest is personnel standard and are coordinated by the inde(average score 82), while value for money pendent organisation Prognoscentret. (average score 73) is the area in which During 2012, SCI surveys were concustomers believe we have most develop26 PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 SUPPLIERS AND CUSTOMERS Customer relations are like a marriage ASK AND LISTEN IN ORDER TO UNDERSTAND – THEN IT WORKS WELL Peab Drift & Underhåll in Stockholm operates in an extremely competitive market. Contracts cover several years and the same customer will often have a number of different contracts. References from previous contracts play a vital role. When the Satisfied Customer Index survey reported a relatively low result while at the same time the internal employee survey was reporting that customer service was considered to be good, management decided to adopt a new approach. A business project was launched in order to understand customers' needs and attitudes. We wanted to find out why they had responded as they did in the SCI survey and how we could make the relationship deeper and better, says project manager Yvonne Ruge. In an initial phase, the project manager met 15 randomly selected customers in order to discuss the various SCI areas. Customers were asked to explain their scores and give examples of things to improve. Asking, listening to and engaging the customers proved to be a successful move. The customers were positive after the meeting, says Yvonne. They said they appreciated the human contact, the fact that we're listening and taking their views into account in our development work. Peab Drift & Underhåll has been working since then with a focus on the areas highlighted by the customers in order to be more competitive. The greater understanding of the customers' needs was followed by a new round of customer meetings during the autumn. The ambition is to continue the dialogue once a year in order to make sure that developments are in line with customers' preferences and expectations. PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 27 Active memberships UN GLOBAL COMPACT BEAST tions for contractors and fitters to make use Peab signed the UN Global Compact, the BEAst is a Swedish acronym for the Construcof research and to drive development work. UN initiative for sustainable business, in tion and Property Industry's Electronic BusiPeab sits on the Board and a couple of the 2012, and is working strategically with the ness Standard, and at present there are just committees. ten principles of sustainable business in the over 70 members. It is a meeting place for areas of human rights, labour law, the envianything to do with e-commerce, B2B, web LUR (LIFT OPERATOR ronment and anti-corruption. solutions and e-communication in the industry. TRAINING COUNCIL) A representative from Peab is Chair of the Peab is a member of LUR, which is an indeSWEDISH CONSTRUCTION Board at BEAst. pendent body responsible for the content FEDERATION (BI) and development of LLP (Lift Operator The Swedish Construction Federation (BI) is SWEDISH CENTRE FOR Curriculum). LUR authorises lift operator the industry and employers' organisation for INNOVATION AND QUALITY training companies that commit to observe the construction industry, with around 3,200 IN THE BUILT ENVIRONMENT LLP and the conditions of LUR. member companies. BI's purpose is to The Swedish Centre for Innovation and Quality promote the common interests of its member in the Built Environment is a node and a GALAXEN BYGG companies as employers and traders in the catalyst for research, innovation and quality Galaxen Bygg is the construction sector's construction industry. Peab has the Presidevelopment in the building of communities. own company for preventive work on the dent post and representatives on many of Peab is represented with a Board member and working environment and rehabilitation. BI's councils/committees, including the the Chair of the communication committee. Peab is represented on the Board of Galaxen Energy and Environment Council and the and Galaxen Council East, and is also working environment reference group. SVEBY involved in Galaxen's school group. Sveby is a Swedish acronym for Standardise and verify energy performance in SWEDISH CENTRE FOR BASTA buildings , and is an industry-wide programme ZERO-ENERGY BUILDINGS BASTA is an industry-wide system that aims that develops tools for agreements on energy The Swedish Centre for Zero-Energy Buildto phase out hazardous substances. Peab is utilisation. Peab is involved as a financier ings is a non-profit-making organisation that involved in BASTA's science council and and is in the steering group. aims to play an active role in driving and holds a position on the Board. stimulating developments towards low-­ SWEDISH PRECAST CONCRETE energy buildings with minimal energy BYGGVARUBEDÖMNINGEN FEDERATION requirements and as far as possible with Byggvarubedömningen is a system that The Swedish Precast Concrete Federation is energy produced in-house. Peab is repreperforms assessments of building products a meeting place for those who manufacture sented as a deputy Board member and an from a life cycle perspective. Peab holds a concrete and those who build with it. The active member. position on the Board and is responsible for Swedish Precast Concrete Federation is a provider of knowledge that influences the the system's criteria group. SGBC debate and the building of communities, with The Sweden Green Building Council is a an ambition to help more people to appreCONFEDERATION OF SWEDISH non-profit-making association owned by its ciate the superiority of concrete when the life ENTERPRISE'S SAFETY DELEGATION members, open to all companies and organicycle perspective is decisive. Peab is repreA network for profitable risk management. sations in the Swedish construction and sented on the Board and in all committees. The office is at the Confederation of Swedish property sector. The association strives to Enterprise. Peab is a member and has also achieve green construction and to develop SBUF, DEVELOPMENT FUND OF THE made presentations and member meetings. and influence work on the environment and SWEDISH CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY sustainability in the industry. Peab is involved The Development Fund of the Swedish ASIS INTERNATIONAL in most of the SGBC's committees, taking Construction Industry (SBUF) is the ASIS is a non-profit-making organisation for part during 2013 in BREEAM, Miljöbyggnad, construction industry's own organisation for safety managers and other managers in the Training, Miljöbyggnad's Technical Council, research and development, with almost field of safety. ASIS makes sure that safety HCS. Peab is also a member of the Norwe5,000 affiliated companies in Sweden. SBUF management is acknowledged as a profesgian (NGBC) and Finnish (FIGBC) Green strives to develop the construction process sion by the industry, media authorities and Building Councils. in order to create better commercial condithe general public. Peab is a member. 28 PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Glossary AFS 2001:1 GRI The Swedish Work Environment Authority’s The Global Reporting Initiative is an Code of Statutes on systematic work on the international framework for sustainability working environment. reporting. BASTA ISO 14001 System of requirements for the chemical An environmental management system. content of products used in the construction ISO stand for International Organization industry, based on European chemical for Standardization. legislation. ISO 9001 BREEAM A quality management system. The Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method is LEED an environmental certification system for Leadership in Energy and Environmental buildings. Design is a system for the environmental certification of buildings. BYGGVARUBEDÖMNINGEN Byggvarubedömningen is a database of MWH building materials that have been assessed Megawatt hour. from a life cycle perspective. MILJÖBYGGNAD COP Certification system based on Swedish Communication on Progress, an annual construction and authority rules as well follow-up that the UN Global Compact as Swedish construction practice requires of its members in which they report regarding energy, indoor environment on the work they have carried out in the and materials. areas of human rights, labour law, the environment and anti-corruption. NGO A Non-Governmental Organisation can E85 operate on either a non-profit-making or Ethanol fuel. a commercial basis. UN GLOBAL COMPACT SCI The Global Compact is a UN initiative that Satisfied Customer Index. aims to make companies aware of and assume active responsibility in the areas of OTR human rights, labour law, the environment Olycksoch TillbudsRapportering [Accident and anti-corruption. and Incident Reporting]. Peab's web-based system for reporting and registering GREEN BUILDING accidents at the workplace. EU-controlled environmental programme for buildings. PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 29 GRI and UN Global Compact Index General standard reports Indicator Description Page Full or partial Omission Strategy and analysis G4-1 Statement from the CEO about the relevance of sustainable development. 4-5 Organisational profile G4-3 The name of the organisation. 6 G4-4 The most important brands, products and services. 6-9 G4-5 Location of organisation's head office. 6 G4-6 The number of countries where the organisation operates, and names of countries where either the 6 organisation has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to sustainable development. G4-7 Ownership structure and legal form. 6-9 G4-8 Markets in which the organisation operates. 6-9, 14 G4-8 The scale of the organisation. 6-9 G4-10 Total workforce, broken down by type of employment, gender and region. 14-15 Omission: As subcontractors are hired for specific projects and not on a regular basis, we have choosen not to include subcontractors in the employee statistics. G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 14 G4-12 Describe the organisation's supply chain. 24-27 G4-13 Significant changes regarding the organisation’s size, structure, ownership or supply chain. 6-9 G4-14 Whether and how the precautionary principle is applied in the organisation. 20 G4-15 Economic, environmental and social principles and standards to which the organisation subscribes 4-5, 30 or which it endorses. G4-16 List memberships of organisations –industry associations and national or international advocacy 30 organisations. Material aspects and boundaries G4-17 List all entities included in the financial statements. 6-9 G4-18 Processes for defining the content of the report. 10-13 G4-19 List all material aspects identified. 10-13 G4-20 Describe any internal boundaries in the area of sustainability. 10-13 G4-21 Report whether the sustainability aspects are material and their external boundaries. 10-13 G4-22 Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons 2-27 for such restatement. G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope and aspect boundaries. 2, 10-13 Stakeholder engagement G4-24 List the stakeholder groups with which the organisation has contact. 10-13 G4-25 Principle for identification and selection of stakeholders. 10-13 G4-26 Method of stakeholder dialogue, broken down by type of dialogue, stakeholder group and frequency. 10-13 G4-27 Report key topics that have been raised through stakeholder engagement. 10-13 Information about the report G4-28 Reporting period for the information provided. 2 G4-29 Date of publication of the most recent report. 2 G4-30 Reporting cycle (annual/biannual, etc.). 2 G4-31 Contact persons for questions regarding the report and its content. 2 G4-32 GRI Index. 28-29 G4-33 Policy and current application in respect of having the report attested externally. 2 Governance G4-34 Report the governance structure of the organisation, including committees of the highest 9 governance body that are responsible for economic, environmental and social issues. Ethics and integrity G4-56 Describe the organisation's values and principles, e.g. a code of conduct or similar. 6-9 Full = Partial = 30 PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 G R I A N D U N G L O B A L C O M PA C T I N D E X Specific standard reports Significant aspects – GRI definition Indicator Description Page Full or partial Omission Health and working environment Occupational health G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management – 14 and safety worker health and safety committees. G4-LA6 Type and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism, 14-16 and total number of work-related fatalities by region and gender. G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation. 16 Skills and career development Training and education G4-LA9 Average hours of training per employee per year, broken down by employee 16 category and gender. G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 16-17 development reviews, broken down by employee category and gender. Equal opportunity and diversity Diversity and equal G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of all employees by gender, age 9, opportunity group, minority group membership and other indicators or diversity. 14-17 Omission: Minority groups are not reported in accordence with swedish law. Equal remuneration for G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration between women and men by employee 16-17 women and men category. Ethics and anti-corruption Anti-corruption G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures. 18-19 G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken. 18-19 Anti-competitive G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions regarding anti-competition behaviour and 18-19 behaviour violations of anti-trust and monopoly legislation, as well as their outcomes. Energy efficiency Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation. 20-23 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption. 20-23 Emissions G4-EN15 Total direct greenhouse gas emissions, Scope 1. 20 G4-EN16 Totala indirekta utsläpp av växthusgaser, scope 2 20 G4-EN17 Övriga indirekta utsläpp av växthusgaser, scope 3 20 Substances hazardous to the environment and health There is no GRI aspect 20-23 that corresponds to our area. Customer relations Marketing of G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. 26-27 products and services Supplier relations Supplier assessment – G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were assessed using environmental criteria. 24-26 environment Omission: Only the number of supplier evaluations outside the Nordic region. Other indicators that are reported (that do not fall under our eight identified focus areas) CRE8 Type and number of certifications, rankings and markings for new construction, 23 administration, operation and renovation. G4-EN23 Total avfallsvikt, per typ och hanteringsmetod 23 Global Compact principles and page references Full = Partial = Area Principles Page Human rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 24-27 within their sphere of influence; and 2. make sure that their own company is not complicit in human rights abuses. 14-17 Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to 14-17, 24-27 collective bargaining; 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 24-27 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and 24-27 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 14-17, 24-27 Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 20-27 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 20-27 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 20-27 Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 18-19, 24-27 PEAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 31 Peab is the Nordic Community Builder with about 13,000 employees and turnover in excess of SEK 40 billion. The Group's subsidiaries have strategically located offices in Sweden, Norway and Finland. The head office is in Förslöv, on the Bjäre Peninsula in Skåne. The share is listed on the NASDAQ OMX Stockholm Stock Exchange. Grayling Malmö Peab AB (publ) SE-260 92 Förslöv Tel. +46 (0)431-890 00 Fax +46 (0)431-45 17 00 peab.com
