PT Trans Javagas Pipeline Statement of Guiding Principles and Alignment with the UN GC Values Although a small, privately held enterprise, PT Trans Javagas Pipeline (the “Company”) aspires to implement the applicable Good Corporate Governance (GCG) practices of large, publically listed companies governing relations with all Company’s stakeholders. The established Indonesian Standards of Corporate Governance provides guidance to the Company in conducting its business, as do the broader global standards. Implementation of the principles of GCG (Transparency, Accountability, Responsibility, Independency and Fairness) is deemed critical to assure the Company’s survival by ensuring the sustainability of our operations in an environment of heightened global competition and broader definition of corporate responsibility. GCG therefore forms the foundation of the Company’s mission, vision and guiding principles. Indeed the principles underlying the UN GC are synchronous with our own: HUMAN RIGHTS (HR) • Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and We endeavor to embody each of these principles within the immediate, albeit limited context of our commercial operation. Beyond this commitment, we engage in a variety of community development projects beyond the immediate scope of the business, but nonetheless, which we view as critical to the sustainability of our business and of the Indonesian society at large. These projects are grounded on the principle of “pay-it-forward”. That is, from a mindset of helping the development of others with no immediate or direct beneficial linkage to Company economic outcomes. Furthermore, they are based on the principle: if you give a man a fish he will eat for a day; but if you teach him to fish, you feed him and his family for a lifetime. Our core business activities and the supplemental development projects within our CSR program align with and are intimately linked to the underlying UN GC Principles. Taken together, these projects are directly engaged in elevating the quality of Indonesia’s most valuable resource – its Human Resource: 1. Core PT TJP Business Activities. HR LR EN AC ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ HR. All employees are treated as valued members of a team. We have a highly automated operation with a limited number of employees who all have clearly defined responsibilities and perform their duties in accordance with international workplace standards. LR. Perhaps due to the relatively small number of employees, and their general satisfaction with Company conditions, they have not formed a labor union. Equally, there is no concern by the Company should the employees elect to do so. The government closely regulates working hours and workplace practices, and we assiduously adhere to these regulations. We are adamantly opposed to child labor, and it therefore has no place in the Company. The Company operates as a meritocracy; employees are selected for hire and promotion based on their demonstrated skill profiles with no hidden profiling agenda.. EN. The core activity of our business is the transport of natural gas, which implies a certain level of environmental risk and danger to the communities adjacent to the transport pipeline. This we endeavor to mitigate through adherence to the highest international standards of design and maintenance. Furthermore these standards are embedded in the supply contracts we hold with our customers. AC. As our principal customer is wholly owned by the government of Indonesia, the laws regarding bribery are very clear and prohibitive in regards to any violations. Beyond this level of control, we adhere to a policy of no tolerance for 3 bribery. The clarity of this belief within the Company provides freedom to employees who operate on the front line of interaction with governmental officials. 2. Goat Rearing Project. HR LR EN AC ✔ ✔ ✔ In the first of our active community development projects, the Company provides seed money and technical assistance to low-income residents of East Java to raise goats as a supplement to their income and well-being. HR. Economic well-being is considered as a fundamental human right and the program has successfully increased participant incomes by 50%. The goats raised by these villagers contribute directly to their well-being and foments greater independence. As a further developmental quality of the program, the initial recipient villagers give back a portion of their kid goat offspring for distribution to other villagers, thereby expanding and ensuring the sustainability of the program. LR. The project has succeeded by virtue of a full commitment to its success by all participants giving freely of their time and energy. In addition they take away a new set of skills, which will serve them in the future. EN. All aspects of the rearing project are recyclable and promote enrichment of the meager land held by the participating villagers. AC. No substantial effect at this time. 3. Bell Pepper Growing Project. HR LR EN AC ✔ ✔ ✔ As with the goat rearing project, the Company provides seed money and technical advice for a community based development project. In this case, identified East Javanese villagers living in an appropriate microclimate are provided bell pepper seedlings and training in the growing, harvest and sale of this high cash value vegetable. HR. With the training they receive, the first crop produces a sustainable, multi year income stream for the participants. In addition to the new agricultural skills they develop, the participants learn the math of basic economics. These contribute directly to their development as valued members of society. 4 LR. As the project requires collaboration to succeed, the participants learn to work together and respect the contributions of others to the overall goals. They learn the basic skills of sharing tasks and develop respect for one another. Overall, the community develops in a more harmonious way with the shared economic benefits. EN. In the course of the training, the participants learn the immediate value of preserving a clean and chemical-free environment. The immediate commercial value of the produce increases with a demonstrably organic product. AC. No substantial effect at this time. 4. Hati Suci School and Orphanage. HR LR EN AC ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ The Hati Suci Orphanage was founded in 1914 by Ms. Lie Tjian Tjoen as a shelter for at-risk women and children. Subsequently a K-12 school was added with its underlying mission being to protect and fulfill the 10 basic child rights adopted by the UN, and written into Indonesian Law in 2002. Since the founding of the Company, it has provided financial and leadership support for Hati Suci to transform itself into a model for the development of economically deprived children into well-educated young adults, cutting the chain of poverty from parent to child, and thereby strengthening their human rights. Education and child physical and mental well being are intimately linked. We continuously strive to ensure all Hati Suci orphanage residents and students develop into knowledgeable, competitive and collaborative members of society. Currently, Hati Suci orphanage is preparing to transfer its competencies and funding strategies to other orphanages in East Indonesia. This mission is linked to poverty eradication, which is the number one UN MDG objective. 5. Teacher & Principal Training Center. HR LR EN AC ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ Our final project at this time is in the planning and development stage. We propose to align business, not-for-profit, and government resources to create a Teacher & Principal Training Center (IPGK in Indonesian) to dramatically improve the quality of student outcomes from Kindergarten through High School. 5 By confronting the current abysmal standard of education, we will directly and immediately impact the quality of the Indonesian workforce in the decades ahead. HR. Better quality teachers are the most direct route to improved student outcomes. Better-qualified students will immediately enjoy better economic conditions by delivering higher levels of productivity to the national economy. The persistent differences between the ‘haves’ and have-nots’ in the Indonesian society will diminish creating a more harmonious social environment. LR. Smarter workers evolve directly from higher caliber high school graduates to ensure the broad application of improved work place standards, reducing discrimination and creating a more inclusive society. EN. Concern for the environment is a matter of awareness, which increases with broader intellectual understanding and economic opportunity. Training teachers to unlock the intellectual curiosity of their students and stimulate creativity will prepare them to become better stewards of the environment. AC. Corruption flourishes in an environment of ignorance and imbalance of economic and intellectual capability. Elevating the quality of the student population will provide a powerful deterrent to corruption by creating a sense of empowerment and responsible citizenry across a broader range of the country. 6
