! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! GLOBAL COMPACT RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ! ! ! 2014 ! ! ! ! ! ! STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT I am pleased to confirm that YKKO Group of Companies Limited reasserts its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In our annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continuously improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours Sincerely, U Nyan Lin Chairman of YKKO Group of Companies Limited, Myanmar, COP for 2014 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! AN OVERVIEW OF YKKO GROUP OF COMPANIE S LIMITED NOW OPERATING 22 SHOPS SINCE 1988 A TIMELINE OF YKKO HISTORY 1980s 1990s 2000s 2010s Yankin Kyay-Oh was YKKO Kyay-Oh and YKKO Group of 15 more shops are founded. BBQ House was opened Companies Ltd is opened: on Saya San Rd, Bahan established. • 8 in YANGON Township, YANGON. _______________ • 1 in MANDALAY • 1 in MAWLAMYEIN 6 more shops are opened: • 5 in NAY PYI TAW • 1 in NAY PYI TAW • 5 in YANGON VISION To instantly recognize YKKO as a successful Myanmar Brand and to last for centuries. MISSION To provide customers with 100% satisfaction operating on ‘3’ principles of foundation: Quality, Cleanliness, and Service . actions into our core operations. Sketching out our EVOLUTION ! plans, we first began with developing an internal organization with central values of honesty, integrity and determination that defined our corporate YKKO GRO UP O F CO M PANIES LTD. now personality. We hoped that nurturing these intrinsic operates 22 SHO PS ACRO SS M YANM AR. With characteristics would help each individual employed this growth, we realized the need to address our under the company create a ripple effect that would corporate social responsibility, in terms of our carry out into their own communities. behaviours as a company, the conditions of the workers, community development and the impact on the environment. We began reviewing our STAFF INVOLVEMENT corporate sustainability and responsibility practices, imbuing responsible action as the basis for our 1268 business success. These actions were made to 1124 permeate several areas and activities: ethics, corporate governance, risk management, safety, communications, human resources, purchasing, 418 491 product and service development, customer issues, 317 286 community involvement and environment. 2011 2012 2013 Our slogan ‘Serving W ith O ur Hearts’ had to BLOOD DONATION WALKING TOGETHER reach beyond our immediate customers, applying to all members of the community. YKKO considered In planning and executing social contributions for the long term, implementing sustainable CSR events, we not only provide financial support but also pursue activities that place emphasis on 2011 2012 2013 employee involvement in volunteer activities and opportunities to participate. Blood Donation ✓ ✓ ✓ Walking Together ✓ ✓ ✓ We have also formed the Social & Sports Sub World Autism Day ✓ Com m ittee, intended to develop YKKO’s values Si Mee ✓ ✓ ✓ into the roots of the organization, down to our strategies and culture. Since 2011, the Committee has held annual events with staffs participating in our initiatives to leverage our community involvement. These campaigns include ‘Blood Donation’, ‘W alking Together’ where many employees attend in mile/km walk around Kan Daw Gyi to build teamwork and interpersonal skills. THINGYAN DONATIONS During our country’s annual Thingyan – Water Festival holiday, YKKO opens five shops which continues operating during the break. Since 2013, we have donated 50% of our revenue to M haw Pyi M onastery School, which provides free education for children of the area who do not have access to public schools. WORLD AUTISM AWARENESS DAY Our staffs assisted the M yanm ar Autism Association during W orld Autism Awareness Day 2013, helping supervise children of disabilities, and aided in operations and clean up duties. 27 TH ASEAN SEA GAMES MYANMAR 2013 After 44 years of absence, in 2013 Myanmar was given the honor of hosting the South East Asian Sea Games. YKKO staff volunteered as stewards in the Equestrian competitions to assist in the organisation and the set up of the games during the entire event. MHAW BI MONESTARY SCHOOL YKKO people have been greatly involved in the development of M HA W B I M ON ESTARY. Recognizing the need of the children in these areas, we’ve created accommodations for the teachers living in the area, open classrooms and have also offered meals for the students. It is the aim of YKKO to help renovate the monastery in the future. ! STRATEGY AND SUSTAINABILITY In recent years, YKKO has become more oriented in social strategies. With the introduction to the ten principles in our participation with the UN Global Compact, YKKO has become more aware of the improvements we can make to build a long-term sustainable future. The perspective of our strategies and management has gradually branched from our history of focusing on employee volunteer work, corporate giving and philanthropy, to also add both sustainable social and environmental management. ! ! HUMAN RIGHTS YKKO is organizationally oriented on career development at all levels. We focus on evoking new insights about the organization, community, industry and culture. Our training offers learning experiences to the employees that are job related, whilst encouraging career advancement beneficial to both employee and the company. ! ! ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS YKKO has begun a monthly collection of ‘Em ployee Happiness Survey’ to conduct an assessment of our company’s employee engagement, how their standing impacts productivity, retention, and organizational health. We recognize that human capital is our company’s major driving assets. We strive to find out how happy people were with YKKO and seek more clarification to issues present. Our policy handbook prohibits religious, race, and gender discrimination in our hiring practices, promotion and advancement of all individuals. IMPLEMENTATION YKKO includes a ‘Com m unication Plan’ in the employee survey process to increase participation and encourage submission of honest feedback. The communication plan includes how the employee and organization will benefit from the survey, and what the company intends to do with the information gathered from the survey. We have also hosted seminars consistently – ‘Attitude Training’ by Dr. Aung Tun Thet – which staffs of all levels are encouraged to attend. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOME Our questionnaire includes a section titled ‘Cause’ to determine existing concerns. This helps us narrow down the issues and quickly isolates matters we must immediately address. We also create LeadershipLed Engagem ent Discussions to build trust and understanding with regard to the factors that will help the employee and organization relationship. SENIOR M ANAGEM ENT ACCORDING TO GENDER FEM ALE M ALE NUM BER OF PERSONNEL NUM BER OF PERSONNEL Chairman NUM % NUM1 % (HEAD OFFICE) (SHOPS) Managing Director 1 Female 76 65.0% Female 471 45.4% Director 2 2 Male 41 35.0% Male 556 54.6% TO TAL 2 4 AVERAGE DAYS O F FURTHER TRAINING PER NUM . OF TO TAL GROUP YKKO GRO UP EM PLO YEE EM PLO YEES DAYS 2011 14 818 16 2012 15 1,101 17 2013 2 80 41 2014 2 182 2 TO TA 2 4 4 LABOUR YKKO has never sought competitive advantage at the cost of labour. We’ve implemented several labour rights standards in our company’s code of conducts. ! ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS YKKO has put in place, a standard of requirements that must be met by staffs should they enter our employment. We’ve implemented these labour standards by increasing information and providing incentives to develop the rule of good governance, which in turn, improves the preconditions for stable growth as a foundation in our business dealings. We have a strict ‘No Employment Under the Age of 16’ directive. New recruits are placed under a 3-6 month provision as a general worker. After a year, the skills and knowledge they have gained in the daily operations are examined. It is an additional two years before they are allowed to become cooks. We offer training and education such as computer classes for those who are interested and encourage further learning and development. IMPLEMENTATION We have dormitories rented for staffs that work as waiters or waitresses in our branches. Older staffs often act as mentors and support groups for the younger persons who had just joined the company. Our branch managers also ensure that the younger staffs only act as observers in the beginning to understand the workflow and functions of they before they are promoted to positions of great workload and pressure. Measurement of Outcome EDUCATIO N BACKGRO UND FEM ALE M ALE TO TAL OF PERSONNEL (OFFICE) Postgraduate 7 7 Graduate 60 19 79 Pre-Graduate 6 7 13 High school 3 12 15 Middle school 3 3 TO TAL 117 EDUCATIO N BACKGRO UND FEM ALE M ALE TO TAL OF PERSONNEL (SHOP) Graduated 120 25 145 Pre Graduate 84 65 149 High School 199 237 436 Middle School 68 239 307 TO TAL 1,037 ENVIRONMENT In recognition of the environmental impacts that concern the global community, YKKO has worked actively to promote greater environmental responsibility into our business activities. We have set social and environmental standards in our product development and in the provision of our products and services. ! Assessment, Policy and Goals In recognition of the environmental impacts that concern the global community, YKKO has worked actively to promote greater environmental responsibility into our business activities. We have set social and environmental standards in our product development and in the provision of our products and services. YKKO’s future goals include reducing paper usage, by using electronic devices to take customers orders and in the coming future, will also be changing our use of bamboo chopsticks to those made of metal. 2013 BAMBOO CHOPSTICKS CONSUMPTION USAGE NO. BRANCH PER MONTH PER DAY 1 SYS 24,300 784 2 HD 24,900 803 3 SKT 13,100 423 4 TGGN 14,700 474 5 YKN 9,500 306 6 8-Miles 18,200 587 7 CPT-TKT 16,600 535 8 TMN 9,600 310 9 JS 21,600 697 10 RC 13,300 429 11 WDN 14,100 455 12 LPW 4,200 135 13 SBH 8,900 287 14 TPG 28,100 906 15 MMZ 9,400 303 16 CPT-NPT 12,700 410 17 NPT-OTT 10,700 345 18 JS-NPT 4,500 145 19 MLM 6,300 203 20 CATS 22,700 732 TOTAL 287,400 9,271 Implementation The final wastes from our chains are removed responsibly. Our collaborations with the municipals of each district ensure that these removals are effectively carried out. Currently, our Chairm an – U Nyan Lin, and Managing Director – U Kyaw Kyaw Naing are involved in a farming project located in Mhaw Bi. The farm has been functioning for over a year, designed to harvest the vegetation used in our Kyah-Oh, for long-term sustainability. Production reports are given periodically where all employees provide a duty of care to the environment and the effects their actions cause. A proper irrigation system is also being employed to reduce water wastage. The farm also includes cultivation of trees – Teak, M ahogany, Bandar and Rain trees. Measurement of Outcome As these projects are still undergoing, we have yet to collect qualitative and quantitative data. ANTI-CORRUPTION YKKO Group of Companies Ltd. enforces a zero tolerance approach to exploitation and corrupted dealings. Our enhanced introduction of sound corporate governance practices in transactions with our suppliers and negotiations with chosen business associates further solidifies our stance against anti-corruption. ! Assessment, Policy and Goals Our policies include: • A clearly articulated and visible corporate policy prohibiting bribery • Emphasis on individual employee responsibility for compliance • Effective auditing and monitoring systems • Strong internal controls in place to ensure accurate recording keeping and prevention of concealment of bribery • Periodic reviews and action to update and improve the program Implementation YKKO administers Freedom of Information, giving access to staffs of all levels into organization reports in sales, P&L and income statements. We ensure our transparency by going regularly over our data tables and charts for quick and effective analysis. Our anti-corruption programs also include mechanisms to monitor the ongoing compliance functions to encourage employees to report violations. Our internal auditors, including other senior management are tasked with the monitoring function. Specific anti-corruption financial controls are also implemented in risk areas such as petty cash, procedure-to-pay transactions. At minimum, we ensure that all our accounting and financial employees receive anti-corruption compliance training. Our senior management continuously updates our anti-corruption policies. Any changes made are distributed across the company matrix, updating the training and providing it to new or transitioning employees. Measurement of Outcome YKKO’s internal auditor team is responsible for monitoring the daily control activities. The efficiency and proficiency of the firewalls implemented against corruption are inspected regularly. Any shortcomings found are reported to the Board of directors. Supplier transactions are also reported on a daily, monthly and quarterly basis. The assessment of YKKO Group of Companies Ltd.’s anticorruption is measured through access to documentation, our determination to introduce greater transparency and reputational image after years of credible and honest top leadership. YKKO Group of Com panies Ltd. has also recently been acknowledged as one of the Top 500 Highest Tax Paying Com panies of M yanm ar. !
