Westcap Inc; Communication on Progress Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer 2013 2014 To our stakeholders, It is with much pleasure to announce that Westcap Inc; Ltd and its affiliate’s, Agents, Principals and Partner companies reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Labour, Human Rights, Anti-Corruption and Saving the Environment. We also affirm our commitment to the membership of the Global compact on our internet webpage and relevant company communication tools and to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. In this annual Communication on Progress, we will describe our actions to vehemently and continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our Daily Operation through our Culture and Business Strategy. Kind Regards, Noel Danquah Director Principles 1 & 2 Assessment, Policy & Goals Westcap Inc; human rights credential is evident in our strong disregard for any form of abuse entrenched in our daily operations and as well as caliber of our Affiliates, Agents Principals and Counterparties. We are in full support of the Universal Declaration on Human Rights and continuously commit not to conduct any business in any country or regime where rampant human rights abuses are laid bare continuously. Degradation, Harassment in any form, victimization or bullying is not entertained and vehemently disallowed in our corporate Culture and Values. Implementation Our corporate culture dictates awareness and relevance on the topic of human rights. We maintain a flat management structure whereby employees are free to voice their opinions and input are valued. Our workforce is encouraged, through corporate communication, to learn more on the value of human rights and its importance in the development of a sustainable business. Outcomes In the past year Westcap Inc; has not been subject to any investigation, legal cases or any incident involving human rights Principles 3, 4, 5 & 6 Assessment, Policy & Goals English Law is what governs our business. We equally strictly abide to the Laid down Laws and Legal Norms of any country where our business is duly conducted . ILO core Conventions are strictly adhered to and highly vital to us and clearly communicated to any affiliate, Agents or Counterparty and such any organization using child labour is rejected. Employee of Westcap Inc; can openly testify to the fact that they are issued with a Contract of Employment clearly stating their Terms and Conditions of Employment with clearly stated pay rates, sick leave, bonus structures, maternity and paternity leave, etc. This we consider as fair, just and fully in compliant with English Rules, Laws and Regulations. Employees are in addition provided with Manuals explaining the Company’s Culture, Commitment to Labour Rights and Personal Development of our number one partner, Our Staff. Implementation Our Employees are made part of the decision making process and policy formation through constant consultation between senior management and staff at all levels. With the view of making high level official accessible, Westcap Inc; maintains a Flat Corporate Management Structure. This is achieved, partially, as the Company operates in the SME Sector. Health and Safety Laws are clearly communicated to staff as well as staff and customer notice boards also displaying Notices of this kind are at key visible points within our place of work thereby ensuring compliance with these regulations on a constant basis. Training Courses are regularly attended by employees to ensure their personal growth and development. In addition, as per company policy, periodic Performance Reviews, formal and informal are conducted to guarantee that vital information reaches all level of employees. Westcap Inc;’s commitment to fair labour practices are clearly communicated to, and promoted among our stakeholders. Outcomes As of today, there are no Statutory Notices or Prosecutions brought against Westcap Inc; in regards to health and safety nor investigations or legal cases to the contravention of Global Compact Labour principles. Our aim in the coming year is to maintain this record, whilst we strive to further implement measures to aid in the personal and professional development of our workforce. Principles 7, 8 & 9 Assessment, Policy & Goals Westcap Inc; offers its strong support to sustainability initiatives in all its forms. This is evident in management’s decision to gain membership into the WWF and the Woodland Trust in the UK. Reducing our own carbon footprint is the core of our sustainability drive and as a result subscribe to measures of waste disposal by aiding recycling process to complement compliance with municipal regulations. Particular attention and incentives are offered to investments projects with sustainable environmental impact. Implementation Electronic communication is at the heart of our implementation process and aimed at encouraging staff to communicate among themselves and also with other stakeholders with the aim of reducing the use of paper. The use of emission reduction units such as. Carbon credits are utilized to reduce emission and Westcap has been a strong advocate, not only within the firm, but with external firms as a means of assisting them to offset carbon footprint and ultimately reducing CO2 emissions. Preference is given to investment projects with a robust socialand environmental impact when deciding on transactions to participate in. Outcomes Westcap Inc; is in strict compliance with waste disposal policy in accordance with regulations by the Local council. It is with much pleasure to report that there have not been any known incidents, notices or prosecutions in regards to non compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Principle 10 Assessment, Policy & Goals Anti-Corruption ranks high in our dealing, both within the company and with external firms and governments. Clear awareness is created through laid down principles and policies of anti-corruption and its relevance in our market. We adhere fully to the UK’s Bribery Act of 2010 and through our dealing with US companies, the US Patriot Act, and do not participate in any corruption, bribery or extortion. Westcap strongly support the UN Convention Against Corruption and do not conduct business with any corrupt organizations, Individuals or Governments. Great effort is applied in communicating the ten principles to Key Staff and the Entire Workforce as we move into new markets and jurisdictions. Implementation Our workforce is offered the right, anonymous platform to freely report potential corrupt activity – particularly in relation to our own staff and when dealing with external stakeholders. In an attempt to promote transparency and prevent corrupt activity, internal policies on the acceptance of gifts from clients, awarding of contracts to suppliers and other professional bodies are clearly communicated in compliance with laid down rules, policies and procedures. Outcomes We are thus please to report that Westcap Inc; has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to corruption or bribery.
