Sustainability Report 2013 Contents Presentation 1 Chairman’s Message 2 CEO’s Message 6 Who We Are? 10 About İşbank 12 Corporate Profile 14 İşbank in Numbers 16 İşbank and its Subsidiaries 20 Our Approach 22 İşbank’s Sustainability Approach 24 İşbank’s Stakeholders 26 İşbank’s Memberships 28 Organization Chart 30 Corporate Governance at İşbank 32 Risk Management at İşbank 35 For Our Customers 38 For Our Employees 64 For Our Earth 74 For the Society 84 İşbank’s Corporate Social Responsibility Committee 98 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 2013 99 About This Report 100 GRI Approval and Index 101 Presentation Founded to ensure the economic the results of such efforts, sustainability of a recently founded furthermore reflects the Bank’s republic that had emerged from transparency that forms the the ravages of war, İşbank is a sound basis of its sustainability corporate citizen that has adopted management. the responsibility of leaving a sustainable world to next With its activities that raise the generations while fulfilling the public awareness of the importance requirements of this mission. As one of saving, its way of conducting of the fundamental strengths of the business that pays attention on Turkish economy which has grown direct and indirect environmental on the basis of economic reforms, impacts, and its long-term corporate İşbank had already assumed the social responsibility projects which duty of ensuring sustainability of its are planned to generate value for operations, even before this concept the community, İşbank will also gained popularity. continue to strongly express itself in all dimensions of sustainability in the Even though it was not phrased as future. sustainability approach in that era, the essence of the concept was We take justified pride in bringing a internalized in İşbank’s foundation smile to the faces of our stakeholders philosophy and transferred among since 1924. Serving as a platform for generations via corporate culture. smiling faces from all around Turkey, our Today, it is a concept on which the sustainability report is now presented to Bank intensively focuses and works you, our valuable stakeholders. to rigorously with a professional approach. This report, represents Thank you for your contributions. İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 www.isbank.com.tr 1 Chairman’s Message A sustainable world is a candidate to be a gorgeous place to live, where people will be happier; economic welfare and living conditions will be better and more equal and people will keep smiling at all times. H. Ersin Özince Chairman of the Board of Directors In brief By allocating resources, İşbank As the leading bank of The sustainability concept is supported the establishment individuals and the private the basis the sine qua non of basic industries and the sector, İşbank currently of İşbank’s foundation mission. development of the private undertakes its activities with sector in Turkey. determination and under an innovative and modern approach, in order to be the bank closest to its customers. Esteemed stakeholders of İşbank, The concept of sustainability has been a building block for İşbank for 89 years. For most of us, sustainability is a new concept, which its Founded by Mustafa Kemal Atatürk as an institution of the depth cannot be recognized at the beginning. However, Republic but a privately-owned enterprise, İşbank contributed what is pleasing is that the number of individuals and to the young Turkish Republic by leading capital accumulation organizations working hard to leave a sustainable world -the most important requirement of the young Republic at to next generations is increasing rapidly. In addition, that timeand by raising public awareness on the importance supranational institutions, governments, NGOs and of saving. Supporting the establishment of basic industries companies of all sizes are involved in efforts to ensure and the development of the private sector in Turkey, İşbank that the world is a more livable place and to protect the continued to take responsibility and lead the banking sector by benefits for next generations. offering new products and services. Turkey has distinguished as a country with strong economic growth and development; A sustainable world is a candidate to be a gorgeous place İşbank, as the pioneering bank in Turkey, particularly in the to live, where people will be happier; economic welfare eyes of individuals and the private sector, currently pursues and living conditions will be better and more equal and its activities with determination and under an innovative and people will keep smiling at all times. modern approach with the aim of being the bank which is closest to its customers. The concept of sustainability that has taken center stage on the global agenda, after the rise of global environmental disasters, in the second half of 1980s, is the basis the sine qua non of İşbank’s foundation mission. İşbank’s approach to sustainability today guides: • our dialogue with our stakeholders, • our efforts to provide our employees with a modern and decent working environment and personal rights and benefits, • our loyalty to ethics, • our products and services that we design as a responsible corporate citizen, • our practices that are implemented with an environmentally friendly approach, and • our mission, contributing to the community. İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 www.isbank.com.tr 3 Emerging markets must rapidly increase their efficiency and competitive strengths in general terms under the global liquidity conditions, which are anticipated to be tighter in 2014 and beyond. 100 Opportunities ahead of us... Displaying a volatile trend after the global financial crisis in 2008, the world economy is still undergoing a period of İşbank is one of the world’s top 100 banks. rebalancing. In 2013, this process reached a new stage which will lay the foundations for the future. While the signs of recovery in developed economies have grown stronger, the contribution from emerging markets to global growth has started to decline. This has also been accompanied by increased volatility in capital flows to emerging economies. It would be extremely difficult to overcome the problems in maintaining growth, particularly in emerging economies, through business as usual strategies. For this reason, it would not be appropriate to evaluate the global financial crisis and its aftermath from a single point of view. Here, the factor that must be taken into account is the relationship between economic conditions, competitive strengths, growth and sustainability. Emerging markets must rapidly improve their efficiency and competitive strengths in general terms under the global liquidity conditions, which are anticipated to be tighter in 2014 and beyond. Although it may appear to be a challenging and costly target in this very short-term period, sustainable growth is an issue that must be considered and resolved with associated development strategies. It is imperative that the industry and service sectors, in particular, raise their efficiency in every category, invest in new manufacturing technologies, R&D activities and innovation, and improve resource efficiency, especially energy efficiency. As long as this is achieved, levels of welfare will increase not only in emerging markets, but also in developed countries, ensuring the sustainability of global economic growth. Another important issue that must be borne in mind is that social and environmental progress depends directly on economic growth. 4 www.isbank.com.tr İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 In brief İşbank is a leading Backed by the ability Protecting stakeholders’ organization which considers to finance economic benefits, both today and in the past, present and future development in a sustainable the future, has always been together and acts accordingly. manner with its sound a motto of İşbank’s way of financial structure, İşbank is business. determined to maintain this position. Being one of the top 100 banks in the world, İşbank continues We are aware that we have to work harder and constantly raise to support economic development as Turkey’s leading bank. the bar. The activities which we carried out in 2013, which are Within the scope of the 10 principles of the United Nations set out in this report, reflect our sustainability performance. Global Compact which we are a signatory of, we undertake I would like to take this opportunity, personally and on efforts to produce and share added value. In this context, behalf of our Board of Directors, to extend my thanks to all we offer the financial support that is needed by the Turkish of our stakeholders for their valuable contributions and their private sector and individuals by sticking to the legal framework unwavering trust. and ethics. We share the added value we produce with our stakeholders. Yours sincerely, We provide our services in a way that will accelerate economic development by supporting sustainability in a number of categories, ranging from project finance to the efficient use of resources. Further modernization of Turkish industry, increasing its competitive strengths, innovation and resource efficiency are the points that we carefully take into account during the H. Ersin Özince restructuring process of our products and services. To sum up, Chairman of the Board of Directors our Bank has the capability to finance economic development in a sustainable manner with its sound financial structure and is determined to maintain this position. İşbank is a leading organization which considers the past, present and future together and acts accordingly. A privatelyowned corporation that has become a well of public knowledge, İşbank has achieved this position of leadership with the support of Turkish entrepreneurs. In addition to making money, İşbank has always adopted a way of business and motto of helping its customers make money too, as well as creating added value with its stakeholders, protecting its stakeholders’ benefits -not only for today but also in the futureand to be remembered for its permanent values and hard work. İşbank exists to serve this country and the basic principle for us is to conduct our business properly and honestly. İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 www.isbank.com.tr 5 CEO’s Message Our high capital adequacy ratio, strong liquidity and high asset quality, as well as our competent human resources serve as an assurance in maintaining our position as the leading player of the market in the future. Adnan Bali Member of the Board and Chief Executive Officer In brief İşbank’s strategies, policies Lending is the most explicit İşbank has a deeply rooted and business processes are indicator of a bank’s past and strong corporate cautious, but also as flexible contribution to the national structure, a model banking as possible to allow the Bank economy and development. culture and experience, a high to accurately reflect “change” İşbank is the largest bank of reputation and commands to its way of doing business. Turkey in terms of total loans. considerable trust. Esteemed stakeholders, With its capital structure and management approach, İşbank is a distinguished bank in its sector and uses its In 2013, we posted a strong performance supporting our difference. sustainable growth. Lending is the most explicit indicator of a bank’s contribution Maintaining its title as Turkey’s largest bank in terms of total to the national economy and development. İşbank is the assets at the end of 2013, İşbank is the leading bank in Turkey, largest bank of Turkey in terms of total loans. In 2013, funds a strong bank in its region, and the largest Turkish bank in the transferred by İşbank to the economy increased in real terms world. In 2013, İşbank sustained its leadership in the sector in compared to the previous year and the share of loans in total terms of shareholders’ equity and total loans. assets reached 64.1%. Our strong performance in 2013 provides us with the strength İşbank commands a great deal of trust with a deeply rooted and motivation we need in the process of carrying our past and strong corporate structure, a model banking culture leadership into the future. Our high capital adequacy ratio, and experience, a high reputation, human resources managed strong liquidity and high asset quality, as well as our competent under a long-term respective, and a wide customer portfolio, human resources serve as an assurance in maintaining our with whom it shares a reliable understanding of cooperation. position as the leading player of the market in the future. Recording sustainable financial results through strong customer relations based on mutual trust and an effective Our strategies, policies and business processes are cautious balance sheet management policy, İşbank sets itself apart in its but also as flexible as possible, thus allowing us to accurately sector as a bank that uses its difference in the most appropriate reflect “change” to our way of doing business. Although we manner, thanks to its capital structure and management are one of the major corporate structures in Turkey, we have approach. the competence in making use of the opportunities arising in markets accurately and adapting our organization to the requirements of the future rapidly. İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 www.isbank.com.tr 7 Recording sustainable financial results through strong customer relations based on mutual trust and an effective balance sheet management policy, İşbank makes a difference in its sector and uses its difference in the most appropriate manner thanks to its capital structure and management approach. Green Building In order to support our corporate strategy based on our target of becoming the bank closest to its customers, we have defined İşbank’s priorities and targets in sustainability. We can İşbank was the first bank in Turkey to receive the summarize these priorities and targets as follows: green building certificate. • to offer a rapid, easy and reliable banking experience, as well as products, services and solutions with a high value proposition during the planning of our customers’ financial activities, • to reinforce our reputation in compliance with the principles of corporate governance, the law and ethics by conducting 6 model practices, • to maintain our leading position in the sector with an HR İşbank sums up its priorities in sustainability approach in which we believe that corporate performance under 6 topics. depends on the welfare and future of employees; to respect human rights; to encourage participation; and to attach importance to creativity and making a difference, • to place the social and environmental dimensions an indispensable part of all of our decisions, business processes and practices related to our product and service cycle, • to manage our environmental impacts under a systematic point of view and to optimize resource utilization by increasing resource efficiency, and • to provide a positive contribution to people’s standard of living through long-term corporate social responsibility efforts, which answer the needs of the community by promoting sharing. As long as we achieve these priorities and targets, which we sum up under six topics, we will walk taller and more boldly towards our common future. In 2013, our Bank increased contribution to the real economy, supported individuals and corporations by means of banking products and services, and received awards on international scale, thus proving its R&D strength and the importance the Bank attaches to innovation. The common purpose in all of these efforts is to become the bank closest to its customers and to produce value for its social stakeholders. 8 www.isbank.com.tr İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 In brief In order to support its One of İşbank’s primary In 2013, the “BREEAM Incorporate strategy based on sustainability-related targets Use” Building and Building the target of becoming the is to manage its environmental Management certification bank which is closest to its impacts under a systematic process was completed for customers, İşbank has defined approach and optimize İşbank’s Head Office building; its priorities and targets in resource utilization by additionally, the Bank’s ratings sustainability. increasing resource efficiency. were improved from “good” to “very good”. Having taken into force in 2013 following the approval of our Believing in the common future Executive Board, the Environmental and Social Management We have built a strong and deeply rooted corporate culture Strategy (ESMS) was one of the most important practices over the past 89 years since our foundation in 1924. İşbank implemented with respect to managing and keeping our will maintain its leading position in domestic and neighboring environmental and social impacts under control. The ESMS aims markets in the upcoming years with its competent human to minimize the negative environmental and social impacts resources, as an innovative bank in product and technological caused by the activities, business-related or otherwise, of our development, as a company abiding fully to its code of ethics, Bank and its customers and to maximize the positive impacts. and as the leader Bank in financing the real sector. Another important progress in 2013 was the completion of We take justified pride in having supported the Turkish the “BREEAM In-Use” Building and Building Management economy for 89 years. We believe in our country and our people. certification process for İşbank’s Head Office building. Thanks to We are aware of our country’s economic potential and the our improvement efforts throughout the year, our ratings in this strength of its growth. area were raised from “good” to “very good”. İşbank was the first bank in Turkey to receive the green building certificate. We will build our common future with our stakeholders. We are now readier, stronger and more determined than ever to carry Contributing to every aspect of the foundation, development our leadership into future. and the growth of Turkish Republic, our Bank’s efforts to support social development are as important and valuable We would like to extend our thanks to all of our employees who as its economic performance. 2013 was a year in which we enabled us to show such a strong performance in 2013 and also successfully managed to maintain our social contributions. to our stakeholders who have supported us and contributed to We have embraced different segments of the community our performance. with efforts in such areas as education, environment, arts and culture. A number of projects that we have been executing are Yours Sincerely, such efforts closely related to our common future, while also expressing our commitment to the community. I would like to take this chance to extend my thanks to the NGOs and our social stakeholders, who, in cooperation with us, open up new horizons for our country. Adnan Bali Member of the Board and Chief Executive Officer İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 www.isbank.com.tr 9 Who We Are? 10 www.isbank.com.tr İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 Who We Are? İşbank is Turkey’s largest bank. The leading bank in Turkey in terms of total assets, İşbank is also the largest bank in the Turkish banking industry on the basis of shareholders’ equity and total loans. Synonymous with trust and reputation in the eyes of the community, the Bank has been supporting its customers in Turkey and abroad since 1924. İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 www.isbank.com.tr 11 Who We Are? About İşbank Our Vision For our employees; • to be a preferred employer and To be the most preferred bank in offer employees programs and Turkey by customers, shareholders and training opportunities that will foster employees by maintaining our leading, their personal and professional pioneering and trusted position. development, • to propagate our customer-focused Our Objectives approach among all our personnel, • to support and encourage loyalty, For our customers; assuming responsibility and creativity, • to be the bank that is the most • to deploy an employee hiring, preferred service provider in all the evaluation, appointment and sectors and customer groups that we advancement system that is based on target, competencies and performance and • to provide our customers that is fair and trustworthy. comprehensive, reliable and highquality service by means of our In summary, competent employees, extensive İşbank’s goal is “to consistently increase branch network and non-branch the value it creates for its shareholders banking channels, as a bank that responds to its customers’ • to abide by our high business ethics needs quickly, effectively and with highand principles without compromise. quality solutions and that encourages its employees to achieve a high level of For our shareholders; performance in their jobs”. • to consistently increase the value of our shares, • to operate with effective risk management. 12 www.isbank.com.tr İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 Our Values Our Strategy • Honest and trustworthy Our strategy is sustainable and • Leading, pioneering and innovative profitable growth based on “the bank • Customer oriented with a strong focus closest to customers” philosophy in an on high quality effort to fulfill our vision and objectives. • Respectful to society, human rights and environment • Transparent. İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 www.isbank.com.tr 13 Who We Are? Corporate Profile Turkey’s Leading Bank Extensive Service A Sustainable and Network Robust Financial With TL 210.5 billion in total Structure assets, İşbank is Turkey’s With an extensive service largest bank. network, İşbank provides A robust financial structure service to approximately 16 that supports sustainability… İşbank is the largest bank in the million customers. sector in terms of total assets, Shareholders’ equity worth TL total loans and shareholders’ At the end of 2013, İşbank is 23.6 billion supported expansion equity. It is also the leader in at service to approximately in İşbank’s business volume deposits among privately-owned 16 million customers in the and has been instrumental in banks. corporate, commercial, SME, retail enabling the Bank to continue its and private banking segments investment strategy. İşbank constantly undertakes through: to meet its customers’ needs • 1,289 domestic and 20 As of year-end 2013, İşbank’s quickly and effectively with overseas branches capital adequacy ratio was extensive service through the • 5,673 domestic ATMs 14.4%, significantly above largest privately-owned branch (Bankamatiks) regulatory requirements. network (1,309 branches) and • Internet Banking the Turkish banking sector’s • Mobile Banking channels. İşbank adopted a provisioning largest domestic ATM network policy according to the legally (5,673 Bankamatiks). required ratios stipulated by the Banking Regulation and Supervision Agency (BRSA) for non-performing loans. As of yearTL 134.8 billion end 2013, İşbank’s NPL coverage ratio was %80.4, above the Total loan volume was realized at TL 134.8 billion in 2013. Turkish banking sector. TL 210.5 billion İşbank is Turkey’s largest bank with total assets worth TL 210.5 billion. 14 www.isbank.com.tr İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 A Brand Identified A Broad Shareholder Contribution to Social with Trust, Dignity and Base Development Reputation One of İşbank’s most İşbank runs a number of The İşbank brand which is important assets is its broad social responsibility activities identified with trust, dignity shareholders base. contributing to social and reputation in society development. has also a strong positioning İşbank has a broad-based abroad. shareholder structure consisting İşbank accepts corporate of more than 200,000 social responsibility as a highly İşbank supports Turkish society shareholders and institutional valuable and fundamental tool and manufacturers in the investors. in complimenting its economic domestic and international arena mission. since 1924. Türkiye İş Bankası A.Ş. Mensupları Munzam Sosyal İşbank carries out projects İşbank is also an effective Güvenlik ve Yardımlaşma that are designed to make service provider in foreign Sandığı Vakfı (İşbank Personnel a difference in the fields of trade and international finance Supplementary Pension Fund), a education, environment, culture transactions. Under the scope fund which has a membership of and arts and that reach a wide of sound cooperation developed about 50,000 current and retired range of society. with creditor institutions, the bank employees, holds 40.2% of Bank successfully secures İşbank’s capital. foreign funds and provides local services to the Turkish business community through its international service network. In 2013, İşbank has been the bank with the highest rank among Turkish banks at “The World’s Greatest 1,000 Banks” list published by The Banker magazine. İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 www.isbank.com.tr 15 Who We Are? İşbank in Numbers İşbank plays a crucial role in the national economy by funding the real sector, generating employment and providing financial products and services. With the product and service solutions which meet the financial needs of millions of individuals and enterprises, the Bank plays an important role in shaping the future. Shareholder Structure as of end of 31 December 2013 40.2% İşbank Personnel Supplementary Pension Fund 31.7% Free Float 28.1% Atatürk Shares (Republican People’s Party) 16 www.isbank.com.tr İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 Key Financial Highlights (TL million) Under the volatile and 31.12.2012 31.12.2013 Change (%) changing market conditions Total Assets 175,444 210,500 20.0 of 2013, İşbank continued to Loans 106,716 134,843 26.4 support the Turkish economy Deposits 105,383 120,975 14.8 by offering value added Shareholders’ 22,719 23,579 3.8 products and services to its Equity customers. Net Profit 3,310 3,163 -4.4 Key Financial Ratios (%) Direct economic value generated in 2013 1 (TL thousand) 31.12.2012 31.12.2013 Total Operating Value Shared Interest Earning Assets (*)/ 91.4 92.2 Income Total Assets Loans/Total Assets 60.8 64.1 10,286,236 Operating expenses 2 4,962,519 Personnel expenses 2,275,548 Reserve for employee Loans/Deposits 101.3 111.5 37,400 termination benefits Tax provision 693,334 NPL Ratio 1.9 1.6 Dividends (gross 3) 554,734 Donations NPL Coverage Ratio 78.9 80.4 24,327 Demand Deposits/Total Deposits 19.9 21.2 1 Unconsolidated figures as at 31 December 2013. Shareholders’ Equity/Total 12.9 11.2 2 Operating expenses are inclusive of personnel expenses and reserve for Liabilities employee termination benefits, which are also presented in the chart. For further details about operating expenses, please refer to the “Other Operating Expenses” Capital Adequacy Ratio 16.3 14.4 table in the unconsolidated financial report contained in the Annual Report 2013. 3 Gross amount of dividends distributed to shareholders. (*) Interest earning assets include TL and FX denominated legal reserves. TL 3,163 million 14.4% İşbank realized a net profit of TL 3,163 million İşbank’s capital adequacy ratio stood at 14.4% in 2013. at the end of 2013. İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 www.isbank.com.tr 17 Who We Are? İşbank’s target is first to be a regional bank, and then a global bank. Accordingly, the Bank continues to expand its service network. • Russia England • •Netherlands •Germany France •Switzerland • • China Kosovo • •Bulgaria •Georgia •T.R.N.C. • Iraq •Egypt •Bahrain 60 new branches 826 new ATMs 956 new İşbank employees 18 www.isbank.com.tr İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 İşbank will sustain its domestic and international service network growth in parallel with the business opportunities provided by the market in 2014. • In the framework of its international expansion • İşbank also continues to improve its domestic strategy, İşbank especially focuses on Turkey’s service network. In 2013, the total number of neighboring countries, expanding its service branches increased to 1,289 while the Bank network in markets which have economic and maintained its leadership position among commercial relations with Turkey. private banks. The number of domestic ATMs • İşbank’s Taşkınköy Branch, the 15th branch in the (Bankamatik) increased to 5,673 and İşbank now T.R.N.C., entered operation in 2013. İşbank has the boasts the largest ATM network in Turkey. widest branch network in the T.R.N.C. • İşbank continued to expand its product and service • Efforts to open new branches in Iraq (Baghdad and diversity through alternative delivery channels Duhok), Georgia (Tbilisi), Kosovo (Prizren) and in and by increasing transaction volumes.The ratio of the UK (London) are ongoing. total transactions conducted through alternative delivery channels in total transactions increased to 80.5%. • As of 2013, İşbank Group was a big family with more than 50,000 staff. İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 www.isbank.com.tr 19 Who We Are? İşbank and its Subsidiaries 72% of İşbank’s subsidiary portfolio is traded on the Financial Services Borsa Istanbul National Market. Comprising 72% of İşbank’s subsidiary portfolio, Türkiye Sınai İşbank has a number of financial services subsidiaries Kalkınma Bankası A.Ş., Anadolu Hayat Emeklilik A.Ş., İş Finansal that operate in a range of areas including banking, Kiralama A.Ş., İş Gayrimenkul Yatırım Ortaklığı A.Ş., İş Yatırım insurance, private pension, capital markets brokerage Menkul Değerler A.Ş. and Türkiye Şişe ve Cam Fabrikaları A.Ş. services, portfolio management, private equity, factoring, are publicly-held companies and their stakes are traded on the reinsurance, leasing, asset management, securities Borsa Istanbul National Market. The ratio of the equity stakes investment trust, investment banking and real estate portfolio to İşbank’s total assets stood at 3.7% at the end of investment trusts.. 2013. TSKB İşbank’s subsidiary strategy is focused on efficiency and BIST: TSKB profitability. www.tskb.com.tr The efficiency of İşbank subsidiary portfolio is highly important in terms of İşbank’s equity investment. In line with its İşbank Germany investment strategy, the Bank keeps abreast of investment www.isbank.de opportunities offering high growth and profit potential in the finance sector by maintaining a focus on the financial services İşbank Russia sector. www.isbank.com.ru Anadolu Hayat 293 BIST: ANHYT www.anadoluhayat.com.tr Number of companies participated by İşbank Anadolu Sigorta since 1924 BIST: ANSGR www.anadolusigorta.com.tr Millî Reasürans www.millire.com 26 İş Leasing Number of companies in which İşbank has a BIST: ISFIN direct participation in (as of the end of 2013) www.isleasing.com.tr İş GYO BİST: ISGYO www.isgyo.com.tr 112 İş Securities BIST: ISMEN Number of companies directly or indirectly www.isyatirim.com.tr controlled by İşbank 20 www.isbank.com.tr İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 Glass Telecommunication Şişecam Avea The founder and the undisputed leader of the Turkish Avea is Turkey’s only GSM 1800 mobile communications glass industry operator. Founded in 1935, Türkiye Şişe ve Cam Fabrikaları A.Ş. (Şişecam) At the end of 2013, Avea controlled a 21% share of the mobile is the holding company of the Şişecam Group, which consists communications market in Turkey with approximately 14.5 of 66 companies active in the areas of flat glass, glassware, million subscribers. glass packaging and chemicals, mainly soda ash and chromium chemicals. Besides Şişecam -the parent company of the Groupwww.avea.com.tr stakes of some (Trakya Cam, Anadolu Cam and Denizli Cam ve Soda Sanayii) of the other Group companies are traded on the Other Borsa Istanbul. Nemtaş The Şişecam group carries out its production activities in its facilities and plants located in Turkey, as well as in Egypt, Russia, Maritime Transport Georgia, Bulgaria, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Italy, Ukraine, Romania, Nemtaş Nemrut Liman İşletmeleri A.Ş. (Nemtaş) is active in Germany, Hungary, Slovakia, and India. shipping line operation, ship management, chartering and brokering. The company offers service in the logistics sector Considered one of the leading companies in the glassmaking with its fleet of five vessels with a total capacity of 252,959 industry in Europe and in the world, the Şişecam Group ranked DWT. between 3rd and 6th in the world and 2nd and 4th in Europe in the area of glass production as of December 2013, according to www.nemtas.com.tr capacity-based rankings. İşbank and its subsidiaries represent a large-scale entity and BIST: SISE source of economic strength for the Turkish economy. İşbank www.sisecam.com.tr will continue its work and efforts, targeting the best primarily for its shareholders, customers, and employees as well as all for its stakeholders, and for Turkey. İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 www.isbank.com.tr 21 Our Approach 22 www.isbank.com.tr İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 Our Approach İşbank’s contribution to society in the most general sense is manifested in the added value it provides to the economy, and is founded on four priorities: • customers • employees • the society • the earth İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 www.isbank.com.tr 23 Our Approach İşbank’s Sustainability Approach İşbank aims to carry out all of its activities within the framework of its sustainability approach and to integrate them into all of its banking functions. In addition, the Bank conducts corporate social responsibility activities that aim to add value to the community, to speed up social development and to raise the quality of life of individuals. İşbank uses its own capability to create value for the One of the most important developments in 2013 in the welfare, development and economic growth of the area of sustainability was the taken into force of İşbank’s community. Environmental and Social Management Strategy and its approval by İşbank’s Executive Board. The Bank puts its business model into practice under the guidance of the following strategy: “sustainable and profitable İşbank is an environmentally friendly corporate citizen aiming growth based on the notion of becoming the bank closest to protect the environment. The Bank’s target is to make most to the customer in order to realize its vision and achieve its efficient use of its all natural resources, particularly electricity, targets”. natural gas and water. By means of a range of different applications in various areas from IT practices to project İşbank’s contribution to society in the most common sense is finance, the Bank monitors its environmental impacts indirectly manifested in the added value it provides to the economy and is associated with the products and services that it offers to its founded on four priorities: customers, employees, the society, customers; and aims to keep such impacts under control. Within and the earth. the scope of social responsibility projects, on the other hand, İşbank also carries out activities to protect and improve the İşbank generates direct value by means of its banking activities. environment. Targeting to fulfill customer expectations and needs with the right products and perfect service experience, İşbank offers a İşbank conducts corporate social responsibility work that aims wide range of products to its customers, while also expressing to add value to the community, speed up social development its support to economic development. and raise the quality of life of individuals. These projects, which are conducted on such areas like education, environment, art & İşbank provides individual and professional development culture, allow the Bank to reach the broader public. Corporate opportunities to its employees in a working environment social responsibility is where İşbank’s contribution to the where equality of opportunity is ensured; where employee community is manifested to the greatest extent. satisfaction is maintained; where respect for people and employee rights, and full compliance with the law are the prior concepts; and where future career management of employees is cared of. 24 www.isbank.com.tr İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 In brief İşbank aims to meet customer İşbank provides individual and İşbank is an environmentally expectations and needs with professional development friendly corporate citizen the right products and perfect opportunities to its employees aiming to protect the service experience. in a working environment, environment. The Bank’s target where future career planning is to make most efficient use of employees is taken cared of. of its all natural resources, particularly electricity, natural gas and water.. İşbank’s Environmental and Social Management Strategy (ESMS) Within the framework of İşbank’s strategy of “sustainable Minimizing the negative environmental and social effects and profitable growth based on the notion of being the while maximizing the positive ones, regarding the İşbank’s bank closest to the customer” and its corporate targets with own and clients’ business and other activities. respect to its customers, shareholder and employees, İşbank’s environmental and social management strategy (ESMS) is designated as follows: İşbank’s ESMS is set up based on the following tenets: • Supporting clients in identifying the environmental and • Encouraging activity-specific, sector-specific, nationwide, social risks linked with their operations financed by İşbank, universal or any other innovation of any scale to contribute to the environmental and social aspects, • Encouraging clients to implement an environmental and social risk management plan, if necessary, to achieve higher • Developing partnerships with affiliates, financial, level of the E&S standards in their operations, governmental & non–governmental organizations to follow best practices and improve the E&S standards on a best • Monitoring and analyzing on a regular basis, the actions effort basis. taken by clients to reduce environmental and social risks, • Reporting of the outcomes of the above mentioned approach both on clients’ activities and İşbank’s corporate and social responsibility strategies, İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 www.isbank.com.tr 25 Our Approach İşbank’s Stakeholders İşbank focuses on developing a proactive and sustainable dialogue with its stakeholders. The feedbacks and requests of stakeholders are valuable. İşbank’s stakeholders consist of those corporations and During its daily business processes, İşbank is in communication individuals who are directly or indirectly affected by with a greater portion of its stakeholders. Stakeholder İşbank’s decisions, products and activities and who can dialogue is performed in different formats throughout affect İşbank in the same manner. different communication channels and is focused on feedback gathering on a 24/7 basis. The Bank carries out the necessary Attaching priority and importance on stakeholder dialogue, investments in establishing a stakeholder dialogue in the most İşbank focuses on listening to and accurately understanding effective and efficient manner. İşbank makes effective use of its stakeholders’ opinions and requests, and on developing the following instruments in stakeholder dialogue; its corporate transparent bidirectional communication with them. websites, its intranet and the websites of its products and subStakeholders’ feedback on İşbank’s strategies, policies and brands, as well as social platforms and e-mail communication. practices as well as its products and services provide a valuable database in supporting the development of the service cycle, Stakeholders’ opinions and expectations, which we keep view increasing stakeholder satisfaction and, consequently, the of in our database and which guide us in a number of areas improvement in total generated added value. Moreover, the from decision making to the development of new products Bank also makes use of the feedback obtained within the and services, are used to identify the contents of our 2013 scope of stakeholder dialogue to identify the primary topics Sustainability Report. Please refer to the section, “About This in the area of corporate social responsibility and to set up its Report”, on page 100. strategies, policies and action plans. 26 www.isbank.com.tr İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 In brief İşbank focuses on listening to İşbank scrutinizes the Stakeholder communication is and correctly understanding feedback it receives from its performed in various formats its stakeholders’ opinions and dialogue with stakeholders in through different channels, requests, and on developing a bid to identify the primary allowing the Bank to receive a transparent dialogue with topics in the area of corporate feedback on a 24/7 basis. them. social responsibility and to set up its strategies, policies and action plans. İşbank’s Stakeholders and Forms of Communication Our Stakeholders Frequency of Communication Form of Communication Branches, Alternative Distribution Channels (Bankamatik (ATMs), Internet Branch, Telephone Branch and Mobile Banking Channels), Self-Service Branches, one-to-one Customers 24/7 basis contact through customer representatives, meetings, questionnaires that aim to measure customer satisfaction and expectations, and social media The recruitment process, employee satisfaction surveys, training programs, Employees Daily performance evaluation, internal communication platforms, regular managers' meetings General Assembly meetings, investor meetings, road-shows, daily communication activities of the Investor Relations Division, Shareholders and Investors Annually and quarterly/when necessary the Division’s website, the Public Disclosure Platform (KAP), and Annual Reports and other presentations CSR projects, information and cooperation The Society When necessary meetings, feedback mechanisms CSR projects, information and cooperation NGOs When necessary meetings, feedback mechanisms Public Authority/Regulatory When necessary Reporting processes, meetings Agencies Industry Associations, Meetings and presentations, workshops, daily Organizations and Other Market When necessary communication activities Players Information communication, press Media When necessary conferences, special meetings and answering written questions Daily communication with product and service Suppliers Daily suppliers, initiatives aiming to raise suppliers' awareness on sustainability İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 www.isbank.com.tr 27 Our Approach İşbank’s Memberships İşbank supports a wide array of NGOs and initiatives, and is actively involved in their activities. As of the end of 2013, İşbank was supporting, or was actively • Association of Business Communicators involved in, and/or represented by the Bank’s senior executives, • ICC (Turkey) Banking Techniques and Applications Commission in the following national and international initiatives. • National Education Foundation • AKUT Search and Rescue Association • METU Alumni Association • European Association for Banking and Financial History-EABH • Advertisers’ Association (of Turkey) • European Financial Management and Marketing Association-EFMA • Risk Managers Association • The European Association of Communication Directors (EACD) • Information Systems Audit and Control Association-ISACA • The Research Institute of Banking and Commercial Law • TEMA Foundation • The Interbank Card Center • History Foundation of Turkey • Bilkent University • The Banks Association of Turkey Ethics Commission • Call Centers Association • Ethics and Reputation Society (TEİD) • Darüşşafaka Society • The Banks Association of Turkey, Working Group for the Role of Financial Sector in Sustainable Growth • Deniz Temiz Association / Turmepa • The Institute of Internal Auditing-Turkey • Foreign Economic Relations Board (DE İK) • Turkish Quality Association (KalDer) • Elginkan Foundation • Turkish Institutional Investment Managers’ Association • The Bankers’ Association for Finance and Trade / BAFT-IFSA • Turkey HR Management Association (PERYÖN) • Finance Managers Association • Turkish Industry and Business Association (TÜSİAD) • Global Relations Forum • Institute of International Finance-IIF • UN Global Compact Turkey Sustainable Banking and Finance Working Group • Vehbi Koç Foundation • Economic Development Foundation (İKV) • İstanbul Foundation for Culture and Arts (İKSV) • Credit Bureau (KKB) 28 www.isbank.com.tr İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 İşbank and UN Global Compact The 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact Businesses should support and respect the protection of In the World Economic Forum held in 1999, Kofi Annan -the internationally proclaimed human rights. General Secretary to the United Nationsinvited leaders of the business world, companies, the United Nations, labor unions Businesses make sure that they are not complicit in human and NGOs under the Global Compact, an international initiative, rights abuses. to support universal environmental and social principles in line Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the with the “Millennium Development Goals”. effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. The 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact were Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced announced to the public at the UN Headquarters in 2000. and compulsory labour. Businesses should support the effective abolition of child The Global Compact is comprised of 10 principles that are labour. dealt under 4 primary topics: • human rights Businesses should support the elimination of discrimination in • labour respect of employment and occupation. • environment • anti-corruption Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. In line with the Global Compact initiative, member companies Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater are expected to anticipate, support and implement these environmental responsibility. principles. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. On 7 March 2012 İşbank informed the United Nations Secretary General’s Office of its pledge to the Global Compact’s ten principles. The activities İşbank carried out during the reporting period within the scope of the Global Compact are addressed in various sections of this report, and a summary table is given on page 99. İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 www.isbank.com.tr 29 Our Approach Organization Chart (*) BOARD OF DIRECTORS CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Adnan Bali DEPUTY CEO DEPUTY CEO DEPUTY CEO DEPUTY CEO DEPUTY CEO Mahmut Aydın Süha Suat İnce Hakan Aran Levent Korba Magemizoğlu Önder HEAD OFFICE BOARD OF COUNSELLOR INSPECTORS İ. Hakkı Akşener BANKING COMMERCIAL ALTERNATIVE COMMERCIAL & FINANCIAL OPERATIONS BANKING DISTRIBUTION CORPORATE LOANS MANAGEMENT & PAYMENT MARKETING CHANNELS MONITORING & DIVISION OPERATIONS DIVISION DIVISION RECOVERY DIVISION CORPORATE DIVISION HEAD OFFICE COMPLIANCE COUNSELLORSHIP DIVISION COMMERCIAL BRANCH INVESTOR INFORMATION FINANCIAL BANKING NETWORK RELATIONS TECHNOLOGIES ANALYSIS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT DIVISION DIVISION DIVISION DIVISION DIVISION INTERNAL CONTROL DIVISION MANEGERIAL CONSTRUCTION REPORTING COMMERCIAL LEGAL & REAL ESTATE & INTERNAL BANKING SALES COUNSELLORSHIP MANAGEMENT ACCOUNTING DIVISION DIVISION RISK DIVISION MANAGEMENT DIVISION FOREIGN TRADE CORPORATE RETAIL LOANS & COMMERCIAL BANKING MONITORING LOAN MARKETING AND & RECOVERY OPERATIONS SALES DIVISION DIVISION SECRETARIAT TO DIVISION THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS INTERNAL FREE ZONE OPERATIONS BRANCHES DIVISION RETAIL LOAN SME BANKING & CARD SALES DIVISION OPERATIONS DIVISION SUPPORT SERVICES AND (*) As of 31.12.2013 PURCHASING DIVISION 30 www.isbank.com.tr İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 AUDIT COMMITTEE Füsun Tümsavaş Prof. Dr. Savaş Taşkent DEPUTY CEO DEPUTY CEO DEPUTY CEO DEPUTY CEO DEPUTY CEO DEPUTY CEO Ertuğrul Rıza İhsan Yalçın Sezen Senar Akkuş Yılmaz Ertürk İlhami Koç Bozgedik Kutlusoy COMMERCIAL BRANCHES ABROAD CARD PAYMENT ENTERPRISE CORPORATE ECONOMIC LOANS AND FOREIGN SYSTEMS ARCHITECTURE COMMUNICATIONS RESEARCH UNDERWRITING REPRESENTATIVES DIVISION DIVISION DIVISION DIVISION DIVISION (OFFICES) CONSUMER INTERNATIONAL HR CAPITAL LOANS CONSUMER TREASURY FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT MARKETS UNDERWRITING LOANS DIVISION DIVISION INSTITUTIONS DIVISION DIVISION DIVISION DIVISION STRATEGY & CORPORATE PRIVATE CORPORATE LOANS BANKING SUBSIDIARIES PERFORMANCE UNDERWRITING MARKETING AND DIVISION MANAGEMENT DIVISION SALES DIVISION DIVISION CREDITS RETAIL BANKING TALENT PORTFOLIO MARKETING MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT DIVISION DIVISION DIVISION SME LOANS RETAIL BANKING UNDERWRITING PRODUCT DIVISION DIVISION RETAIL BANKING SALES DIVISION İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 www.isbank.com.tr 31 Our Approach Corporate Governance at İşbank The purpose of the corporate governance structure at İşbank is to put the corporate governance principles, policies and practices into effect by taking into account the compliance with the law and regulations. Effective corporate governance requires an appropriately for loan underwriting and 90 files on other issues regarding designed corporate culture backed by strong processes loans, based on the work carried out by convening meetings and values shared by the employees. In the conduct of or by individual review and signing of the file by each Board its operations, its corporate culture and corporate values Member, which resulted in 284 loan decisions. A total of 368 maintained and enhanced for 89 years, İşbank respects files were reviewed on non-credit matters and 368 decisions the laws, ethical values and professional principles. In this were taken. Consequently, 819 Board resolutions were made in framework, each İşbank employee is expected to display 2013, including those that were passed during the meetings in an honest, consistent and transparent manner to the 2013. customers, authorities, shareholders, their colleagues and other stakeholders. Information on İşbank Board of Directors is presented on pages 64-65 and 86-87 of the 2013 Annual Report under the The purpose of the corporate governance structuring at İşbank “Investor Relations/Financial Information” section accessible is to actualize the corporate governance principles, policies from the www.isbank.com.tr website. and practices that will support the accountability of the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee while considering There are eight active committees at İşbank. the compliance with the law and regulations. These principles, The committees operating at İşbank are the Audit Committee, policies and practices are aligned with the Bank’s corporate Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus (T.R.N.C.) Internal Systems strategy, values and principles. Committee, Credit Committee, Credit Revision Committee, Corporate Social Responsibility Committee, Risk Committee, Board of Directors is at the top of İşbank’s corporate Remuneration Committee and Corporate Governance governance structure. Committee. These Committees report to the Board of Directors. İşbank’s Board of Directors sets the strategy and policies at İşbank, and acts as a guide for the executive committee and Information on the committees active at İşbank is presented therefore for the whole organization with the decisions it takes. on pages 71-73 of the 2013 Annual Report under the “Investor The Board of Directors is as actively involved in the preparation Relations / Financial Information” section accessible from the of risk management strategies and policies as well as in the address www.isbank.com.tr website. oversight of the practices put into practice by the management and their outcomes. İşbank Executive Committee The İşbank Executive Committee is comprised of the Chief İşbank’s Board of Directors is comprised of one chairman and Executive Officer and 11 Deputy Chief Executives. İşbank’s CEO ten members is the person commanding full authority and responsibility over the conduct, administration and coordination of the day-to-day There is no executive member in the Board of Directors except business in the broadest sense. Each Deputy Chief Executive is the Chief Executive Officer at İşbank. The positions of the responsible for the business lines defined. Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer are filled by different individuals. Information on İşbank Executive Committee is presented on pages 66-67 of the 2013 Annual Report, posted under the 14 Board meetings were held at İşbank during 2013, with full “Investor Relations / Financial Information” section accessible participation achieved in 13 of them. As at the year-end 2013, on the www.isbank.com.tr website. a total of 535 files have been reviewed, which split as 445 files 32 www.isbank.com.tr İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 At İşbank, the internal audit function is fulfilled by the the continuous inspection of areas deemed to be of high risk, Board of Inspectors. particularly loans and human resources. The İşbank Board of Inspectors fulfills the duty of inspecting and supervising the activities of all the Bank’s Head Office İşbank’s Internal Control System divisions, including internal control, risk management and The main framework of the internal control activities structured corporate compliance divisions, domestic and foreign branches, within the internal control system consists of operational as well as the organizations under its control, in accordance controls, information and communication systems and financial with the Bank’s strategy, policies, principles and targets, as well reporting systems controls, and compliance controls. as relevant laws and applicable legislation. The Internal Control Division is assigned with the review, With its activities certified to be in conformity with international overseeing and assessing of İşbank’s operations and quality standards, the İşbank Board of Inspectors combines with reporting the conclusions to the related parties. The the Board’s deeply rooted audit experience with advanced Division’s activities are structured so as to comprise the Head technology in a risk-focused approach to perform its duties. As Office divisions, branches, subsidiaries that are subject to of the end of 2013, the İşbank Board of Inspectors was staffed consolidation and companies from which the Bank obtains with 194 inspectors and assistant inspectors. The Board makes support services. use of information technology to perform remote audits, as well as conducting on-site inspections. Compliance at İşbank Compliance is the foremost duty and responsibility of all A total of 467 branches, 3 Head Office divisions and 4 managers and employees of İşbank at any level. The functions subsidiaries were audited by the Board of Inspectors in 2013. and activities regarding compliance executed in the Head Office The Board also audits İşbank’s banking processes and IT Divisions and branches of İşbank are coordinated through the systems annually in line with BRSA regulations. Following the corporate compliance activities conducted within the Corporate inspection activities carried out by the Board with respect to Compliance Division, which reports to the Board of Directors. the Bank’s banking processes and IT system, the following conclusions were reached as of December 31st, 2013: The Corporate Compliance Division operates with the purpose • there was no lack of control in processes which could prevent of providing the maximum contribution to managing and the Bank from conducting its activities effectively, reliably controlling the compliance risk on purpose and effectively, and and without interruption; to ensure that constant alignment and compliance are achieved • there were no findings that would significantly affect the in the execution and management of the Bank’s activities with integrity, timely availability, consistency and reliability of the respect to their structure and operation with the applicable information set forth in consolidated and non-consolidated legislation, regulations and standards. financial statements. The Corporate Compliance Division consists of three sub-units: Moreover, thanks to risk-oriented inspection programs, İşbank’s • Regulatory Compliance credit portfolio was thoroughly inspected in 2013. Remote • Banking Activities Compliance audits executed by the Board of Inspectors at İşbank allowed for • Anti-Money Laundering Compliance İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 www.isbank.com.tr 33 Our Approach İşbank’s Compliance and Compliance Risk Management Policy have been made as a part of foreign borrowing processes; and the Policy for the Prevention of Laundering of Criminal meeting with representatives of 223 investment institutions. Proceeds and Terrorism Financing are posted in Turkish and Furthermore, the Investor Relations Division hosted 82 investor English under the “Investor Relations / Corporate Governance” meetings, 36 analyst meetings and 97 conference calls in the section accessible from the www.isbank.com.tr website. Bank’s head office. Policy for the Prevention of Laundering of Criminal İşbank’s Corporate Governance Principles Compliance Proceeds and Terrorism Financing Statement can be found on pages 82-89 of the 2013 Annual Activities directed towards the prevention of laundering of Report under the “Investor Relations / Financial Information” criminal proceeds and the terrorism financing are carried out section, accessible on the www.isbank.com website. purposefully and efficiently within the framework of applicable legislation and the Bank’s Policy and Compliance Program, and Corporate Social Responsibility Committee formulated accordingly. The İşbank Corporate Social Responsibility Committee was formed in accordance with the Corporate Social Responsibility İşbank’s Policy on Compliance and Compliance Risk Practices Regulation approved by the Board of Directors. The Management, and the Policy for the Prevention of Laundering following members currently serve on the Committee: Aynur of Criminal Proceeds and Terrorism Financing are posted in Dülger Ataklı (Board Member), Aysel Tacer (Board Member), Turkish and English under the “Investor Relations / Corporate Yalçın Sezen (Deputy Chief Executive), Senar Akkuş (Deputy Governance” section on the www.isbank.com.tr website. Chief Executive) and Suat E. Sözen (Head of the Corporate Communications Division). İşbank Investor Relations Division The major task of İşbank Investor Relations Division is to The Committee carries out its activities in accordance with respond to both the existing and potential investors’, rating the Regulation and by taking into account the basic areas agencies’, international lenders’ and other related institutions’ of contribution, which are designated as education, art and information requests within the framework of related culture, healthcare, environmental protection and other areas. regulations. Investor Relations Division engages in activities to The Committee convened on 7 occasions during 2013 with the enhance the Bank’s corporate governance practices. participation of all members, and undertook 34 decisions. In the year 2013, more than 500 inquiries were sent to the Please refer to page 98 for the CV’s of the members of the Investor Relations Division via telephone and e-mail and Corporate Social Responsibility Committee all inquiries have been replied. In the same year, Investor Relations Division participated in 15 foreign, 3 domestic investor conferences, besides, and one international investor visits 34 www.isbank.com.tr İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 Risk Management at İşbank The risk management process and attached functions are one of the primary responsibilities of İşbank’s Board of Directors. Sound risk management raises İşbank’s capability to breaches in market risk, liquidity risk, structural interest rate produce permanent value. risk and credit risk limits are analyzed by the Risk Management Sound risk management is crucial in the sector İşbank operates Division, by taking market and industry conditions into in. İşbank and its subsidiaries are leading players in the Turkish consideration, and the findings are reported to the Audit economy and represent a massive source of financial strength Committee. (refer to pages 20-21 for more details). When considered in this framework, the analysis, monitoring and reporting of the The risk management processes and functions involved therein financial and non-financial risk exposure of the İşbank Group are among the primary responsibilities of İşbank’s Board of as a whole, through risk management principles specific to Directors. The Bank’s risk policies and related implementation banking and in combination with a group risk management procedures are formulated by the Board of Directors. perspective, is imperative in achieving economic sustainability. İşbank Risk Committee Based on an overall assessment of risk categories, the credit The İşbank Risk Committee is responsible for formulating the risk was once again the most important indictor among the risks risk management strategies and policies which İşbank will with a potential impact on the Bank in 2013. adhere to both on a consolidated and solo basis, presenting them to the Board of Directors for approval, and monitoring Aside from credit risk, due to the fact that maturity mismatch in their implementation. The Committee is the common assets and liabilities is prevalent in the Turkish banking sector, communication platform with the Bank’s executive systems liquidity risk and interest rate risk are other financial risks in terms of assessing the Bank’s risk exposure, suggested that are regarded as prominent. In addition to these financial precautions and actions to be taken. The Committee’s principal risks, exchange rate risk despite having a fairly limited direct duties are as follows: influence on the Bank’s financial statements is regarded as • Preparing risk strategies and policies, and presenting them to one of the important financial risks facing the Bank, due to the Board for approval, its characteristic of raising the credit risk profile of the Bank • Adjudication by negotiating the issues addressed by Risk through exposure to credit customers bearing short currency Management Division, positions with respect to the Turkish Lira. • Recommendations to the Board regarding the level of risk limits for exposure, monitoring the breach of limits and Apart from the financial risks set out above, the most submitting recommendations to the Board regarding the important non-financial risk faced by the Bank would appear elimination of any breaches, to be business environment risk. Geopolitical risks arising • Recommendations to the Board of any changes in risk policies, from political instability in neighboring countries and political • Monitoring the risk identification, definition, measurement, tensions with some of these countries are the main factors assessment and management processes carried out by Risk which could lead to an increase in the Bank’s business Management Division, environment risk profile. • Monitoring the accuracy and reliability concerning the risk measurement methodologies and their results. To ensure that the Bank’s risk appetite conforms to the business plan and prevailing market environment, risk limits set by the Board of Directors are monitored. In this context, İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 www.isbank.com.tr 35 Our Approach The Risk Committee is the common communication platform with the Bank’s executive systems in terms of assessing the Bank’s risk exposure, suggested precautions and actions to be taken. Members of İşbank Risk Committee (as of December 31st, 2013): Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors and Head of Risk Committee Füsun Tümsavaş Chief Executive Officer and Head of Credit Committee Adnan Bali Deputy Chief Executive Ertuğrul Bozgedik Deputy Chief Executive and Head of Asset & Liability Management Committee Senar Akkuş Head of Risk Management Division Gamze Yalçın The Risk Committee contributes to the formation of group risk Risk Management Policies Applied by İşbank by Risk Type policies structured on a consolidated basis, including both the financial and nonfinancial participations of the Bank. In the Capital Adequacy Policy activities that the Risk Committee carries out on a consolidated The capital adequacy policy arranges the principles for the basis, following: to determine the required level of capital for İşbank’s financial • İlhami Koç, Deputy Chief Executive risks arising from on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet • Burhanettin Kantar, Head of Equity Participations Division assets and liabilities (both solo and consolidated) and the also attend the meetings. non-financial risks that İşbank is subject to because of its operations; In 2013, the Risk Committee met on a total of 13 occasions, 4 of to enable and monitor the continuity of this level of capital, which were on a consolidated basis. taking into consideration the minimum levels as per the legislation and as a result of the internal capital adequacy In addition to the risk management evaluations at İşbank evaluation process. The Risk Policies comprise an indispensable and its participations under consolidation, a total of 12 risk part of this policy. management reports were submitted to the Committee and resolutions were adopted concerning risk management systems Credit Risk Policy and processes. The Credit Risk Policy sets the framework for credit risk management, control and monitoring, methods and responsibilities and credit risk limits. The senior management is responsible for the execution of credit risk policies approved by the Board of Directors. 36 www.isbank.com.tr İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 Monitoring credit risk is based not only on individual loans but requires staff with roles and responsibilities in a particular also on the risk levels and composition of the loan portfolio. The activity to become involved in the risk and control assessment monitoring and the credit risk management process includes process of that activity. The operational risk management parameters such as maturity, industry, collateral, location, process combines both qualitative and quantitative approaches currency, loan type and credit risk ratings as a whole, in addition in measurement and assessment. The measurement process to the assessments on the transaction and the company uses data obtained from “impact likelihood analysis”, “loss database” and risk indicators Asset and Liability Management Risk Policy Asset and liability management risk is defined as; loss risk Consolidated Risk Policies caused by the Bank’s failure to effectively manage all financial Compliance with risk management principles related to risks arising from its assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet the Bank’s subsidiaries is monitored through the Bank’s transactions. All principles and procedures related to the “Consolidated Risk Policies” by Subsidiary Risk Unit under the constitution and management of the Bank’s asset-liability Risk Management Division. Subsidiaries apply their specific risk structure, and the Bank’s risk appetite is established by the management policies in line with the Bank’s Consolidated Risk Board of Directors. Policies and by taking their own organizational structure into account. Subsidiary boards approve company risk policies that The Board of Directors and Audit Committee are obliged to form the framework of their risk management systems and ensure that the Bank’s capital is being used optimally. In this processes. vein, they are required to keep risk limits under control and ensure that the necessary actions are taken. The Asset-Liability Information Systems Management Policy Committee is responsible for the governance of asset and The purpose of the Information Systems Management Policy liability management risk in accordance with the risk appetite is to determine the principles which will constitute a basis for and risk limits determined by the Board of Directors and within the management of information systems that the Bank uses the principles and procedures expressed in this policy. to fulfill its activities and the procedures in order to define, measure, control, monitor, report and manage the risks derived Operational Risk Policy from using information technologies. Operational risk is defined as “the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, persons and systems, Risks derived from information technologies are basically or from external events”. The Risk Management Division is assessed within the scope of Bank’s operational risk responsible for the risk management activity on this particular management. It is essential that those risks which could be risk. seen as multipliers of the other risks derived from activities of the Bank are measured, closely monitored and controlled within Categorization of inherited operational risks within day-tothe framework of Bank’s integrated risk management. day activities and processes is enabled by the Enterprise Risk Framework. It serves as the basic document to define and Detailed information on the risk policies applied by İşbank is classify the risks and is subject to alteration as conditions presented on pages 94-95 of the 2013 Annual Report posted change. The methodology employed to identify operational under the “Investor Relations / Financial Information” section, risks is referred to as “self-assessment”. This methodology accessible from the www.isbank.com.tr website. İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 www.isbank.com.tr 37 For our Customers 38 www.isbank.com.tr İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 For our Customers Conducting its activities in line with its basic strategy “to be the bank closest to the customer”, İşbank has restructured its products and services in a wide range. İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 www.isbank.com.tr 39 For our Customers For our Customers İşbank’s corporate history includes many “firsts and pioneering initiatives”, which have set the trend in the Turkish banking industry. Bankamatik İşbank conducts its activities in line with its basic strategy “to be the bank closest to the customer”. The launch of electronic banking in Turkey İşbank’s products and services which were restructured with the introduction of Turkey’s first ATMs: in a very wide range spreading out saving products to Bankamatik. loans, investment banking products to credit cards are offered to a broad and widespread customer mass through the fields of personal, corporate, commercial and private banking within the scope of a multichannel delivery strategy. Internet Branch İşbank’s corporate history includes many “firsts and pioneering İşbank launched the first online branch for initiatives”, which have set the trend in the Turkish banking customers. industry; • Introduced the moneybox account to the Turkish community in an effort to trigger and generate a mainstream trend towards saving. • The first use of cheques as a convenient means of carrying İşCep out regular payments • Launched electronic banking in Turkey, with the introduction İşbank launched the first application-based of Turkey’s first ATMs (Bankamatik) native mobile banking service (İşCep) for • The first Turkish bank to open branches in Cyprus and Europe customers. • The first investment account service in the Turkish financial services industry • Launched Turkey’s first mutual fund Parakod • The first trading services of investment securities at a bank in Turkey The “Parakod” application, which employs QR • Initiated the first interactive telephone banking service code technology, allows İşbank customers to use • The first online branch their mobile phones to purchase any product or • The first WAP mobile banking service service either online without entering any card data or from the stores without having to carry • The first application-based native mobile banking service their credit cards with them. (İşCep) for customers • The first term deposit product for customers in Turkey, “Floating Account,” whose yields are indexed to the TRLIBOR market 40 www.isbank.com.tr İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 In brief İşbank founded Turkey’s İşbank initiated “Temassız İşbank provided customers first social responsibilityKartla Para Çekme” (“Money with the world’s first Bio-ID focused mutual fund, “TEMA Withdrawal by Contactless POS using fingervein-ID to Environmental Fund”. Card”), Turkey’s first authenticate a user’s identity. contactless card application which enables users to withdraw cash with a single keypress. • Turkey’s first social responsibility-focused mutual fund, • “Benim Bankamatik’im” (“My ATM”), an innovative application “TEMA Environmental Fund” that revolutionizes ATM use in Turkey by allowing users to customize their own screens (a first in Turkey) • Launched the “Environmentally Friendly Housing Loan” product in an effort to support the development of • “Temassız Kartla Para Çekme” (“Money Withdrawal by environmentally friendly technologies in the housing sector Contactless Card”), a contactless card application enables users to withdraw cash with a single keypress • Introduced Mobile Signature, enabling customers to pay off loans without having to go to a branch and to withdraw cash, • Unprecedented in Turkey, a specialized branch was opened, and without using a bank or credit card which was designed in a totally different and special structure to offer service exclusively to companies backed by • A multi-touch featured application, “Getiri Sihirbazı” (“Return foreign capital Comparison Wizard”), that enables customers to compare yields on financial products • The “Parakod” application that employs QR code technology, allowing İşbank customers to use their mobile phones • “İş’te Yatırım iPhone,” an iPhone application that allows users to purchase any product or service either online without to monitor the Borsa İstanbul information in real time entering any card data, or from stores without having to carry • A Video Telephone Banking application that makes use of their credit cards with them third-generation (3G) mobile telephone technology • İşbank was the first privately-owned bank to introduce the 2B • “Mobile Key” (Cep Anahtar), a mobile phone application that Loan. strengthens the transaction security of the online branch and • “Karşılıklı Çek” (“Guaranteed Cheque”), a first in the industry mobile banking channels, and also enables cash withdrawals that aims to reinstate payment by cheque as a reliable from İşbank ATMs without the need for a card payment instrument. • The world’s first Bio-ID POS using fingervein-ID to • In addition to the QR code technology, İşbank provided authenticate a user’s identity customers with a new product entitled “Şipşak” (Quickie), • An interactive messaging system that transforms POS which allows customers to carry out instant shopping terminals into two-way communication channels by scanning the QR code on printed platforms such as newspapers, magazines, banners or catalogues. • “Üstü Kalsın”, an innovative application (and a first in Turkey) that contributes to saving by rounding up outstanding • By adding the Müzekart (Museum Card) feature to credit credit card debt balances to a specified limit, and uses the cards, İşbank has offered customers the chance to visit difference to purchase mutual fund shares museums or ruins which are under the responsibility of the Republic of Turkey’s Ministry of Culture and Tourism free of • “Kur Korumalı (Opsiyonlu) Döviz Kredisi” (“Exchange Rate charge for 1 month every year. Protected Foreign Currency Loan with Option”), a foreign currency loan with a guaranteed exchange rate option that • İşbank provided customers with The Intel Identity Protection protects the borrower against excessive increases in the Technology (Intel IPT) which enables customers to login exchange rate; “Sabit Faizli Rotatif (BCH) Kredi” (“Fixed Rate Internet Branch securely, removing the need to type One Revolving Loan”), a fixed-interest-rate revolving line of credit Time Password. for those who do not want to be affected by fluctuations in interest rates; and Chinese Yuan credit and loans for customers who conduct business with China İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 www.isbank.com.tr 41 For our Customers In 2013 İşbank allocated resources to a wide customer mass within the scope of lending activities. TL 172.9 billion For companies Offering its services in keeping with its mission to be İşbank’s contribution to the Turkish economy Turkey’s Bank, İşbank’s contribution to sustainable through cash-loans and non-cash loans macroeconomic growth is generated, for the most part, in amounted to TL 172.9 billion. its lending activities to the real sector. İşbank’s contribution to the Turkish economy through cash-loans and non-cash loans amounted to TL 172.9 billion by the end of the 2013. 26.4% İşbank’s total loans increased by 26.4% YoY in 2013. İşbank’s total loans increased by 26.4% YoY in 2013. Having transferred funds to a broad base of customers, ranging from corporations to SMEs and from tradesmen to artisans in 2013, as in previous years, İşbank continues to help its customers sharpen their competitive edge in national and international markets and contribute to the development of İşbank Loan Portfolio (TL) (December 31st, 2013) their economic assets. In addition to funding activities, the Bank displays its innovative character with its cash management, credit cards, sector-specific packages and custom-designed products, and plays a part in the healthier operation of 134,843,374 economic and commercial life with its modern practices. The geographical spread and volume of funding activities once again reveal the Bank’s strong support for Turkey’s economic 59,740,427 development and growth in line with its mission to be Turkey’s 36,615,555 Bank. 28,364,595 10,122,797 Detailed information on İşbank’s services and loans to the real sector during 2013 can be found on pages 30-49 of the Annual Corporate and SME Credit Consumer Total Report 2013 posted under the “Investor Relations/Annual Commercial Loans* Cards** Loans*** Loans Loans Reports” at the address www.isbank.com.tr. * SME refers to companies with annual turnover or total assets ≤ TL 40 million and ≤ 250 employees. ** Individual credit cards *** Includes overdraft accounts. 42 www.isbank.com.tr İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 In brief İşbank defines the SMEs İşbank reaches thousands İşbank considers enhancing and commercial firms as of small and medium sized financial awareness as one the driving force of Turkey’s enterprises with the support of its most fundamental economic growth. and solution packages responsibilities and improves developed to meet the its capability in this area based regional and sector-specific on an innovative approach. needs. Collaboration developed with professional associations, was signed by and between the Bank and the Association of industrial organizations and public institutions make up Beet Growers Cooperatives (PANKOBIRLIK). an important channel facilitating İşbank’s fulfillment of its responsibility towards its customers. İşbank continued to collaborate closely with the Turkish Pharmacists’ Association in 2013. The cooperation protocols Defining the SMEs and commercial firms as the driving force were renewed; under these protocols, the Bank intermediates of Turkey’s economic growth, the Bank reached thousands in pharmacists’ health benefit payments to the Social Security of small and medium sized enterprises with the support and Institution (SGK) and extends loans which are covered by the solution packages developed to meet the regional and sectorassociation’s mutual assistance fund. specific needs within the scope of protocols signed with 155 chambers of commerce and/or industry, and with more than İşbank renewed the protocol with the Agriculture and Rural 1,800 artisan and trade associations in the past six years. Development Support Institution (TKDK) related to the EU’s Instrument for Pre-Accession Rural Development (IPARD) İşbank continued its cooperation with KOSGEB (Small and program. Related work is ongoing in line with competitive calls Medium Enterprises Development Organization) in 2013, as in within the scope of this protocol. previous years. In this context, KOSGEB and the Bank signed a “Co-Financing Loan Program Protocol” to cover the co-financing High value-added practices realized on the basis of needs of companies that are entitled to benefit from KOSGEB information and experience sharing allow İşbank support (SME Project Support Program, Thematic Project customers to gain a better idea of financial products and Support Program, Cooperation-Collaboration Support Program, services, and support their efficiency in the businessEntrepreneurship Support Program and the R&D Innovation and related decision-making processes. These practices also Industrial Practices Support Program); and the “Reyhanlı District form the basis of stakeholder dialogue and the products Emergency Support Loan Protocol” to meet the cash needs of developed for customers. The Bank considers customer companies affected by the events in Reyhanlı. feedback in this context. İşbank also prepared a “KOSGEB Support Package” to meet SMEs, in particular, may submit the most basic questions during the various financing needs of firms qualified to benefit from the procurement of financial services: Questions like “How can I the recourse and non-recourse loans provided by KOSGEB. get a loan” or “What is factoring” are the most frequently asked Within the scope of the Support Package, firms are offered the questions for İşbank’s customer representatives. following credit products: Bridging Loan, Co-Finance Loan and Letter of Guarantee. While numerous enterprises survive on their own equity and know-how in our country, the percentage of those seeking İşbank continued to collaborate with the Turkish Grain Board professional support and using professional banking products is (TMO) during 2013 and extended loans against TMO receipts to low when compared to developed countries. its own depositors who have submitted their produce (wheat, barley, corn and rice) to the board. In addition, a “Framework İşbank considers enhancing financial awareness in our country Protocol of Cooperation for İmece Card Accepting Merchants” as one of its most fundamental responsibilities. İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 www.isbank.com.tr 43 For our Customers With the projects it realizes, İşbank supports efforts to institutionalize the private sector and increase its efficiency, in turn contributing to Turkey’s sustainable economic growth. The Bank improves its capability in this area based on an Seminer” addressed various subjects that were aligned with innovative approach and carries out its activities nationwide. the expectations of those based in industrial zones, such as the New Turkish Commercial Code, exchange, investment With the projects it realizes, İşbank supports institutionalization incentives, Basel II-III, and national and international R&D of the private sector and increases in its efficiency, which will in support.. turn contribute to sustainable economic growth in Turkey. İŞ’TE KOBİ Website Within the scope of its responsibility towards its customers, the Providing detailed and up-to-date information in 28 different developments provided by the Bank in 2013 can be summarized sectors to 56,000 members as of the end of 2013, the “İŞ’TE as follows: KOBİ” website is an innovative and pioneering service provided by İşbank that has won 30 awards so far. İş’le Buluşmalar Meetings An İşbank classic Having established the lack of a widespread and comprehensive The “İŞ’TE KOBİ” website offers rich video content as well as organization that would; current news, articles, industry-specific and economic reports • broaden the vision of the commercial sector and the SMEs, in to tens of thousands of members and users. SMEs that are particular, and enable discovery of potential business lines, members of İŞ’TE KOBİ have the opportunity: • allow monitoring development processes in different regions, • to create company introduction page and to place ads on the • offer a chance to analyze the developments in global and “KOBİ Pazarı” (SME Market), national economies, • to receive private consultancy services by directing their • provide the means to scrutinize different topics depending on questions to specialists in 15 different fields, and the different needs of localities, • to utilize the free innovative presentation preparation tool, İşbank collaborated with the Dünya daily newspaper, and “SUNUMATİK” featured on the website. initiated İş’le Buluşmalar Meetings in 2008. The innovative application of İŞ’TE KOBİ, SUNUMATİK even Having rapidly become a trendsetter in the sector, İş’le allows SMEs without experience in the preparation of Buluşmalar Meetings were organized without interruption, presentations to make use of ready-made sentence patterns even in 2009 when the effects of the global crisis were at arranged according to various sectors and slide templates, their worst, and once again revealed İşbank’s support for the to add written content and visuals to produce professional national economy and businesses. A total of 35 İş’le Buluşmalar presentations. SUNUMATİK also even allows non-English Meetings were held in 29 cities on a range of topics. Having speaking users to make use of different themes, ready-made reached nearly 18,000 enterprises to date, İş’le Buluşmalar templates (slide templates) and sentence patterns in English to Meeting is a traditional event where İşbank takes part with its produce professional presentations. Brought to the service of top level executives and attracts a high level of interest and its members in 2011, the SUNUMATİK application has been used participation. The meetings will continue in 2014. by more than 4,000 firms so far. İş’te Seminer Training Programmes İŞ’TE KOBİ continues to win awards with its up-to-date design and Since 2012, İşbank launched training meetings under the rich content. With three new awards received during 2013, the title “İş’te Seminer” organized in industrial zones with a view number of awards won in competitions organized by respected to helping SMEs achieve healthy growth and set competitive national and international organizations increased to 30. targets. Organized in two cities during 2013, the “İş’te 44 www.isbank.com.tr İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 Cooperation with international financial institutions cooperation with numerous international financial institutions, İşbank contributes to the investment, production and with a particular focus on the SME segment. Information on employment capabilities of the real sector with long-term the funds secured by the Bank from abroad during 2013 in funds secured under the strong and deeply rooted international financing the SMEs is summarized below: collaborations which have developed. İşbank maintains its Credit agreements signed with international financial institutions in 2013 CREDIT AGENCY SIGNING DATE LOAN VOLUME MATURITY PURPOSE PROPARCO 01.03.2013 EUR 50 million 10 years Financing of loans supplied to the housing projects fulfilling local energy efficiency criteria in Turkey European Bank for 09.05.2013 EUR 25 million 7 years Financing of SMEs owned or managed by women Reconstruction entrepreneurs within the scope of the Women and Development Entrepreneurs Support Program (Women in Business) (EBRD) (WiB) European Bank for 09.05.2013 EUR 15 million 7 years Financing of activities in the field of renewable energy Reconstruction and activities aimed at effective and efficient use of and Development energy within the scope of the Turkey Sustainable (EBRD) Energy Financing Facility (TurSEFF) European Bank for 09.05.2013 EUR 10 million 7 years Financing of agricultural loans, which will be supplied Reconstruction to the development priority regions in Turkey, within and Development the scope of the Turkey Agriculture Financing (SME (EBRD) Financing) Facility (TurAFF) German Development 01.10.2013 EUR 17.64 Max. 4 years Financing SMEs in 49 cities in Turkey Bank (KfW million Entwicklungsbank) European Investment 04.12.2013 EUR 150 8 years Financing of firms that fall under the SME (with up Bank (EIB) million to 250 employees) and Mid-cap (with 250-3,000 employees) definition. (A part of the funds to be supplied for the financing of enterprises that have an environmental and social responsibility policy and the corporate social responsibility projects carried out by these enterprises, projects such as energy efficiency, protection against natural disasters, improvement of occupational health and working conditions, etc.) European Bank for 18.12.2013 EUR 50 million 12 years Financing of projects within the scope of the Turkey Reconstruction Mid-size Sustainable Energy Financing Facility and Development (EBRD) (MidSEFF) İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 www.isbank.com.tr 45 For our Customers In 2013 İşbank continued to obtain long-term resources from international financial markets by participating in loan programs aimed at supporting various segments of the Turkish economy, particularly SMEs. In 2013, the Bank continued to supply loans to SMEs Resources from the Japan Bank for International within the scope of agreements made with European Cooperation (JBIC) for the import of investment goods/ Investment Bank (EIB). services and the imports for the renewable energy sector In late 2011, İşbank signed a credit agreement worth EUR 150 In 2013 İşbank continued to offer different solutions for million with EIB. These funds were used to provide financing to the financing needs of its clients including SMEs under the SMEs in 2012 and 2013. financing facility from JBIC with a total sum of USD 300 million. A credit agreement worth EUR 150 million between İşbank A new source within the scope of the European and EIB Commission Small Enterprises Loan Programme 2nd Phase A credit agreement worth EUR 150 million with a maximum (SELP II) maturity of 8 years was signed by and between İşbank and the In addition to the EUR 60.74 million fund obtained from the EIB in December 2013. These funds are to be supplied to small German Development Bank (KfW Entwicklungsbank) in previous and mid-scale enterprises that fulfill the criteria determined years based on the framework agreement signed in 2008 by the EIB. A portion of the funds to be obtained within this within the scope of SELP II, İşbank provided a new resource contract which is the fourth common project conducted with worth EUR 17.64 million in total with a maximum maturity of the EIB will be used to finance enterprises that work with an 4 years from the same institution in 2013. In 2013, the Bank environmental and social responsibility policy and to finance continued to disburse these funds for the financing of SMEs in the corporate social responsibility projects carried out by these 49 cities in Turkey. enterprises, such as energy efficiency, protection against natural disasters and improvements in occupational health and Cooperation with Korean Eximbank (KEXIM) working conditions. Within the scope of the agreements signed by and between KEXIM and İşbank for the financing of general working capital The loan will be disbursed to enterprises that fall under the and investment needs of Korea-related companies and the SME (with up to 250 employees) and Mid-cap (with 250-3,000 financing requirements of Turkish companies trading with employees) definition, while the Bank has already launched Korean companies, the Bank continued its placement activities efforts to create its portfolio. in 2013. 46 www.isbank.com.tr İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 In brief MidSEFF WiB-TurSEFF-TurAFF PROPARCO İşbank secured EUR 50 million İşbank secured EUR 50 million In 2013 İşbank secured in resources in 2013 within in resources in 2013 within the EUR 50 million in resources the scope of the MidSEFF scope of the WiB, TurSEFF and from PROPARCO to provide program. TurAFF programs. financing for housing projects fulfilling energy efficiency criteria. Total amount of resources secured under MidSEFF reaches Of this EUR 50 million loan: EUR 175 million. • EUR 25 million is to be used to finance SMEs owned or Under the Turkey Mid-size Sustainable Energy Financing Facility managed by women entrepreneurs within the scope of the (MidSEFF) launched during 2011 with the co-financing of the Woman Entrepreneurs Support Program (Women in Business) European Investment Bank (EIB) and the European Bank for (WiB), Reconstruction and Development (EBRD), İşbank received • EUR 15 million is to be used to finance the activities in the another fund worth EUR 50 million on December 18th, 2013. field of renewable energy and activities aimed at effective Accordingly, the total sum of resources obtained under MidSEFF and efficient use of energy within the scope of the Turkey reached EUR 175 million. The Bank continues making efforts to Sustainable Energy Financing Facility (TurSEFF), supply these loans for the financing of; • EUR 10 million is to be used to finance agriculture loans, • renewable energy investments, which will be supplied to the development priority regions in • industrial energy efficiency investments and Turkey, within the scope of the Turkey Agriculture Financing • investments aimed at generating energy from waste. (SME Financing) Facility (TurAFF). A new contract was signed by and between İşbank and MidSEFF For details on the TurSEFF program, please visit on December 18th, 2013 for the securing of an additional EUR www.turseff.org 50 million resource. Cooperation between İşbank and PROPARCO: Financing of For details on the MidSEFF program, please visit www.midseff.com housing projects which fulfill energy efficiency criteria A credit agreement was signed by and between İşbank and A EUR 50 million loan from the EBRD within the scope of PROPARCO to extend financing for housing projects fulfilling the WiB, TurSEFF and TurAFF programs local energy efficiency criteria with a EUR 50 million loan having A memorandum of understanding was signed between İşbank a maximum maturity of 10 years. Within the scope of such and the EBRD on May 9th, 2013 for the fund worth EUR 150 cooperation, the parties have also reached an agreement on million to be obtained by İşbank in 2013, 2014 and 2015. The an action plan for the management of İşbank’s credit decision parties also signed three credit agreements with a maturity of 7 processes by taking the environmental and social impacts into years for the EUR 50 million portion of the fund. account. İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 www.isbank.com.tr 47 For our Customers Support for the agriculture sector The IPARD program aims to contribute to the implementation of common agricultural policies in the European Union and to the sustainable development of the agriculture sector and rural areas. Support from İşbank to Agriculture and Rural Which activities does the IPARD Program support? Development İşbank extends support to the agricultural sector and rural Investments aiming to restructure agricultural development within the framework of the protocol signed with enterprises and to raise their standards to EU standards the Agricultural and Rural Development Support Institution Milk producing agricultural enterprises (TKDK) related to the EU’s Instrument for Pre-Accession Rural Meat producing agricultural enterprises Development (IPARD) program. Investments aiming to restructure the processing and What is IPARD? marketing of agricultural and fishery products, and to The European Union (EU) supports eligible agricultural raise their standards to EU standards production and renewal projects through grants-in-aid allocated Processing and marketing of milk and milk products by the EU and the national budget set for the initiative under the Processing and marketing of meat and meat products IPARD program, which is intended to support the conduct of the Processing and marketing of fruit and vegetables common agricultural policy and contribute to the sustainable Processing and marketing of fishery products development of agricultural sector and rural areas. Diversification and development of rural economic What does İşbank offer? activities The portion of the project outside the support amount can be Diversification and development of on-farm activities financed with the loans to be extended by İşbank in addition to Development of local products and microenterprises the qualifiers’ equities. Based on the protocol signed with the Development of rural tourism TKDK, İşbank offers Operating Loans with a maximum term of 36 Aquaculture development months at reduced interest rates and monthly installment-based repayments, or Investment Loans with a 1-year grace period and Which cities does the IPARD Program cover? maximum term of 60 months to those wishing to benefit from Afyonkarahisar, Ağrı, Aksaray, Amasya, Ankara, Ardahan, Aydın, the IPARD Program. Balıkesir, Burdur, Bursa, Çanakkale, Çankırı, Çorum, Denizli, Diyarbakır, Elazığ, Erzincan, Erzurum, Giresun, Hatay, Isparta, Kahramanmaraş, Karaman, Kars, Kastamonu, Konya, Kütahya, Malatya, Manisa, Mardin, Mersin, Muş, Nevşehir, Ordu, Samsun, Sivas, Şanlıurfa, Tokat, Trabzon, Uşak, Van, Yozgat. 48 www.isbank.com.tr İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 İşbank supports private sector investments in the energy sector on the basis of a policy that is sensitive to economic, social and environmental risks. İşbank and the Energy Sector Priority of wind farm projects Wind farms are given priority by İşbank when financing Financing for a total of 151 projects projects. Wind farm projects, which are known to be relatively İşbank defined the energy sector with a special emphasis on environmentally friendly are being carefully evaluated by the renewable energy and energy efficiency as two business lines Bank. During the pre-evaluation phase, the Bank carefully to focus on, in view of the rapidly increasing demand for energy examines the environmental and social impacts of projects and in Turkey and in the face of new circumstances of the changing produces solutions to minimize such impacts. Turkish energy market with the onset of the new millennium. Geothermal power prominent as a domestic and clean İşbank extended financing to a total of 151 projects in the source of energy energy sector in the 2001-2013 period. Turkey is well endowed in terms of geothermal energy, which offers significant advantages over fossil-based energy Under the energy sector project finance, a total of USD 4.65 resources. billion in financing was provided to 64 projects in the 20112013 period. Fifty of these projects, with a total installed Although ranked seventh in the world in terms of geothermal capacity of 2,806 MW, were in the field of renewable energy resources, our country uses only 4% of this potential. and 47% of the financing was committed for these projects. As an important and renewable source of energy, geothermal İşbank supports private sector investments in the energy sector energy allows for continuous energy generation independently on the basis of a policy that is sensitive to economic, social and of climate conditions, while imposing only limited social and environmental risks. environmental risks compared to other resources. A sustainable resource, geothermal power allows for the generation of The renewable energy projects financed by İşbank will help electricity with hot water resources available in the natural Turkey shift to renewable energy resources from the existing environment, while generating significant employment for the energy resource structure that relies heavily on fossil fuels. region where it is located. Once these projects are up and running, Turkey’s total CO2 emissions will be reduced by as much as 4.5 million tonnes. İşbank maintains its interest in geothermal power plant The projects will also contribute to reducing our country’s projects, and continues to support them. In the biggest example dependence on foreign resources for energy while helping to of this, the Bank single handedly extended funding to Gürmat narrow down the current account deficit. Geothermal Power Plant Project, with an installed capacity of 47 MW, in Germencik, Aydın. As one of the biggest plants among Turkey’s currently operational geothermal power plants, Germencik GPP has been generating energy since May 2009. İşbank continues to support the investment of an additional 123 MW geothermal power plant in the Gürmat GPP field, which will bring additional reserve fields into use. İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 www.isbank.com.tr 49 For our Customers İşbank defined the energy sector with a special emphasis on renewable energy and energy efficiency as two business lines to focus on. 151 projects Importance of energy efficiency İşbank provided financing to a total of 151 Energy efficiency is the reduction in the amount of energy projects in the energy sector in the 2001-2013 consumed per unit of service or product without causing a period. reduction in living standards and service quality in buildings, and the quality and amount of production in industrial plants. By using energy in an efficient manner for heating, lighting, transportation, household appliances and in every stage USD 4.65 billion of our everyday lives, we can contribute positively to our national economy and to the protection of the environment without cutting down on our needs. Under the energy sector project finance, İşbank extended USD 4.65 billion to energy projects in the Being the most important source of energy in the world, 2011-2013 period. fossil fuels such as oil and coal are rapidly being depleted. Moreover, greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions arising during the generation and consumption of energy are among the major causes of global warming and climate change. From production to the use of energy, increasing energy efficiency, preventing waste and reducing energy density is essential in ensuring the security of energy supply, lowering the level of import dependency (currently 73%) and limiting the associated risks, and in tackling climate change more effectively. According to data published by the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources, it is estimated that there are potential energy savings of up to 30% in the building industry, 20% in the production industry and 15% in the transportation industry. 50 www.isbank.com.tr İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 In brief Environmentally friendly Maintaining its interest in İşbank supports biogas power wind farms are the type of geothermal power plant plants that allow for the project which İşbank prefers to projects, and continuing to continuous production of finance. support them, İşbank singlerenewable energy. handedly extended funding to the Gürmat Geothermal Power Plant Project. Biogas Within this scope, SMEs are able to use; Turkey has a massive potential in biogas, which is also a • the audit loan for the financing of the survey, project and renewable energy resource. efficiency improvement project services they have obtained from authorized energy efficiency consultancy firms; Biogas technology, which allows for the disposal of • the energy efficiency improvement loan for financing environmentally problematic waste and their use in energy investments in relation to projects which have a minimum production after processing is of tremendous importance estimated energy efficiency rate of 20%, and in renewable energy production. In Europe, in particular, • the green (environmental) auto loan for financing the a significant portion of total consumption is met with the purchase of hybrid and light commercial/commercial vehicles electricity produced from a number of small biogas power compliant with Euro 5 standards. plants. İşbank possesses the capabilities to offer long-term financing İşbank supports biogas power plants that allow for continuous and banking solutions that Turkey will need in its transition to a renewable energy production by eliminating the greenhouse low carbon economy (including energy efficiency). gases caused by agricultural and domestic waste and that do not lead to significant greenhouse gas emissions while İşbank collaborates with international banks and financial eliminating such wastes. institutions within the scope of energy efficiency financing programs. Please refer to the section, “Cooperation with Energy efficiency products at İşbank International Financial Institutions”, on page 45 for a summary With the Energy Efficiency and Environment Package which has of these efforts. been developed, İşbank supports firms willing to invest for the purpose of reducing their costs by preventing losses of energy and enhancing energy efficiency. İşbank’s Energy Efficiency and Environment package covers the Audit Loan, Energy Efficiency Improvement Loan, and Green (Environmental) Auto Loan. İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 www.isbank.com.tr 51 For our Customers Greenhouse gas emissions arising during the generation and consumption of energy are among the major reasons of global warming and climate change. Sustainability and İşbank’s approach in project finance approach, İşbank neither evaluates nor finances small-scale İşbank’s perspective of project finance observes economic, hydroelectric power plant projects with an installed capacity environmental and social sustainability as a whole, and is of less than 15 MW, due to the public reaction these projects molded upon a highly selective approach. arouse and due to their exclusion from environmental impact assessment. The effects of global warming and climate change on our planet that began to be observed in recent years have raised In the financing of projects that are considered to involve environmental and social awareness across the globe. environmental and social risks as a result of the assessments made, during the project evaluation process İşbank requires This development led banks and financial institutions to its customers to set up the mechanisms that will eliminate the undertake much more thorough reviews into the possible identified risks. The revisions required by the Bank may at times negative effects on the environment and local life caused even go beyond the compulsory regulatory requirements in our by investment projects to be financed. Global banks and, in country. particular, supranational institutions implement much more sophisticated assessment methodologies and stricter lending İşbank does not provide financing to investments that criteria for reviewing utilizing and monitoring the financing of attract opposition from local people and nongovernmental investment projects. organizations, and especially large-scale hydroelectric power plants that might have negative impacts on the cultural or One of the largest supporters of Turkey’s economic, social and historic assets of the region where the project will be realized. cultural progress since its inception, the Bank takes a versatile approach to evaluating the potential effects of the projects For projects taken into evaluation by İşbank, investors are to be financed. Accordingly, İşbank assesses the possible required to obtain all necessary permits and approvals, including impacts of such projects not only on the natural environment the environmental impact assessment (EIA) report, and this is of the investment site, but also on the daily lives of the local put forth as a prerequisite for lending. people. The Bank also keeps a close eye on the existing or potential public reactions that may be triggered by the projects, In order to estimate and manage the environmental and incorporating these views in its evaluation process. social impacts of major investment projects above a certain dimension, İşbank set up an Environmental and Social As a matter of principle, İşbank takes care not to transfer Management Team under the Project Finance Unit. With the resources to projects that lack the support of the local people related pilot study launched in 2012, the team actively carried or attract a negative public reaction. As a manifestation of this out its efforts in 2013. 52 www.isbank.com.tr İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 In brief İşbank assesses the possible İşbank also keeps a careful eye In order to estimate and impacts of projects that it on the present or potential manage the environmental will finance not only on the public reaction that may be and social impact of major natural environment of the triggered by the project, taking investment projects exceeding investment site, but also on account of such reactions in its a certain dimension, İşbank the daily lives of the local evaluation process. set up a Project Finance people. Environmental and Social Management Team. İşbank also set up an environmental and social impact For individuals assessment scoring system under the Project Finance Unit, for the assessment of environmental and social impacts of İşbank offers individual customers all of their desired banking projects to be financed. Considering certain thresholds, the products and services with a quality-oriented approach scoring system is applied to projects including renewable through a broad multi-channel delivery network. Occupying an energy projects and coal and gas-fired power plants, which may important and deeply rooted position in the lives of individuals have greater environmental implications when compared to the for 89 years, İşbank raised its individual loan volume by 26.2% renewable ones. to TL 38.5 billion in 2013. As a result of scoring, a management plan is required from the The Bank registered higher growth in individual loans than investor company detailing how the risks will be eliminated for the sector average. İşbank’s total saving deposits increased by projects regarded as environmentally or socially risky. 19.3% to TL 79.5 billion during the same period. In projects whose environmental and social impacts are Primary factors contributing to İşbank’s competitive edge in determined to be highly risky, İşbank assigns competent retail banking: environmental consultants to the project, providing support • its wide branch and Bankamatik (ATM) network throughout during the financing period with respect to the identification Turkey, of negative environmental and social impacts that are caused • its well-equipped, highly-competent labor force, or are expected to be caused by the project, as well as the • its broad product range enriched with innovative solutions determination of necessary measures for the elimination of day by day, such impacts to the maximum extent. In all projects that are • its competencies in customer analysis and campaign held subject to evaluation by İşbank, checks are conducted management, under this methodology into whether risks which could arise • its robust technological infrastructure, and during the investment and operation periods are appropriately • its channel diversity in offering service. managed. İşbank: The privately-owned bank securing the highest İşbank aims to continue financing energy, renewable energy level of customer satisfaction in the retail banking and energy efficiency projects in periods to come, by preserving segment in Turkey for a fourth consecutive year such sensitivity. According to the Satisfaction Survey for Turkey conducted by the Turkish Society for Quality (KalDer), İşbank was named the privately-owned bank securing highest level of customer satisfaction in the retail banking segment for a fourth consecutive year. According to the results of the same survey for the year 2013 on credit cards, İşbank’s primary credit card brand Maximum Kart secured the higher customer satisfaction among credit cards. İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 www.isbank.com.tr 53 For our Customers According to the Satisfaction Survey for Turkey conducted by the Turkish Society for Quality (KalDer), İşbank achieved the highest level of customer satisfaction of any privately-owned bank in the retail banking segment for a fourth consecutive year. TL 38.5 billion Customer-centric retail banking activities As far as retail banking marketing activities are concerned, İşbank aims to offer customer-centric solutions that are İşbank’s retail loans reached TL 38.5 billion comprehensively designed in line with the basic strategy of in 2013. being the bank closest to the customer, thereby ensuring an improved customer experience and enhanced customer satisfaction. With a view to gaining an insight into its broad customer base and to contributing to the permanence of the relationship 26.2% established with customers, İşbank actively uses various analytical models including customer segmentation, credit card İşbank’s retail loans increased by 26.2% YoY segmentation, lifetime value, customer churn and the next best in 2013. product. Işbank takes a long-term perspective in managing its relationships with customers. Based on this understanding, İşbank attaches priority to delivering products and services that will serve to increase customer satisfaction and loyalty, irrespective of the revenues generated. Customers are guided to use whatever channel is more practical and more advantageous to them in fulfilling their banking needs from among the service channels, including the branches, Bankamatik (ATMs), the Internet Branch, the Telephone Branch and mobile banking applications. Efforts aimed at ensuring sustainability such as knowing the customers, good service delivery to customers and effective communication with customers are possible only if customer data is complete, accurate and up-to-date. İşbank spends systematic efforts in upgrading the quality of its customer data, which is vital in relationship management. 54 www.isbank.com.tr İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 In brief Managing its relationships İşbank systematically İşbank defined the shared with customers with a longundertakes efforts to upgrade service language, which was term perspective, İşbank gives the quality of customer data, created to deliver a consistent priority to delivering products which is vital in relationship and high-level service to and services that will serve to management. customers at 5-Star Service increase customer satisfaction Culture Standards. and loyalty. To ensure continuity in customer relationships, İşbank, utilizing The Bank targets to enhance service quality, and in turn, its customer analytic capabilities as well, undertakes integrated customer satisfaction through a range of activities to be use of its branchs, Internet Branch, Call Center, Bankamatik conducted aimed at establishing a shared İşbank service culture (ATM), e-mail and SMS channels on the multichannel integrated in the eyes of the customers. This will be achieved by ensuring campaign management infrastructure, and carries out a large high service standards at all times from all service points, and number of customer communications simultaneously. In onethrough identifying areas requiring improvement. to-one communication, the Bank meticulously looks out for the rules of communication that are determined on the basis of İşbank treats customer feedback as an opportunity to customer preferences and customer groups. effect improvements. Every complaint, query, service request, suggestion and 5-Star Service Culture Standards acknowledgment message received from customers is İşbank considers various elements critical for customer considered as an opportunity for improvement at İşbank. satisfaction: İşbank customers should feel good while receiving service and should be satisfied with the service; they should be Messages submitted to the Bank by customers through the correctly guided from the moment they step into the branch, Telephone Branch on the 0850 724 0 724 number, the “Contact greeted warmly by the branch employees tending to them, who Us” link on its website at www.isbank.com.tr, the Internet need to turn a careful ear to their needs and understand them, Branch, or its branches and/or by mail or fax at 0212 316 04 suggest solutions and send them off when leaving. 04 are handled by and responded to by teams specialized in the relevant fields, in line with the principle of customer Customers expect to be acknowledged and cared for by branch satisfaction. employees, to trust the employees, to see integrity and consistency at all service points, to receive enthusiastic and The Bank systematically oversees the performance in this fast service from the employees, and to be offered efficient area, and swiftly works to address any aspects that cause solutions to problems. Along these lines, İşbank defined the complaints. At İşbank, products and services are shaped in line shared service language created to deliver consistent and with customers’ requests, while customer rights are carefully high-level service to customers as the 5-Star Service Culture monitored at every level. The situation in certain business lines Standards. is summarized below. According to the 5-Star Service Culture concept, the key fundamental is to ensure that customers receive the same first-rate services consistently at all times from everyone at all service points. The Mystery Shopper Survey conducted at İşbank is aimed at ensuring the sustainability of the 5-Star Service Culture Standards across the Bank. İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 www.isbank.com.tr 55 For our Customers In order to offer appropriate value proposition, İşbank also monitors and manages groups of customers who share common needs and behavior. Aiming to resolve complaints in Alternative Distribution appropriate value proposition, İşbank also monitors and Channels (ADCs) the following business day manages groups of customers who share common needs and Customer feedback, requests, complaints, suggestions consumer behavior. and acknowledgments provided in relation to alternative distribution channels are categorized and shared with the İşbank and Life Stage Banking channel directors as quickly as possible. Complaints handled in İşbank’s unwavering goal is to be in a lifelong relationship relation to ADCs are targeted to be resolved on the following with its customers. Based on this goal, İşbank offers banking business day at İşbank in a manner which ensures customer service packages that combine the products customers need at satisfaction. different stages of their lives. Within the framework of its Life Stage Banking concept, İşbank engages in activities specifically The average resolution time was 1.09 days in the private targeting the “children”, “young people” and “pensioners”. banking segment. In the private banking business line, customer complaints are For children first handled by the department, and requests and complaints The relationship between İşbank and children in the earliest regarding technical and day-to-day matters are forwarded stage of life is established through the Moneybox Fund, one to the Bank’s related units for their resolution. The target of the most prestigious mutual funds in Turkey, and the First resolution time for private banking customer complaints was Signature Account. set as 2 days in 2013, whereas the actual time was 1.09 days. The Bank will continue to resolve customer complaints rapidly Standing for the national saving campaign launched by İşbank in 2014. during the 1920s, the Moneybox Fund a product version of İşbank Moneybox adapted to the present conditionsResponding to more than 3,000 SMEs encourages early saving for the future of children. Ever since August 31st, 2009 when “İŞ’TE KOBİ” went online, more than 1,000 queries have been responded to, which were The Moneybox Fund was the largest Type-A mutual fund in received via the “contact” section which users may use to Turkey at the end of 2013 Intended for children in the 12-18 age convey their opinions and suggestions. In addition, 15 business group, “İlk İmza Hesabı” (“The First Signature Account”) is a bank specialists who are involved in the “İŞ’TE KOBİ” program have account product specially designed to help children develop responded to more than 3,000 questions forwarded by SMEs the competency to manage their own accounts and encourage within the scope of free-of-charge consultancy services. saving habits among teenagers. Regarding customer feedback as a continuously expanding and valuable database The Bank uses the data collected from customers’ feedback in its product and service development. In order to offer 56 www.isbank.com.tr İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 In brief The İşbank Moneybox Fund İşbank maintains and develops İşbank continues to offer high was the largest Type-A mutual the relationship it establishes value-added private banking fund in Turkey at the end of with credit cardholders during services to its customers 2013. their student years. during their retirement years with its “Emekli Paketi” (“Pensioner Package”). For young adults İşbank’s retail products range cover more than 110 banking The “İş’te Üniversiteli Bankacılık Hizmet Paketi” (“University products in the fields of automated payment orders, investment Banking Package at İş) is intended to help meet the financial products, retail cash management, loans and deposits. Taking needs of customers attending a university. “İş’te Üniversiteli into consideration the transactions customers perform and the Credit Card” (University Credit Card at İş) is regarded as the first services they use, the most appropriate products are presented step in the lifelong credit card relationship. İşbank maintains the to them via offers conveyed through Bankamatik (ATMs) and relationship which it establishes with young adults during their the Internet Branch, through sales campaigns via branches, or student years, and updates their card limits and statuses in line via SMS and/or email offers. with their needs after they begin working. Instant Banking bringing more easily accessible and For pensioners secure banking Offered in their retirement years, the Pensioner Package covers İşbank’s vision in alternative distribution channels is “being a wide array of retail banking products and services. Having Turkey’s best multichannel bank”. The bank has structured all of provided its customers with a broad array of retail banking its applications in this field under the “Instant Banking” brand. products throughout their active professional lives, İşbank offers them a high added-value service during their retirement In order to render banking easily accessible and usable, İşbank years with its “Emekli Paketi” (“Pensioner Package”). makes heavy use of alternative distribution channels in line with its notion of being the bank closest to its customers. Innovative products, services and applications with a strong value proposition The ratio of comparable transactions performed through the In order to set itself ahead in the highly competitive retail Instant Banking channels reached 80.55% in 2013, topping the banking market, İşbank carries out product, service and process world’s benchmark interval of 75-80%. innovations that will contribute higher value to its customers. İşbank offers innovative retail cash management products In 2013, while the number of customers using İşbank’s that make life easier for its customers, and takes a proactive Bankamatiks (ATMs) climbed to about 8 million, the number of approach as it keeps track of its customers’ changing demands Internet Branch users reached 2.1 million. The number of İşbank and needs so as to constantly improve its line of products and customers making use of the Mobile Banking channels (İşCep, services. İşPad and İşWap) increased by more than 120% YoY to over 727,000. İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 www.isbank.com.tr 57 For our Customers Innovative practices performed through the alternative delivery channels have received various awards in Turkey and abroad in 2013. Innovative practices, product promotions and communication Examples of a number of practices implemented by the Bank in efforts performed through alternative delivery channels 2013 within the scope of Instant Banking are given below: received various awards in Turkey and abroad in 2013. During • The Bank maintained its efforts to offer the Instant Customer this period; service through various alternative channels. • İşbank’s “Cash Withdrawal from Bankamatik (ATM) with • By offering services such as Cheque Guarantee, Direct the İşCep QR Code” practice received the Golden Stevie Debiting System (DDS) and Salary Transactions, which were award in the “Best New Product of the Year” category at added to the Bank’s Commercial Internet Branch in 2013, Stevie Awards, one of the most reputable awards of in the İşbank has improved its infrastructure so that its customers international business world; can enjoy easy access to its products and services. • The Bank’s “Renewing Your Finger for the Renewed İşPad” • İşbank offered ease of use and the chance to save time practice was deemed worthy of the Red Award in the “Best by allowing customers who use Commercial and Personal Tablet Application” category and the “Renewed İşPad/ Internet Branches to change session without logging out the Renewed İşPad Application/Grow, Exchange, Transfer your Internet Branch they are currently using. Money “ practice was given the Achievement Award at the • Use of alternative distribution channels by customers for “Best in Red Press Awards”, held for the 10th time in 2013 by conducting transactions instead of branches contributes the national newspaper, Hürriyet. significantly to the protection of the environment in view of the energy and paper to be consumed at the branches, along With 5,678 Bankamatik machines, İşbank is the leader of the with the energy to be used to get to the physical branches. sector in the area of ATM banking in Turkey. • In bank receipts that Internet Branch users create on their screens upon completion of their transactions, “send by e-mail option” is enabled by default and the print option is left İşbank’s alternative distribution channels under the to the customer’s discretion, thus preventing paper waste. “Instant Banking” brand • Within the scope of international banking activities, İşbank Bankamatik (ATM) brought Bankamatiks (ATMS) into service at its branches in Internet Branch Batumi/Georgia, Pristina/Kosovo, Erbil/Iraq and London/UK. İşCep • The Bank implemented “Chat Banking” service” (Canlı Yardım) İşPad on its corporate website, www.isbank.com.tr. Customers may İşTV obtain information about the Bank’s products and services İşWap and the Instant Banking channels by chatting with customer Telephone Branch representatives online through this service. • Serving those customers seeking to carry out their equity transactions with the help of customer representatives, the “İş’te Yatırım” Line’s phone number was changed to 0850 724 72 72(PARA) so that customers may gain easy access. 58 www.isbank.com.tr İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 5,678 Bankamatik (ATMs) 22% With 5,678 Bankamatik (ATMs), İşbank is the leader of the The Moneybox Fund is the biggest Type A fund in sector in terms of the number of Bankamatik (ATMs). Turkey with a 22% market share. • The Bank simplified the menu structure so that customers Üstü Kalsın® may easily and quickly receive their card or customer PIN in Üstü Kalsın®, an innovative credit card service -which is the first the Telephone Banking Voice Response System. The Bank of its kind in Turkeyshowed that a credit card product, which also enabled its customers to request their credit card and usually offers opportunities for shopping, may also be used as account statements to be sent to their e-mail addresses. In a saving tool enabling investments. This service is intended to addition, with the aim of raising customer satisfaction by encourage customers to save without changing their spending improving the customer experience, the Bank has effected habits. The balance due shown in the account statement various improvements in its representative screens, so is rounded up to a maximum limit set by the customer and customers may perform their transactions with customer the difference between the two amounts is added to their representatives on the Telephone Branch in a shorter space investment account under this service, which is available for all customers who have both a credit card and investment of time. accounts with İşbank. • The validity period of the EN15838:2009 Quality Standard certification, which certifies the quality of the service With this implementation, the Maximum Card encourages provided by customer representatives at the Call Center, cardholders to save through small amounts while shopping. was extended by the audit company, given that the level of service quality was maintained. Investing in the future of our children: Kumbara Fonu • The number of Mobile Banking users has rapidly increased (by (Moneybox Fund) more than doubling compared to the previous year). Maintaining its function for more than 85 years, the İşbank Moneybox reached the 2000s, by then transformed into the A pioneer of saving İşbank Moneybox Fund, the saving plan that takes the future of As the pioneer of saving since the very day it was founded, our children under guarantee. İşbank has been at the forefront of efforts to encourage savings and to foster an awareness of saving in society. The Bank Introduced in May 2001 for the first time, the Moneybox contributes to these efforts through different products and the Fund has preserved its pioneering position in the market ever services which it creates in line with customers’ needs. since. The Moneybox Fund is a significant contributor to the establishment and development of the awareness of long-term Launched under the motto, “those who save for tomorrow investment that is lacking in our country. The mission of taking begin to experience their pleasure from today”, İşbank the future of our children under guarantee sets this fund ahead continued with its efforts to raise public awareness of regularly from its peers. saving small amounts, and to expand the idea of saving among the community by reaching broader masses through With a share of nearly 22% of the Type A funds market at the end of 2013, the Moneybox Fund was the biggest Type A campaigns that highlighted “Kumbara Fonu” (Moneybox Fund), fund in Turkey, and sets itself ahead from its peers in that it “Bireysel Emeklilik” (Private Pension), “Düzenli Birikim Talimatı” addresses children with the intention of encouraging saving. (Regular Saving Order) and “Üstü Kalsın” products, as well as communication activities conducted through traditional With its campaign conducted under the Moneybox Fund advertising platforms and the Bank’s service channels. brand in 2013, which offers a privileged movie experience for children, İşbank was deemed worthy of the Silver Award in the “Consumer Marketing, Best Communication and PR Campaign of the Year” category at the Stevie Awards, one of the most reputable awards in the international business world. İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 www.isbank.com.tr 59 For our Customers With its thematic individual banking products, İşbank contributes to promote environmental awareness and supports the protection of the natural life. The Private Pension System protecting the current The Bank built a Bankamatik (ATM) with a new cabin design standards of living during retirement suitable for wheelchair users and launched its efforts to put it For the purpose of widening the use of the Private Pension into service all across the nation. System, which is an important instrument in terms of national savings, the State Contribution practice was introduced at the On the other side, compatibility with the JAWS program was beginning of 2013, through which the state contributes an observed to enable the use of İşbank Internet Branch by the amount equal to 25% of the contributions paid to the private visually impaired customers. The mobile banking application, pension account in the name of the participant, provided that İşCep, was rendered suitable and easy-to-use for the visually the State Contribution is limited to 25% of the minimum wage. impaired. The Bank continues the same efforts for the İşPad In addition to such a contribution, İşbank supported its activities application used in tablet PCs. The İşPad version, which will be aimed at supporting the growth in national savings by pressing accessible by visually impaired customers, will be offered for ahead with the MaxiPuan campaign in 2013 and organizing service in 2014. other campaigns in which it has given away cinema tickets. Retail banking products aimed at raising awareness of Regular Saving Order service sustainable living Offered for service in 2013, the Regular Saving Order product İşbank developed thematic retail banking products with the aim allows İşbank customers to carry out regular transfers to of contributing to environmental awareness for sustainable their time deposit accounts from their current accounts. living and protecting natural life. The instruction sum collected from the current account is transferred to the time deposit account on the due date. These The Maximum TEMA Card contributing to nature through orders may be placed through our branches or our Internet the TEMA Foundation Branch. Helping customers save on a regular basis with small While Maximum TEMA Card holders have full access to the amounts, the regular saving order may be in TL, USD, Euro or installment-based shopping and “MaxiPuan” extra loyalty bonus GBP terms. points, all campaigns and all other privileges offered by the world of Maximum, they also have the opportunity to contribute An indication of the importance placed by İşbank on to the TEMA Foundation that works towards protecting natural customer security: Europe’s largest Biometric ATM assets and, therefore, the natural world. While customers’ network benefits derived from the card remain intact, a contribution With 2,827 Biyokimlik (Bio-ID) Bankamatik (ATMs) nationwide, calculated at a specific percentage of the purchases made using İşbank also boasts Europe’s largest Biometric ATM network. the card is transferred to the TEMA Foundation from İşbank’s During 2013, the number of customers using Biyokimlik reached own resources. 77,000. Besides being a card that provides support for the TEMA Continued efforts to improve the banking experience of Foundation, the Maximum TEMA Card is also noted for its its disabled customers. environmentally friendly characteristics, starting from the İşbank conducts various projects in the area of alternative production phase. The Maximum TEMA Card is made of a distribution channels to enable its disabled customers perform recycled plastic material, used for the first time in Turkey. their banking transactions easily. The number of talking ATMs Furthermore, all paper materials related to the card are obtained that are intended to facilitate performance of transactions by without harming the natural environment and ecologic life. the visually impaired customers using the Bankamatiks topped Holders of the Maximum TEMA Card, like all other İşbank credit 1,300. cardholders, are able to prevent paper waste by requesting to have their account statements sent by email only. 60 www.isbank.com.tr İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 In brief İşbank conducts various TEMA Environmental Fund a projects in the area of first in the Turkish banking alternative distribution industry invests in companies channels to enable its that respect nature and the handicapped customers environment, while funds to perform their banking are created for the TEMA transactions easily. Foundation from the revenue derived from the fund. TEMA Environmental Fund Environmentalist Vehicle Loan A first in the Turkish banking industry, the TEMA Environmental To encourage the purchase of vehicle models incorporating Fund invests in companies that respect the environment and state-of-the-art technology that are developed with an nature, while funds are created for the TEMA Foundation from awareness of protecting the environment and continually the revenues generated from the fund. Thus, while those who increasing their market share, and to contribute to the invest in the TEMA Environmental Fund are supporting social preservation of the environment, İşbank designed the İşbank initiatives in the field of environmental protection, long-term, Green (Environmental) Auto Loan which offers attractive sustainable funds are also created for environment projects interest rate options on loans extended to finance the purchase thanks to this operation that will continue throughout the of environmentally friendly vehicle models. investment life of the fund. Investing part of its portfolio in companies that integrate Environmental Management Systems İşbank: The pioneering bank with its innovative in every phase of their production, the fund is managed with applications the belief that those companies which adopt environmental measures now will be more profitable than others in the long Parakod Şipşak run. Since November 2012, İşbank has offered the “Parakod” (instant moneycode) application its customers as a simple, reliable and The pioneer of mutual funds in Turkey, İş Portföy Yönetimi innovative method of payment in e-commerce. (İş Asset Management a subsidiary of İşbank) manages the fund with its team of specialists in view of financial and The technology enables İşbank customers to purchase any environmental criteria, which offers investors the opportunity product or service either online without entering any card data to support sectors with high environmental risks and or from the stores using their mobile phones, without needing environmental projects while undertaking investments. The to carry their credit cards. number of holders of TEMA Environmental Fund reached 1,185 by the end of 2013, with the total portfolio size reaching TL Currently, the solutions offered to customers that uses mobile 9.56 million. payment systems require the installation of an additional device on the consumers’ phones or replacement of the SIM Furthermore, the Bank launched communication efforts to card, whereas Parakod application eliminates both needs. The encourage those customers who prefer their investment application can be used without need for any additional device account statements to be posted by mail in printed form to or change of card. accept statements in electronic form via e-mail addresses registered in our Bank’s database. The fact that the application can be quickly downloaded on smartphones which have an in-built camera and Internet Environmentally-Friendly Housing Loan connection, and can be used immediately, is considered a With its Environmentally-Friendly Housing Financing Loan, major advantage. With the Parakod offered in as an extra İşbank extends loans at preferential interest rates in an effort feature in İşCep, İşbank’s mobile banking application İşbank to raise the attractiveness of purchasing structures that customers may carry out shopping in stores and e-commerce are compatible with nature and come under various names websites without any credit card by using their QR code, and including sustainable, ecological, green and environmentallycan also pay their Turkcell phone bills instantly through their friendly, which simply consume only as much as they need, use mobile phones by scanning the barcode on the invoice. And renewable energy resources and natural materials that do not with the new feature of Parakod (Parakod Şipşak) customers produce waste, and are sensitive to ecosystems. may shop instantly by using their cell phones to scan the İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 www.isbank.com.tr 61 For our Customers İşbank collaborates for design of its products and services, where it can touch the social lives of its customers. products’ QR codes printed in newspapers, magazines, banners and of moviegoers that cover a broad range of society from or other similar platforms. İşbank unwaveringly strives to children to adults. The purpose is to bring the customer-centric offer innovative products to its customers in parallel with the approach of the bank also to the cinema and entertainment developing technologies in payment systems. industry, which is steadily growing every year. Various events and organizations are carried out in an effort to make the With the “İşCep Parakod” technology that it has designed, cinema experience more enjoyable with previews, premieres, İşbank was deemed worthy of the Bronze Award in the “New tickets given free-of-charge and product promotions, as Product Launch of the Year” category at Stevie Awards one well as campaigns directed towards different segments of of the most reputable awards in the international business society. Maximizing the joy of shopping, the Maximum Card world. It was also handed “The Industy Choice Award” at the also maximizes the pleasure taken in cinema at Cinemaximum “Contactless&Mobile Awards” competition held for the 6th time cinemas, and will remain instrumental in the benefits of in 2013 under the sponsorship of Visa Europe an international Maximum Card holders. card payment system brand. İşbank’s cooperation with the Mars Entertainment Group is not İşbank’s responsibility to its customers just restricted to the cinema industry. Maximum Cardholders have access to privileges at gyms, restaurants and various The services provided, the collaborations conducted in the venues affiliated to the Mars Entertainment Group. This is a retail sector and the promotions held by İşbank under the result of the efforts shown to add value to customers’ lives. Maximum Card program are intended to step up the close relationship the Bank has been maintaining with its customers The sport of kiteboarding, which is rapidly becoming more for approximately twelve years, and to maximize the pleasure popular in our country, draws a great deal of attention from of living, as well as the pleasure taken in shopping. In the design many people of all age groups. In line with the target of of its products and services, İşbank collaborates where it can maximizing the pleasure taken in living, as well as the pleasure touch its customers’ social lives, adding value to their lives. taken in shopping, the Bank began to provide special privileges under newly created “Kitemaximum” brand to İşbank’s With the opportunities provided in cinema sector, it is desired to Maximum Card holders kiteboarding schools located in Akyaka, make the experience of the cinema a form of entertainment Gökova and Burc Beach, İstanbul. for all segments from all age groups more enjoyable for our customers. In line with this strategy, cooperation was Similarly, within the scope of the special collaboration established with the Mars Entertainment Group, the owner of established with Vialand the first theme park in Turkey the the largest cinema chain in Turkey. Within the framework of the Bank offers a privileged entertainment experience to Maximum cooperation between İşbank and Mars Entertainment Group, Card holders with special opportunities in ticket purchases and a total of 543 cinemas at 62 diversified locations in 25 cities parking. began offering service under the name “Cinemaximum” under the sponsorship of Maximum Card, the Bank’s primary credit In 2013 İşbank introduced the Müzekart (Museum Card) feature card brand. to all credit cards with the Maximum feature, a first in the sector. Accordingly, İşbank offers credit cardholders the chance The Cinemaximum project is not merely limited to the creation to visit more than 300 museums or ruins which are under the of a new brand of cinemas and advertising campaign; it is also responsibility of the Republic of Turkey’s Ministry of Culture targeted at spurring the development of the cinema industry and Tourism for 1 month every year, free-of-charge. This that has grown significantly in our country in recent years practice, officially entitled “Introducing the Müzekart Feature 62 www.isbank.com.tr İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 İşbank is focused on improving its role and presence in the economic and commercial development of businesses, and in the different life stages of individuals. to İş Bankası Maximum Cards” was jointly launched by İşbank, to share financial matters in formats that are as amusing as the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, the Central Directorate they are informative and educational, in an aim to enhance of Revolving Funds under the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, customer awareness. Numerous documents and a Q&A and the Association of Turkish Travel Agencies (TÜRSAB) Müze section is accessible at from the www.isbank.com.tr, including Girişimleri (Museum Initiatives). With this practice which sets information on a broad variety of products and services ranging Maximum Card apart from other similar practices in the sector, from borrowing terms and conditions to private pension and İşbank takes justified pride in this unmatched cooperation that insurance, and demonstrations on the use of Instant Banking contributes to the protection and publicity of our country’s channels and security-related implementations. cultural assets and their transfer on to next generations, while offering a unique value proposition to its customers. With the İşbank places importance on sharing the added value created Müzekart project launching campaign, İşbank was deemed through economic research and analysis with its customers. worthy of the Golden World Award in the “New Service Launch” Efforts carried out by the specialists in the Bank with respect to category in the competition, which is annually held by the the latest economic developments are shared with customers International Public Relations Association (IPRA). Also, the and anyone interested in these issues in a user-friendly Bank’s “Maximum Card is also a Müzekart” campaign won the environment through the portal at the address: research.isbank. Bronze Award in the “Marketing Campaign of the Year in the com.tr. Banking Industry” category at Stevie Awards, one of the most reputable awards in the international business world. Numerous parameters including, among many others, exchange rates and stock data that the Bank posts and keeps up-toIncreasing financial literacy and helping customers make date on its websites allows individuals to access all forms conscious decisions of data they will need in making their investment decisions İşbank aims to increase the rate of financial literacy and raise its with a single click. Various calculation tools made available on customers’ financial awareness and knowledge. the websites allow comparisons and provide information on numerous subjects, from housing loans to consumer loans. To this end, the Bank, besides its professional team, systematically makes use of its branches, alternative Financial decisions, particularly those involving high sums, must distribution channels and external communication platforms. be based on data and experience. İşbank assists its customers A significant part of the process of informing customers reach sound decisions based on concrete data owing to the of financial products is carried out through face to face services offered to its customers, which are summarized above. communication with customers. Having a relationship culture focused on listening to and understanding the customer, İşbank is focused on improving its role and presence in the İşbank shares information and offers solutions that answer economic and commercial developments of businesses, the needs of individual customers from different segments of and different life stages of individuals. the community, thus impartially helping them reach the right financial decisions. Having adopted the mission of fulfilling the evolving needs of its customers with a proactive approach, İşbank In addition to vis-à-vis communication with customers, will press ahead with its innovative and exemplary İşbank maintains an interactive relationship with its retail and practices to increase the service experience and added commercial customers through electronic communication value that it offers to companies and individuals. media including the website, telephone banking branch, call center and social networks. The Bank makes use of these media İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 www.isbank.com.tr 63 For our Employees 64 www.isbank.com.tr İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 For our Employees The workforce, who has a strong faith in the Bank and enthusiastically embraces the shared values of the Bank, plays a key role in achieving İşbank’s targets and building a long-term future. İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 www.isbank.com.tr 65 For our Employees For our Employees Granting equal opportunity to all employees is the foremost of İşbank’s key responsibilities to its employees. The workforce, who has a strong faith in the Bank and İşbank’s Human Resources Policy enthusiastically embraces the shared values of the Bank, plays a key role in achieving İşbank’s targets and building a The primary human resources policies of İşbank are erected on long-term future. The sustainability of the spirit of being the principles of equal opportunity, fairness, transparency and a member of İşbank is highly important at this point, and high performance. is only possible through the sustainability of a workforce made up of highly motivated employees who are Human resource management processes and practices are respected and valued by their managers and colleagues. designed in a manner which supports İşbank’s vision of being the bank which is most preferred by customers, shareholders and employees in Turkey, by maintaining its position as the Structure of İşbank’s Workforce Summary Data leading, pioneering and most reliable bank. • At the end of 2013, the number of banking professionals Importance of diversity and equality of opportunity working at the İşbank Head Office and branches totaled Granting equal opportunity to all employees is the foremost 24,129. of İşbank’s key responsibilities towards its employees. Valuing • 51% of İşbank employees are women and 49% are men. diversity in its workforce, İşbank perceives diversity as a key • The average tenure at İşbank is 9.45 years. component of its intellectual capital. This perspective enables • The average age of İşbank employees is 34.46. the permanence and advancement of a modern working environment that allows thinking differently, acting differently *Board Members are not included in the average age and average tenure. and building on innovation and individual competencies at İşbank. Within the scope of its human resources policy, the Bank is strongly against any form of discrimination, forced or compulsory labor and child labor both in the world and in Turkey. 24,129 Workforce planning at İşbank A total of 24,129 banking professionals are Workforce planning is carried out in alignment with İşbank’s employed by İşbank. activities and strategies. İşbank’s human resource needs are met through the recruitment and employment of individuals who have the required qualifications and competencies for the specific job using modern evaluation tools and methods. The Bank’s basic recruitment criteria are put into writing and the hiring processes are carried out according to these criteria. Newly hired employees work in the positions of officer, assistant specialist, assistant inspector or specialist staff. The Bank also recruits individuals as support personnel. 66 www.isbank.com.tr İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 In brief Human resource management Getting promoted to the The Bank’s strong processes and practices are next level is directly subject infrastructure ensures active designed in a manner to to the fulfillment of the participation of its employees support İşbank’s vision of requirements of career in HR processes and supports being the bank most preferred paths and to the staffing employee satisfaction. by customers, shareholders opportunities available at the and employees in Turkey. Bank. Employees are promoted to the next level subject to the Career management at İşbank fulfillment of the requirements of career paths and to the staffing opportunities available at the Bank. There are career There are a variety of career paths open at İşbank, which paths planned for each title at İşbank. are the positions of inspector, specialist and officer. The career paths of employees who join İşbank lead up to senior İşbank does not transfer intermediate level managers and all management positions. Trainee assistant specialists and managers are trained and promoted from within the Bank’s trainee assistant inspectors who start working at İşbank own personnel. Therefore, the Bank places special emphasis are entitled to be promoted to the positions of assistant on equipping the managers and management candidates with specialist or assistant inspector depending on the result of the knowledge and skills they will need in their prospective the assessment performed after the completion of the first positions and titles. Technical and personal development year of employment. After completing a certain period of programs are organized for this purpose. No discrimination is employment in such positions, individuals may be promoted carried out in career management. in their careers to the posts of specialist or inspector, provided that they successfully pass their qualification The employment policy of İşbank; exams. Once specialists and inspectors complete the period • considers every employee as a talented individual with high of time they are required to spend with these titles, they potential, are appointed to management positions according to their • is based on the principle of training and equipping the performances and staffing needs. qualified human resources needed for any managerial or specialization position across different levels, from within the If the newly hired officers successfully pass the Assistant Bank’s own employees. Supervisor Selection Exam they take at the end of a certain period of employment, they are appointed to Assistant İşbank is focused on undertaking efficient use of HR Supervisor positions. After completing a certain period of information systems and other technology tools in all activities time in such positions, these employees will be appointed to within the scope of the HR policies. The Bank’s strong manager positions as Sub-Manager, if they successfully pass infrastructure ensures the active participation of its employees the exam for the promotion to the position of Sub-Manager. in HR processes and supports employee satisfaction. Along Employees holding the title of Sub-Manager have the these lines, an integrated HR infrastructure has been developed opportunity to rise to higher positions depending on their for the Bank’s constantly expanding organization with a view to performance and staffing needs. creating; • HR processes in which employees will play a more active role, After the first stage as a manager, employees are provided • faster conduct for HR professionals, and with equal opportunity of advancement based on their • a decision support system for decision-makers to make more performance, irrespective of the initial path they took when efficient use of the human resource data. they joined the Bank. İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 www.isbank.com.tr 67 For our Employees The performance management system for İşbank employees is applied on the basis of competencies identified according to position titles, measurable goals and objectives which assess their contribution to business results. İşbank’s Remuneration Policy İşbank’s Performance Management System İşbank implements the remuneration practices in accordance Performance management system of İşbank employees is with Labor Law and legal regulations applicable in Turkey, as conducted annually on the basis of competencies identified well as with the structure and scope of the Bank’s activities, its according to position titles, and measurable goals and strategies, long-term goals and risk management structures. objectives by which to assess their contribution to business results. While the performance management system at İşbank is It is essential that the remuneration of İşbank’s managers and conducted annually, managers are encouraged to get together employees at any grade should comply with the Bank’s with their subordinates and share information with them about • ethical values, the level of their performance without waiting for the year-end • internal balances and strategic objectives, appraisal that they perform through the system. and should be determined in line with İşbank’s long-term performance. Performance-based incentive payments at In the annual appraisal of managers, the scorecard performance İşbank take into consideration the term of the risks taken, is taken into consideration as goals. The annual appraisal do not guarantee the amounts in advance, seek to positively of employees is based on measurable goals defined by the impact the Bank’s corporate values, and are subject to objective managers at the beginning of the performance period in a criteria. manner that is aligned with the job descriptions of employees, which are assigned to the system after being shared with the Compensation and benefits at İşbank employees. İşbank determines the employees’ salaries and social Devised every year in conjunction with business units, the benefits in accordance with the market conditions and the “Sample Goal Set” is shared with all employees in order to guide Collective Bargaining Agreement. In addition to salaries, the managers in determining goals and ensuring that the right the Bank’s employees receive bonuses and allowances as goals can be set for the right positions. required by their positions. Furthermore, a foreign language allowance is paid to those employees who prove their In addition, supplementary resources are made available to the competence in foreign language with an internationally employees on the Bank’s corporate portal pages, which include recognized certificate which is acceptable by the Bank. presentations, articles, case studies etc. that are prepared to increase the efficiency of the performance management In addition to the payments specified above, dividends are process. paid once a year depending on the provisions set forth in the Articles of Incorporation and the overall performance İşbank displayed in the previous year. 68 www.isbank.com.tr İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 In brief Ever since its establishment The contribution from İşbank’s Performance in 1924, the Bank has been employees’ to İşbank’s success Management System is assigning the employees is assessed with methods continuously updated in line trained and cultivated from based on systematic, periodic with evolving needs. amongst its own employees to and measurable indicators. managerial positions. Performance appraisal of managers İşbank’s Performance Management System İşbank possesses an HR culture that trains and equips its own management team from within. The Performance Management System is an important instrument for the following purposes: Ever since its establishment in 1924, the Bank has been • to attract qualified human resource to İşbank and to assigning employees trained and cultivated from amongst consider and develop each employee as a potential source its own employees to managerial positions. İşbank does not of talent, implement management transfers and takes a long-term and • to plan and manage employee performance in alignment strategic approach towards human resource planning and with the Bank’s performance goals and to guarantee development. This culture, which is maintained and constantly corporate success. fostered under this approach, enables the development of employees who will rise to the Bank’s middle and upper The priority objectives of İşbank’s Performance Management management positions within the organization. System include the assessment of employees’ contribution to İşbank’s success using systematic, periodic and The Bank’s Executive Committee reviews all data and measurable indicators; supporting the adoption of the information obtained from different sources (such as managers’ Bank’s high performance culture and enhancing employee performance scores, the reports issued for the managers by motivation and loyalty to the Bank; identifying their the Board of Inspectors, administrative decisions, rewards/ development needs; and supporting their professional and penalties, employee and customer satisfaction ratios, goal personal development through constant feedback. achievement ratios, performance scorecard result, credit risk rating performance) in relation to İşbank’s managers and Across the Bank, the Performance Management System conducts an annual evaluation. is considered a tool that will provide the adoption of the customer-oriented and innovative approach by all employees, and will accelerate success at the individual and institutional level by strengthening the communication of employees with their managers. The System is constantly improved in line with the changing needs. İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 www.isbank.com.tr 69 For our Employees İşbank offers various learning and development programs by taking employees’ positions and career processes into account. İşbank HR Key Indicators / Year end 2013 Number of personnel People % Number of Women 12,280 51 personnel employed People % Men 11,849 49 during the reporting period Total 24,129 100 Women 483 51 Distribution of personnel People* % Men 473 49 by age groups 0-30 7,069 30 Total of new hiring 956 100 31-45 16,472 68 Distribution of 46-65 575 2 Board Members by Women Men gender 66+ 3 0 Total 24,119 100 Chairman 0 1 Geographical distribution Vice Chairman 1 0 Male Female Total % of personnel Members 2 7 Turkey 11,738 12,130 23,868 99 Distribution of the International 111 150 261 1 Audit Committee Women Men Total 11,849 12,280 24,129 100 Members by gender Members 1 1 Distribution of personnel by employment contract Male Female Total % Distribution of type Corporate Social Temporary 20 24 44 99 Responsibility Women Men Turkey Committee Members Permanent 11,718 12,106 23,824 by gender Temporary 0 0 0 99 International Members 3 2 Permanent 111 150 261 Total 11.849 12,280 24,129 100 Distribution of Risk Committee Members Women Men Distribution of personnel by gender Male Female Total % by employment type Members 3 2 There are no part-time employees in the Bank. Distribution of Number of Senior Management Women Men Leavers Turnover rate by gender Labor turnover (Excluding % Chief Executive Officer 0 1 Deaths) Deputy Chief 1 11 Women 509 4,15 Executives Men 726 6,08 Executives** 891 1.298 * Excluding Board Members ** Titles higher than the II. Manager positions are taken into account 70 www.isbank.com.tr İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 İşbank pays attention to enable the employees’ access to various training and development opportunities for diverse requirements. Training Activities at İşbank Orientation Training: Training programs held for newly employed individuals İşbank offers a range of extensive training programs to its Employees who start working at İşbank take part in the employees. Orientation Training starting from their first day. On the back of its training activities, İşbank offers learning and development programs on any topic as required by its Designed according to employees’ initial positions, Orientation employees, by taking the employees’ positions and career Training aims to equip the newly employed individuals with the processes into account. knowledge and skills they need at the time they start working. The variety of training programs is intended to meet any These programs are designed according to the blended learning development need by which business results are affected, model and are organized to provide an ongoing development and to support a structure that will improve and sustain activity continuing after the instructor-led training. As part of performance. The common objective in all training programs the orientation process, training mentors continue to advise the is to provide support to İşbank employees in relation to their individuals with any support they need. The ultimate goal of changing job descriptions as well as the Bank’s needs and the these practices is to ensure the permanence of the knowledge sustainability of activities. In training planning, İşbank pays and skills acquired in the training. attention to the diverse requirements and employees’ access to opportunities for development in all kinds of needs. The İşbank Training Catalog is a worthy implementation for the self-development of the employees. In order to sustain and further improve performance at İşbank, The İşbank Training Catalog plays an important role in the selfareas of improvement that are identified on the basis of identification of improvement areas by employees. Designed as Employee Performance Management System are supported a key tool for planning self-career and development needs, the with development programs differentiated according to specific İşbank Training Catalog is an application where all employees competencies. This differentiation aims to provide every can communicate their requests. individual with the specific development tools in the topic that they may need progress in relation to their performance. Management Development Programs One of the Bank’s basic objectives is to propagate a leadership Training activities are supported by distance learning culture oriented towards constant development and change. applications. With the aim of creating this culture and passing it on the next Instructor-led training is supported with new learning generation of managers, so as to establish İşbank leadership as approaches and tools; and continuous development is ensured a trademark, existing senior managers, middle level managers on different platforms through corporate tube-iştube and and prospective managers are supported through a range of corporate wiki-işpedia applications, as well as online books, structured tools. e-games, and regular informative mailings. In addition to instructor-led training, the e-learning platform accessible for In this framework, the Management Development Programs employees at any time is used as an efficient source in providing and Conferences are realized for the manager and prospective the continuity of knowledge and access at the time of need. manager pools, which are aligned with their needs and differentiated on the basis of job family requirements. The İşbank Management Development Programs are also important and exemplary in supporting sustainable employment and securing employee satisfaction. İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 www.isbank.com.tr 71 For our Employees 22.8 2,909 An average of 22.8 hours of training was A total of 2,909 employees attended the 4-hour provided for each employee in 2013. long training course on occupational health and safety. An average of 22.8 hours of training was provided for each Employee loyalty and satisfaction survey at İşbank employee in 2013. Since 2009, İşbank has been measuring the loyalty and satisfaction of its employees through systematic surveys. The Training at İşbank Key indicators results of these measurements are used to support employees’ development. Training time Title Human rights and working life at İşbank per employee Support Specialists Management The working life at İşbank is dominated by constitutional (hours) Staff Positions freedoms, human rights, the rule of law, social justice and Men 26.1 25.3 20.0 democratic order. İşbank and its employees are familiar with, Gender and recognize, their mutual rights and obligations, and strive to Women 4.3 20.9 21.9 maximize their contribution towards establishing mutually good relationships, labor harmony and occupational safety. Training time per employee (hours) Mechanisms for the communication of İşbank employees’ Men 24.8 opinions and suggestions Employees of the Bank make use of the HR Information Women 20.9 System directly to communicate specific matters to them, their complaints and matters they deem beneficial to be known Training time per employee by title (hours) by the Human Resources function and senior management. Allowing employees to communicate any matter they wish Support Specialist Management to share regarding their families or health, and complaints or Staff Positions requests, if any, the HR Information System aims to ensure that 25.8 22.7 20.9 employees have access to the right and detailed information within the decision-making processes. Note: Training programs which are held for Private Security Guards are monitored under the Support Staff category. These programs affect the gender-based Being perceived as a preferred employer breakdown of training time per employee. The activities carried out to strengthen the sense of belonging that represents the most powerful aspect of the İşbank culture, to enhance the perception of being most preferred employer, and to boost employee motivation have occupied an important place within human resources practices. 72 www.isbank.com.tr İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 In brief İşbank encourages its İşbank presses ahead with İşbank’s primary target employees to intensively its efforts to set up an for 2014 is to restructure participate in sports occupational health and safety its Human Resources organizations that bolster the culture within the Bank. Management Strategy on a spirit of unity and integrity rational model. among employees. Within this context, the İş Players Theater Company was Significant developments in occupational health and safety established this year. The Company staged “Twelfth Night” by At İşbank, the Human Resources Management Department is W. Shakespeare. The revenues collected from the plays were responsible for the activities aiming to ensure compliance with donated to TOÇEV (Foundation for Educating Children). the Law no. 6331 on Occupational Safety and Health and has set up an occupational health and safety culture within the İşbank encourages its employees to intensively participate in Bank. sports organizations held by the Bank or other institutions. The Bank has established Corporate Teams to participate in these The Bank started to perform risk evaluation studies within the sports events that bolster the spirit of unity and integration scope of occupational health and safety in all of the buildings among İşbank employees. Moreover, in the framework of where its personnel are employed, while also launching projects its activities to strengthen employee loyalty, the Bank, in that aim to bring about healthier and more comfortable working coordination with contracted companies, holds campaigns that conditions. In addition, the Bank held 2-hour long training offer various privileges and advantages to employees of the programs (for all personnel employed in its 700 branches) and Bank. In addition, the Bank launched “Hobby Workshops” which 4-hour long training programs (for a total of 2,909 employees include activities such as chocolate making, photography, script working in the Bank’s 30 largest buildings) on occupational writing and music which aim to support social life. safety and health. The Bank also provided 4-hour OHS e-learning programs to all of its employees. İşbank intends to continue to adhere to its policy of supporting activities directed towards enhancing employee motivation in With all these efforts, İşbank aims to not only fulfill its legal the year ahead. obligations but to develop an occupational safety and health culture across the entire Bank, while planning to implement In order to strengthen the preferred employer brand measures that prevent accidents or any occupational illness perception before they even occur. In 2014, the Bank plans to implement innovative practices aimed at raising candidate satisfaction in the hiring processes. İşbank’s primary target for 2014 is to restructure its These practices aim to further strengthen the perception Human Resources Management Strategy on a selective of İşbank as a preferred employer brand. The Bank will also and rational model that works on the basis of employee continue its efforts to strengthen the loyalty of its employees feedback and is in line with the Bank’s business with high potential and performance. objectives. İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 www.isbank.com.tr 73 For our Earth 74 www.isbank.com.tr İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 For our Earth Demonstrating a strong approach, İşbank is focused to manage the direct impacts of its activities on the environment, as well as the indirect impacts arising during its service process. İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 www.isbank.com.tr 75 For our Earth For our Earth Within the scope of its Environmental and Social Management Strategy, İşbank has recently been introducing new systematics to its efforts aimed at environmental protection and development, and the prevention of climate change. ESMS “Leaving a sustainable world for next generations” is a basic responsibility that must be shared by all companies in the world, and which also represents an important field The launch of the Environmental and Social of action. Management Strategy (ESMS) was one of the most important developments in 2013. İşbank, Turkey’s leading bank, also aims to be a pioneering bank in the areas of environmental protection and development, and in the prevention of climate change. Demonstrating an effective approach, İşbank is focused on managing the direct impacts of its activities on the environment, as well as the indirect impacts arising during its service process. Within the scope of its Environmental and Social Management Strategy approved by the Executive Board in 2013, İşbank has recently been introducing new systematics in its efforts aimed at environmental protection and development, and the prevention of climate change. Environmental Grounds İşbank also aims to manifest its difference and positive impact through its environmental practices. In line with its mission, vision and goals, the Bank’s environmental approach is basically arises on three pillars: • optimize the environmental footprint of activities that constantly evolve and diversify in line with the organizational growth • place greater emphasis on the environmental focus in the products and services delivered to customers • continue to work intensively and interactively with stakeholders engaged in the environment and encourage their voluntary involvement, and raise social awareness on issues related to the environment. The Environmental and Social Management Strategy (ESMS), which was approved by İşbank’s Executive Board in December 2013, was one of the most important developments during 2013. With this strategy, the Bank has taken an important step towards expanding the scope of its environmental and 76 www.isbank.com.tr İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 In brief The Bank will continue its In keeping with the target to The first phase of the İşbank efforts in line with the ESMS measure, manage and reduce greenhouse gas inventory throughout 2014 in order its carbon footprint, İşbank and carbon emissions to plan and implement the initiated the operational management was completed required structure. emissions management in in April 2011. 2011. social activities and introducing a holistic systematic approach. 2006 and the GHG Protocol. The Bank will continue its efforts in line with this strategy • Modification of the program “Our Impacts” to adapt İşbank’s throughout 2014 in order to plan and implement the required emission sources and operational structure; in other words, structure. preparing a platform that is appropriate for the Bank’s emission sources and the emission calculation algorithm. In this context, İşbank’s most important targets are to identify • Performing the computation of total carbon-equivalent and to minimize the negative environmental and social impacts emissions for 2008, 2009 and 2010. that may arise from the Bank’s lending activities by fulfilling certain criteria, particularly in those projects financed by the In its Sustainability Report released in the first quarter of 2013, Bank, and to restructure internal sustainability-related practices İşbank publicly disclosed data on its gas emissions and resource within a more systematic framework. utilization during the 2008-2012 period. Please refer to page 25 for the ESMS. The total amount of carbon-equivalent emissions from İşbank’s Head Office buildings in İstanbul stood at 17,865 tonnes in İŞBANK’S ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT 2013. İşbank’s physical organization and human resources are Scope of carbon footprint computation expanding in parallel with its rising business volume and Operational Boundary: No operational limitation was imposed diversified customer base. Organizational growth means on the calculations, and İşbank’s commercial transactions, and measuring, managing and reducing its environmental footprint all of its activities whether direct or indirect were included in through a systematic approach is a more important target for the scope of the calculation. the Bank. Geographical Boundary: The geographical boundary was taken İşbank’s Carbon Footprint as all Head Office buildings within the borders of İstanbul for the target years. In keeping with the target to measure, manage and reduce its carbon footprint, İşbank initiated the operational emissions For the periods subject to reporting, the Scope standards were management in 2011 to cover the years 2008-2011. The first differentiated on the basis of emission sources and detailed phase of the İşbank Green House Gas (GHG) inventory and calculations were completed in accordance with the GHG carbon emissions management was completed in April 2011. Protocol (www.ghgprotocol.org). The basic steps of the first phase covered data collection and According to the GHG Protocol, İşbank’s natural gas and fuel determination of the technical framework for computing the resources were assessed under Scope 1, and the electric power carbon footprint. Within this framework, the following steps obtained from the network under Scope 2. were taken for the Head Office: • Review of the operational structure and determination of the Emissions originating from Scope 3 are emissions that result sources of emissions (lighting and heating/cooling, etc.). from the organization’s suppliers and are excluded from the • Examining the references for sources of emissions (e.g. calculation. accounting records and invoices) and data collection. Filling in of missing data on the basis of the approximation method The Bank’s carbon footprint was reduced by nearly 7% in 2013. under the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 www.isbank.com.tr 77 For our Earth İşbank’s Carbon Footprint (2008-2012) Breakdown of scope (tonnes) 2011 2012 2013 Scope 1 4,432 4,063 3,504 Scope 2 14,986 15,234 14,361 Scope 3 Out-of-scope [1] Total carbon-equivalent emissions (tCO2e) 19,418 19,297 17,865 [1] GHG not covered by the Kyoto Protocol, HCFC-22 Emission Ratios per Employee, Consolidated Assets and Revenue 2011 2012 2013 Emission per employee (tCO2e/total number 3.476867609 3.518369585 3.513274336 of employees) “Emission according to total consolidated 0.000198474 0.000173051 0.000156201 assets (tCO2e/ billion USD) “Emission according to consolidated net profit 0.015278696 0.009272575 0.010463345 (tCO2e/ billion USD)” Number of employees 5,585 5,471 5,085 Total consolidated assets (USD, -,000) 97,838,207 112,646,913 114,371,924 Consolidated net profit (USD, -,000) 1,270,940 2,081,083 1,707,389 Resource Usage 2011 2012 2013 Electricity (KWh) 28,265,216 32,969,258 31,061,752 Natural gas (m )3 921,771 1,454,126 1,237,672 Air conditioning refrigerant (kg) 167 460 613 İşbank’s carbon footprint is calculated employing the GHG Protocol. Sources of data are Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) and International Energy Agency (IEA). 17,865 7% The total amount of carbon-equivalent The Bank’s carbon footprint was reduced by emissions of İşbank stood at 17,865 tonnes nearly 7% in 2013. in 2013. 78 www.isbank.com.tr İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 İşbank consumed an average of 13.25 m3 of mains water per employee in 2013. İşbank’s Water Footprint Water (m3) Starting this year, İşbank will be sharing data on its water 2011 2012 2013 footprint in the Sustainability Report. İşbank is not engaged in Mains water 91,493 64,958 67,365 any activities that threaten the water resources in the locations of its presence, operating in the banking industry and not being Wastewater 45,747 32,479 33,683 in engaged in water-based manufacturing. Moreover, in view of its respect for the natural environment, the Bank began to Total 137,240 97,437 101,048 monitor its water consumption in order contribute to the efforts to reduce the use of natural resources. Data was collected from the Bank’s Head Office buildings in İstanbul as in the calculation of the carbon footprint. In this context, the amount of mains water used and wastewater produced are provided in the table below. Water consumption by number of employees and area of usage 2011 2012 2013 Amount of mains water used (m3) 91,493 64,958 67,365 Number of employees 5,585 5,471 5,085 Area of usage (m ) 2 226,461 226,461 207,087 Amount of mains water used per employee (m /employee) 3 16.38 11.87 13.25 Amount of mains water used per area of usage (m3/m2) 0.40 0.29 0.33 “81 Forests in 81 Cities” Project and the carbon capture capture capacity of these saplings was calculated as 25,600 capacity of trees tonnes of CO2. The planting of more than 35,000 saplings in The positive impacts of forestry area development projects the T.R.N.C. is projected to have the impact of reducing annual on carbon emissions are deemed as a carbon-offsetting carbon emissions by 1,630 tonnes of CO2. mechanism in several countries, primarily in the USA. Within the scope of İşbank’s “81 Forests in 81 Cities” Project, a total of 2.2 million saplings were planted and the annual carbon İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 www.isbank.com.tr 79 For our Earth İşbank’s Head Office Building Tower 1 was the first bank building in Turkey to receive the green building certificate. BREEAM In-Use, Building and Building Management improvement work performed in the building, the Bank’s rating Certification was raised from “GOOD” to “VERY GOOD”. The certification The BREEAM In-Use, Building and Building Management process and the improvement efforts performed were Certification process conducted for İşbank’s Head Office Tower summarized in the table below: 1 located in Levent, İstanbul was completed in 2013. With the The green building certification Tower 1's current status was Improvement work was completed. process was launched for Tower 1. analyzed. Areas of improvement were The Bank applied for the BREEAM identified. In-Use certificate. 2012 2013 January 2014 At the beginning of the process: • The Building User Manual was At the end of the process: prepared. Building Performance: GOOD • The Building Operation & Maintenance Building Performance: VERY GOOD Manuals were offered for easy access. Building Management Performance: • A Noticeboard was placed showing how Building Management Performance: GOOD to arrive at the Kule Çarşı Shopping VERY GOOD Mall. • A survey was made for building users to evaluate the quality of indoor air quality and comfort conditions. • Training was provided to users of the building. • Recycling bins were placed. • An Ecological Report and Flood Risk Report were prepared. 80 www.isbank.com.tr İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 İşbank’s corporate goal is to switch to paperless banking in every possible field. The Bank launched a slew of innovative practices in this context. İşbank’s paperless banking target • E-Archiving İşbank offers its products and services to millions of customers Designed in alignment with İşbank’s document management on a 24/7 basis through diversified distribution channels. strategy and with related efforts currently underway, The interactive service relationship with customers requires E-Archiving ultimately aims to minimize the circulation the production and sending of tens of millions of account of physical documents and speed up access to electronic statements, bank receipts, agreements and similar documents, documents. all of which require a huge amount of paper consumption. According to the plan, any documents that are not required İşbank’s corporate goal is to switch to paperless banking in by law to be stored in a hard-copy format will be stored every possible field. The purpose of the Paperless Banking electronically and will be prevented from being physically project carried out at İşbank is to bring paper use under control, generated. With its pilot study launched in 2013, the project is promote environmental sensitivity and contribute to savings targeted to be adopted throughout all İşbank branches and the in the use of paper, storing space and in the workload. Under related Head Office divisions in 2014. the project, İşbank reevaluates the necessity of sending of any printed document to its customers within the framework of its • Automatic PC shutdown vision for paperless banking, seeking to eliminate the use of In 2013, the Bank launched efforts for the automatic shutdown paper to the maximum extent possible, while also focusing on of PCs that are unnecessarily left switched on, or in standshifting paper-based transactions to electronic environment. by mode, at 8:00 pm. The Bank plans to spread this practice throughout the branches in 2014. The automatic shutdown In line with this project, the Bank launched a slew of innovative of PCs that are left switched on will bring significant energy practices between 2011 and 2013. Contributing to cost control savings, while extending the service life of the devices. processes, each of these practices represents a valuable step towards protecting the environment. Along the same lines, • Elimination of overdraft statements İşbank took steps to raise awareness among its customers and İşbank began to only send its customers statements of their encourage them to choose to receive various documents, such overdraft accounts. The Bank accordingly saved nearly 3 million as receipts and account statements, by e-mail. pages of paper per year. Highlights of the efforts carried out within the scope of • Arrangements for additional account statements Paperless Banking are presented below. İşbank began to send additional account statements to its customers by e-mail if their e-mail addresses were registered in the Bank’s system. The Bank aims to save nearly 900,000 pages of paper per year in this way. İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 www.isbank.com.tr 81 For our Earth İşbank collaborates with the TEMA Foundation in recycling waste paper back to the economic cycle. Paperless Banking campaigns planned to be conducted in İşbank and Green IT 2014. Regarding information technology deployments, İşbank In 2014, İşbank will undertake campaigns aimed at submitting undertakes initiatives that concentrate on energy consumption notifications to its customers by e-mail, rather than by paper. and efficiency. For instance, when customers who receive printed investment account statements visit the related branch, it will be suggested In its system rooms, the Bank switched to use of managed that they receive their account statements within the scope PDU’s (power distribution units) in the 2011-2012 period and of the Teller Desk Opportunity Practice and based on the sales began to monitor the energy consumption of cabinets. As a offer designated for the customer representative. result of these efforts, servers which consume excess energy will be identified and replaced with servers that consume less Cooperating with the TEMA Foundation to recycle waste energy in the year ahead. paper İşbank collaborates with the TEMA Foundation in recycling Through the integration of the Data Center infrastructure waste paper back to the economic cycle. monitoring software, the whole system was brought under control. The temperature in system halls was increased from With a project conducted in 2013, waste paper from all İşbank 19°c to 23°c in accordance with ASHREA guidelines, thus branches was recycled through the TEMA Foundation. Within requiring less use of cooling energy. Electricity consumption the framework of the project, documents which are stored in monitoring was separated for the building and for system branch archives and which must be destroyed as a result of halls, and individual quantification was initiated for use in IT coming to the end of their preservation period are collected by equipment and cooling systems. the TEMA foundation as soon as they reach an economically beneficial size. ERET Model İşbank began the preliminary implementation of the The TEMA Foundation plants one sapling on behalf of our Bank Environmental Risk Evaluation Tool (ERET), which calculates the for every 100 kg of paper collected. environmental risk exposure in the Bank’s lending activities. The ERET model is used in project finance loans, and there are plans to diversify the tool and spread it across all of İşbank’s commercial loan allocation processes in the coming years. When scoring, risks categorized under 19 headings are evaluated with respect to impact and manageability, and the overall risk category of the candidate project is reached. 82 www.isbank.com.tr İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 In brief Regarding information İşbank began the preliminary İşbank’s constant target is to technology deployments, implementation of the protect the environment and İşbank undertakes initiatives Environmental Risk Evaluation raise social awareness on this that concentrate on energy Tool (ERET), which calculates issue. consumption and efficiency. the environmental risk exposure in the Bank’s lending activities. Under the tool, environmental risk evaluation can be carried İşbank’s unwavering target is to protect the environment out in two levels: the firm’s existing operations and its new and raise social awareness on this topic. investment. However, because project finance addresses In this context, the Bank will continue; investment independently of a firm’s existing operations, it is • to manage the use of energy and other natural resources and the project risks that are basically taken into consideration in consumption of paper in a systematic manner and to reduce the sense of environmental risk. their direct negative impacts on the environment; • to launch innovative practices in order to reduce the indirect İşbank’s lending principle is based on the approach of taking environmental impacts of the products and services that it risks to the extent they are manageable. Environmental offers to its customers; and risks are also assessed within this framework and the Bank’s • carry out its systemic efforts for the expansion of forested lending policy is characterized by the principle of not extending areas in particular within the scope of social responsibility financial support to projects which incorporate environmentally projects. unmanageable risks. On another hand, it may be in line with İşbank’s mission to provide support to investments for which a structure can be designed which will mitigate and/or manage the social and environmental risks identified as a result of the evaluation through necessary measures and monitoring procedures, and which are necessary for the national economy. İşbank intensively works in interaction with its stakeholders concerned with the environment. At the end of 2008, İşbank launched the “81 Forests in 81 Cities Project” with the aim of protecting the environment and raising environmental awareness among the general public and among children in particular. With the “81 Forests in 81 Cities Project” co-conducted with the TEMA Foundation and Ministry of Forestry and Water Works, İşbank has been successfully executing an exemplary initiative within the scope of its responsibility towards our planet. İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 www.isbank.com.tr 83 For the Society 84 www.isbank.com.tr İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 For the Society İşbank pursues its social responsibility activities through a sustained, farreaching and integrated sustainability perspective. İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 www.isbank.com.tr 85 For the Society For the Society İşbank contributes to social progress through sustained and far-reaching social responsibility activities conducted in the areas of education, the environment, art and culture. Permanent value As an institution of the Republic, İşbank creates permanent value by taking on a pioneering role in the advancement of social life, as well as economic İşbank’s corporate goal is to create permanent development with the strength drawn from the mission value through social responsibility activities. for which it was founded. Possessing a deep-seated sense of social responsibility for 89 years, İşbank pursues its social responsibility activities through a sustained, far-reaching and integrated sustainability perspective in line with the current needs of our country and its people. İşbank’s corporate social responsibility structure and strategy İşbank contributes to social progress through sustained and farreaching social responsibility activities conducted in the areas of education, the environment, art and culture. Undertaking its biggest investment in the future, İşbank’s corporate social responsibility efforts are conducted under the guidance of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee and the authority of the Board of Directors. The İşbank Corporate Social Responsibility Committee; • establishes policies, • evaluates demands, project proposals and sponsorship terms, • creates success and supervision criteria, and • monitors the results. 86 www.isbank.com.tr İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 İşbank’s efforts in the areas of education, environment, culture İşbank’s corporate social responsibility approach and the arts in 2013 are summarized below. Our Mission Education Contribute to social progress through social responsibility activities structured in a sustained, far-reaching and Chess sustainable framework. The Main Sponsor of the Turkish Chess Federation Our Strategy İşbank involved in a comprehensive collaboration with the İşbank’s corporate social responsibility activities are carried Turkish Chess Federation in 2005 with the aim of transforming out in accordance with a strategy molded at the center of the chess into a game extensively practiced throughout Turkey, and basic principles spelled out below*: has become the nationwide sponsor of the game. • contribute to the advancement of our country’s people and to enhance their quality of living, Planned in a comprehensive and long-lasting design, this • aim to preserve and further the social values created by collaboration had the following goals: the Republic, • to popularize chess, particularly among children; • support bringing up generations that espouse the • to address the deficiencies in chess education; and principles of Atatürk, and which will play a role in advancing • spread chess across a broad base to reach more children our society to the level of contemporary civilization, that are gifted in this field and to gain a greater number of • provide opportunities for the progress of Turkish art and achievements in the international arena. culture, and to promote the same across the world, • bring our people together with world art and culture, Since the start of İşbank’s sponsorship, the developments that • undertake a pioneering role in protecting the environment took place in the field of chess on a national and international and raising environmental awareness among people. scale, and the rapid increase seen in a number of indicators including the number of licensed players, the number of medals Our Priorities and similar other indicators confirm the positive results of the In line with the current needs of our country and our people, social investment we have made in chess, and therefore, in the İşbank attaches priority to the following fields in its social national education and future of our country. Since İşbank’s responsibility initiatives: sponsorship of Turkish Chess Federation has started: • education • The number of officially licensed chess players increased • environment from 30,000 to 366,000. • art and culture • The number of medals won in international competitions reached 225. * The principles set out under the Corporate Responsibility Implementation Guidelines released by the İşbank Board of Directors resolution dated November 7th, 2007 and numbered 33785. Highlights of the Bank’s efforts in 2013, in line with its chess sponsoring targets, are given below. İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 www.isbank.com.tr 87 For the Society During 2013, a total of 2,100 chess classes were opened, increasing the total number of chess classes operating at schools to 10,241. Setting up chess classes in elementary schools by İşbank İşbank sets up chess classes for the purpose of making chess an easily accessible sport, encouraging children to play chess, drawing the attention of teachers and parents to this area and addressing the lack of supplies in schools with limited capacity. During 2013, a total of 2,100 chess classes were opened and the total number of chess classes being taught at schools reached 10,241. İşbank will continue to set up chess classrooms in the period ahead for the purpose of increasing the number of players, focusing public attention on the sport, and raising awareness of chess throughout our country. Chess license cards from İşbank branches Since 2007, the licenses granted by the Federation to its registered players have been issued in the form of Bankamatik (ATM) cards, in an effort to establish a strong and permanent relationship with the players and their families that will be maintained in the future within the scope of the support İşbank extends to the game. License cards come in three types: • Electron Bankamatik Cards for players who are over 18 years of age, • Maestro “First Signature” Bankamatik cards for players in the 12 to 18 age group, • a token plastic card for players under the age of 12. Satrancoyna.com.tr In 2008, İşbank entered a comprehensive collaboration with Playchess, the world’s largest online chess platform with 250,000 registered users. Accordingly, the content on the website was translated into Turkish and the website became accessible from the www.tsf.org.tr website. More than 5,000 licensed chess players who log on to Playchess.com from Turkey can play online chess via the website, free-of-charge. 88 www.isbank.com.tr İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 In brief İşbank has been conducting Beşiktaş Gymnastics Club was İşbank began to extend the “İşbank Chess Contest for the winner of the Türkiye İş support to the game of chess Children under 8” festival since Bankası Chess League was in in the Turkish Republic of 2006. the 2012-2013 season. Northern Cyprus in 2013. İşbank Chess Festival for Children under 8 The Türkiye İş Bankası Chess League is the strongest chess Conceived as a way to offer children a chess playing league in Turkey, and is also among the strongest leagues in environment which is fun while also supporting their parents’ Europe. efforts to encourage them to play the game, İşbank has been conducting the “İşbank Chess Festival for Children under 8” Tournament at İş every year since 2006, right after the end of the academic With the aim of popularizing chess among employees working year. The 8th festival, which was held at the İşbank Employees’ at İşbank and its subsidiaries, and to foster communication Association’s Çamlıca Sports Complex, was attended by a between employees, a chess tournament included to the Bank’s number of young chess players in the 6-8 age group. Children set of annual tournaments. The chess tournament named attending the festival not only played chess but also had “Tournament at İş” was held on May 26th, 2013 at the İşbank a chance to take part in many other enjoyable games and Employees’ Association’s Çamlıca Sports Complex. The top three activities. winners of the tournament received their awards. Turkish Youth Chess Championship U12 The Main Sponsor of the Northern Cyprus Chess İşbank keeps a close view of the Turkish Youth Chess Federation Championships U12 and U18 and contributes to the game İşbank began to provide support to the chess sport in the of chess by supporting these championships through Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. Having become the main communication activities. sponsor of the Northern Cyprus Chess Federation at the end of 2013, İşbank will begin to set up chess classes in elementary The championship was held between January 27th and February schools in the T.R.N.C. in 2014. 1st, 2013 in Kemer. A total of 1,329 players between the ages of 7 and 12 from 54 cities both in Turkey and from the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus (T.R.N.C.) took part in the event, as a result of which 133 players were included in the National Team pool. Turkish Youth Chess Championship U18 The championship was held on July 21st-27th, 2013 in Isparta. 303 players aged 13-18 from 36 cities took part in the event, as a result of which 74 players were included in the National Team pool. Türkiye İş Bankası Chess League İşbank continued to organize chess matches within the scope of the “Türkiye İş Bankası Chess League”. The winner of the Türkiye İş Bankası Chess League was the Beşiktaş Gymnastics Club in 2012-2013. İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 www.isbank.com.tr 89 For the Society Within the scope of the “81 Students from 81 Cities” project, a total of 388 students continue their education in Darüşşafaka in the 2013-2014 academic year. 81 Students from 81 Cities Investing in the future to ensure permanent social progress and advancement, and placing special emphasis on education in this framework, İşbank has, in cooperation with the Darüşşafaka, authored one of the longest-running and largest social responsibility projects ever conducted in the field of education in Turkey with the project “81 Students from 81 Cities”. The Darüşşafaka provides boarding school education with a full scholarship (from the 5th grade to graduation from high school) to orphaned children or those with a single parent who are in financial need. Aiming to offer its students a high quality education, social progress and a warm homely environment, Darüşşafaka is one of the deepest-rooted educational institutions in the country. İşbank’s cooperation with the Darüşşafaka started 74 years ago. Following the Erzincan earthquake of 1939, İşbank assumed the educational costs of 83 earthquake-victim students at Darüşşafaka. Under the “81 Students from 81 Cities” project, İşbank meets the educational expenses of 81 children from 81 cities who successfully pass the Darüşşafaka entrance exam each year. The Bank plans to continue supporting these students through their university education. In the 14th year of the project, the first students admitted to the program in the 4th grade in the 2008-2009 academic year, will graduate from university and the number of young people to have been supported by İşbank will exceed 1,000. The first students who were admitted to the program in the 4th grade in 2008 were in the 9th grade in the 2013-2014 academic year. Within the scope of the “81 Students from 81 Cities” project, a total of 388 students continued their education in Darüşşafaka in the 2013-2014 academic year. İşbank aims to contribute not just financially but also to the students’ social development through various activities. 90 www.isbank.com.tr İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 In brief In the “Show Your Report Card, During 2013, İşbank sent In 2013, more than 35,000 Get Your Book” campaign, a nearly 10,000 books to 941 saplings were planted in the total of 7 million books have schools and public libraries. T.R.N.C. been given away in 6 years. One Million Books, One Million Children In 2013 İşbank also pressed ahead with the following efforts in the area of education: İşbank launched one of the largest book campaigns ever under • Firefly Mobile Education Unit in cooperation with the the title, “One Million Books, One Million Children”, towards Educational Volunteers Foundation of Turkey (TEGV) the end of the 2007-2008 academic year, for the following • Traditional Golden Youth awards purposes: • Education grant to earthquake-victim students • to contribute to the development of the cognitive and cultural talents of children, THE ENVIRONMENT • to support the creation of a reading and questioning generation, and “81 Forests in 81 Cities” Project • to introduce the Bank to children at an early age and to foster To protect the environment and raise environmental awareness the establishment of a warm relationship. among society and, particularly, among children, İşbank launched the “81 Forests in 81 Cities” project by the end of Under the campaign, one million primary school pupils who 2008. Within the scope of the project, a total of 2,205,000 showed their school report to any İşbank branch in Turkey or saplings were planted on a total area of 1,500 hectares in all the T.R.N.C. could claim a free copy of the book specifically cities. In 2013, the Bank continued its work on the care and designated for that year. maintenance of the planted saplings, in a process which will last for a period of 5 years. A total of 7 million books have been handed out to primary school pupils during the course of this 6-year campaign In line with the “81 Forests in 81 Cities” project conducted in between 2008 and 2013. Turkey, the “Türkiye İş Bankası T.R.N.C. Forest” was established in cooperation between the TEMA Foundation and the T.R.N.C. İşbank’s “One Million Books, One Million Children” campaign Forestry Directorate. With its location identified by the T.R.N.C. was deemed worthy of the Bronze Award in the “Corporate Forestry Directorate, a total of 35,200 saplings were planted on Social Responsibility Program of the Year in Europe” in 2013 an area of 22 hectares in the “Türkiye İş Bankası T.R.N.C. Forest”. at the International Stevie Awards, one of the most respected business awards in the world. Book donations to schools and libraries As an extension of its social responsibility initiatives seeking to contribute to education, İşbank continues to send the books published by the İş Bankası Kültür Yayınları publishing house to schools and public libraries throughout the country. During 2013, İşbank sent nearly 10,000 books to 941 schools and public libraries. İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 www.isbank.com.tr 91 For the Society With its publications released under 13 separate headings, Kültür Yayınları offered more than 2 million books to its readers during 2013. 1956 ART AND CULTURE İş Bankası Kültür Yayınları İş Bankası Kültür Yayınları is a publishing house that was established in 1956 by Hasan Âli Yücel, İş Bankası Kültür Yayınları is a publishing house that was a former Minister of Education. established in 1956 by Hasan Âli Yücel, a former Minister of Education. Having gained itself a private place in Turkey’s cultural life since then, İş Bankası Kültür Yayınları has been providing Turkish readers with a steady stream of publications that are both rich in content and superior in quality. Attracting widespread interest with its publications İş Bankası Kültür Yayınları is an indispensable publishing house especially for researchers and intellectuals. İş Bankası Kültür Yayınları offered more than 2 million books to the readers during 2013. İş Bankası Kültür Yayınları releases its publications under 13 separate headings: • Hasan Âli Yücel Classics • History and Memoirs • Modern Classics • Books for Children and Young Adults • Examples of Turkish and World Literature • Biographical Interviews (Nehir Interviews) • “99 Sayfada” (99-Pages) Article Series • Life & Culture • Chess • The Arts • Economics, Business Administration and Personal Development • Researches and Analyses • Social Sciences and Humanities 92 www.isbank.com.tr İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 In brief Having celebrated its 13th İş Sanat has hosted more than The Türkiye İş Bankası anniversary, İş Sanat held 500,000 art-lovers in nearly Museum attracted about 39 concerts, eight children’s 800 events in 13 seasons. 65,000 visitors during 2013. events and five poetry recitals in 2013. İş Sanat Concert Hall Türkiye İş Bankası Müzesi (İşbank Museum) İş Sanat operates based on its mission to carry Turkey’s art life Opened in November 2007, the İşbank Museum is a museum of into the future. Concerts held at İş Sanat are deemed as one of corporate history dedicated to the mission of securely housing the most prestigious events in İstanbul. Having hosted more and protecting documents, banking equipment, communication than 500,000 art-lovers in nearly 800 events in 13 seasons, İş devices, photographs, pictures, advertisements, promotional Sanat is the only concert hall in Turkey and the world to receive materials and films which bear witness both to the Bank’s own full financial support from a bank as its sole owner. history, and also to the economic development of Turkey, and of ensuring that these assets are passed on to future generations. Having celebrated its 13th anniversary last season, İş Sanat held 39 concerts, 8 children’s events and 5 poetry readings. The The painstaking efforts that preceded the opening of the events of the 12th season were attended by a total of 35,258 Museum included the collecting of not just documents, people. photographs, films and objects but also the cherished recollections of those who had been involved in events. İş Sanat Concert Hall inaugurated its 14th season on November Gathered from all over the country, such materials and 2nd, 2013 with a concert by Özgür Aydın, a renowned young testimonies were documented, restored where necessary and pianist in Turkey, and the Borusan İstanbul Philharmonic preserved for the future. Orchestra, a leading symphonic group in the country. Workshops are organized in the museum to provide children with an education on financial awareness. In 2013, the Museum continued to hold “Budget Thrift and Saving Workshops” for primary school pupils. More than 3,000 pupils participated in such workshops. The Museum also offers financial awareness training to university students, excluding those in the economy and business faculties. The Museum attracted 65,000 visitors during 2013, bringing the total number of visitors to the Museum to over 350,000 since its inception. İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 www.isbank.com.tr 93 For the Society The İş Sanat Kibele (İstanbul) and İzmir Art Galleries exhibit the paintings, sculptures and ceramics created not just by established masters but also by promising newcomers on the art scene. İş Sanat Galleries The İş Sanat Kibele (Istanbul) and İzmir Art Galleries exhibit the paintings, sculptures and ceramics created not just by established masters but also by promising newcomers on the art scene. The works of the artists put on display at the Bank’s galleries are included in the collection, which is thus expanded further. The collection aims to ensure that masters of the Turkish plastic arts are memorialized. In 2012-2013 season, the İş Sanat Kibele Gallery hosted retrospective exhibitions of the following artists: Neşet Günal, Zahit Büyükişliyen, Hüsamettin Koçan and Naile Akıncı. The Kibele Art Gallery opened the 2013-2014 season with the retrospective exhibition of Eşref Üren, a master of light and color. In the 2012-2013 season, the İzmir Art Gallery mounted seven exhibitions in which a large number of paintings, prints and ceramics were displayed. The gallery’s exhibits, which attracted tremendous interest, included the Zahit Büyükişliyen exhibition, which was brought to İzmir after having been exhibited in the Kibele Art Gallery. The Izmir Gallery opened the 2013-2014 season with the group exhibition of the Tower Group B. The İş Sanat İzmir Art Gallery organized workshops for primary school pupils in 2013, as it had in the previous year. Seeking to familiarize children with art and artistic expressions, and to foster an appreciation of art in the younger generation, workshops will also be carried out in the year ahead. 94 www.isbank.com.tr İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 In brief The artifacts obtained in İşbank has become a sponsor Within the scope of the the excavations that began of the House of Muses 41st Istanbul Music Festival, in 1987 in the ancient city excavation in the ancient city İşbank was the sponsor of the of Zeugma have been put of Zeugma for five years since “Amsterdam Sinfonietta & Sol on display in the Open Air 2012. Gabetta” concert performed Museum. on June 25th, 2013. Mimar Sinan Fine Arts University Laboratory of Identified in 2007, House of Muses is one of the excavation Conservation and Restoration of Art Works Project sites each of which is an individual project in the ancient city of Zeugma. It has been considered that the digging to be After having been established in the Mimar Sinan Fine Arts undertaken in the ancient city will contribute largely to the University (MSGSU), the Laboratory of Conservation and preservation of our country’s cultural heritage, and İşbank will Restoration of Art Works immediately launched efforts for sponsor the House of Muses excavation for five years beginning the care and maintenance of art works in İşbank’s collection. since 2012. In addition, the Conservation and Restoration of Art Works undergraduate program started education with 10 students in İstanbul Foundation for International İstanbul Music 2013. Festival Sponsorship of the House of Muses Digging in the Ancient As a trustee, İşbank has been supporting and sponsoring City of Zeugma projects of the İstanbul Foundation for Art and Culture, which has been setting the cultural and artistic agenda of Turkey with The excavation of the ancient city of Zeugma that started its international film, theater, jazz, and classical music festivals, in 1987 is nearing completion. The remains are situated on and the İstanbul Biennial since its debut. the banks of Birecik Reservoir in the southeastern province of Gaziantep’s Nizip district, and represent one of Turkey’s The 41st İstanbul Music Festival took place between June important historic and cultural venues. The artifacts obtained 4th-29th, 2013 and İşbank was the sponsor of the “Amsterdam from the excavations have been put on display at the Zeugma Sinfonietta&Sol Gabetta” concert performed on June 25th, 2013 Open Air Museum. at the Hagia Eirene Museum. İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 www.isbank.com.tr 95 For the Society Highlights from İşbank’s Contributions to the Society Since 1924 İşbank’s contribution to the society began in 1924 that marked 1953 İclal Rıza Ersin became Turkey’s first woman bank its incorporation. Put together by referring to the visuals in our manager, who was appointed to İşbank Nişantaşı archives as well, İşbank’s social responsibility milestones are Branch. presented below. 1956 İş Bankası Kültür Yayınları publishing house was established. 1924 Karagöz Gazetesi Komandit Şti., a newspaper 1965 The first edition of İş Dergisi (İş Magazine), which limited company, became a subsidiary of İşbank. is the Bank’s internal publication that is still being published, was printed. 1928 First moneyboxes were started to be distributed. 1969 Turkey’s first underwater color film was shot 1929 In response to the Hilal-i Ahmer (the former with the support of İşbank. Giving an account of name of the Turkish Red Crescent) Society’s the lives of spongers and directed by Behlül Dal, request, the Bank donated 5,000 liras and the the film Vurgun (Depth Intoxication) had Nevin Bank’s employees were encouraged to become Bıyıkoğlu as screenwriter. members of the society. 1971 Top 10 scorers in the university admission exams 500 liras were granted to Türk Maarif Cemiyeti were given TL 5,000 prize money. After 1976, (the former name of the Education Association of the award program was transformed into the Turkey TED) as financial aid. project that awards students in the number that 1930 The Bank disbursed 2,000 liras to Milli Tasarruf is equal to İşbank’s current age, and was named Cemiyeti (National Thrift Association), 1,000 liras “Golden Youth”. to the Darüşşafaka in line with the request of the 1973 On the occasion of the 50th anniversary of the Cemiyeti Tedrisiyei İslamiye (Islamic Education Turkish Republic, the film Atatürk’ten Anılar Society), 400 liras to Himaye-i Etfal Cemiyeti (Memories from Atatürk) was overhauled and (Society for the Protection of Children), and screened in and out of Turkey. 2,000 liras to the Milli Tasarruf Cemiyeti (National Thrift Society) as grants-in-aid. An exhibition titled the “50th Anniversary of the Republic” was opened at Zafer Çarşısı in Ankara 1931 500 liras were granted to Darüşşafaka as on occasion of the 50th anniversary of the financial aid. Turkish Republic. İş Kumbarası (İş Moneybox) children’s magazine 1974 Travelling exhibitions were launched under the started to be published. title Anatolian Exhibitions. 1932 150 liras were donated to Darüşşafaka. 1978 Travelling exhibitions were launched under the 1933 Ankara Cinema became a subsidiary of İş Ltd. title Anatolian Exhibitions. 1934 200 TL was granted as financial aid to Himaye-i The Bank commissioned the production of Etfal Cemiyeti (Society for the Protection of movies for children, which were screened in Children). various cities. 1938 The Bank acquired the painting “Magnolias” by İş Sanat İzmir Art Gallery was opened. İbrahim Çallı. 1979 Gratuitous educational grants were provided to Scholarships were granted to five students at 1,000 primary school, 1,000 secondary school İstanbul University. and 1,000 high school students on occasion of the International Year of the Child, who were 1939 Donation was made to the Impoverished Student identified through a lot drawing carried out in the Dormitory in Edirne. presence of a notary public. The education expenses of 83 students at İş Bankası Kültür Yayınları was commissioned Darüşşafaka were covered after the Erzincan to publish Keloğlan Masalları fairy tale book for earthquake. distribution to village schools free-of-charge and were sent to branches. 96 www.isbank.com.tr İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 1981 Sivas Student Dormitory was opened. 2010 The exhibition “Grand Bazaar in 10 Steps” was mounted at the İşbank Museum. Sivas Cumhuriyet University Sivas Student Dormitory was opened. The Moneybox Magazine started to be republished. 1999 Educational grants were started to be provided to students who suffered losses in the Marmara The cooperation established with the Mimar Earthquake. Sinan Fine Arts University for the establishment of Turkey’s first Painting Conservation and 2000 İş Sanat was established. Restoration Laboratory was publicly announced. Sakarya University İşbank Student Dormitory was 2011 “Writing History in Glass since 1935” was opened opened. at the İşbank Museum. 2001 İş Sanat Kibele Gallery opened its doors with the 2012 A student dormitory accommodating 300 Ayvazovsky exhibition. students was built at the 100. Yıl University after One of the Firefly Mobile Education Units of TEGV the Van Earthquake. (Educational Volunteers Foundation of Turkey) The Fine Arts Conservation and Restoration began offering service with the sponsorship of Laboratory set up in cooperation with the MSGSU İşbank. was opened. 2005 The Bank became the main sponsor of the The “House of Muses” excavation in the Ancient Turkish Chess Federation. City of Zeugma was sponsored. 2007 Türkiye İş Bankası Müzesi (İşbank Museum) was 2013 Set up at the Mimar Sinan Fine Arts University opened. (MSGSU), the Laboratory of Conservation and Kocaeli University Faculty of Medicine Restoration of Art Works immediately launched Morphology Building was opened for service with its efforts for the care and maintenance of the art the support of İşbank. works in İşbank's collection. 2008 “One Million Books, One Million Children” In line with the 81 Forests in 81 Cities project campaign was launched. conducted in Turkey, the Türkiye İş Bankası An exhibition titled “The Story of a Moneybox” Forest was founded in T.R.N.C. was put on display in the İşbank Museum. İşbank signed a main sponsorship agreement The social responsibility project “81 Students with the T.R.N.C. Chess Federation. from 81 Cities” was initiated. The social responsibility project “81 Forests in 81 Cities” was commenced. 2009 The exhibition “Atatürk and the Republic in Pictures Building a Nation (1923-1938)” was opened in the İşbank Museum. The exhibition was later also put on display at Van Yüzüncü Yıl University. Leyla Gencer Children and Youth Unit was opened with the sponsorship of İşbank, where the State Opera and Ballet would stage plays for 2,000 children every week. İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 www.isbank.com.tr 97 İşbank’s Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Aynur Dülger Ataklı Aysel Tacer Yalçın Sezen Board Member Board Member Deputy Chief Executive Born in 1958 in Ankara, Aynur Dülger Ataklı Born in 1959 in Siverek/Şanlıurfa, Aysel Born in 1965 in İzmir, Yalçın Sezen graduated with a degree in economics Tacer graduated with a degree in business completed a degree in public and finance from the Faculty of Political administration from the Faculty of administration from the Faculty of Sciences at Ankara University. She began Economics and Administrative Sciences Economics and Administrative Sciences her professional career in 1979 as a at Marmara University. She began her at the Middle East Technical University. research assistant in the Faculty of Political career as a clerk at İşbank’s Taksim Branch He joined İşbank in 1987 as an assistant Sciences at Ankara University. Aynur Ataklı in 1980. Aysel Tacer was elected as a inspector trainee on the Board of was elected to İşbank’s Board of Directors member to İşbank’s Board of Directors Inspectors. Yalçın Sezen was appointed on March 31st, 2011 and elected as member on March 31st, 2011, as a member to the as a Deputy Chief Executive on April 13th, of the Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility Committee 2011. Committee on April 1st, 2011. on April 1st, 2011, and as an alternate member of the Credit Committee on May 30th, 2011. Senar Akkuş Suat E. Sözen Deputy Chief Executive Head of the Corporate Communications Division Born in 1969 in Diyarbakır, Senar Akkuş graduated with a degree in economics Born in 1970 in Kars, Suat E. Sözen from the Faculty of Economics and graduated with a degree in economics Administrative Sciences at the Middle East from the Faculty of Economics and Technical University. She joined İşbank Administrative Sciences at the Gazi as an assistant specialist at the Treasury University. He joined İşbank in 1991 Department in 1991. Ms. Akkuş was as an assistant training specialist appointed as a Deputy Chief Executive on trainee in the Training Division. Suat E. April 13th, 2011. Sözen was appointed to the Corporate Communications Division on January 31st, 2008. 98 www.isbank.com.tr İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2013 Section Covering Page Principle İşbank’s Approach Additional Disclosures No Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should İşbank constantly observes full compliance with the UN Universal support and respect the Declaration of Human Rights, as well as other national and international For our Employees 64-73 protection of internationally norms regulating human rights, and puts necessary actions into life. proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in İşbank supports the protection of human rights in the business world. For our Employees 64-73 human rights abuses. Labour İşbank recognizes its employees’ right to association and right to Principle 3: Businesses collective bargaining, and is a role model in this respect in the Turkish should uphold the freedom of business world. association and the effective For our Employees 64-73 recognition of the right to 24,034 employees are covered under the agreement as of the date of collective bargaining; this writing. The union the employees belong to called as Basisen. Equal opportunities and diversity are two of the building stones of İşbank’s human resource policy. Providing equal opportunities to all of its employees comes foremost among İşbank’s fundamental responsibilities towards its employees. Valuing diversity in its workforce, İşbank perceives diversity as a key component of its intellectual capital. This standpoint Principle 4: the elimination enables the permanence and development of a contemporary working of all forms of forced and For our Employees 64-73 environment that is conducive to think differently, act differently, compulsory labour innovation and improving individual competencies. On another hand, the Bank is strictly against: • discrimination in all of its forms, • all forms of compulsory and forced worker and child labor within the frame of its human resources policy. Principle 5: the effective İşbank is against child labor and supports all initiatives taken to this end For our Employees 64-73 abolition of child labour; and in the business world. Principle 6: the elimination of İşbank is against discrimination in recruitment and employment discrimination in respect of processes, and supports all initiatives taken to this end in the business For our Employees 64-73 employment and occupation. world. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary İşbank intensively carries out efforts interactively with its stakeholders For our Earth 74-83 approach to environmental involved in the environment. challenges; Principle 8: undertake İşbank supports numerous activities and formations in keeping with For our Customers 38-63 initiatives to promote greater its goal of increasing environmental responsibility and awareness of environmental responsibility; environmental issues in our country. For our Earth 74-83 and Principle 9: encourage the İşbank supports the development and dissemination of environmentdevelopment and diffusion friendly technologies, by way of transferring funds and extending For our Customers 38-63 of environmentally friendly support through banking products to various industries with a particular technologies. focus on renewable energy and energy efficiency. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should For our Customers 38-63 work against corruption in all İşbank extends full, correct and effective support to the combat against its forms, including extortion corruption and to prevention of financing of terror within the framework Corporate Governance at 32-34 and bribery. of applicable legislation and the Bank’s policies. İşbank İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 www.isbank.com.tr 99 About This Report This is the 2nd Sustainability Report published by İşbank. The reporting process and determination of the report content are carried out based on the: This report is intended to provide our stakeholders with • “AA1000 APS Standard”, a widely-recognized standard transparent, accurate and comparable information regarding developed by Account Ability, and grounded on the principles İşbank’s activities and performance results, within the of “comprehensiveness, prioritization and accountability” and framework of sustainability and corporate social responsibility. • “GRI Sustainability Reporting Principles” The report is also aimed at displaying the economic and social implications of our activities. The report content was prepared by taking into account the topics that are essential and preferential in terms of This second Sustainability Report released by İşbank covers the the İşbank’s strategy, as well as stakeholder reviews and period January 1st December 31st, unless otherwise stated. The recommendations gathered through various forms and report is published annually and the Bank aims to release the channels of communication. Please refer to the section, next report in March 2015. “İşbank’s Stakeholders”, page 26-27. Various sections of the report include preand/or postStatement of Compliance with GRI Guidelines reporting period data and/or information for the purpose of: This report has been prepared in accordance with the G3 Global • establishing relevant trends, Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines version 3.1 İşbank self• communicating developments and progress in relation to the declares its corporate disclosure process to GRI Application headings addressed, Level B. • bringing forth the permanence of İşbank’s performance. The report’s GRI approval process is still under way. When The data herein will provide a benchmark for the sustainability completed, the updated version of the report will be published reports to be released by İşbank in the future. on the Bank’s corporate website. Report content UN Global Compact Communication on Progress The content of this report is limited to the activities and This report also represents the annual Communication on operations of İşbank, and excludes the Bank’s subsidiaries. Progress 2013 within the scope of the UN Global Compact, which İşbank is a signatory of. The UN Global Compact The financial data set forth in the section, İşbank in Numbers Communication on Progress 2013 is provided on page 99 in (page 16-17), and financial data for the reporting period reflect this report to ensure the follow-up of disclosures made by İşbank’s consolidated figures as of December 31st, 2013. the Bank in the context of the primary elements of the Global Compact, including labor force, human rights, anti-fraud, the Method for defining the report content environment, and the associated ten principles. This report tackled, as a matter of priority, the topics identified as a result of interviews with İşbank’s senior and middle Publication of the report managers and of working meetings, as well as the feedback The İşbank Sustainability Report has been published in Turkish from stakeholders. Findings from the day-to-day operations of and English. The report’s electronic version is accessible on the the Bank’s different units also served as a valuable database for Bank’s website at www.isbank.com.tr. this study. 100 www.isbank.com.tr İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 GRI ALC Statement İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 www.isbank.com.tr 101 G3.1 Content Index STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile Disclosures 1. Strategy and Analysis Profile Level of Disclosure Location of disclosure Disclosure Reporting Statement from the most senior decision1.1 Fully CEO’s Message, page 6 maker of the organization. Description of key impacts, risks, and 1.2 Fully Chairman’s Message, page 2, CEO’s Message, page 6 opportunities. 2. Organizational Profile Profile Level of Disclosure Location of disclosure Disclosure Reporting 2.1 Name of the organization. Fully Türkiye İş Bankası A.Ş. Who We Are?, page 12 to 21 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Fully Also see http://www.isbank.com.tr/English/ Operational structure of the organization, Corporate Profile, page 14, 15 2.3 including main divisions, operating companies, Fully İşbank and Its Subsidiaries, page 20, 21 subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. Fully İş Kuleleri 34330 Levent/İstanbul, Turkey Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either İş Bankası operates in Turkey. The Bank has also 20 overseas branches and 2 banking 2.5 major operations or that are specifically Fully subsidiaries abroad. For a complete country list please refer to page 18-19. This report relevant to the sustainability issues covered in covers the sustainability issues regarding the Bank’s operations in Turkey. the report. İş Bankası is incorporated under the laws of the Turkish Republic. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Fully Ownership structure (31.12.2013): 40.2% İşbank Personnel Supplementary Pension Fund; 31.7% free float; 28.1% Atatürk’s shares (Republican People’s Party). Markets served (including geographic 2.7 breakdown, sectors served, and types of Fully Please see page 14-15, 20-21. customers/beneficiaries). Corporate Profile, page 14, 15 Also see our 2013 Annual Report on http://www.isbank.com.tr/English/content/EN/ 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. Fully Investor_Relations/Publications_and_Results/Annual_Reports-400-548.aspx As of year end 2013, the number of the Bank’s employees was 24,129. At the same period İşbank booked a net profit of TL 3,163 million. Significant changes during the reporting period 2.9 Fully There has not been any significant change during the reporting period. regarding size, structure, or ownership. For selected awards received during the reporting period please see 2013 Annual 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Fully Report page 35, 47, 50 and 74 on http://www.isbank.com.tr/English/content/EN/ Investor_Relations/Publications_and_Results/Annual_Reports-400-548.aspx 3. Report Parameters Profile Level of Disclosure Location of disclosure Disclosure Reporting Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for 3.1 Fully 2013 information provided. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Fully 2012 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Fully Annual Contact point for questions regarding the For inquires related to our sustainability report please contact with kurumsal.iletisim@ 3.4 Fully report or its contents. isbank.com.tr 102 www.isbank.com.tr İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 İşbank used Tayburn’s consultancy services to undertake the Materiality Analysis which was based on GRI’s Guidance on Defining Report Content. All information collected throughout the reporting period, through various communication channels (see page 26-27) were analyzed, and issues material to the Bank and its stakeholders were determined in close collaboration with İşbank’s Corporate Communications Division. The main sustainability issues have been gathered under the following main challenges: 3.5 Process for defining report content. Fully • Sound corporate governance • Customers (Responsible products and services) • Our people • Earth (Eco-efficient processes and operations) • Corporate citizenship İşbank categorizes its many sustainability challenges under these headings, which also serve to structure this report. Findings of the analysis and the draft report are provided to İşbank senior management for their evaluation and their feed-backs are obtained. Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, The contents of this report are limited to İşbank’s own activities and do not cover the 3.6 Fully joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary Bank’s subsidiaries and branches outside Turkey. Protocol for further guidance. State any specific limitations on the scope or 3.7 boundary of the report (see completeness Fully Please see GRI Index, Report Parameters, 3.6 principle for explanation of scope). Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced 3.8 operations, and other entities that can Fully This report does not cover the Bank’s subsidiaries. significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and İşbank utilizes a variety of internal standards, data collection models and systems, as techniques underlying estimations applied to well as a rigorous internal and external audit process. The Bank conforms to external 3.9 the compilation of the Indicators and other Fully data reporting standards, and complies with legal requirements currently in force in information in the report. Explain any decisions Turkey. not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g. 3.10 Fully Provided primarily as footnotes to individual charts where data changed. mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/ periods, nature of business, measurement methods). Significant changes from previous 3.11 reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or Fully There has not been any change during the reporting period. measurement methods applied in the report. Table identifying the location of the Standard 3.12 Fully GRI 3.1 Content Index, page 102 Disclosures in the report. Consultancy, content development, copywriting services in accordance with GRI 3.1 Reporting Guidelines were provided by Tayburn, Istanbul. Selected economic Policy and current practice with regard to performance indicators were independently audited by KPMG. 3.13 Partially seeking external assurance for the report. For full details please see İşbank’s 2013 Annual Report on http://www.isbank.com. tr/English/content/EN/Investor_Relations/Publications_and_Results/Annual_ Reports-400-548.aspx 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Profile Level of Disclosure Location of disclosure Disclosure Reporting Governance structure of the organization, Corporate Governance at İşbank, page 32-34 including committees under the highest For full details please see İşbank’s 2013 Annual Report on http://www.isbank.com. 4.1 governance body responsible for specific tasks, Fully tr/English/content/EN/Investor_Relations/Publications_and_Results/Annual_ such as setting strategy or organizational Reports-400-548.aspx oversight. Indicate whether the Chair of the highest 4.2 Fully The Chair of the highest governance body is not also an executive officer. governance body is also an executive officer. İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 www.isbank.com.tr 103 Mr Hüseyin Yalçın was appointed an independent board member by the General Assembly of shareholders on 29 March 2013. For the minutes of the General Assembly see http://www.isbank.com.tr/English/ For organizations that have a unitary board content/En/Investor_Relations/News_on_Isbank/Disclosures_to_ISE/Detail/Cash_ structure, state the number and gender of Dividend_Distribution-713-3294.aspx. 4.3 members of the highest governance body Fully On the other hand, as per CMB regulations banks’ audit committee members (Ms that are independent and/or non-executive Tümsavaş and Mr Taşkent) are treated as independent board members. members. Corporate Governance at İşbank, page 32-34 For full details please see page 86 of İşbank’s 2013 Annual Report on http://www. isbank.com.tr/English/content/EN/Investor_Relations/Publications_and_Results/ Annual_Reports-400-548.aspx Mechanisms for shareholders and employees For full details please see İşbank’s 2013 Annual Report, page 84 and 85 on http://www. 4.4 to provide recommendations or direction to Fully isbank.com.tr/English/content/EN/Investor_Relations/Publications_and_Results/ the highest governance body. Annual_Reports-400-548.aspx Corporate Governance at İşbank, page 32-34 Linkage between compensation for members For Dividend Distribution Policy please see http://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/aboutof the highest governance body, senior isbank/investor-relations/corporate-governance/dividend-distribution-policy/ managers, and executives (including departure Documents/dividendpolicy%20(1).pdf 4.5 Fully arrangements), and the organization’s performance (including social and For further details also see İşbank’s 2013 Annual Report page 81 on http://www.isbank. environmental performance). com.tr/English/content/EN/Investor_Relations/Publications_and_Results/Annual_ Reports-400-548.aspx Corporate Governance at İşbank, page 32-34 For details please see İşbank’s 2013 Annual Report page 86 on http://www.isbank. Processes in place for the highest governance com.tr/English/content/EN/Investor_Relations/Publications_and_Results/Annual_ 4.6 body to ensure conflicts of interest are Fully Reports-400-548.aspx avoided. Also see İşbank’s Articles of Incorporation at http://www.isbank.com.tr/userfiles/Pdf/ Isbank_Articles_of_Incorporation.pdf Process for determining the composition, Corporate Governance at İşbank, page 32-34 qualifications, and expertise of the members For full details please see İşbank’s 2013 Annual Report page 71-73 and 86-88 on 4.7 of the highest governance body and its Fully http://www.isbank.com.tr/English/content/EN/Investor_Relations/Publications_and_ committees, including any consideration of Results/Annual_Reports-400-548.aspx gender and other indicators of diversity. Who We Are?, page 12-13 Corporate Governance at İşbank, page 32-34 Internally developed statements of mission For full details please see İşbank’s 2013 Annual Report page 6, 7, 85 on http://www. or values, codes of conduct, and principles isbank.com.tr/English/content/EN/Investor_Relations/Publications_and_Results/ 4.8 relevant to economic, environmental, and Fully Annual_Reports-400-548.aspx social performance and the status of their implementation. Please also see http://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/investor-relations/ corporate-governance/ethical-principles/Documents/BankingEthics.pdf Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification Corporate Governance at İşbank, page 32-34 and management of economic, environmental, For full details please see İşbank’s 2013 Annual Report on http://www.isbank.com. 4.9 and social performance, including relevant Fully tr/English/content/EN/Investor_Relations/Publications_and_Results/Annual_ risks and opportunities, and adherence or Reports-400-548.aspx compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. This is one of the duties of the İşbank Corporate Governance Committee which was Processes for evaluating the highest formed at the beginning of 2013. governance body’s own performance, 4.10 Fully For full details please see İşbank’s 2013 Annual Report page 72, 73 and 88 on http:// particularly with respect to economic, www.isbank.com.tr/English/content/EN/Investor_Relations/Publications_and_ environmental, and social performance. Results/Annual_Reports-400-548.aspx Explanation of whether and how the İşbank supports the precautionary principle under the UN Global Compact. Consistent 4.11 precautionary approach or principle is Fully with that principle, the Bank advocates a risk-based approach to its operations through addressed by the organization. its comprehensive management systems. Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, 4.12 Fully Stakeholders of İşbank, page 26-29 or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. 104 www.isbank.com.tr İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/ international advocacy organizations in which the organization: * Has positions in 4.13 Fully Stakeholders of İşbank, page 26-29 governance bodies; * Participates in projects or committees; * Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or * Views membership as strategic. List of stakeholder groups engaged by the 4.14 Fully Stakeholders of İşbank, page 26-27 organization. Basis for identification and selection of 4.15 Fully Stakeholders of İşbank, page 26-27 stakeholders with whom to engage. With teams across İşbank dedicated to maintaining relationships, we interact with Approaches to stakeholder engagement, several stakeholder groups on a daily/weekly/quarterly etc. basis, responding to the 4.16 including frequency of engagement by type Fully issues and concerns brought to our attention. and by stakeholder group. Please also see Stakeholders of İşbank, page 26-29 Key topics and concerns that have been raised The major topics identified in 2013 are detailed in the following sections: through stakeholder engagement, and how For Our Customers, page 38-63 4.17 the organization has responded to those key Fully For Our Employees, page 64-73 topics and concerns, including through its For Our Earth, page 74-83 reporting. For the Society, page 84-97 STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART II: Disclosures on Management Approach (DMAs) Level of G3.1 DMAs Disclosure Location of disclosure Reporting DMA EC Disclosure on Management Approach EC Economic performance Fully İşbank in Numbers, page 16-17 Aspects Market presence Fully Corporate Profile, page 14-15 Indirect economic impacts Fully For Our Customers, page 38-63 DMA EN Disclosure on Management Approach EN Materials Fully For Our Earth, page 74-83 Energy Fully For Our Earth, page 74-83 Water Fully For Our Earth, page 74-83 Biodiversity Fully For Our Earth, page 74-83 Aspects Emissions, effluents and waste Fully For Our Earth, page 74-83 Products and services Fully For Our Earth, page 74-83 Compliance Fully Corporate Governance at İşbank, page 32-34 Transport Fully For Our Earth, page 74-83 Overall Fully For Our Earth, page 74-83 DMA LA Disclosure on Management Approach LA Employment Fully For Our Employees, page 64-73 Labor/management relations Fully For Our Employees, page 64-73 Occupational health and safety Fully For Our Employees, page 64-73 Aspects Training and education Fully Training Activities at İşbank, page 71-72 Diversity and equal opportunity Fully For Our Employees, page 64-73 Equal remuneration for women and men Fully For Our Employees, page 64-73 DMA HR Disclosure on Management Approach HR Investment and procurement practices Fully For Our Employees, page 64-73 Non-discrimination Fully For Our Employees, page 64-73 Freedom of association and collective Fully For Our Employees, page 64-73 bargaining Child labor Fully For Our Employees, page 64-73 Aspects Prevention of forced and compulsory labor Fully For Our Employees, page 64-73 Security practices Fully For Our Employees, page 64-73 Indigenous rights Fully For Our Employees, page 64-73 Assessment Fully For Our Employees, page 64-73 Remediation Fully For Our Employees, page 64-73 DMA SO Disclosure on Management Approach SO İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 www.isbank.com.tr 105 Local communities Not Not applicable Corruption Fully Corporate Governance at İşbank, page 32-34 Aspects Public policy Fully Corporate Governance at İşbank, page 32-34 Anti-competitive behavior Fully Corporate Governance at İşbank, page 32-34 Compliance Fully Corporate Governance at İşbank, page 32-34 DMA PR Disclosure on Management Approach PR Customer health and safety Not Not applicable Product and service labelling Not Not applicable Aspects Marketing communications Fully Corporate Governance at İşbank, page 32-34 Customer privacy Fully Corporate Governance at İşbank, page 32-34 Compliance Fully Corporate Governance at İşbank, page 32-34 STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance Indicators Economic Level of Indicator Disclosure Location of disclosure Reporting Economic performance Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations EC1 Fully İşbank in Numbers, page 16-17 and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. Financial implications and other risks and EC2 opportunities for the organization’s activities Fully For Our Earth, page 74-83 due to climate change. Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit EC3 Fully For Our Earth, page 74-83 plan obligations. Significant financial assistance received from EC4 Fully İşbank does not receive any type of financial assistance or aid from the government. government. Market presence Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the İşbank’s employees are hired from the local population. The management at İşbank, EC7 Fully local community at significant locations of including the CEO, assistant general managers, and managers is Turkish. operation. Indirect economic impacts Development and impact of infrastructure İşbank engages in many initiatives aimed not only at contributing financial education investments and services provided primarily EC8 Fully and providing knowledge transfer but also at creating social value. for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, For Our Customers, page 38-63 or pro bono engagement. Environmental Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Fully For Our Earth, page 74-83 Energy Direct energy consumption by primary energy EN3 Fully For Our Earth, page 74-83 source. Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products For Our Earth, page 74-83 EN6 Fully and services, and reductions in energy For Our Customers, page 38-63 requirements as a result of these initiatives. Initiatives to reduce indirect energy EN7 Fully For Our Earth, page 74-83 consumption and reductions achieved. Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Fully For Our Earth, page 79 106 www.isbank.com.tr İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 Level of Indicator Disclosure Location of disclosure Reporting Biodiversity Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas EN11 Fully İşbank not own or lease facilities in environmentally sensitive habitats. and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. Description of significant impacts of activities, Through the 81 Forests in 81 Cities program, 2,205,000 saplings have been planted on products, and services on biodiversity in EN12 Fully a total area of 1,500 hectares over the course of 5 years. protected areas and areas of high biodiversity Please see For the Society, page 84-97. value outside protected areas. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Fully Please see GRI Index, EN12 Emissions, effluents and waste Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas EN16 Fully For Our Earth, page 74-83 emissions by weight. Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for There have been no incidents of environmental fines or non-compliance during the EN28 Fully non-compliance with environmental laws and reporting period. regulations. Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work Employment Total workforce by employment type, LA1 employment contract, and region, broken Fully For Our Employees, page 64-73 down by gender. Labor/management relations İşbank has a long-established collective bargaining culture. 24,129 employees are covered under the agreement as of the end of year 2013. Employees are the members Percentage of employees covered by collective LA4 Fully of the Bank-Finance and Insurance Workers’ Union, BASISEN. The percentage of bargaining agreements. employees covered by collective bargaining agreements during the reporting period was 98.21% Occupational health and safety Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost In the reporting period, there were not any incidents of death or injury; and LA7 days, and absenteeism, and number of workFully occupational diseases. related fatalities by region and by gender. Training and education Average hours of training per year per LA10 employee by gender, and by employee Fully Training Activities at İşbank, page 71-72 category. Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued LA11 Fully Training Activities at İşbank, page 71-72 employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. Percentage of employees receiving regular In 2013; 21,774 employees were expected to have a performance review and 21,745 of LA12 performance and career development reviews, Fully them (49.76% males and 50.24% females) completed their reviews (99.87%). by gender. Diversity and equal opportunity Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee LA13 category according to gender, age group, Fully For Our Employees, page 64-73 minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 www.isbank.com.tr 107 Level of Indicator Disclosure Location of disclosure Reporting Social: Human Rights Non-discrimination Total number of incidents of discrimination HR4 Fully There were not any incidents of discrimination at İşbank during the reporting period. and actions taken. Freedom of association and collective bargaining Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of HR5 association and collective bargaining may be Fully There have been no incidents during 2013. violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. Child labor Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child HR6 Fully There have been no incidents during 2013. labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. Forced and compulsory labor Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of HR7 forced or compulsory labor, and measures to Fully There have been no incidents during 2013. contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. Anti-competitive behavior Total number of legal actions for antiFor full details please see İşbank’s 2013 Annual Report page 178 on http://www.isbank. SO7 competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly Fully com.tr/English/content/EN/Investor_Relations/Publications_and_Results/Annual_ practices and their outcomes. Reports-400-548.aspx Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total For full details please see İşbank’s 2013 Annual Report page 178 on http://www.isbank. SO8 number of non-monetary sanctions for nonFully com.tr/English/content/EN/Investor_Relations/Publications_and_Results/Annual_ compliance with laws and regulations. Reports-400-548.aspx Social: Product Responsibility Product and service labeling Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes PR4 Fully In the reporting period, there were not any complaints delivered to İşbank. concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. Marketing communications Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes PR7 concerning marketing communications, Fully In the reporting period, there were not any complaints delivered to İşbank. including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Customer privacy Total number of substantiated complaints PR8 regarding breaches of customer privacy and Fully In the reporting period, there were not any complaints delivered to İşbank. losses of customer data. Compliance Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations PR9 Fully In the reporting period, there were not any complaints delivered to İşbank. concerning the provision and use of products and services. 108 www.isbank.com.tr İşbank Sustainability Report 2013 Contact Türkiye İş Bankası A.Ş. Head Office İş Towers 34330 Levent/İstanbul-TURKEY Phone: (+90 212) 316 00 00 Fax: (+90 212) 316 04 04 Call Center: (+90850) 724 0 724 E-mail: 4440202@isbank.com.tr Consultancy services and production by Tayburn Tel: (90 212) 227 04 36 Printed on recycled paper. www.tayburnkurumsal.com www.isbank.com.tr
