Communication On Progress 2014 Communication On Progress 2014 CONTENTS 1. Our Organisation 2. Production activities 3. Corporate Mission 4. Our Certifications and voluntary adherence 5. Main awards and prizes received 6. Main activities carried out in 2013 The U.N. Global Compact’s 10 Principles 7. Principles on Human Rights 8. Principles on Labour 9. Principles on the Environment 10. Principles against Corruption Page 1 of 30 Communication On Progress 2014 CEO’s Declaration of Intent Dueville, 27 January 2014 Following our commitment stated in the letter dated This Communication on Progress describes the 15.05.2012, I am pleased to announce that Palladio practices implemented by Palladio Zannini to Zannini Industrie Grafiche Cartotecniche hereby comply with the principles promoted by the confirms its commitment to implementing the Global Global Compact and informs our stakeholders Compact’s 10 principles on human rights, labour about the results achieved in a fully transparent rights, environmental protection and the fight manner. against corruption. As CEO, I heartily thank you and I am honoured We are committed to maintaining the Global to pursue this path together with the Global Compact (and its principles) as an integral part of our Compact of the United Nations. business strategy and culture in all our business activities. These aactivities focus on the protection of Mauro Marchi natural and human resources and their sustainable Chief Executive Officer use. Page 2 of 30 Communication On Progress 2014 1. Our Organisation Palladio Zannini was set up in 1946. The Company has led to an expansion of its production activities manufactures and supplies paper‐ and/or printed to the following foreign sites: cardboard‐based secondary packaging to the ‐ Vršac (Serbia) Pharmaceutical and Cosmetics Industries. ‐ Tullamore (Ireland) It carries out its activities at its Italian plants The opportunity to enter the international market located in: has widened our horizons from a commercial viewpoint and this has contributed to our growth, ‐ Dueville ‐ Vicenza (the registered office) thanks to the contacts we enjoy with the surrounding communities and the foreign staff ‐ Thiene – Vicenza who work in our factories. The picture below shows the countries in which ‐ Pontedera – Pisa we operate. In this Communication on Progress when reference is made to Palladio Zannini, the The Company has grown over the years and this entire Group is meant. Page 3 of 30 Communication On Progress 2014 2. Production activities The purpose of the Group’s activities is Our production is project‐based, we follow substantially the same in the various sites and guidelines and technical specifications provided can be defined as ‘the design and production of by the customers. packaging for the pharmaceutical and cosmetics industry.’ . All production activities are carried out by means of technologically advanced machineries and Palladio Zannini is a paper and cardboard equipment with regards to safety, reduction of printing and packaging company that produces energy consumption and environmental packaging materials, and specifically: protection. ► folding cartons Production supporting activities can be classified ► blister packs as: ► folded, flat and glued reel leaflets ► booklets • Computerisation of management processes ► self‐adhesive labels and production planning ► bar‐code stickers • Supply of energy and natural resources ► over‐labeling on folding cartons • Procurement/storage and use of raw ► printing on aluminium and laminated materials, packaging materials and auxiliary materials. materials (chemicals, films, aluminium plates, etc.) • Maintaining equipment and facilities • Shipping and Delivery • Controlled management of waste produced by/at the sites (temporary storage and handling) • Administration and Sales Page 4 of 30 Communication On Progress 2014 3. Corporate Mission Building and maintaining ‐ in compliance with the laws and corporate ethics ‐ our competitive leadership in the market by creating innovation and value for both customers and other stakeholders . . In line with its mission, Palladio Zannini has always invested in technologies and advanced equipment, often developed before anybody else thanks to the close relationships established with its customers and suppliers. All this contributed and still contributes to provide a measurable added value in terms of logistics, productivity and lead‐time. • Training of staff. Page 5 of 30 Communication On Progress 2014 4. Our Certifications and voluntary adherence From the point of view of continuous improvement, Aalthough the foreign site Zannini Ireland has no Palladio Zannini has been using for a long time Environmental and Safety certifications, they Industrial Management Systems which comply with currently comply with the applicable binding the following standards: legislation in force and the purchasing of forest raw ‐ ISO 9001 materials is managed in accordance with the ‐ ISO 14001 Sustainable Forest Policy and pursuant to the shared ‐ OHSAS 18001. procedures and Vendor Lists. The Quality Management System was developed and is maintained taking into account the applicable GMP We wish to remind you of our commitment to ethics requirements too. and social responsibility. Recently the Organisation has also obtained the independent and voluntary certifications of For this, in addition our adherence to the UN Global traceability (Chain of Custody ‐ CoC) of the products Compact’s 10 principles, we want to mention: derived from FSC or PEFC certified forests. For this ‐ Our Code of Ethics reason, the Organisation is committed also to not ‐ Our Charter of Values being involved, directly or indirectly, in activities that ‐ Our adherence to the Charter of Principles for conflict with its quality, environment and safety Environmental Sustainability policies. In 2013 also the foreign plant Zanini East Our adherence to the initiatives supported by obtained the FSC and PEFC Chain of Custody Consorzio COMIECO. certifications. These are the certifications of the various sites at 31/12/2012: ‐ ISO 9001 and applicable GMP: all Sites ‐ FSC CoC: Italian sites and Serbian site ‐ PEFC CoC: Italian sites and Serbian site ‐ ISO 14001: Italian sites ‐ OHSAS 18001: Italian sites Page 6 of 30 Communication On Progress 2014 5. Main awards and prizes received in 2013 The several prizes and awards received over the years prove Palladio Zannini’s commitment to responsible management. In 2013 our Customer Johnson & Johnson awarded us with two major recognitions: Supplier Performance Excellence Award Sustainability Award in recognition of our commitment as a in recognition of the excellent supplier of excellence and our ability to environmental contribution as a supplier maintain the gold level for 4 consecutive years Page 7 of 30 Communication On Progress 2014 Honorary Citizenship On May 29, on the occasion St. Theodore’s day (patron of Vršac) ‐ the municipal feast‐ day ‐ the Assembly of the Municipality of Vršac, in a solemn session, conferred the honorary citizenship of the City of Vršac for the year 2013 to Mr. Mauro Marchi with the following reasons: For his outstanding contribution to the economic development and promotion of the economic potential of our City. Page 8 of 30 Communication On Progress 2014 6. Main activities carried out in 2013 Open recycling 2013 Lions Global Compact meeting For over 10 years Palladio Zannini has been In 2013 Palladio Zannini attended the Lions Multi‐ participating to the national initiative of District Conference on Global Compact organised by COMIECO paper supply chain (the Italian Lions Club International. Lions Club International is directly involved in the consortium for the recovery and recycling of promotion of the UNGC via an agreement signed at cellulose‐based packaging). The Company is in the United Nations and through its representation at fact aware of the relevance of this initiative and international organisations such as FAO. the importance of educating future generations to protect the environment. The conference was centred on the Global Compact with the aim to spread adherence to this instrument Each year our plants ‘open their doors’ for two that focuses on 10 principles relating to human days and welcome groups of children and adults rights, workers, environmental protection and the who are illustrated the recycling processes and fight against corruption. methods. At the meeting we talked about our participation in the Global Compact and our actions in favour of the environment, labour, and sustainability. Consistently with our tradition, over the years these actions had already contributed to define our Company a socially responsible concern. The Chairman of the Global Compact Network Italy, Marco Frey, attended the meeting too and highlighted the important prizes awarded to Italian companies at the Rio +20 conference on sustainable development. Page 9 of 30 Communication On Progress 2014 Sustainability days Involving and educating all our employees and their families on environmental issues by means of an immediate and impactful tool. This is the goal promoted by the Company and for this purpose the ‘Sustainability Days’ were organised with the showing of the film Home by Yen Arthus‐Bertran. Home is a splendid documentary film promoted by the foundation Good Planet, produced by Luc Besson and simultaneously released on 5 June, 2009 in the cinemas of fifty countries (on the World Environment Day). The projections were made in May in Tullamore, Ireland, in June in Vršac, Serbia and in October in Dueville and Pontedera in Italy. Page 10 of 30 Communication On Progress 2014 Ecovadis Assessment Palladio Zannini had to face the challenges of sustainable development, with the consequent need for a clear picture of the performance of its CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility). We therefore asked a third‐party body to perform a comprehensive assessment of our CSR with a detailed description of its strengths and weaknesses. The report submitted at the end of this assessment (available on our website) allowed us to have an accurate picture to identify possible areas for improvement. This activity put Palladio Zannini Group, with its score, in the top 2% group of all companies evaluated by Ecovadis. We therefore were classified as Advanced and marked as Gold for our approach to Corporate Social Responsibility. Page 11 of 30 The United Nations Global Compact’s 10 principles Communication On Progress 2014 7. Principles on Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights in their respective spheres of influence. Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses, not even indirectly. Policy Business Commitment Palladio Zannini supports and respects human In developing a policy for the respect and rights both in the workplace and in all areas of its promotion of human rights, we take into account spheres of influence. the factors that contribute to the compliance with these principles: We are confident that the respect for human ■ Protection of Human Resources who constitute rights, the moral commitment and the strongly the core capital for development and business widespread business ethics, will help the success performance of our business. ■ Sharing of policies and business objectives The Company always puts people first, ensuring respect for their rights and reporting any form of ■ Involvement of employees in order to increase abuse against its workers. their skills ■ Promotion of activities aimed at integrating the staff ■ Verification of the requirements and respect of ethical principles in work management by our suppliers. Pag. 13 a 30 Communication On Progress 2014 Implemented actions and performance indicators In order to make the staff even more aware of The corporate Code of Ethics sets that Palladio the need to reduce so‐called ‘anomalous’ Zannini monitors compliance with the foregoing behaviours, a disciplinary code has been adopted principles through an Ethics Committee which to set sanctions in relation to possible breaches verifies the reported breaches of the Code and of the corporate rules on safety. ensures that those who report non‐compliant behaviours are not subject to any form of ITALY harassment. Any report shall be considered only if submitted Year 2011 2012 2013 in writing and in a non‐anonymous manner, but Total no. of working hours 542439 523433 536923 the confidentiality of the reporting person is guaranteed. No. of accidents 19 15 14 No. of absence hours due to accidents 1086 2056 2376 Palladio Zannini has never been involved in any Accident frequency rate 35,03 28,66 26,07 complaints (fines or disputes) that could damage Accident severity rate 0,25 0,49 0,55 its repute. SERBIA Protection of Human Resources goes through Year 2011 2012 2013 the implementation of an Integrated Safety and Environmental Management System (adopted in Total no. of working hours 128312 187211 223382 all plants and currently certified only in the No. of accidents 3 6 2 Italian sites) that allows to guarantee proper No. of absence hours due to accidents 10 16 14 conditions of work environments, to keep monitoring potential risks to Health and Safety Accident frequency rate 23,38 32,05 8,95 and to commit employees to training and Accident severity rate 0,01 0,01 0,01 educational activities. IRELAND To this regard, the Company has also set up the Year 2011 2012 2013 Security and Safety Clubs in order to promote Total no. of working hours 23787 25395 25718 interactive communication initiatives organised by the heads of the departments and involving No. of accidents 0 0 0 No. of absence hours due to the relevant staff. These clubs analyse safety accidents 0 0 0 data, the results of any reports received by Accident frequency rate 0 0 0 employees and assess/share improvement Accident severity rate 0 0 0 opportunities. Pag. 14 a 30 Communication On Progress 2014 Furthermore, in accordance with its policy on Yoga is a great way to reduce anxiety, improve Health, safety and hygiene at work , employees the mood and concentration, and it is also a are offered the opportunity to benefit from free helpful means to relieve back pain and postural prevention programs, such as influenza problems caused by the bad habit of sitting vaccinations, tetanus vaccinations, etc. incorrectly in front of the computer. Consistently with our commitment, we deem This activity has been implemented with the aim indispensable to organise activities for our of increasing the psychological and physical employees in order to foster their integration wellbeing and, consequently, the quality of life of and strengthen the team spirit that distinguishes employees, both in their private lives and at us. work, as well as improving the quality of the relationship with oneself and the colleagues. We invest in training and improvement opportunities as we believe these are crucial for the personal growth of our staff. Precisely for this, over the years we have promoted ‘recreational’ activities whereby professional life experiences are coupled with the private sphere. Among the most significant activities, it is worthwhile mentioning the meetings organised by NLP Italy and held for two consecutive years in Tuscany and Lake Garda. These meetings aimed at learning and experimenting some tools for the corporate team: the Cooking Lab day when cooking alternated with business briefs; and the Bacchus & Management event aimed at developing relational skills with customers and employees through an innovative and compelling methodology: wine‐tasting. In 2013 Palladio Zannini promoted a yoga class for all its staff. As an experiment, it was carried out initially in the Veneto plants. In 2014 the course will be extended to the Tuscan plant. Pag. 15 a 30 Communication On Progress 2014 The weekly meetings of all members of the trade and production sectors (via video conferences too) contribute to the building and growth of the participants’ skills by sharing the know‐how held by the mid‐managers/executives. These meetings are not recorded in official records but an estimated can be made of approximately more than 4000 hours per year. Training hours/worked hours ITALY IRELAND SERBIA 2010 0.53 0.49 0.35 2011 0.63 0.47 0.41 2012 0.61 0.39 0.25 2013 0.94 2.44 0.76 Training hours/employee ITALY IRELAND SERBIA 2010 8.53 7.33 6.43 2011 9.74 8.00 7.14 2012 9.70 6.67 5.01 2013 15.08 41.87 15.02 The roles and responsibilities are well defined as shown in the documentation on the Management Systems and all our employees are treated on the basis of social equality and equal opportunities are guaranteed. Pag. 16 a 30 Communication On Progress 2014 Palladio Zannini will not be complicit in the procedures and legislation in force. abuse of human rights, exercising its control over the companies it works with for the Most suppliers have certified Management provision of products and/or services. Systems (quality, environment, safety). All Suppliers (contractors) who are selected for 65% of them adopted a Code of Ethics and, in works to be done within our premises, are any case, all stated their commitment to abiding required, as foreseen by our procedures, to by the State laws, fighting against corruption, submit some documentation proving their respecting fundamental human rights, protecting compliance with the legislative and contractual the environment, and promoting compliance obligations towards their employees, corporate with these requirements also by their suppliers. social responsibility and compliance with the rules of conduct laid down by the Health, Safety and Environmental Management System of OUTCOMES OF SUPPLIERS’ QUESTIONNAIRES Palladio Zannini. No. of total suppliers 127 Since one of the basic principles is that Corporate Social Responsibility also involves raising % of evaluated suppliers 60 awareness by the suppliers, we have initiated a No of questionnaires sent out 77 process to evaluate their commitment to social responsibility. For the purpose of making them % of returned questionnaires 61% aware and ensuring that they carry out their activities in accordance with the principles of % of suppliers with quality systems 80% ethics and work management, a letter was sent to them together with a specific questionnaire. % social certification 0% This activity began in 2012 and ended in 2013 % with Code of Ethics 65% with the results shown in the table below. % willing to commit in social requirements 100% As reported in the table, 77 suppliers of materials were assessed out of the 127 we work % environmental certification 55% with, which corresponds to 60% of the total. Of % of suppliers who will obtain certification in the future 18% the 77 questionnaires sent out, 47 were returned, namely 61% of the total. % with an Environment responsible Function 38% The unreturned questionnaires for the most part % with Safety certification 25% concern service providers (e.g. maintainers, contractors) who, however, are necessarily % respecting EHS policy 100% evaluated whenever they perform some work within our premises, as required by the Pag. 17 a 30 Communication On Progress 2014 To confirm our respect for the principle of not being complicit, even indirectly, in the abuse of In December 2013, in order to support the human rights, through the FSC certification we concept acknowledged by the UN General are committed to purchasing our raw materials Assembly that Water is a Human Right , we in compliance with the principles promoted by decided to support Charity:Water, a U.S. serious the FSC Organisation. This includes the and reliable organisation, whose mission is to recognition and protection of the rights of provide clean and easy‐to‐access water to the indigenous peoples and other minorities (such as peoples and villages that are having difficulties. local communities) who are forest‐dependent. In 2013 Zannini East too obtained the FSC‐CoC and PEFC‐CoC certifications. The achievement of these certifications by Zannini East further PALLADIOZANNINI + strengthens our sustainable procurement policy CHARITY:WATER BY PALLADIOZANNINI which certifies that 100% of cardboard and paper we buy in our plants does not come from controversial sources. As Christmas time was approaching, the Also, we ensure that our control processes Company decided to launch an initiative called relating to the origin, traceability, production PalladioZannini + Charity:Water with the aim of and use of these raw materials are carried out involving employees in these issues, by according to forest certification standards which supporting this initiative through donations. The are recognized worldwide. target we set was largely achieved. Pag. 18 a 30 Communication On Progress 2014 8. Principles on Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association of employees and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Policy Corporate commitment With reference to social responsibility, it seems Beside the various commitments made, our essential to focus first on our employees to Charter of Values acknowledges: ensure their compliance with the above‐  Unions relations mentioned principles, and then reach all stakeholders, thus checking all the ‘players’ who  Equal Opportunities work with us.  Proper working conditions Our policies fully support the labour rights  Condemnation of child labour and respect promoted by the Global Compact, on the basis of for the rights of children the fundamental labour principles and rights  Respect for political and religious beliefs issued by ILO (International Labour Organization), as these are key to a healthy and  Integration of disabled people respectful partnership with our employees. All activities are carried out within the company in compliance with these principles. Pag. 19 a 30 Communication On Progress 2014 Implemented actions and performance indicators Relations with the unions National Collective Labour Contracts are The Human Resources Department has always regularly in force at Palladio Zannini. been open to dialogue, is available to listen to The Company recognizes all employees their and address any issues raised by the workers rights to join trade unions, and this does not and seeks satisfactory solutions for entail any benefit or disadvantage for these complainants, always in compliance with employees. corporate ethics and confidentiality obligations. 2012 2013 Through a voting system which guarantees confidentiality and anonymity, our employees No. of union elect their ERS (Employee Representatives for 94 89 members Safety) and TURs (Trade Union Representatives). 3 1 No. of strikes (257 (140 hours) hours) No. of labour disputes 0 0 7 10 No. of unions (544 ( 507 meetings hours) hours) For this purpose, the trade unions can conduct their activities freely and no pressure or interference is made by the Company Management Pag. 20 a 30 Communication On Progress 2014 Proper working conditions worker or the collective performances of their departments are assessed annually. Within our company there has never been 2012 2013 forced or compulsory labour and our employees are guaranteed a suitable working time Below‐the‐minimum wages 89.86% 89.52% established by the national contract: overtime Annual wage increases 61.86% 46.03% work is regularly paid and workers accept to Economic bonuses 97.67% 97.67% carry out any overtime work only on a voluntary Benefits 6.42% 6.82% basis. Overtime hours 5.93% 5.49% A public commitment to promoting and Hours of holidays 8.71% 7.79% facilitating the social dialogue requires Disciplinary measures 1.55% 2.00% agreements with the unions to state that working hours at Palladio Zannini are Worked ordinary hours 722269 763871 determined so as not to prejudice the right of Hours of holidays 68694 63161 every employee to enjoy daily resting periods Overtime hours 33918 43104 and to recharge his/her psycho‐physical and mental energies. 2012 2013 Each worker fully benefits from holiday Total male employees 338 379 entitlements and sick leaves. Total female employees 93 109 Our staff is paid an annual bonus to encourage Total employees 431 464 active participation in the business and reward With an open‐term contract 340 366 all those who contribute to the excellent results With a fixed‐term contract 62 66 of Palladio Zannini. With a part‐time and solidarity 26 27 contract Through a rewarding mechanism based on Temporary workers 13 29 meritocracy, employees are guaranteed super Members of trade unions 94 89 minimum wages (or equivalent) which are higher Disabled workers 22 22 than legal minimum wages. Foreign workers 16 19 In order to promote and encourage career developments, the results achieved by each In‐house and external training courses allow us to strengthen the skills of our human resources Pag. 21 a 30 Communication On Progress 2014 in order to encourage exchanges between This condition is a prerequisite for establishing departments and operations of internal mobility, labour relations in compliance with the relevant where appropriate. This supports the legislation in the countries where we operate. Company's policy aiming to favour to internal recruitment. Furthermore, in order to anticipate or mitigate any negative impact due to redundancies, the Company works with employment agencies for executing minor activities (e.g. porterage, warehouse handling). One of the objectives of our corporate policy is the right to equal opportunities and therefore any social, racial and religious discrimination is condemned while the integration between individuals and cultural exchanges are sustained. Palladio Zannini reiterates its respect for the rights of children and publicly condemns child labour through the adoption of the Charter of Values and Code of Ethics. Pag. 22 a 30 Communication On Progress 2014 Wages are paid on the basis of the qualifications Also all those who work for and on behalf of the of the personnel, their personal experiences and Company must comply with these principles by skills. adopting behaviours which are consistent with All this in order to give adequate remuneration our goals. For this reason, any activity that does for equal work performed, irrespective of any not respect the principles of labour, is discrimination and befitting each worker. condemned. Age of employees < 30 2012 2013 y.o. Men 42 46 Women 7 11 Male white collars 2 3 Female white collars 3 5 Male blue collars 40 45 Female blue collars 4 7 Notwithstanding the recruitment percentage of Managers 0 0 disabled people foreseen by the national laws in force ‐ regularly fulfilled – in the attempt to Age of employees 30‐50 y.o. 2012 2013 ensure equal treatment, Palladio Zannini Men 247 261 supports the integration of disabled people in Women 68 74 the Organisation by assigning jobs which respect Male white collars 40 39 their disabilities. Female white collars 18 22 The working conditions and the workplace are Male blue collars 205 220 maintained/designed for permitting the mobility Female blue collars 49 51 of disabled people. Managers 3 2 Age of employees > 50 2012 2013 y.o. Men 49 53 Women 18 17 Male white collars 11 14 Female white collars 6 6 Male blue collars 32 33 Female blue collars 12 11 Managers 6 6 2012 2013 Mean age 38.18 38.52 Pag. 23 a 30 Communication On Progress 2014 9. Principles on the Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Business commitment Policy The environmental policy adopted by the Top Palladio Zannini is committed to respecting and Management aims at: safeguarding the environment. To this purpose a  Analysing and minimising our environmental first step was the implementation of an impact. Environmental Management System (integrated with the Health and Safety Management  Not allowing/preventing any form of System) in the Italian plants in order to identify environmental pollution. the main environmental impacts and mitigate them.  Promoting the use of the best eco‐friendly Our commitment over time has brought technologies. significant improvements and increasing awareness also on the part of the corporate  Reducing the waste of natural resources. staff. At the foreign plants which are not yet  Caring for biodiversity. certified, environmental issues are managed and controlled in accordance with the relevant legal  Setting improvement goals for achieving rules. greater environmental results. At a time when attention to this problem is increasing, we try by all means to reduce the  Joining the good forest management systems sources of pollution and reduce waste of natural resources and Palladio Zannini is proud to give its  Making the staff aware of environmental contribution throughout its activities. issues. Pag. 24 a 30 Communication On Progress 2014 Implemented actions and eliminated substances that are harmful to the environment and to Health and Safety in the performance indicators Workplace. This has allowed for a greater protection of our employees and a greater waste In relation to our activities, products and reduction of hazardous substances (such as the services, we identify our direct and indirect elimination of isopropyl alcohol from the environmental aspects and the related impact printing process). factors. Depending on their significance, we determine the most important ones. This is to keep them under control and prevent any risk to the environment. Our ‘Logbook of Impact Factors’ provides an overview of the most significant activities. In this context, the applicable legal requirements and other requirements endorsed by the Organisation are taken into account in the definition, implementation and maintenance of the Environmental Management System. Specific improvement targets are defined annually to allow us to improve our performances and reduce consumption resulting from wastage. In 2013 this goal has brought considerable benefits as it can be inferred from the data given in the charts and tables of this section. The use of advanced technologies helps our policy of respecting the environment. In recent years, thanks to technological and effective processes, we have reduced and (in some cases) Pag. 25 a 30 Communication On Progress 2014 Another major step in the policy of waste reduction is the management of waste resulting from our raw materials (paper and cardboard). Most of this waste is handled as by‐products. The Company checks the indirect impacts resulting from its production activities such as: ‐ Consumption of paper‐based raw materials ‐ Transportation related to the purchase of paper‐based raw materials Since 2009 Palladio Zannini has been analysing ‐ Transportation related to the sale of finished its LCI starting to monitor the greenhouse gas products. emissions (GHG) due in particular to: ‐ Consumption of natural gas (direct greenhouse gas emissions) ‐ Consumption of electricity (indirect greenhouse gas emissions) Following the assessment of environmental impacts (LCIA) in relation to the annual production, our consumption levels were monitored for the purpose of intervening significantly in setting objectives aimed at: ‐ Reducing waste of natural resources ‐ Reducing the contribution to Global Warming. Pag. 26 a 30 Communication On Progress 2014 The extent of these reductions was measured danger of extinction. Rather, in adhering to through the assessment of the corporate Carbon systems of forest management, like FSC and Footprint for the years under examination (the PEFC, we prove our interest in this field. Environmental Sustainability Report provides more details). Supporting the protection of forests and their wildlife and opposing the illegal trade in timber, Palladio Zannini works on a contract‐base and seems only right in consideration of our type of shall comply with the requirements of the production. customer who, on top of specifying the type of raw material and the supplier to be used, also Staff awareness in this field is very high and the decides the graphics and text to be reproduced Company promotes initiatives that directly (pharmaceutical packaging). involve employees, and in some cases their Therefore, as we are unable to act directly on families, through advertising campaigns of our the products sold to the end consumers, we sustainability activities by means of leaflets, promote sustainable consumption with our posters and visits to our facilities. All this to customers. This is shown by some of our ensure that our vision and commitment to the initiatives (e.g. the ‘Pandora’ project or the environment are shared by them too. ‘Green Procurement’ project), which aim at reducing the weight of cardboard or the use of recycled cardboard, thus helping to implement: ■ a positive action on the environment ■ a reduction of cardboard waste ■ economic savings for customers ■ a rationalisation of the supplier's warehouse ■ a greater flexibility in processing orders. Palladio Zannini has been focusing on a number of environmental elements, including biodiversity. Surely, we do not operate in protected areas or where there are species in Pag. 27 a 30 Communication On Progress 2014 10. Principles against Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Policy Business commitment At Palladio Zannini corruption is not tolerated at At Palladio Zannini: all. ■ it is not allowed to promote role development and reward employees only with regard to the merits the latter demonstrated in their What drives our choices is the value of involvement, professional growth, achievement meritocracy and ethics and we reward our of objectives and sense of belonging to the Company employees only in consideration of this. ■ it is not allowed to promise or offer items, services, performances or favours of worth (to We take into account this principle also in Public Administration Managers, Officers or Employees or their relatives) in order to achieve managing our customers, suppliers and any an interest or benefit for Palladio Zannini,. The authority with which Palladio Zannini has any offer of gifts or other benefits of little worth are contact. permitted only if this is consistent with legitimate usages or customs ■ no parties, their representatives or candidates are funded and no pressure (direct or indirect) is exerted on politicians ■ it is allowed to comply with the requests for contributions from non‐profit bodies and associations with regular bylaws and articles of association or the requests for donations only for charitable purposes ■ sponsorships may relate to social activities, environmental activities, sports, art and culture in general. Pag. 28 a 30 Communication On Progress 2014 Implemented actions and During this training, which involved all employees, managers and executives of the performance indicators Italian and foreign sites, the topics listed in the Our business relations are based solely on trust Code of Ethics were treated globally with a focus relationships with our customers who selected on issues relating to the fight against corruption. us only for the embedded qualities of the products we supply. Our suppliers are carefully selected and qualified and no special treatment is granted to any of them nor agreements are in place that could determine potential conflicts of interest. Those who work with our Company should see us as valid trading partner and be aware that the way we do business is based on social ethics principles and values. For this reason, from the point of view of Responsible Marketing, our customers and suppliers are sent a report containing the commitment by Palladio Zannini to Social Responsibility and trying to persuade them to operate in accordance with our principles. Our financial statements are reviewed annually by Reconta Ernst & Young to assess their compliance with the regulations governing their We are aware that the fight against corruption is drawing up. In this perspective, any operation or a global challenge and represents a major accounting transaction is based on the accuracy, obstacle to sustainable development. Hence in completeness, and authorisation of the basic 2013 we carried out a training initiative about information for their entries. this. Pag. 29 a 30 Communication On Progress 2014 All payments to be made by the Company shall While the Company opposes any activity likely to be commensurate with the performances generate acts of corruption, on the other hand it offered and the contractual rules and cannot be is deeply committed to supporting charities that made to a person/entity other than the help the needy. contracting party. Over the years, we have made some donations to local and international non‐profit foundations, Any type of omission or falsification of which the such as: employees become aware, is immediately The Foundation Citta’ Della Speranza, Caritas, reported to our Ethics Committee. Italian Red Cross, the Mission Ciudad Del Nino, Charity Water, etc., as we are aware that a small In 2013 we also revised the Code of Ethics and a gesture on our part is a great help. Whistle Blowing procedure was added. Pag. 30 a 30
