SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABLE INNOVATION Green shipping Maritime simulators Integrated Environmental Monitoring Wind power 2 Introduction 16 Sustainable innovation 21 What have we achieved? 27 Systems of governance and key figures ABOUT THE REPORT KONGSBERG GRUPPEN (KONGSBERG) is an international technology corporation that supplies reliable, advanced technological solutions that improve the reliability, safety and efficiency of complex operations and under extreme conditions. KONGSBERG collaborates with global customers in the defence, maritime, oil and gas, and aerospace industries. The purpose of the report is to give stakeholders who are affected by or interested in our activities information about KONGSBERG’s approach to sustainability and corporate social responsibility. The report covers the period from more. The environmental data includes all our focus on the topic of human rights 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2013, and of our Norwegian units, as well as all our and workers’ rights during the reporting addresses topics we feel are of importance production units all over the world and the period. Areas of focus are a result of the to us and our stakeholders. Any significant largest offices outside of Norway. targets and activities that are dealt with by events from 1 January 2014 to 27 March The information in the report is based the Group’s ”Forum for Sustainability and 2014 will also be discussed. All figures refer on data obtained from different parts of the Corporate Social Responsibility” and identi­ to the 2013 fiscal year. Group. Even though importance is attach­ fied by corporate executive management ed to ensuring that the data is complete and, ultimately, by the Group’s Board. Changes in the reporting platform and correct, some of the information will be In this report, we have also chosen to since the last report based on estimates. discuss some examples of what we have Kongsberg Nemo with subsidiaries (about called sustainable innovation. This builds 150 employees) is included in the 2013 Process to define the content up ‘the perspective of opportunities’ in report. The same applies to Kongsberg The content of the report is largely defined the Group’s Policy for Sustainability and Software and Service of Bangalore, India based on what we have called ”Areas of Corporate Social Responsibility. The report (about 135 employees). Neither of these Focus for 2013–2014”. ”Human rights and is also formulated according to the companies was included in the 2012 report. workers’ rights” has replaced ”Stakeholder principles in the Global Reporting Initiative dialogue” as one of the five areas of focus (GRI), and we are affiliated with the UN Limitations of the report for 2013–2014. This does no t mean that Global Compact Initiative. The report deals only with companies in ”Stakeholder dialogue” is no longer im­ which KONGSBERG owns 50 per cent or portant, but simply that we have increas­ed CONTENTS Introduction 16 Sustainable innovation 21 What have we achieved? 27 Systems of governance and 2 About the report 17 Green Shipping 22 Area of focus: Policy for key figures 4 CEO Walter Qvam 18 Maritime simulators Sustainability and Corporate 28 Values and ethics 6 This is KONGSBERG 19 Integrated Environmental Social Responsibility 29 Organisation and systems of 8 The world of KONGSBERG Monitoring 23 Area of focus: Anti-corruption governance 12 Our employees 20 Wind power 24 Area of focus: Human rights 30 Climate and environmental 14 Contributing to good causes and workers’ rights accounts 2013 15 Accountability 25 Area of focus: The climate 33 Targets and activities for challenges sustainability and corporate 26 Area of focus: Sustainability social responsibility and corporate social 35 Sustainable key figures responsibility in the supply 38 External reporting chain 38 Global Compact 39 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 43 Auditor’s Report 2 KONGSBERG • Sustainability Report 2013 2 Introduction 16 Sustainable innovation 21 What have we achieved? 27 Systems of governance and key figures The Sustainability Report is defined on the basis of the following parameters: White Paper no. 13 (2010–2011) – Active ownership The Norwegian state owns 50.001 per cent of the shares in the company. The State’s stake is managed by the Ministry of Trade and Industry. The process we have used to define the content in the report means that we report according to the expectations imposed on us through the White Paper. Global Compact The Group has joined the UN Global Compact Initiative. Among other things, this means that we submit a report to the UN each year, describing our activities and the advances we have made in the field of sustain­ ability and corporate social responsibility. The Group’s Sustainability Report serves as such a report – a COP (Communication on Progress). We would submit that the report complies with Global Compact’s criteria for ‘Advanced Level’. For more details about the Global Compact, see their website at www.unglobalcompact.org. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) We gave used GRI’s guidelines for reporting on corporate social responsibility for several years. In 2013, GRI published a new version of its guidelines, at the same time as the earlier version can be applied until 2015. We have chosen to follow the previous version, GRI G3.1 for our reporting on 2013. Our reporting practice is, in our opinion, generally in alignment with GRI’s reporting principles. GRI version 3.1 uses a classification that indicates the extent to which a company applies GRI’s definitions and disclosure requirements. KONGSBERG complies with the requirements for level B+. The ‘+’ indicates that the report has been independently verified. The basis for the indicators can be found directly in the text. The final pages of the report contain a reference to the individual GRI indicators and where they are discussed in the report. For more details about GRI, see their website at www.globalreporting.org. C C+ B B+ A A+ Obligatory Self-declared Optional Independently verified GRI verified Amendments to the Norwegian Accounting Act The Storting has adopted legislative amendments that require that major enterprises report on corporate social responsibility either in the Directors’ Report or in a separate report. The report is to include consideration for human rights, workers’ rights and social conditions, the outdoor environment and anti-corruption activities. The reporting requirements entered into force on 1 June with effect from the fiscal year starting after 31 December 2012. Special regulations state that companies that report in compliance with the UN Global Compact or Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) can use those reports to fulfil the mandatory CSR reporting requirement under the Norwegian Accounting Act for fiscal 2013. We are of the opinion that the Sustainability Report for 2013 fully satisfies the requirements in the Norwegian Accounting Act for reporting on CSR. Board treatment The Group’s Sustainability Report has, in its entirety, been reviewed and approved by Corporate Executive SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABLE INNOVATION Green shipping Maritime simulators Integrated Environmental Monitoring Management and the corporate Board of Directors. Wind power Independent verification For the fourth consecutive year, the report has been verified by a third party, the auditing company Deloitte. See the Auditor’s Report on page 43. KONGSBERG • Sustainability Report 2013 3 2 Introduction 16 Sustainable innovation 21 What have we achieved? 27 Systems of governance and key figures CEO WALTER QVAM KONGSBERG is celebrating its bicentennial in 2014, which also marks the kick-off of the next 200 years of our history. In reaching such a milestone, we honour and recognise the accomplish­ ments of one of the world’s oldest high-technology companies, at the same time as we look to the future as we lay the foundation for the next 200 years of KONGSBERG’s history. Sustainability and corporate social responsibility will be key to our further development. In 2013, operating revenues totalled NOK 16.3 billion, up Determined, Innovative, Collaborative, Reliable 4.3 per cent from 2012. KONGSBERG ended the year with an EBITDA margin of 13.1 per cent and a backlog valued Besides specific activities associated with corporate social at NOK 15.7 billion. We invested the equivalent of almost responsibility, like those described in this report, we work 10 per cent of our sales in product development. We have systematically to discuss and underpin the importance of also intensified our CSR efforts throughout the Group. our value platform in all parts of the organisation. KONGSBERG delivers solutions, products, services and systems to several industries and market segments. This leads to financial robustness and a valuable network Reliable (dependable, trustworthy) of international customers. The Group also has a strong ”Our customers and partners can count on KONGSBERG to common core. Our business areas have many common deliver – always. Working with KONGSBERG means working denominators, including basic technology and expertise, with reliable individuals, a reliable enterprise and reliable shared fundamental values and common work processes. products. KONGSBERG is a responsible organisation We see that our opportunities to draw on expertise and characterised by integrity and with respect for health, safety technology across the Group are growing. and the environment. We are reliable individuals. We are responsible members of society.” 200 years of corporate social responsibility 2014 marks a major milestone in KONGSBERG’s history. Like Norway’s Constitution, we are celebrating our bicen­ The UN Global Compact Initiative tennial. Not many companies can look back on 200 years KONGSBERG joined the UN Global Compact in 2006. Since of continuous operations. We are both very proud of this then, we have learned more about the topics covered by the and humbled by it. Our corporate social responsibility is to initiative, both through direct contact and through nation­al con­tinue this unique history, passing on to coming genera­ and Nordic networks. Each year, we draw up action plans tions a KONGSBERG that is even stronger and more vital and the principles in the Global Compact are the guiding than when we took over. To us, this is what sustainability principles for them. We will continue to support the import­ and corporate social responsibility are all about. ant work done in association with the Global Compact. Stronger international presence Sustainable innovation We continue to expand our international presence, with Our ability to think new and innovate is absolutely essential more focus on corporate social responsibility, in­clud­ing if we are to continue this good corporate trend in the years anti-corruption, workers’ rights, human rights, climate ahead. As a technology enterprise, our most important challenges and the follow up of a sustainable supply chain. contribution to the climate challenge and resource situation is to use our knowledge to develop products that can help Value platform address these challenges. This year’s report discusses four The Group’s value platform and the attitudes our values examples of products we would describe as being repre­ represent are the very essence of KONGSBERG’s devotion sentative of sustainable innovation. to corporate social responsibility. An organisation char­acter­ ised by wholesome attitudes promotes behaviour that Areas of focus 2013 means more than most regulations and procedures. In an In 2013, KONGSBERG elected to focus on the following increasingly more globalised competitive situation, where aspects of corporate social responsibility (see the detailed companies and products alike are becoming increasingly discussion on pages 16–20): similar, a strong and visible corporate culture is vital for differentiation and market recognition. We expect value Policy for Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility: issues to be put on the agenda by management and key Our Policy for Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsi­ personnel and genuine follow up of individuals’ behaviour. bility and the principles in it are integrated into the Group’s KONGSBERG’s four values are: strategic and planning work. In this context, we emphasise 4 KONGSBERG • Sustainability Report 2013 2 Introduction 16 Sustainable innovation 21 What have we achieved? 27 Systems of governance and key figures ”Our business areas have many common denominators with a view to basic technology and expertise, shared fundamental values and common work processes. We see that our opportunities to draw on expertise and technology across the Group are growing.” Walter Qvam, CEO that all growth and all strategic business-related decisions munications equipment to Romania from 1999 to 2008. taken within the Group are to be firmly entrenched in a KONGSBERG is cooperating closely with the National sustainable perspective. Authority for Investigation and Prosecution of Economic and Environmental Crime in Norway to determine what Anti-corruption: The prevention of corruption is a matter actually happened, but it is expected that it will take time that KONGSBERG takes very seriously. KONGSBERG has before the case is closed. zero tolerance for corruption among its co-workers, con­ KONGSBERG has zero tolerance for corruption, and sultants and business associates. As an enterprise with high ethical standards are an integral part of our business significant international activities, KONGSBERG has imple­ activities. KONGSBERG has spent years building up and mented a comprehensive anti-corruption programme, and further developing compliance rules and positions at the high ethical standards are an integral part of our activities. corporate level and in the business areas. Today’s anticorruption system is considered to maintain a good interna­ Human rights and workers’ rights: During the year, we drew tional level and has been found by independent parties to up routines for more systematic analysis, control, reporting be a strong, robust system. and follow up of potential violations of these rights. The routines will be implemented in 2014. Targets for 2014 The targets for 2014 involve a continuation of the same The climate challenge: The UN’s Intergovernmental Panel areas of focus as in 2013. See pages 33–34 of the report on Climate Change (IPCC), fifth report, part 1, emphasises for more details. the severity of ongoing climatic change. We are a modest 2014 will be yet another year characterised by opportuni­ player relative to emissions of greenhouse gases, but we are ties and challenges for KONGSBERG. Throughout 2013, the nonetheless taking initiatives to reduce our global footprint. Group further reinforced its market-related, technological and financial positions, giving us the very best point of Sustainability and corporate social responsibility in the de­parture to continue making progress in our main markets. supply chain: Our suppliers are important contributors to We will actively continue our work with the further develop­ our added value. Our target in this area is to get an ment of technology, products and systems that meet the overview of the risk associated with sustainability and extremely high standards required by our customers. As corporate social responsibility in the supply chain, and to an integral part of this work, we will continue our focus on ensure that the risk is manageable through controls and sustainability and corporate social responsibility. measures. Charge, corruption case in Romania In February 2014, a charge was filed against Kongsberg Walter Qvam, Gruppen ASA and Kongsberg Defence & Aerospace AS, Chief Executive Officer alleging corruption in conjunction with deliveries of com­ KONGSBERG • Sustainability Report 2013 5 2 Introduction 16 Sustainable innovation 21 What have we achieved? 27 Systems of governance and key figures THIS IS KONGSBERG KONGSBERG is an international, knowledge-based group that delivers high-technology systems and solutions to customers in the oil and gas industry, the merchant marine, defence and aerospace. KONGSBERG’s solutions and deliveries contribute to safer, Financial value added more efficient operations at sea, on land and in outer space. KONGSBERG creates value in the areas and countries in Whether we are talking about defence, the merchant which we operate. First, we create value for our customers marine, the exploitation of oil and gas resources or fisheries through our products. Then we create value through the resources, our products are of strategic importance in payment of dividends to owners and wages to employees, Norway and internationally. We also supply technological and indirectly by buying goods and services from suppliers. solutions for global challenges such as environmental Value is also created through the importance we attach to monitoring and resource management. research and development. See page 35 for a table about the financial value added. Organisation The Group is divided into four business areas and a cor­po­ Corporate social responsibility rate services centre. The four business areas are Kongsberg Corporate social responsibility is important to KONGSBERG. Maritime, Kongsberg Oil & Gas Technologies, Kongsberg It is part of routine operations and the Group’s business Defence Systems and Kongsberg Protech Systems. strategy. The Corporate Centre provides staff and support func­ KONGSBERG’s international operations are significant. tions to the business areas. The corporate staff has exper­ At the beginning of 2014, 36 (36) per cent of our employees tise in financial affairs, business development, investor worked outside of Norway, and 76 (78) per cent of the relations, corporate law, corporate social responsibility, Group’s sales took place outside the country’s borders. communication and HR. This makes us an important player in many local communi­ ties the world over. That implies an obligation. Companies Ownership structure that engage in international activities have a special duty to Kongsberg Gruppen ASA is listed on the Oslo Stock ensure responsible operation. Exchange and is subject to Norwegian securities legislation We live in an era in which climate change, shortages of and stock exchange regulations. The Norwegian state owns clean water and poverty are formidable global challenges. 50.001 per cent of the shares in the company. In addition, several countries are experiencing debt crises and instability. These challenges also affect KONGSBERG’s activities, directly or indirectly. KONGSBERG KONGSBERG MARITIME OIL & GAS TECHNOLOGIES Kongsberg Maritime delivers positioning, surveillance, navigation Kongsberg Oil & Gas Technologies delivers innovative solutions and automation systems for merchant vessels and the offshore for oil and gas operations, including drilling, production and industry. The business area is a market leader in dynamic subsea development projects. The business area integrates positioning, automation and surveillance systems, process software and services with physical products for improving oil automation, fisheries, satellite navigation and hydroacoustics, production, efficiency, and health, safety and the environment. as well as material handling equipment for use on deck for offshore vessels. 6 KONGSBERG • Sustainability Report 2013 2 Introduction 16 Sustainable innovation 21 What have we achieved? 27 Systems of governance and key figures Svalbard (Spitsbergen) Norway* Denmark Head office in Kongsberg Sweden Finland Vancouver (Canada) Ireland Germany Russia Lynwood (USA) St. John’s (Canada) Poland London (Canada) Salt Lake City (USA) Pocasset (USA) United Kingdom Hungary The Netherlands Dalian (China) Ottawa (Canada) Johnstown(USA) France Halifax (Canada) Italy Kuwait Spain Zhenjiang (China) Greece South Korea The United Arab Emirates West Mystic (USA) Algeria Houston (USA) Mount Arlington (USA) India Shanghai (China) Washington (USA) New Orleans (USA) Saudi Arabia Guangzhou (China) Mexico Malaysia Nigeria Singapore Brazil Australia * Kongsberg, Asker, Bergen, Horten, Kjeller, Kristiansand, Oslo, Sandefjord, Sandvika, Stavanger, Stjørdal, Antarctica Svalbard, Tromsø, Trondheim. KONGSBERG KONGSBERG DEFENCE PROTECH SYSTEMS SYSTEMS Kongsberg Defence Systems is Norway’s premier supplier of Kongsberg Protech Systems is one of the world’s leading defence and aerospace-related systems. Its portfolio comprises suppliers of remotely controlled weapons control systems. The products and systems for command and control, weapons business area’s main products are the PROTECTOR Remote guidance and surveillance, communications solutions and missiles. Weapon Station weapons control system. The system enhances Kongsberg Defence Systems has expertise and production safety and security for personnel in military vehicles. equipment to make advanced composite and engineering products KONGSBERG is the world leader in this market. for the aircraft, offshore and helicopter markets. KONGSBERG • Sustainability Report 2013 7 2 Introduction 16 Sustainable innovation 21 What have we achieved? 27 Systems of governance and key figures THE WORLD OF KONGSBERG Europe Norway Great Britain Employees 4 741 • Number of suppliers1) 3 023 Employees 268 • Number of suppliers1) 229 Value creation2) MNOK 10 211 • Investments MNOK 254 Value creation2) MNOK 495 • Investments MNOK 23 KONGSBERG is headquartered in Kongsberg. The Group’s maritime The main centre of Kongsberg Maritime’s offshore activities in operations are located in Kongsberg, Horten, Ulsteinvik, Sandefjord, Great Britain is located in Aberdeen, Scotland. We also have smaller and Trondheim. The facilities are engaged in development, produc­ offices in Wick, Scotland, and in Waterlooville and Great Yarmouth, tion, testing, sales and service. Oil and gas activities are located in England. These locations engage in product development, Asker, Lysaker, Hokksund, Horten, Kristiansand, Stavanger and production, sales and support. Bergen. All these places engage in sales, product development, Kongsberg Oil & Gas Technologies has operations in Guildford, project deliveries and service. England and Aberdeen, Scotland. These locations are engaged in Defence activities are mainly located in Kongsberg, but we also sales and projects. have defence activities in Horten, Asker, Kjeller and Stjørdal, all Through its subsidiary Kongsberg Norcontrol, Kongsberg Defence engaged in development, production, testing, sales and service. Systems has a sales and service office in Bristol. Kongsberg Spacetec of Tromsø is a leading maker of receiving Through its subsidiary Kongsberg Integrated Tactical Systems, stations for data from meteorological and earth observation Kongsberg Protech Systems has a sales office in Hereford. satellites. In addition, we also co-own Kongsberg Satellite Services, which is headquartered in Tromsø and has ground stations on Svalbard for Rest of Europe receiving satellite data. Employees 280 • Number of suppliers1) 659 Value creation2) MNOK 716 • Investments MNOK 9 The Group also has operations in Denmark, Finland, France, Greece, Italy, Ireland, The Netherlands, Poland, Russia, Spain, Sweden, Germany and Hungary. These offices are for sales and service as well as project support. 1) Number of suppliers that invoiced KONGSBERG for more than NOK 50 000 in 2013. Some suppliers have been counted two or more times as they supply two or more of our business areas. 2) Value creation shows operating revenues generated by the legal entities in the individual countries. 8 KONGSBERG • Sustainability Report 2013 2 Introduction 16 Sustainable innovation 21 What have we achieved? 27 Systems of governance and key figures Asia China Singapore Employees 578 • Number of suppliers1) 158 Employees 204 • Number of suppliers1) 154 Value creation2) MNOK 133 • Investments MNOK 3 Value creation2) MNOK 862 • Investments MNOK 3 Kongsberg Maritime has built up substantial business activities in The Group’s maritime operations in Singapore focus mainly on sales, China. We operate as a local supplier to the Chinese shipyard installation, engineering, commissioning and service/support. industry, and we now have offices in Shanghai, Dalian, Guangzhou Singapore has one of the world’s largest harbours and is a substan­ and Zhenjiang. Our production unit in Zhenjiang consists of tial shipowning and shipyard nation. electro-mechanical lines where we manufacture consoles, cabinets Kongsberg Norcontrol makes significant deliveries to Singapore’s and sensing units. We also have a CNC centre where we make harbour surveillance systems, and is also represented there. mechanical components and do light engineering. South Korea India Employees 222 • Number of suppliers1) 63 Value creation2) MNOK 1 558 • Investments MNOK 5 Employees 235 • Number of suppliers 421) Value creation2) MNOK 60 • Investments MNOK 8 The Group’s main maritime operations in South Korea are located Kongsberg Maritime has sales and service offices, software support in Jungkwan outside Busan. Its main responsibilities include sales, and development activities in Mumbai. The business has grown in engineering, installation, commissioning and service/support, as well recent years. India is devoting ever more attention to maritime as local production. For years, we have been building up a local safety and coastal and harbour surveillance. presence based on highly qualified co-workers in the world’s largest Kongsberg Oil & Gas Technologies has operations in both shipbuilding nation. Mumbai and Bangalore. The business in Mumbai offers sales Our defence activities also have a sales office in Seoul. support and project support. In Bangalore, the main responsibility is software development. Rest of Asia Employees 44 • Number of suppliers1) 69 Malaysia Value creation2) MNOK 73 • Investments MNOK 1 Employees 4 • Number of suppliers1) 1 The Group’s defence activities have operations in the United Arab Value creation2) MNOK 13 • Investments MNOK 0 Emirates, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia. The main activities there are the operation and delivery of projects involving tactical radio and Kongsberg Maritime has set up a sales and service office for communication systems. fisheries activities in Malaysia. Kongsberg Maritime has a service office in Dubai, and Kongsberg Oil & Gas Technologies has a sales office in Abu Dhabi. KONGSBERG • Sustainability Report 2013 9 2 Introduction 16 Sustainable innovation 21 What have we achieved? 27 Systems of governance and key figures North America USA In Bellport on Long Island, Kongsberg Protech Systems has a subsidiary named Kongsberg Integrated Tactical Systems (KITS) Employees 626 • Number of suppliers1) 705 that develops and manufactures components and systems for Value creation2) MNOK 1 664 • Investments MNOK 26 infrastructure for military vehicles. Kongsberg Maritime has maritime operations in Seattle (Washington), Houston (Texas), New Orleans (Louisiana), Canada Pocasset (Massachusetts), Salt Lake City (Utah) and West Mystic (Connecticut). Pocasset is the site of development, sales and Employees 135 • Number of suppliers1) 195 sup­port for autonomous underwater vehicles (AUVs), working in Value creation2) MNOK 261 • Investments MNOK 5 close cooperation with AUV activities in Norway. The other units are mainly engaged in sales and customer support. The unit in KONGSBERG’s largest maritime business in Canada is located in Seattle is also engaged in technological development and the Vancouver. The company there is engaged in proprietary product adaptation of existing products for the US market. development and production. The business in Vancouver is based Kongsberg Oil & Gas Technologies has operations in Houston on hydroacoustics-related technology, and is an integral part of (Texas) aimed at sales, support and project implementation. Kongsberg Maritime’s other hydroacoustics activities. The business Our defence activities have a marketing office in Alexandria, area also has two sales and customer support locations in Nova Virginia. Kongsberg Protech Systems also has operations in Scotia and Newfoundland on the east coast. Alexandria (Virginia). Kongsberg Protech Systems has a factory in Defence activities are represented by Gallium Visual Systems Inc. Johnstown, Pennsylvania. That is the site for the production and in Ottawa. The company is well-known for its map graphics tool for maintenance of the PROTECTOR weapon control system for the military command and control systems. US market. The business area has a project office in Mt. Arlington, Kongsberg Protech Systems is located in London, Ontario. New Jersey. The plant was established to maintain and manufacture weapon systems for the Canadian market. Oceania Australia Employees 27 • Number of suppliers1) 69 Kongsberg Protech Systems has a marketing office in Adelaide, and Value creation2) MNOK 95 • Investments MNOK 0 Kongsberg Oil & Gas Technologies has operations in Perth for sales and engineering services. 10 KONGSBERG • Sustainability Report 2013 2 Introduction 16 Sustainable innovation 21 What have we achieved? 27 Systems of governance and key figures Central and South America and Antarctica Brazil Mexico Employees 118 • Number of suppliers1) 33 Employees 11 • Number of suppliers1) 3 Value creation2) MNOK 145 • Investments MNOK 17 Value creation2) MNOK 34 • Investments MNOK 0 Kongsberg Maritime’s business in Brazil comprises sales, service, Kongsberg Maritime has set up a service office in Mexico. engineering and the commissioning of systems for offshore vessels, as well as user training. Business is booming on the oil fields outside Rio de Janeiro. The shipping industry has grown at a Antarctica formidable pace, in step with the country’s political and financial The Group’s jointlyand equally-owned subsidiary Kongsberg situation. The training centre in Rio de Janeiro offers different Satellite Services has a ground station for satellite data on training programmes for Brazilian crew members, including simulator Antarctica. practice. The unit also has an anchor handling simulator. Kongsberg Oil & Gas Technologies has a sales and project office in Brazil. Africa Algeria Nigeria Employees 4 • Number of suppliers1) 0 Employees 0 • Number of suppliers1) 1 Value creation2) MNOK 0 • Investments MNOK 0 Value creation2) MNOK 0 • Investments MNOK 0 Kongsberg Defence Systems has offices for operations and the Kongsberg Maritime has a service and support office for offshore delivery of projects related to tactical radio and communication operations off the coast of Nigeria. Initially, the office is staffed from systems in Algiers, Algeria. Norway, to some extent on a rota basis. KONGSBERG • Sustainability Report 2013 11 2 Introduction 16 Sustainable innovation 21 What have we achieved? 27 Systems of governance and key figures OUR EMPLOYEES KONGSBERG’s livelihood rests on the knowledge and expertise of our employees. Accordingly, we work systematically to ensure that KONGSBERG is an exciting, attractive and stimulating place of work. It is important to us to attract appropriate expertise and to engage in continuous human resources development. Leadership at KONGSBERG KONGSBERG cooperates with a number of university Leadership at KONGSBERG is a question of creating value. colleges and universities in Norway. We participate in career The key to success lies in combination of good leadership days, give company presentations, invite classes to visit our and dedicated employees. Leaders are to perform their operations, sponsor professorships and selected projects responsibilities based on our values, corporate Code of for students who would like to write their theses in Ethics and leadership principles. collaboration with the Group, and we offer different types Leadership@KONGSBERG is our leadership platform. of summer jobs. It is based on leadership development, talent management Along with other companies in Kongsberg, Buskerud and management by objectives. This platform encompasses University College and the Norwegian Centre of Expertise, all the Group’s managers and ensures a uniform process for the Group has developed a master’s degree programme in the follow-up and development of leaders. Our leaders work Systems Engineering. Under this programme, the students on the basis of clear objectives and reconcile objectives have paid positions at one of the enterprises. In cooperation with their superiors, including an evaluation of the leader. with other companies in Kongsberg, we offer a unique We have a good selection of in-house and external leader­ training programme for apprentices. ship development programmes. Our leadership platform also includes structured processes for career planning and talent Health, safety and the environment development. Leadership@KONGSBERG will help generate Through our global HR policy, we require that all companies a continuous flow of leadership talent. work systematically with HSE to ensure a good working Along with growing internationalisation, we also aspire environment, prevent injuries and accidents, and to reduce to greater diversity. We strive to recruit more women into absence due to illness. managerial positions, not least by encouraging female HSE work is organised through formal bodies made up talents through our leadership development programmes. of representatives of management and the employees. Corporate Executive Management consists of 12 individuals, Each business area, as well as the Group’s other entities, including three women. has a cooperation structure to comply with legislative KONGSBERG’s global HR policy is one of its governing and regulatory requirements, and satisfy operational needs. documents and includes the directives and guidelines that In Norway, the formal bodies are the works council, joint form the basis for our human resource management all over consultative committees, divisional committees and working the world. Our life-cycle policy is intended to ensure that all environment committees. employees have meaningful employment In addition, ad hoc committees are created for special projects. Both management and the employees are Recruitment and development represented on these committees. One prerequisite for achieving the Group’s growth targets is Our international HSE work is based on our global HR our ability to attract and retain highly qualified co-workers. policy, and on legislation and regulations in the country in Accordingly, we endeavour to strengthen our position in the question. Most countries require that a designated HSE labour market and to be at the forefront of the competition manager be assigned responsibility for ensuring compliance for the best and the brightest. with local and national legislation and regulations. Each individual business hires people locally with the We have well-developed HMS routines in our Norwegian assistance of local managers. Outside Norway, we usually operations. All employees in Norway have access to hire local employees except in certain managerial positions company health services. This varies in accordance with and positions that call for special expertise. local practices and legislation for our foreign businesses. The Group offers an extensive range of further and con­ KONGSBERG adapts to national public health services tinuing education through a combination of in-house and and supplements them through special agreements as external programmes and courses. They include professional needed. Employees stationed abroad, their families and and personal development, as well as leadership develop­ travelling personnel are given special attention by the ment. Our employees’ career paths should be open to lateral company health service, offered seminars on the cultural as well as vertical movement throughout the Group. differences, and covered by more comprehensive insurance 12 KONGSBERG • Sustainability Report 2013 2 Introduction 16 Sustainable innovation 21 What have we achieved? 27 Systems of governance and key figures schemes. Where legislation prohibits the right to organise, efforts will KONGSBERG does not currently have permanent em­ be made to ensure alternative means for maintaining a good ployees stationed in countries that require special safety dialogue between management and employees. measures for employees and their families. In connection Every second year, a global job satisfaction survey is with new ventures and the build-up of operations in Nigeria, con­ducted to provide feedback on how employees experi­ for example, the necessary safety precautions are taken. ence working conditions and the working environment The Group has designated fora that determine how employees can travel as safely as possible all over the world. Diversity Travel may not be advised or even be prohibited for political, Along with growing internationalisation and our global financial, environmental or health-related reasons. We also business model, we aspire to have a thriving, widely diverse have routines for how employees should conduct them­ organisation. With roughly 7 500 employees the world over, selves on business trips. we embody tremendous diversity that is vital for ensuring our market position. To be a global, sustainable enterprise Reporting we have to think globally, meaning we need a multi-faceted HSE data is collected from all companies in the Group labour force. We work towards this end in a systematic, and reported to Corporate Executive Management and the goal-oriented manner by recruiting, developing and retaining Board of Directors on a quarterly basis. The data are also men and women of various nationalities and all age groups reported to the appropriate authorities in compliance with in all types of positions. We strive to recruit more women statutory requirements in different countries. into managerial positions, not least by encouraging female talents through our leadership development programmes. Absence due to illness Systematic efforts are being made to follow up absence and Wages we see that a good working environment, interesting work KONGSBERG will reward its employees on the basis of and good career development opportunities have a favour­ results achieved and desirable conduct. We will be competi­ able impact on absenteeism. For details, see page 36. tive but not a wage leader. Starting salaries will reflect this. All employees in Norway are covered by collective wage Injuries agreements. Injuries and near-accidents are registered in the individual Wages will be adapted to local market conditions in the unit and reported to the Group each quarter. For details, areas in which we operate. see page 36. Retirement age Employee relations KONGSBERG’s in-house retirement age limit in Norway of We believe in involving our employees and their union repre­ 67 was tested before the court in 2013. This led to the age sentatives in the development of the company. limit in Norway being raised to age 70. Those who want to KONGSBERG recognises employees’ freedom of associa­ can continue to work until they are 70 or retire before that. tion and right to engage in collective bargaining in accord­ The retirement age in Norway is 67, as previously. ance with the ILO conventions. Where this conflicts with local legislation, local legislation shall take precedence. KONGSBERG • Sustainability Report 2013 13 2 Introduction 16 Sustainable innovation 21 What have we achieved? 27 Systems of governance and key figures CONTRIBUTING TO GOOD CAUSES KONGSBERG contributes to added value and economic development in the local communities in which we operate. The Group aspires to be an integral part of these communities. This means we get involved in our employees’ lives, and by supporting good causes. Here are a few examples. Children and young people Norway Zambia and the Philippines In Norway, we have concentrated our support on teams For many years, KONGSBERG has provided support to and associations in the local communities in which we are SOS Children’s Villages in Zambia and on the Philippines. represented. Sports and culture are our focal points. SOS Children’s Villages give the most vulnerable children a family and a safe and secure home, and help them shape Science their future by taking part in the development of their local In 2013, KONGSBERG introduced the concept ”national communities. technology impact group” in Norway. The group is based on an ambition to boost interest in the sciences among young Brazil people and to turn around the drop-out rate from engineer­ We support to the institute Bola pra Frente, which offers ing studies. poor children schooling and football training. The institute We cooperate with lower and upper secondary schools, was founded in 2000 and since then, it has helped hundreds colleges and universities. One way of doing this is the of children and young people to a better life. student competition called ‘Your Extreme’. Under this Support is also given to the social project Karanba in initiative, KONGSBERG invites students to come up with Rio de Janeiro. Through football (soccer), the project helps technological solutions to future challenges. disadvantaged children and young people from the slums We are also a major contributor to the Knowledge and with education, progress and development. Today, Karanba Cultural Centre in Kongsberg Municipality, where children organises about 1,000 children and adolescents, boys and and young people can experiment with science. girls alike, from several different parts of Rio de Janeiro. India In India, Kongsberg Maritime helps AARAMBH, a not-forprofit charity that works in Navi Mumbai. The organisation is a service centre for the most disadvantaged families in the city’s slums. 14 KONGSBERG • Sustainability Report 2013 2 Introduction 16 Sustainable innovation 21 What have we achieved? 27 Systems of governance and key figures ACCOUNTABILITY KONGSBERG has 200 years of tradition and history as a defence supplier and a technology enterprise. Today we are an important partner for customers in the defence, maritime and oil & gas industries. The defence industry We maintain ongoing contact and collaboration with The Norwegian Armed Forces performs important tasks Ministry of Foreign Affairs in connection with this work. for society-at-large in times of peace, crisis, armed conflict Norway generally exports to allied forces. In 2012, and war. A modern total defence calls for state-of-the-art 78 per cent of Norway’s exports of Category A material defence systems, and KONGSBERG’s defence systems and 90 per cent of the exports of Category B material and products are an important part of this. KONGSBERG’s went to NATO countries, Finland and Sweden. role as a supplier of defence products must also be viewed KONGSBERG has transparent cooperation with the in connection with Norway’s security policy and its interna­ Ministry of Foreign Affairs in connection with licence tional obligations as a member of the UN and NATO. applications and comprehensive internal control of our The Armed Forces and KONGSBERG cooperate closely export operations. KONGSBERG has partners, suppliers in respect of developing tailor-made systems to meet and customers in many countries. On that account, we Norway’s particular needs. KONGSBERG has developed must also comply with other countries’ export control high-tech defence systems that are also important in an regulations in connection both with re-exports from international context. Our deliveries are subject to stringent Norway and exports from the countries in which we export regulations. operate. It is a fact that the most extreme consequence of defence systems is that they will enable people to take lives. Oil, gas and the merchant marine Thus we face a number of dilemmas, ranging from the place About half our Group is involved in the oil, gas and shipping of war in resolving conflicts between sovereign states, to industries, all of which face challenges related to green­ the responsibility for ensuring that our soldiers get the best house gas emissions. The global demand for energy as possible equipment when they are sent into armed actions. well as for transportation is growing, and even though We are aware of the special responsibility that rests on us alternative energy carriers are moving into the market as a defence supplier. rapidly, oil and gas will continue to be the most important energy carriers for many years. KONGSBERG’s systems The export of defence materiel and products are largely related to optimisation, safety, the Norway’s rules for the export of defence materiel are operation and control of machinery, production processes among the most stringent in the world. The Storting has and equipment. We deliver systems and services that resolved that defence products can only be sold to prefacilitate the efficient use of resources, more efficient sailing approved countries. Transparency regarding the export routes and safer operation of complex vessels and installa­ of defence materiel is an important principle in Norway. tions. In so doing, we contribute to improvements in We consistently comply with the requirements posed by industries that play an important part in advancing global the Norwegian Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the application development. process, reporting and statistics. Export control implies that defence materiel, technology and services can only be exported with an export licence issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. There are two reasons for controlling exports: 1) to ensure that the export of defence materiel from Norway takes place in compliance with Norwegian security and defence policy. 2) to ensure that the export of multi-purpose products does not contribute to the spread of weapons of mass Category A material comprises weapons and ammunition. destruction (nuclear, chemical and biological weapons). Category B material is other military materiel. Multi-purpose products are civilian goods, technologies and services that could potentially be used for military purposes. KONGSBERG • Sustainability Report 2013 15 2 Introduction 16 Sustainable innovation 21 What have we achieved? 27 Systems of governance and key figures SUSTAINABLE INNOVATION GREEN SHIPPING MARITIME SIMULATORS INTEGRATED ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING WIND POWER This chapter showcases some examples of sustainable innovation 16 KONGSBERG • Sustainability Report 2013 2 Introduction 16 Sustainable innovation 21 What have we achieved? 27 Systems of governance and key figures GREEN SHIPPING Stricter requirements for green shipping ”Our marine automation systems offer functionalities that help reduce fuel consumption and thus emissions.” Ketil O. Paulsen Technical Director, Merchant Marine Division, Kongsberg Maritime New legislation and regulations pose far stricter systems that render visible the extent of optimal requirements for environment-friendly shipping. operation of the vessel. The systems gauge fuel Shipowners and suppliers alike have realised this. consumption, comparing it against cargo condi­ One central factor for ensuring greener shipping tions, speed, wind and weather on a given leg. involves raising aware­ness about optimal opera­ This also provides support for making the right tions to minimise vessels’ emissions. Doing this decisions for optimal operations. requires training of the crew, a change of attitude and new technology. Why is this considered sustainable? ”Kongsberg Maritime has taken part in ”Our technology automates, regulates and a project known as Energy Management in optimises operations when the human factor Prac­tice (EMIP) along ship­owners, educational is not enough. Our marine automation systems communities and systems suppliers to take a offer functionality that helps reduce fuel con­ closer look at energy ef­fi­ci­ency. Here, it was sumption and thus environmental pollution. concluded that training and consciousnessAreas of focus include control of the main raising play key roles in optimising vessel opera­ engine, power production, route planning and tions”, says Ketil O. Paulsen, technical director at dynamic positioning. In-depth training combined Kongsberg Maritime in Horten. with consciousness-raising will lead to greener Changing attitudes and routines is, however, shipping over time”, reports Paulsen. time-consuming, and systems to follow-up the new knowledge will be important. Kongsberg Maritime has developed metering and support KONGSBERG • Sustainability Report 2013 17 2 Introduction 16 Sustainable innovation 21 What have we achieved? 27 Systems of governance and key figures MARITIME SIMULATORS Training = safer operations ”Expertise mitigates the danger of accidents and thereby also the danger of environmental damage.” Tone-Merete Hansen, Global Sales Manager at Kongsberg Maritime Simulation The need to prepare crew members to cope with simulated reality for nearly half a century.” difficult situations is what motivates Kongsberg It has been a long road to today’s maritime Maritime to develop world-class simulators. simulators which give such a vivid impression of Simulators are used to plan and prepare for standing on a ship’s bridge that they can trigger demanding real-life operations. They make it seasickness. Today Kongsberg Maritime possible to identify difficult aspects of an op­er­­ Simulation is among the world’s largest suppliers ation in advance and to avoid making mistakes, of maritime simulators. thus saving time and resources and reducing the danger of accidents, according to Tone-Merete ”Why is this considered sustainable?” Hansen, Global Sales Manager for Kongsberg ”Realistic simulator training facilitates safer, more Maritime Simulation. efficient operations. Simulator training to test ”K-Sim Offshore enables us to perform and practice procedures before a demanding complete, integrated training scenarios, including operation is an important safety measure with navigation, crane lifts, anchor handling, man­ a view to reducing damage to equipment and oeuv­­­ring in close proximity to other vessels, injuries to personnel. Expertise mitigates the drilling operations, reloading and emergency danger of accidents and thereby also the danger situations. The crew can plan operations ahead of environmental damage. Another environmen­ of time and test procedures and communica­ tal dividend is less fuel consumption and less tions. That better prepares the crew to handle wear and tear on equipment since simulator routine situations, and to cope with real-life training contributes to more efficient opera­ crises. Kongsberg Maritime has been pioneering tions”, concludes Tone-Merete Hansen. 18 KONGSBERG • Sustainability Report 2013 2 Introduction 16 Sustainable innovation 21 What have we achieved? 27 Systems of governance and key figures INTEGRATED ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING Sensing chemicals ”By combining real-time environmental data and operating data, it will be easier to discover spills and act immediately. The sensing units can measure physical, biological and chemical data.” Ludvine Le Granvalet and Kaare Finbak Kongsberg Oil & Gas Technologies Oil and gas production in vulnerable areas is measure physical, biological and chemical data. active handling of them. IEM will give operational about to become safer. In close cooperation with We are talking about cameras, acoustic sensors personnel from several disciplines a better Statoil, KONGSBERG is developing an innovative and equipment with sniffers that can sense picture of the risk associated with operations system for environmental monitoring under chemical components”, states Kaare Finbak of offshore and decision-support needed to reduce water. Kongsberg Oil & Gas Technologies. this in routine operations”, comments Ludvine Le ”It is common today to monitor the environ­ Integrated Environmental Monitoring is a Granvalet of Kongsberg Oil & Gas Technologies. ment by ship every third year and to get a report collaborative project between Statoil, Kongsberg nine months later. This provides good document­ Maritime Subsea, Kongsberg Oil & Gas Tech­ ation of environment status, but it does not give nologies, IBM and Det Norske Veritas, where the operator an opportunity to take initiatives Statoil is the customer. IEM is the world’s first early to reduce adverse effects on the environ­ environmental monitoring project in which a ment”, states Knut Rostad, communication number of components are tested at the same manager at Statoil. time in an online sensor system and integrated Now, Statoil, KONGSBERG and others have as part of routine operations. joined forces to develop a system to monitor the environment around the installations in real time. Why is this considered sustainable? Based on a number of sensors, it should be ”IEM will help ensure that the oil and gas indus­ possible to detect emissions as early as possible. try can operate more safely through real-time ”By combining real-time environmental data monitoring of the effect of offshore operations and operating data, it will be easier to discover on biological resources in the ocean and on the spills and act immediately. The sensing units can seabed, early detection of emissions and pro­ KONGSBERG • Sustainability Report 2013 19 2 Introduction 16 Sustainable innovation 21 What have we achieved? 27 Systems of governance and key figures WIND POWER Taking wind power a step further ”Our goal is to make a system that gives a complete overview of what is happening in the wind park. The product will be ready for the first tests in the latter half of 2014.” Kristian Holm, General Manager Wind In 2012, KONGSBERG embarked on the wind The system combines several internal and power market in an effort to take better ex­ter­nal sources, as well as statistics and history advantage of the wind potential in a wind park. to improve the weather forecasts for each wind KONGSBERG already delivers monitoring and park. This makes it easier to predict how much systems to the maritime sector. Many of the energy the wind park can produce at any given same principles apply to managing and controll­ time. ing a wind park, according to Kristian Holm, ”Our goal is to make a system that gives a General Manager Wind. complete overview of what is happening in the ”Our Wind Farm Management System is in park. The product will be ready for the first tests principle a collection of separate products that in the latter half of 2014.” focus on aspects of efficiency improvement. In a total system, they act together to give wind park Why is this considered sustainable? operators the best possible performance at the ”Wind power is definitely a sustainable way to lowest possible cost. The Wind Farm Manage­ produce energy. Our goal is to help lower costs ment System keeps track of the status of each related to the production of wind power. We individual windmill, and gives an overview of will thereby help ensure that more renewable their status and maintenance requirements. The energy can be produced by more sustainable system integrates all the requisite parameters to wind power development projects. Besides enhance wind park operations by optimising solar power, wind power is the form of energy energy production and minimising wear and tear experiencing the most rapid global growth.” on the equipment. 20 KONGSBERG • Sustainability Report 2013 2 Introduction 16 Sustainable innovation 21 What have we achieved? 27 Systems of governance and key figures WHAT HAVE WE ACHIEVED? AREAS OF FOCUS 2013-2014 Policy for Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility Anti-corruption Human rights and workers’ rights Climate challenge Sustainability and corporate social responsibility in the supply chain KONGSBERG • Sustainability Report 2013 21 2 Introduction 16 Sustainable innovation 21 What have we achieved? 27 Systems of governance and key figures AREA OF FOCUS 2013–2014 Policy for Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility The Group’s Policy for Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility is generally based on a perspective that incorporates opportunities and risks, where global megatrends are important strategic drivers. Our position What have we achieved? Technological innovation is a key element for resolving In 2013, we engaged in an extensive strategic process that the serious global challenges facing the earth. For also included an analysis of global megatrends and the KONGSBERG, this offers business opportunities in several opportunities for innovation they entail. markets, seen in the light of our broad technology base and The Group has developed governance documents and competency platform. risk-based action plans within the various themes related to corporate social responsibility. The business areas complete Our challenges and report on risk-based initiatives twice each year. The Group’s work with sustainability and corporate social responsibility is an integral part of the Group’s other Our ambitions strategic processes. The work is based on the challenges Our policy identifies the direction for the perspective of facing the Earth with a view to climate change and short­ opportunities and the perspective of risk. Our ambitions ages of important resources such as energy, as well as food include exploiting our technological expertise in a rapidly safety, access to clean water, the loss of biological diversity, growing ”green” market, and we will act in a socially urbanisation, etc. responsible manner. Risk and opportunities linked to global megatrends will be analysed and taken into account in the The perspective of opportunities: Meeting the anticipated strategic decisions we take. This will be a continuous challenges of the future will call for the use of sophisticated process in the years ahead. technology. In the course of our work with innovation and For a complete overview of the Group’s policy for the further development of our technology, the opportuni­ sustainability and corporate social responsibility, see ties generated by this trend will furnish stimulus for www.kongsberg.com. important drivers. The perspective of risk: The anticipated development will also pose challenges to our own operations, and we are trying to stay a step ahead through energy conservation and other specific measures. In addition, our ”licence to operate”, i.e. the right to conduct our business relative to the traditional themes in CSR constitutes an ongoing risk that is taken into consideration in our strategic planning. 22 KONGSBERG • Sustainability Report 2013 2 Introduction 16 Sustainable innovation 21 What have we achieved? 27 Systems of governance and key figures AREA OF FOCUS 2013–2014 Anti-corruption ”Corruption is a serious risk for Norwegian companies operating at the international level. It can lead to punitive reactions and the loss of contracts, and destroy reputations. Moreover, corruption is destructive for innovation, entrepreneurship, market mechanisms and financial stability, all of which are the very fabric of business and industry. Transparency is decisive for preventing and exposing corruption.” Transparency International Norge Our position What have we achieved? KONGSBERG has no tolerance for corruption. Our attitude We have developed a series of guidelines for our business to corruption is expressed clearly through the corporate conduct: the most important with a view to anti­-­corruption Code of Ethics adopted in 2003, our affiliation with the UN are the rules for gifts and entertainment, sponsorship, the Global Compact and the OECD’s Guidelines for Multina­ signing and follow up of agreements with market repre­ tional Enterprises, and our membership of Transparency sentatives (agents) and supplier conduct. Over the past International. The Board and executive management devote few years, we have further developed the Group’s com­ considerable attention to this work. pliance system, placing emphasis on com­pliance being a line responsibility and part of day-to-day operations. Important Our challenges initiatives include training and notific­ation routines, as KONGSBERG operates in both the defence industry and described in the report’s section on values and ethics. the oil and gas industry, which, according to Transparency In addition, we regularly perform in-house inspections to International, are two of the sectors that are most suscept­ ensure compliance with our Code of Ethics in connection ible to corruption. Our operations include the use of agents with the use of market representatives (agents), including and market representatives. The use of third parties is control of payments. Anti-corruption is an area in which generally known to entail a high risk of corruption, so we we maintain continuous focus on prevention, risk mitigation pay special attention to this part of our anti-corruption measures and the identification of any non-compliance. programme. We have implemented a set of in-house regulations for signing and following up agreements with Our ambitions market representatives. It is based on assessments of the We base our efforts on systematic risk assessments, market representative’s ethical standards, reputation, etc., internal controls and reporting. We will continue to develop risk assessments of the industry, country and enterprise, our training programme and revise our corporate code of integrity due diligence, an approval proced­ure for and use ethics, as well as further develop in-house guidelines for of standard terms of business, and control of payments, due diligence in connection with our business partners. as well as follow up during the term of the agreement, including training and the possibility of audits. Charge, corruption case – Romania The activity at issue in Romania was concluded Our anti-corruption guide can be downloaded (see also page 5) in 2008. We have worked systematically to at www.kongsberg.com. We will re-evaluate The issues covered by the charge involve the further develop our anti-corruption programme, our anti-corruption programme in the light of use of market representatives, and originate especially since 2009. Rules, routines and the charge, ensuring that any necessary with the agreements signed before Norway’s practices have been implemented to recognise measures are implemented. corruption legislation was amended in 2003. events that might indicate corruption. KONGSBERG • Sustainability Report 2013 23 2 Introduction 16 Sustainable innovation 21 What have we achieved? 27 Systems of governance and key figures AREA OF FOCUS 2013–2014 Human rights and workers’ rights The Group’s international activities make us susceptible to problems related to human rights and worker’s rights, either directly through our own businesses or indirectly through our value chain. This means that we must be sure that we do not fail to comply with current international guidelines. Our position Child labour and compulsory labour KONGSBERG supports human and workers’ rights inter alia The Group’s own activities are of such a nature that issues through our affiliation with the UN Global Compact and the related to child labour and forced and compulsory labour are ILO (International Labour Organization) conventions. Our believed to be of little relevance. We are working to survey attitudes to human and workers’ rights are also expressed in the situation in the value chain. There have been no reports our corporate Code of Ethics and our Policy for Sustainabil­ of cases involving these topics. ity and Cor­porate Social Responsibility. The use of security personnel at the international level Our challenges We use security personnel in the areas in which we consider We have needed to improve our routines to be able to it necessary. Thus far, the scope of this has been very document systematic efforts linked to compliance with limited. human and workers’ rights. Our Policy for Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility states that we are to have Indigenous rights routines for the analysis, verification, reporting and follow The Group has not been involved in any violations of up of possible breaches of human rights. In 2013, internal indigenous rights. governance documents were drawn up to deal with this. The new systems of governance will take effect in 2014. Suppliers The follow up of human and workers’ rights in the supplier What have we achieved? chain complies with current in-house procedures. SelfIn 2013, we conducted an audit related to corporate declar­a­tions and audits are important tools in these efforts. social responsibility at Corporate Services. Compliance with human rights and workers’ rights was part of the audit. Our ambitions No non-compliance was found in relation to these topics. We comply with international standards for human and We are now in the process of drawing up routines to track workers’ rights as expressed in our corporate Code of Ethics ”Conflict Minerals” in the Group’s products. and our Policy for Sustainability and Corporate Social Re­ sponsibility. In developing governance documents, we have Discrimination patterned our work after the ”UN Guiding Principles on In 2013, one notification was received that involved Business and Human Rights”. discrimination, among other things. The case was handled In early 2014, we plan to complete revisions that include in accordance with our guidelines. Our corporate Code of focus on human and workers’ rights at several of our Ethics states: “We do not accept discrimination of any kind.” international business activities. These audits are a link in an Further, it states that we are strongly opposed to any kind ongoing process to audit the Group’s activities with a view of human trafficking. This includes the procurement of to sustainability and corporate social responsibility. sexual services. During the same period, there are plans to arrange in-house courses linked to human and workers’ rights. 24 KONGSBERG • Sustainability Report 2013 2 Introduction 16 Sustainable innovation 21 What have we achieved? 27 Systems of governance and key figures AREA OF FOCUS 2013–2014 The climate challenge Global warming is one of the most serious threats facing the Earth. According to the UN’s Inter­governmental Panel on Climate Change, temperatures may rise by more than 4°C. by 2100 if emissions continue at the same rate, but growth must be kept below 2°C. compared with pre-­ industrial temperatures to avoid dangerous climate changes. The report also shows that is is possible to prevent the worst consequences if we can agree on rapid and deep cuts in our emissions.*) Our position What have we achieved? KONGSBERG has no activities of its own that cause serious The Group has several product areas that have positive en­ emissions to air or water. The Group’s growth in recent vironmental impacts in a variety of ways. See the discussion years nonetheless means that our total footprint on the in the chapter on ”Sustainable Innovation”. environment has increased. Reducing greenhouse gas In 2013, the Group improved the reporting platform for the emissions is essential for several reasons: climate and environmental accounts, since more locations • We feel that we have a moral responsibility to future are reporting and the sources being reported on have been generations to leave the earth in a sustainable state. expanded. There are still some elements that are not includ­ • From a more operational perspective, it is important for ed in our climate and environmental accounts, e.g. em­issions KONGSBERG to have a ‘licence to operate’, meaning related to the transport of goods and property. We will strive that we are accepted, and allowed to engage in opera­ to survey this part of our global footprint as well. tions by our stakeholders. The Climate Accounts indicate that our CO2 emissions are • Lower energy consumption reduces our direct expenses on the rise in actual fact and in relative terms (metric and makes us less vulnerable to rising energy prices and tonnes/MNOK), compared with 2012 and relative to 2010, fluctuations in the energy markets. the baseline year for the target figures. Otherwise, more • Lower emissions of greenhouse gases make us less details are provided on pages 30–31. vulnerable to any future regimes for pricing such emissions (taxation, quota regimes or the like.). Our ambitions KONGSBERG aspires to attain its long-term business Our challenges objectives in a manner that contributes as little as possible Air travel accounted for some 56 per cent of our CO2 to global warming. We will accomplish this by: emissions in 2013. In this year’s report, some travel ordered • Reducing direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions from our foreign units has been included in the figures. from own operations; Travel is an important part of the Group’s operations and • Finding product solutions that can reduce our customers’ we face a challenge with a view to reducing this type of greenhouse gas emissions; emissions. • Using environmental profiles as one of several assessment Our targets for reducing emissions are relative, meaning criteria when choosing suppliers. that as we grow, actual emissions may increase even though We will work systematically to reduce energy consumption we reach our targets for relative reductions in emissions. and emissions of greenhouse gases, with special focus on This is a dilemma in relation to the global challenge being an products, infrastructure and transportation. actual reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. Goals for the period from 2012–2015 The Group aspires to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases by at least 10 per cent from 2012 to 2015 (relative to sales), compared with the baseline year 2010. *) Source: Ministry of Defence’s website KONGSBERG • Sustainability Report 2013 25 2 Introduction 16 Sustainable innovation 21 What have we achieved? 27 Systems of governance and key figures AREA OF FOCUS 2013–2014 Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility in the supply chain Sustainability and corporate social responsibility in the supply chain is a question of suppliers’ relationship to ethical guidelines, human rights, workers’ rights, anti-corruption, the climate and the environment. We are of the opinion that systematic, good work with corporate social responsibility is a moral imperative. At the same time, such work reduces our risk and improves the quality of the products we buy. Our position What have we achieved? Large parts of our added value are created outside Norway. We have drawn up principles and systems of governance This means we are an important player in many local for how we would like our suppliers to deal with issues communities the world over. That implies an obligation. related to sustainability and corporate social responsibility, Basically, we take responsibility for ensuring that the entire and how we will follow this up. value chain associated with the Group’s products complies In 2013, we completed extensive in-house training with our standards. However, there are often practical and programmes for quality auditors to enable them to conduct financial limitations to how far down the value chain it is corporate social responsibility audits. practical to follow up. We try to resolve this challenge by We are also conducting a project aimed at a selection of setting standards for the first link in the supply chain, which Norwegian suppliers for our defence activities. Corporate in turn imposes similar standards on its first link, and so on. social responsibility is the theme of the project, which is Where country risk, product risk, self-declarations or other being carried out in collaboration with Innovation Norway. factors indicate that there may be significant risk attached to several links, we will nonetheless handle the follow up. Our ambitions One main principle is that we will collaborate with suppliers Our challenges to seek continuous improvement. The goal is to ensure that There is still work to be done before we can claim to have a elements that do not meet the standards to which we completely adequate overview of the risk inherent in the aspire will be adapted and improved through dialogue. supply chain. This entails, inter alia, that we must spend Further, we must ensure that we maintain close control of more resources on corporate social responsibility audits risk. We also aspire to collaborate with other companies to among our suppliers. In addition, we must take initiatives to enhance expertise and the quality of this work and to make eliminate any non-compliance relative to the requirements it as rational and efficient as possible. we pose. These processes are, however, ongoing in the corporate units that deal with suppliers. Conflict minerals are minerals that are countries (Angola, Burundi, the Central which ”conflict minerals”, if any, are used extracted from and sold from countries African Republic, Rwanda, South Sudan, in their products, in which products, engaged in conflicts. The mineral sales Tanzania, Uganda and Zambia). The most where the minerals originated and in are largely used to finance armed important conflict minerals are: Tantalum, which part of the value chain the conflicts, oppression and violence in gold, tin and tungsten. As a result of the minerals are brought in. KONGSBERG is respect of local populations. This is a Dodd Frank Act adopted in the USA in in the process of developing routines for particular problem in the Democratic 2010, and the OECD guidelines, com­ compliance with the expectations Republic of Congo and its neighbouring panies are expected to be able to report described above. 26 KONGSBERG • Sustainability Report 2013 2 Introduction 16 Sustainable innovation 21 What have we achieved? 27 Systems of governance and key figures SYSTEMS OF GOVERNANCE AND KEY FIGURES KONGSBERG • Sustainability Report 2013 27 2 Introduction 16 Sustainable innovation 21 What have we achieved? 27 Systems of governance and key figures VALUES AND ETHICS KONGSBERG’s values and Code of Ethics express our basic attitudes and indicate how we ought to show our fundamental respect for and relate to colleagues, customers, suppliers and society-at-large. They determine how we conduct our operations, and they apply regardless of where, when and which of our employees is doing business. This must be understood by all employees, contributing to a strong corporate culture that will help prevent irregularities. Well integrated values and ethical guidelines are an important element of our risk management. Our values Determined Innovative Collaborative Reliable (intent, resolute, goal-oriented) (unconventional, pioneering) (cooperative, network-oriented) (dependable, trustworthy) We are known for our drive and Always performing better is a vital Collaboration is fundamental to our Our customers and partners can trust persistence. We always strive to meet part of who we are. We constantly business. We exchange ideas among KONGSBERG to deliver, always. our customers’ expectations. We set innovate and implement improve­ ourselves, with our suppliers and Dealing with KONGSBERG means ambitious goals for ourselves and we ments in all parts of our business partners, and with our customers. We dealing with reliable people, a reliable are driven towards them with a clear – from our products, through our work as teams, we share know­ledge corporation and reliable products. and constant focus. processes, to our customers’ and we value team success – to the KONGSBERG is a responsible organi­ experiences. benefit of our customers and our own sation characterised by integrity and What we start, we finish. competitiveness. concern for health, safety and the We do not give in. We relentlessly pursue environment. improvements, new ideas and new We collaborate as individuals and as solutions. an organisation. We are reliable people. We are responsible citizens. Our corporate Code of Ethics always had the right to express their concerns, and a duty KONGSBERG’s corporate Code of Ethics applies to the to do so if there is a question of a violation of laws, rules Group’s directors, management, employees, casual em­ or our corporate Code of Ethics. KONGSBERG will not ployees, consultants, market representatives (agents), tolerate that a person who blows the whistle is subject to lobbyists and others who act on behalf of KONGSBERG. reprisals/negative reactions. See more details on Our Code of Ethics emphasises that all employees and the www.kongsberg.com Group’s Board of Directors must maintain high ethical The Group has two ombudsmen who can provide advice standards when performing their duties. The Group has and receive reports from employees. Internal and external developed special guidelines for its suppliers. questions about ethics, whistleblowing, etc., may be directed to the Group’s compliance officer by sending an Updating our corporate Code of Ethics e-mail to: ethics@kongsberg.com. The corporate Code of Ethics is updated to stay abreast of In 2013, we received and dealt with three expressions national and international developments and it is revised at of concerns. least every second year. In January 2012, we set up a website-based reporting channel for our employees in the US and Canada. The In-house training website address is https://kongsberg.alertline.com/ All our new employees go through a training programme based on the Group’s Code of Ethics. The programme was Sanctions updated in 2012, and consists of an e-learning course, and The Group has not been fined or subject to other types of classroom courses for new employees and line supervisors. sanctions in 2013 as a result of anti-competitive business In addition, a complex training programme has also been practices or failure to comply with legislation or regulations. further developed in the field of ethics, business-related The National Authority for Investigation and Prosecution behaviour and special topics for selected target groups. of Economic and Environmental Crime in Norway (Økokrim) has filed charges against the company, alleging corruption. Notification of concerns For more details, see page 5 and page 23. The Group has special routines for notification of any breach of the corporate Code of Ethics. Employees have 28 KONGSBERG • Sustainability Report 2013 2 Introduction 16 Sustainable innovation 21 What have we achieved? 27 Systems of governance and key figures ORGANISATION AND SYSTEMS OF GOVERNANCE KONGSBERG’s overall system of governance is based on the ‘Norwegian Code of Practice for Corporate Governance’. The following is an overview of systems of governance and organisation related to sustainability and corporate social responsibility. ANNUAL GENERAL The Annual General Meeting (AGM) is the Group’s supreme governing body. Here, the MEETING shareholders can influence how corporate social responsibility is practiced at KONGSBERG. The corporate Board of Directors bears the ultimate responsibility for KONGSBERG’s ethical THE BOARD OF behaviour and contribution to sustainable development. The Board of Directors adopts the DIRECTORS Group’s Code of Ethics and the Policy for Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility, and the Sustainability Report is discussed and approved by the Board. Corporate Executive Management bears the ultimate responsibility for the Group’s strategy, THE CEO AND CORPORATE development and day-to-day work. The CEO is responsible for the content of the corporate EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Policy for Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility being followed up, complied with and integrated into the Group’s routine strategic planning. Business Areas The business areas are responsible for follow up and compliance with policy, targets and governance documents related to sustainability and corporate social responsibility. The practical aspects of the work are usually handled by the four business areas, with support from the Corporate Centre. Ethics Council The Group’s Ethics Council is to help raise ethical awareness, ensuring good behaviour and KONGSBERG’s good reputation. The Ethics Council’s mandate is to deal with cases of a principle nature and questions about policies and provisions. The composition of the Ethics Council is subject to Board approval. Forum for Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility The Forum is a link between the business areas, Corporate Centre and Corporate Executive Management on questions related to sustainability and corporate social responsibility. The main responsibility is to help promote, further develop and coordinate the Group’s efforts in this field. Council for Climate and the Environment The Council is a link between the business areas, Corporate Services and Corporate Executive Management in respect of questions about climate and the environment. The main respons­ ibility is to help promote, further develop and coordinate the Group’s efforts in this field. The Council for Following up Corporate Social Responsibility in the Supply Chain The Council is responsible for promoting and further developing the Group’s work with corporate social responsibility in the supply chain, for ensuring coordinated skills upgrading, risk assessment and the coordination of audits. Business Conduct Review Board KONGSBERG has comprehensive guidelines for how we are to comport ourselves in business situations. The guidelines are adopted by the Board, then the Business Conduct Review Board, which is the Group’s compliance forum, has the main responsibility for ensuring compliance. KONGSBERG • Sustainability Report 2013 29 2 Introduction 16 Sustainable innovation 21 What have we achieved? 27 Systems of governance and key figures CLIMATE AND ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTS 2013 The Group improved the basis for its climate and environmental accounts in 2013 by reporting on more locations and from more sources. Our footprint on the outdoor environment has expanded, even when taking this into account. We will analyse this trend and determine both the objective for the future and which measures might be appropriate. The Climate and Environmental Accounts give an overview of KONGSBERG’s consumption of power and water, The accounts for 2013 indicate some major changes relative to 2012 in energy use and CO2 emissions. This is mainly emissions of CO2 and production of waste. The accounts because: cover all Norwegian entities, all production units and all • More units are being reported larger offices outside Norway. • Increased activity • More energy use at heating plant at Kongsberg Technology Park • Large parts of flights purchased abroad are being included in the CO2 accounts for the first time. Energy In connection with production and office activities, KONGSBERG KONGSBERG’s total energy consumption was about 11 per cent consumes energy in the form of electricity, district heating, gas and higher in 2013 than in 2012. The main reason for this increase was fuel oil. Kongsberg Technology Park provides district heating for the consumption of more electricity by Kongsberg Maritime (16 per enterprises located in the technology parks in Kongsberg. District cent increase) due to a generally higher level of activity and more heating is produced using electricity, fuel oil, gas and heat recovery. production, in addition to more energy consumption at the heating Roughly half of the district heating was supplied to other centre in Kongsberg Technology Park (up 14 per cent). Several new enterprises in the technology park. units were included for Kongsberg Oil & Gas Technologies, which saw an aggregate increase of 2.2 GWh (162 per cent). Energy consumption (GWh) Energy consumption (GWh) Type of energy Business area Change, past year 2013 2012 2011 120 Remote heating 100 Kongsberg Maritime 16% 34.5 29.7 25.5 80 (external) Kongsberg Defence Systems 2% 46.2 45.4 44.2 60 Oil and gas Kongsberg Protech Systems 5% 10.1 9.6 9.6 40 Heat recovery Kongsberg Oil & Gas Techn.2) 162% 3.5 1.3 1.2 20 0 Electricity Kongsberg Teknologipark1) 14% 32.8 28.7 28.3 2011 2012 2013 Total 11% 127.0 114.7 108.9 Figure 1: Total energy consumption (GWh) for KONGSBERG. District heating 1) Includes the production of district heating provided to enterprises outside produced by Kongsberg Technology Park is included in the figures for electricity and KONGSBERG. oil and gas, as well as heat recovery. District heating (external) refers to district 2) Kongsberg Oil & Gas Technologies has included several new locations and heating delivered to KONGSBERG from external suppliers. acquisitions in its reports. This led to a steep relative rise in percentages. 120 120 100 100 80 80 60 60 Fjernvarme (ekstern) Olje og gass 40 25 000 40 Varmegjenvinning 20 20 Elektrisitet 0 20 000 0 30 KONGSBERG • Sustainability Report 2013 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 15 000 1. kv 2. kv. 3. kv. 4. kv. 2 Introduction 16 Sustainable innovation 21 What have we achieved? 27 Systems of governance and key figures CO2 emissions KONGSBERG’s CO2 emissions have been calculated as recommend­ 2013 and was ascribable to several new units being included in the ed by the ‘Greenhouse Gas Protocol’ published by the World business area’s reports. Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and World Resources Institute (WRI). Since 2010, emissions from national and Emissions of CO2 Baseline international flights booked in Norway have been included. From Change, year 2013, the accounts also include the majority of flights booked Metric tonnes 1) past year 2013 2012 2010 outside of Norway. The environmental accounts encompass the following sources of Scope 1 (Direct emissions) 18% 1 179 1 004 4 869 CO2 emissions: Oil & Gas (business area) 585 512 560 • Direct emissions (Scope 1): Emissions from the use of fuel oil Oil and gas and gas to heat buildings, as well as from the production of (Kongsberg Teknologipark) 594 492 4 308 district heating at Kongsberg Technology Park. Scope 2 (Indirect emissions) 18% 9 921 8 393 6 193 • Indirect emissions from electricity (Scope 2): Emissions from Electricity (business area) 8 244 7 371 5 551 the consumption of electricity or district heating from external Electricity suppliers. (Kongsberg Teknologipark) 1 486 865 513 • Emissions from air travel (Scope 3): Emissions from national District heating from external and international flights booked in Norway and abroad. The supplier 191 157 130 environmental accounts for 2013 are not directly comparable to Scope 3 (Other emissions) 39% 14 194 10 182 8 944 those for 2012, as air travel ordered at our locations outside Flights purchased in Norway 10 588 10 182 8 944 Norway was not included in 2012. Flights purchased outside CO2 emissions increased by 29 per cent in 2013 compared with the Norway 3 606 year before. The main reason for this is the expanded reporting of Sum 29% 25 370 19 579 20 005 air travel, which accounts for more than 2/3 of the increase from 2012. Relative to sales, emissions increased from 1.3 to 1.6 metric tonnes per MNOK from 2012 to 2013. Change in CO2 emissions from baseline year 2010 to 2013 Reported CO2 emissions increased by 26 per cent from the Baseline baseline year 2010 until 2013. The largest contribution to this was Actual year from Kongsberg Maritime, which saw an increase of 69 per cent Business area change 2013 2010 during the year. This increase includes air travel purchased abroad, which was Kongsberg Maritime 69% 14 132 8 341 reported in 2013 but not in 2010. The Group saw an increase of Kongsberg Defence Systems 18% 4 384 3 703 9 per cent, excluding air travel ordered abroad, and Kongsberg Kongsberg Protech Systems 12% 2 553 2 278 Maritime’s increase is similarly reduced to 35 per cent if air travel ordered abroad is excluded from the accounts. Kongsberg Oil & Gas Techn. 193% 1 882 642 Kongsberg Oil & Gas Technologies also reported a large increase Kongsberg Teknologipark (54%) 2 343 5 041 (193 per cent) during the year. Most of the rise came from 2012 to Total 26% 25 294 20 005 CO2 emissions (metric tonnes) CO2 emissions (metric tonnes)1 ) Type of emissions Business area Change, past year 2013 2012 2011 30 000 1.52 Air travel 25 000 1.32 Kongsberg Maritime 35% 14 132 10 459 9 987 20 000 1.25 Direct emissions Kongsberg Defence Systems 4% 4 384 4 218 4 662 15 000 Indirect emissions Kongsberg Protech Systems 8% 2 553 2 359 3 107 10 000 t/MNOK Kongsberg Oil & Gas Techn. 115% 1 882 874 1 019 5 000 0 Kongsberg Teknologipark2) 40% 2 343 1 669 3 972 2011 2012 2013 Total 29% 25 294 19 579 22 747 Figure 2: KONGSBERG’s CO2 emissions (metric tonnes). Emissions from the 1) Emissions from the production of district heating for inter-Group deliveries are consumption of fossil fuels to make district heating delivered by Kongsberg reported as emissions from Kongsberg Technology Park. As a result, emissions from Technology Park are shown as direct emissions. Indirect emissions include the the business areas do not include indirect emissions from district heating provided by consumption of electricity and district heating supplied to the business areas by Kongsberg Technology Park. external suppliers, as well as the consumption of electricity 120 for the production of 2 000 2) Includes the production of district heating provided to enterprises outside district heating at Kongsberg Technology Park. 100 KONGSBERG. 1 500 80 1 000 60 Flyreiser 500 Direkte utslipp 40 25 000 Indirekte utslipp 20 0 0 20 000 2010 2011 KONGSBERG • Sustainability Report 2013 2012 31 2010 2011 2012 15 000 1. kv 2. kv. 3. kv. 4. kv. 2 Introduction 16 Sustainable innovation 21 What have we achieved? 27 Systems of governance and key figures Waste KONGSBERG generates waste from production and from office In 2013, the total volume of KONGSBERG’s waste was roughly activities. Waste volumes are part of KONGSBERG’s in-house 8 per cent higher than in the preceding year. The amount of environmental reporting which covers generated waste broken recycled waste and residual waste increased while the amount of down by category of waste and waste for recycling divided by hazardous waste was reduced. recycling fractions. The relative waste production increased from 114.5 kilos per MNOK in 2012, compared with 115.6 kilos per MNOK in 2013. Waste (metric tonnes) Waste (metric tonnes) Type of waste Business area Change, past year 2013 2012 2011 2 000 Recycled waste Kongsberg Maritime 10% 1 383 1 262 885 1 500 Residual waste Kongsberg Defence Systems 5% 394 374 490 1 000 Hazardous waste Kongsberg Protech Systems (16%) 99 118 194 500 Kongsberg Oil & Gas Techn. 163% 39 15 9 0 Kongsberg Teknologipark 5% 20 15 44 2011 2012 2013 Total 8% 1 935 1 784 1 622 Figure 3: KONGSBERG’s total waste production (metric tonnes) 120 100 Water 80 Resirkulert avfall 60 Restavfall 40 25 000 Farlig avfall 20 0 20 000 2010 2011 2012 15 000 Water is the1.lifeblood kv of all kv. on earth.3.Itkv. 2. life is absolutely decisive to 4. kv. The UN’s World Water Development Report 3 points out that support the eco-systems and to balance the earth’s environment. initiatives 10 000 are needed urgently if we are to avert a global water Meanwhile, access to clean water is in short supply many places. crisis. Getting access to clean water 25 is000 and will increasingly become one of Population 5 000 growth, rising consumption and climatic change are 140 the main challenges facing sustainable 20 000 value creation. What is more, three of the main explanations for this serious situation. 0 Fjernvarme (ekstern) flooding and droughts are growing 15 000 global problems. KONGSBERG collected data on water consumption in 2013 from Olje og gass According to the UN, 1.1 billion 10 000 people, or 18 per cent of earth’s all the business areas. As reporting on water has not yet been fully Varmegjenvinning population, lack access to clean 5 000water today. implemented, onlyElektrisitet 31 locations reported their water consumption. None of the reporting units has specified the use of process water 0 thus far. Total reported water consumption was 115 968 m3. 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Water consumption (m ) 3 Business area 2013 Flyreiser Flyreiser Direkte utslipp Kongsberg Maritime 32 078 Indirekte utslipp Direkte utslipp Kongsberg Defence Systems 35 835 Indirekte utslipp Kongsberg Protech Systems 9 780 Kongsberg Oil & Gas Techn. 3 926 Kongsberg Teknologipark 34 350 Total 115 968 32 KONGSBERG • Sustainability Report 2013 2 Introduction 16 Sustainable innovation 21 What have we achieved? 27 Systems of governance and key figures TARGETS AND ACTIVITIES FOR SUSTAINABILITY AND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The Group gave even higher priority to the work with sustainability and corporate social responsibility in 2013 than the year before. This implies, among other things, that we put more focus on the areas we have targeted and ensure closer managerial follow up of them. This improves continuity and results. The activities marked with continue to be targets, but final implementation has been postponed somewhat. Activities marked with have been completed. All the activities will continue to be high-priority areas in 2013. What we said – targets and activities Targets for 2013 What we did – Status Per­formance Policy • Implement activities ensuing from our new • Assess projects associated • Analysed global megatrends set up against Policy for Sustainability and Corporate Social with opportunities and risks opportunities for innovation and product Responsibility, including assessing risks and development opportunities related to global megatrends • An analysis of the risk associated with global megatrends compared with a ‘licence to operate’ will be conducted of 2014 Anti-corruption • Further develop policies and routines • Revise/further develop • Completed: Follow up of market relevant policies and representatives (agents) routines • Started: IDD for joint ventures and teaming agreements • Conduct risk analyses, relevant action plans • Further develop the • Reviews of routines and internal controls in and audits to mitigate risk internal control system. the business areas and Corporate Services Conduct audits were conducted by external auditors with satisfactory results • Further develop and carry out training • Further develop and carry • Comprehensive training programme continuously out training completed Routines for • Remaining work associated with drawing up • Implement routines • Routines associated with the acquisition sustainability and implementing routines for skills building in associated with acquisi­ process was completed. Scheduled for and corporate connection with acquisitions, venture creation, tions. Draw up routines implementation in the early half of 2014. social product development, new buildings, other associated with the other Other routines will be drawn up the latter half responsi­bility proprietary activities, etc. areas of 2014 Human rights and • Formulate routines for analysis, control, and • Draw up and implement • Routines have been drawn up, workers’ rights reporting of possible violations of human rights routines implementation in the early half of 2014 Suppliers • Implement routines and processes for following • Implement • Routines and processes have been up suppliers with a view to corporate social implemented responsibility • Follow up the implementation of corporate • Selected high-risk suppliers • Fewer audits conducted than planned social responsibility audits and dialogue with suppliers Climate strategy • Follow up specific initiatives • Implement • Measures were partially implemented • Identify new initiatives related to the climate • Identify new initiatives • Certain new initiatives identified, for example, strategy and the policy for sustainability and Move the transport of goods from air to sea corporate social responsibility Establish a new testing artillery range with a strong environmental focus Stakeholder • Engage in systematic dialogue with stakehold­ • Implement • Some meetings were held – target indicators dialogue ers in relation to corporate social responsibility have not been developed KONGSBERG • Sustainability Report 2013 33 2 Introduction 16 Sustainable innovation 21 What have we achieved? 27 Systems of governance and key figures Targets – Corporate social responsibility 2014 The targets for 2014 will be in continuation of the areas of focus we addressed in 2013. What we said – targets and activities 1 year – 2014 3 years – 2016 5 years – 2018 Policy • Implement activities ensuing from our new • Assess business opportunities related to • Ongoing activities • Ongoing activities Policy for Sustainability and Corporate Social sustainable product development • Implement any • New analysis of our Responsibility, including assessing risks and • Analyse global megatrends in measures ensuing activities in the light opportunities related to global megatrends the light of our ”licence to operate” from the analysis of global megatrends Anti-corruption • Further develop policies and routines • Revise/further develop relevant policies and • Ongoing activities, • Ongoing activities, routines evaluate evaluate • External evaluation of the anti-corruption programme in the light of the charge related to the corruption case in Romania. • Conduct risk analyses, relevant action plans • Ongoing activities pursuant to action • Ongoing activities, • Ongoing activities, and audits to mitigate risk plans evaluate evaluate • Further develop and carry out training • Ongoing activities pursuant to the training • Ongoing activities, • Ongoing activities, continuously programme evaluate evaluate Routines for • Remaining work associated with drawing up • Implement routines associated • Ongoing activities, • Ongoing activities, sustainability and implementing routines for skills-building in with acquisitions evaluate evaluate and corporate connection with acquisitions, venture creation, Draw up other routines social product development, new buildings, other responsi­bility proprietary activities, etc. Human rights and • Formulate routines for analysis, control, and • Implement pursuant to action plans • Ongoing activities, • Ongoing activities, workers’ rights reporting of possible violations of human rights evaluate evaluate Suppliers • Implement routines and processes for following • Ongoing activities pursuant to action plans • Ongoing activities, • Ongoing activities, up suppliers with a view to corporate social evaluate evaluate responsibility • Follow up the implementation of corporate • Ongoing activities pursuant to action plans • Ongoing activities, • Ongoing activities, social responsibility audits and dialogue with evaluate evaluate suppliers Climate strategy • Follow up specific initiatives • Ongoing activities, and start working on • Implement new • Ongoing activities, new targets targets (2015) evaluate • Identify new initiatives related to the climate • The work will be carried out through 2014 strategy and the policy for sustainability and and 2015 corporate social responsibility • Improve reporting quality • Identify significant sources of climate effects • Introdue measures to reduce climate effects • Start the work to identify our products’ positive effects with a view to mitigating emissions Stakeholder • Engage in systematic dialogue with stakehold­ • Greater focus on this work in 2014 dialogue ers in relation to corporate social responsibility 34 KONGSBERG • Sustainability Report 2013 2 Introduction 16 Sustainable innovation 21 What have we achieved? 27 Systems of governance and key figures KEY SUSTAINABILITY FIGURES Financial value added MNOK 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Added value Payroll expenses 4 304 3 894 3 515 3 172 3 003 2 561 1 983 Share dividend 630 450 450 450 240 165 150 Interest to lenders 43 37 35 41 115 93 59 Retained earnings 595 854 980 1 050 558 422 836 Other key financial figures Goods and services purchased (approx.) 7 918 8 300 8 300 9 500 Financial support. Tax refund from the Norwegian tax authorities related to development projects 14 16 17 29 Taxes Norway 332 416 513 528 270 210 261 Rest of Europe 11 14 17 18 23 21 12 North and South America 55 32 24 26 19 26 10 Asia 21 43 24 25 29 17 10 Total 419 505 578 597 341 274 293 The Board of Directors will propose to the AGM a dividend for 2013 of NOK 5.25 (NOK 3.75) per share. The proposal entails NOK 4.25 per share in ordinary dividends and NOK 1 per share in extraordinary dividends to celebrate the Group’s 200th anniversary. If the proposal is adopted at the AGM on 9 May 2014, dividends will be paid as follows, provided the ownership structure is the same as at 28 February 2014: MNOK 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Dividends Norwegian State 315.0 225.0 225.0 225.0 120.0 82.5 75.0 Organisations/enterprises 111.8 90.6 97.4 97.6 56.4 40.4 36.3 Securities funds 63.7 47.1 45.2 48.4 27.6 16.9 16.5 Insurance/pension funds 34.0 25.0 25.0 24.4 12.5 9.5 9.9 Private individuals 29.2 20.9 19.9 20.2 12.0 7.3 6.6 Foreign owners 76.3 41.4 37.5 32.6 11.5 8.4 5.7 Total 630.0 450.0 450.0 450.0 240.0 165.0 150.0 Social investments MNOK 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Financial support to organisations, etc. 7.3 6.7 3.0 3.0 2.9 2.0 1.9 KONGSBERG • Sustainability Report 2013 35 2 Introduction 16 Sustainable innovation 21 What have we achieved? 27 Systems of governance and key figures Employees 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Level of education Master’s degree or more (%) 29 28 26 28 29 – of which, doctorates (PhD) 1 (2) Bachelor's degree (%) 34 36 35 35 33 Technicians (%) 14 14 14 11 12 Production workers % 11 10 12 13 13 Other 11 12 12 13 13 Number of employees Number of employees, total 7 493 7 259 6 681 5 681 5 423 5 243 4 205 Number of full-time employees 7 171 7 003 6 393 5 442 5 195 5 015 4 021 Number of part-time employees 322 256 286 239 228 228 184 Age Average age1) 41 40 42 42 42 42 41 Employees under age 30 (%) 21 22 21 19 19 17 15 Employees between ages 30 and 50 (%) 56 55 55 57 55 56 57 Employees over age 50 (%) 23 23 23 24 26 27 28 Percentage of women Women as a % of the number of employees 21,4 21,2 20,9 19,5 18,8 19,5 19,5 Women in managerial positions as a % of total managerial positions 21 19 14 13 15 13 13 Shareholder-elected women on the Board (%) 40 40 40 40 40 40 40 Turnover Turnover (employees who have resigned) 587 459 424 346 250 222 203 Turnover (%) 7.8 6.3 6.4 6.1 4.6 4.2 3.9 – Men 5.9 5.2 4.4 4.9 3.4 3.0 3.3 – Women 1.9 1.1 2.0 1.2 1.2 1.2 0.6 Health and safety 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Absence due to illness as a % of hours worked 2.5 2.4 2.2 2.5 2.6 2.4 2.4 Absence due to illness for the Norwegian companies 3.1 2.8 2.8 Number of recordable injuries per million hours (TRI)1) 3.69 1.48 1.67 6.3 5.5 3.5 Injury severity rate (number of days lost per one million man hours worked) (ISR)1) 15.55 13.6 1.07 22.3 58.2 5.6 Total number of injuries among employees 86 54 Total number of near-accidents among employees 158 78 Registered occupational diseases 0 0 Registered work-related fatalities 0 0 36 KONGSBERG • Sustainability Report 2013 2 Introduction 16 Sustainable innovation 21 What have we achieved? 27 Systems of governance and key figures Climate and the environment 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 CO2 emissions CO2 emissions (thousand metric tonnes)2)3) 25 370 19 953 22 747 20 005 12 980 7 801 6 809 Energy consumption Electricity (MWh)1) 94 802 79 218 77 625 66 256 57 053 46 895 40 627 Gas/oil (MWh) 4 601 6 092 13 257 12 968 21 324 14 464 14 164 District heating (MWh)1) 20 342 20 844 20 041 23 903 1 739 1 208 1 239 Energy consumption (MWh) per employee 16.0 14.6 16.6 18.2 15 12 14 Energy consumption (MWh/MNOK) 7.4 7.4 7.2 6.7 5.8 5.8 6.8 Waste (metric tonnes) Waste for recycling 1 251 1 202 1 191 1 330 827 717 662 Residual waste 550 223 131 265 594 511 402 Hazardous risk 133 358 300 177 52 28 58 1) As from 2010, the reported breakdown between Kongsberg Technology park and the business areas changed so that the figures are not directly comparable with previous years. 2) Since 2010, air travel has been included in the corporate environmental accounts. 3) Most of the flights ordered by our international locations are included in the CO2 accounts for 2013, accounting for a significant share of the increase from 2012 to 2013. KONGSBERG • Sustainability Report 2013 37 2 Introduction 16 Sustainable innovation 21 What have we achieved? 27 Systems of governance and key figures EXTERNAL REPORTING KONGSBERG also reports to various external organisations. We do this to ensure that the information we provide is structured, transparent and relevant in the light of international guidelines for reporting sustainability. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) GRI is a voluntary international framework for how companies should report on their work with corporate social responsibility and their vision and strategy for sustainable development. KONGSBERG has reported pursuant to the GRI index since 2004. FNs Global Compact The Global Compact is the UN’s initiative for cooperating with business and industry to promote sustainable development. The initiative was taken by then UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan in 1999. The principles consist of 10 points related to human rights, workers’ rights, the environment and anti-corruption. KONGSBERG joined the initiative in 2006. Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) CDP is an international framework that encourages companies to measure and reported externally on the company’s strategy in relation to climatic change and to publish the figures for the company’s emissions of greenhouse gases. KONGSBERG has reported to CDP since 2011. GLOBAL COMPACT Topic GC Principles Relevant GRI indicators* References 2013, page Human rights Principle 1 Support and respect the protection of internationally EC5, LA4, LA6–9; LA13–14, 12–13, 24, 26, 33–34, 36, proclaimed human rights HR1–9, SO5, PR1–2, PR8 GRI table Principle 2 Make sure the company is not complicit in human rights abuses HR1–9, SO5 12–13, 24, 26, 33–34 Workers’ rights Principle 3 Uphold the freedom of association and the right to LA4–5, HR1–3, HR5, SO5 12, 13, 24, 26, 33–34 collective bargaining Principle 4 Uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and HR1–3, HR7, SO5 24, 26 compulsory labour Principle 5 Abolish child labour HR1–3, HR6, SO5 24, 26 Principle 6 Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation EC7, LA2, LA13–14, HR1–4, SO5 12–13, 24, 26, 36, Environment Principle 7 Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges EC2, EN18, EN26, EN30, SO5 22–26, 25, 31 Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental EN1–30, SO5, PR3–4 17, 22–26, 25, 30–34, 37 responsibility Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally EN2, EN 5–7, EN 10, EN 18, 17, 22–26, 25, 31, 33 friendly technologies EN 26–27, EN30, SO5 Anti-corruption Principle 10 Work against corruption in all its forms, including SO2–6 5, 23, 26, 28, 33 extortion and bribery * UN Global Compact (2007), ”Making The Connection – The GRI Guidelines and the UNGC Communication on Progress”, page 15. For more information about Global Compact, see www.globalcompact.org 38 KONGSBERG • Sustainability Report 2013 2 Introduction 16 Sustainable innovation 21 What have we achieved? 27 Systems of governance and key figures GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE INDEX (GRI) On the following pages, we list the GRI indicators with references to where the topics are discussed in the report, whether they are wholly or partially answered in respect of GRI. For a complete description of the individual indicators, please see GRI’s website at www.globalreporting.org. Deloitte has verified that our Report on Corporate Social Responsibility is generally in compliance with GRI’s reporting principles and that the reporting satisfies level B+ pursuant to the guidelines, cf. the Auditor’s Report, page 43. NR = Not relevant NA = Not addressed PA = Partly addressed A = Annual Report Additional indicators are marked by (*) IndiSee IndiSee cator page(s) cator page(s) Profile 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any restate­ 2, 30-32 1 Strategy and analysis ments of information provided in earlier 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision4-5 reports, and the reasons for such re-state­ maker of the organization about the ment relevance of sustainability strategy 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting 2, 30-32 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and 4-5, 22-26 periods in the scope, boundary, or measure­ opportunities in relation to sustainability ment methods applied in the report 2 Organizational profile 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Stand­ 39-41 2.1 Name of the organization Cover ard Disclosures in the report (GRI Index) 2.2 Primary brands and products 6-7, 8-11 Third-party verification 2.3 Organization 6-7 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to 42 2.4 6-7, 8-11 seeking external assurance for the report Location of organization’s headquarters 4 Governance, commitments, and 2.5 Number of countries where the 8-11 engagement organization operates 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, 29, A 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 6 including committees under the highest 2.7 Markets served (including geographical 6-7, 8-11 governance body breakdown, sectors served and types of 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest A customers/beneficiaries) governance body is also an executive officer 2.8 Key numbers 35-37 4.3 State the number of members of the A 2.9 Significant changes regarding size, 2 highest governance body that are inde­ structure, or ownership pendent and/or non-executive members 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period None 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employ­ 29, A 3 Report parameters ees to provide recommendations or Report profile direction to the highest governance body 3.1 Reporting period for information provided 2 4.5 Linkage between compensation for A 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 2012 members of the highest governance body, 3.3 Reporting cycle Annual senior managers, and executives and the 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the 43 organization’s performance report or its contents 4.6 Processes in place for the highest A Report scope and boundary governance body to ensure conflicts of 3.5 Process for defining report content 2 interest are avoided 3.6 Boundary of the report 2 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications A 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope 2, 22-26, and expertise of the members of the or boundary of the report 30-32 highest governance body for guiding the 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, 2, 30-32 organization’s strategy on economic, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced environmental, and social topics operations, and other entities that can 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission 22-26, 28, significantly affect comparability from period or values, codes of conduct, and principles 33-34 to period and/or between organizations relevant to economic, environmental, and 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the 2, 30-32 social performance and the status of their bases of calculations implementation KONGSBERG • Sustainability Report 2013 39 2 Introduction 16 Sustainable innovation 21 What have we achieved? 27 Systems of governance and key figures IndiSee IndiSee cator page(s) cator page(s) 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance 2, 29, A EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending 22-26, 19, body for overseeing the organization’s on locally-based suppliers at significant 33 identification and management of economic, locations of operation* environmental, and social performance EC7 Procedures for local hiring and propor­ 13 (PA) 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest A tion of senior management hired from the governance body’s own performance, local community at locations of significant particularly with respect to economic, operation environmental, and social performance Indirect economic impacts Commitments to external initiatives EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure NA 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the 22, 38 investments and services provided primarily precautionary approach or principle is for public benefit through commercial, addressed by the organization in-kind, or pro bono engagement 4.12 Externally developed economic, environ2, 22-26, EC9 Understanding and describing significant NA mental, and social charters, principles, or 28, 38 indirect economic impacts, including the other initiatives to which the organization extent of impacts* subscribes or endorses Environmental performance indicators 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as 12, 23, 27, Management approach 4-5, 6, industry associations) and/or national/ 38 22-26, 25, international advocacy organizatons in 33-34 which the organization: Has positions in Materials governance bodies; Participates in projects EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 30-32 (PA) or committees; Provides substantive EN2 Percentage of materials used that are NA funding beyond routine membership recycled input materials Stakeholder engagement Energy 4.14 12-13, 14, EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary 30-32, 37 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the 22, 24, energy source organization 33-34 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary 30-32, 37 4.15 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the 2, 33 (PA) source (PA) organization Basis for identification and EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and NA selection of stakeholders with whom to efficiency improvements* engage EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or 17, 23 (PA) 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, 2, 33 (PA) renewable energy based products and including frequency of engagement by type services, and reductions in energy and by stakeholder group requirements as a result of these initiatives 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been 12-13, 14, EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy 25, 33 (PA) raised through stakeholder engagement, 24 consumption and reductions achieved* and how the organization has responded Water to those key topics and concerns, including EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 32 through its reporting EN9 Water sources significantly affected by NA Economic performance indicators withdrawal of water* Management approach 4-5, 22-26, EN10 Percentage and total volume of water NA 35-37 recycled and reused* Economic performance Biodiversity EC1 Direct economic value generated and 6-7, EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, NR distribut­ed, including revenues, operating 35-37, A managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas costs, employee compensation, donations and areas of high biodiversity value outside and other community investments, retained protected areas earnings, and payments to capital providers EN12 Description of significant impacts of activi­ NR and governments ties, products, and services on biodiversity EC2 Financial implications and other risks and 22-26, 25 in protected areas and areas of high biodi­ opportunities for the organization’s activiversity value outside protected areas ties due to climate change EN13 Habitats protected or restored* NR EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined A EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans NR benefit plan obligations for managing impacts on biodiversity* EC4 Significant financial assistance received 35 EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and NR from government national conservation list species with Market presence habitats in areas affected by operations, EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level 13 (PA) by level of extinction risk* wage compared to local minimum wage at Emissions, effluents and waste significant locations of operation* EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas 30-32, 37 emissions by weight 40 KONGSBERG • Sustainability Report 2013 2 Introduction 16 Sustainable innovation 21 What have we achieved? 27 Systems of governance and key figures IndiSee IndiSee cator page(s) cator page(s) EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas NA LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding NA emissions by weight operational changes, including whether it is EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas 22-26, 25, specified in collective agreements emissions and reductions achieved* 31 Occupational health and safety EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances NA LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented 13 (PA) by weight in formal joint management–worker health EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air NA and safety committees that help monitor emissions by type and weight and advise on occupational health and EN21 Total water discharge by quality and NA safety-programs* destination LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost 12-13, 36 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal 32, 37 days, and absenteeism, and number of method work-related fatalities by region EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills 31, 37 LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, 12-13 (PA) EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, NA and risk-control programs in place to assist or treated waste deemed hazardous under workforce members, their families, or com­ the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, munity members regarding serious diseases II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal 12-13 (PA) waste shipped internationally* agreements with trade unions* EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and bio­ NA Training and education diversity value of water bodies and related LA10 Average hours of training per year per NA habitats significantly affected by the report­ employee by employee category ing organization’s discharges of water and LA11 Programs for skills management and 12-13 runoff* lifelong learning that support the continued Products and services employability of employees and assist them EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts NA in managing career endings* of products and services, and extent of LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular NA impact mitigation performance and career development EN27 Percentage of products sold and their NA reviews* packaging materials that are reclaimed by Diversity and equal opportunety category LA13 Composition of governance bodies and 12-13, 36 Compliance breakdown of employees per category (PA) EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and None according to gender, age group, minority total number of non-monetary sanctions for registered group membership, and other indicators of noncompliance with None environmental diversity laws and regulations registered transport LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by NA Transport employee category EN29 Significant environmental impacts of 31 (PA) Human rights performance indicators transporting products and other goods Management approach 4-5, 22, 24 and materials used for the organization’s Investment and procurement practices operations, and transporting members of HR1 Percentage and total number of significant NA the workforce* investment agreements that include human Overall rights clauses or that have undergone EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures NA human rights screening and investments by type* HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and 24, 26 (PA) Labour practices and decent work contractors that have undergone screening performance indicators on human rights and actions taken Management approach 4–5, 12-13, HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies 24, 26 22, 26 and procedures concerning aspects of Employment human rights that are relevant to LA1 Total workforce by employment type, 8-11, 36 operations, including the percentage of employment contract, and region employees trained* LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover 36 (PA) Nondiscrimination by age group, gender, and region HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination 24 LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees NA and actions taken that are not provided to temporary or Freedom of association and collective part-time employees, by major operations* bargaining LA4 Percentage of employees covered by 13 (PA) HR5 Operations identified in which the right to 12-13, collective bargaining agreements exercise freedom of association and collec­ 33-34 (PA) tive bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights Child labour KONGSBERG • Sustainability Report 2013 41 2 Introduction 16 Sustainable innovation 21 What have we achieved? 27 Systems of governance and key figures IndiSee IndiSee cator page(s) cator page(s) HR6 Operations identified as having significant 24 Product responsibility performance risk for incidents of child labor, and measindicators ures taken to contribute to the elimination Management approach 4-5, 15, 22, of child labor 33-34 Forced and compulsory labor Customer health and safety HR7 Operations identified as having significant 24 PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and NA risk for incidents of forced or compulsory safety impacts of products and services are labor, and measures to contribute to the assessed for improvement, and percentage elimination of forced or compulsory labor of significant products and services Security practices categories subject to such procedures HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained 24 PR2 Total number of incidents of non-­ NA in the organization’s policies or procedures compliance with regulations and voluntary concerning aspects of human rights that codes concerning health and safety impacts are relevant to operations* of products and services during their life Indigenous rights cycle, by type of outcomes* HR9 Total number of incidents of violations 24 Product and service labeling involving rights of indigenous people and PR3 Type of product and service information NA actions taken* required by procedures, and percentage Society performance indicators of significant products and services subject Management approach 4-5, 22, to such information requirements 23, 26 PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliNA Community ance with regulations and voluntary codes SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any NA concerning product and service information programs and practices that assess and and labeling, by type of outcomes* manage the impacts of operations on PR5 Practices related to customer satisfacNA communities, including entering, operating, tion, including results of surveys measuring and exiting customer satisfaction Corruption Marketing communications SO2 Percentage and total number of business 23, 26 PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, NA units analyzed for risks related to corruption and voluntary codes related to marketSO3 Percentage of employees trained in 28 ing communications, including advertising, organization’s anti-corruption policies and promotion, and sponsorship procedures PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliNone SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents 5, 23, 28, ance with regulations and voluntary codes registered of corruption 33 concerning marketing communications, Public policy including advertising, promotion, and sponSO5 Public policy positions and participation in NA sorship by type of outcomes* public policy development and lobbying Customer privacy SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind NA PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints None con­tributions to political parties, politicians, regarding breaches of customer privacy and registered and related institutions by country* losses of customer data* Anti-competitive behavior Compliance SO7 Total number of legal actions for anticom28 PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for None petitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly noncompliance with laws and regulations registered practices and their outcomes* concerning the provision and use of prodCompliance ucts and services SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total 5, 28 number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations If you have views or questions related to the report or topics mentioned in it, please contact Nils Molin, responsible for Sustainability and CSR at KONGSBERG: nils.molin@kongsberg.com 42 KONGSBERG • Sustainability Report 2013 43 Design: Bakerman AS. Print: RK Grafisk. Images: KONGSBERG, EInar Aslaksen, Fred Jonny™, Statoil (Anne-Mette Fjærli, Alan O Neill, GettyImages (fotoVoyager, Peter Harrison, Nick Laing, Ken Welsh, Image Source, chinaface), Dreamstime (Raldi), Kilian Munch, ESA-P. Carril (front cover) KONGSBERG • Sustainability Report 2013 Translation to English: Linda Sivesind, Informatic Translations. Disclaimer: In the event of any discrepancy between the Norwegian and English versions of KONGSBERG’s Sustainability Report, the Norwegian version is the authoritative one. AUDITOR’S REPORT 2013 Introduction Sustainable innovation What have we achieved? Systems of governance and key figures 2 16 21 27 Kongsberg Gruppen ASA Kirkegårdsveien 45 P.O. Box 1000 N-3601 Kongsberg Norway Telephone: (+47) 32 28 82 00 E-mail: office@kongsberg.com www.kongsberg.com WORLD CLASS – through people, technology and dedication 44
