S O N A E S US TAI N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 3 S USTA I N A B I L I T Y R EP ORT S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT our report It is part of our DNA to promote sustainable behaviour and The Report is divided in four main sections: Should you require any clarification of the information to continuously strengthen people’s relationship with the published in this Report or about Sustainability at Sonae, community, to be active and responsible. 1. Sustainability at Sonae description of Sonae’s please contact: strategy, practices common to all business areas, as well The goal of this report is to inform all of our stakeholders as the main global indicators in economic, social and Catarina Oliveira Fernandes about our economic, social and environmental performance environmental terms; in 2013. The information this year, like in previous years, is Head of Communication, Brand and Corporate Responsibility presented according to the Global Reporting Initiative’s 2. Retail (Sonae MC and Sonae SR) details of the three (GRI) G3.1 guidelines for the A+ level and has benefitted axes of our sustainability strategy – Better Purpose, E-mail: catarina.fernandes@sonae.pt from external verification by PricewaterhouseCoopers. Better Planet and Better People – and upholding The scope of the report includes Sonae’s business areas, commitments established for the three year period of Tel.: +351 22 0104000 focusing on the Retail area (core businesses)1. 2013-2015; www.sonae.pt Considering this focus on the Retail area and after presenting 3. Sonae Sierra – presentation of the activities of this the sustainability strategy – Our Way to a Sustainable Life, core partnership, including a description of the strategy in 2012, this report provides an initial review of the and its main results; implementation status of our commitments for 2013 to 2015, showing the path followed and the results obtained in 4. Attachments Conforming to principles, associations the three axes of our sustainability strategy – Better and partnerships with organisations; Letter of external Purpose, Better Planet and Better People. verification; Glossary and access to detailed information about GRI indicators. The information reported here can be complemented by consulting the Table of GRI Indicators, the 2013 Report and Accounts and the Corporate Governance Report associated with the same period, available at www.sonae.pt. 1 Sonaecom’s values are not consolidated in the report due to the ZON OPTIMUS merger. Although it holds 50,01% of ZOPT, ZON OPTIMUS is a company listed separately, therefore it reports its information directly to the market. our report 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT SONAE With a turnover of €1,210 million and an EBITDA of € -1 million for 2013 Sonae SR SONAE SR is responsible for Sonae’s 579 stores, of which 58 “At Sonae, sustainability criteria are already naturally present in the decisions of most of our employees, which reflects in a very specialized retail. are franchised, with a total positive light in our activity. Alongside the strategic alignment, based upon internationalization, diversification of the styles of sales area of 412 thousand m2 investment and leveraging the exceptional assets we manage, we consider social and environmental impact equally important to economics as far as evaluation and motivation factors are concerned. We’ve been able to answer the new socio-economic challenges 10,074 colleagues through innovation, ambition and social responsibility, essential values which set us apart in a demanding, constantly changing market. This attitude, based on a culture of rigour and transparency, has been recognized internationally for the third consecutive year by Ethisphere, which highlighted Sonae as one of the world’s most ethical companies, something which fills us with pride.” Ângelo Paupério, Sonae’s Executive Vice President Home appliances Baby and children’s Textiles: Sports: and consumer wear: MO Sport Zone electronics: Zippy Worten Sonae is a Retail company with two major partnerships in the areas of Shopping Centres (Sonae Sierra) and Software & Information Systems, Media and Telecommunications (Sonaecom). At the end of 2013, we were active in a total of 67 countries2. CORE BUSINESSES CORE PARTNERSHIPS With a turnover of €228 million and an EBITDA of €113 million for 2013 With a turnover of €3,415 Sonae Sierra Sonae MC million and an EBITDA of Owns 47 shopping centres with a gross is a specialist in is the national market leader €258 million for 2013 leasable area of 1.9 million square metres international shopping SONAE MC in food retail and includes SONAE centres, owned by Sonae 548 stores and a total sales a set of brands with distinct SIERRA (Portugal) with 50% Responsible for the management area of 613 thousand m2 and/or leasing of 81 shopping centres styles and types and Grosvenor (UK) of business. across 12 countries with a GLA 26,404 colleagues with 50%. of 2.3 million m2 1,144 colleagues Supermarkets: Bookshops/ Restaurants: Hypermarkets: Continente modelo Stationers: Bom Bocado Continente and Continente Book.it Sonaecom bom dia is held by Sonae, with a participation of 74% and its core business Deep-frozen Wholesale Well-being is telecommunications industry. SONAECOM products: distribution: and opticians: Continente Ice Meu Super Well's Sonaecom’s main asset is ZON OPTIMUS, held by Sonaecom throught ZOPT, SGPS, SA. 2 Including operations, providing services to third parties, sales offices, franchising agreements and partnerships. S O N A E 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT R E L AT E D B U S I N E S S E S WHERE WE ARE Sonae RP only operates in Portugal and is mainly dedicated to real estate management and investment, With a turnover of €124 management of commercial galleries million and an EBITDA (management of the real estate assets of €115 million SONAE RP of over one hundred commercial galleries, in Portugal in 2013 all with a Continente store as principal anchor) and management of three real estate 29 colleagues investment trusts through its affiliate holding company, Sonaegest. 67 countries Investment Management is responsible for supporting the implementation of corporate and business strategies, maximising shareholder returns on the company's portfolio, providing active support in planning and the execution of mergers and acquisitions by the core With a turnover of €223 businesses and strengthening Sonae's network of contacts million and an EBITDA Investment with other companies, of €15 million in 2013 Management consultants and investment banks. Launched in late 2013, Sonae E.Ventures is a corporate 2,300 colleagues venture capital initiative to invest in early stage ecommerce companies. The aim is to support entrepreneurs with innovative business models and international ambition, not only with financing, but also with Sonae’s core competences and strategic assets. Software DIY & Systems Insurance Travel and construction Information: Media: brokers: agencies: materials: WeDo, Saphety, Público MDS GeoStar Maxmat Mainroad and BizDirect S O N A E 9 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT K E Y S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y HIGHLIGHTS Sonae is invited to join the European Commission’s Forum for Relations between Production and Distribution Sonae is the only European retailer to integrate the High Level Forum for a Better Functioning Food Supply Chain (HLF), the consulting group of the European Commission (EC) whose objective is to ensure consistency between the various initiatives of HLF and collaborate in defining industrial policy in the agri-food sector. Sonae endorses European Code of Conduct for the Food Supply Chain 1995 1996 1999 2000 2013 • Launch of the Horizon • Creation of the • Launch of the Eco2 XXI • Approval of Sonae’s We have joined to the European Code of Conduct for Best Practices in Food Supply Chain, project, for strengthening Environment Forum, programme, for the Environmental Policy an European initiative that is the result of an agreement between the main European environmental to share experiences effective implementation and Environmental associations of food industries and distribution in relation to the principles that govern the management and disseminate of eco-efficiency Management System relationship between production and distribution. good practice measures • Joined the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) EXTERNAL ACKNOWLEDGEMENT AND AWARDS Sonae was recognised for the 3rd consecutive year as one Carbon Disclosure Project distinguishes Sonae from 125 of the 100 most ethical companies in the world companies listed in the Iberian Peninsula Top 3 in the 2007 2005 2004 2001 Iberian Peninsula for performance and top 10 in disclosure • Publication of Sonae’s • Signed the World Safety • Joined the Global • Creation of BCSD first consolidated Declaration Compact of the United Portugal with Sonae Sustainability Report Nations as founding member • Creation of the Sustainability Forum, • Publication of Sonae’s which developed from first Environmental the Environment Forum Report The Trusted Brands 2013 Study Reader’s Digest recognised: Hay Group elects Sonae as “Best School for Leaders” in Portugal, for the 3rd consecutive year Zippy, for the 1 time st Worten, for the 4th consecutive year Continente, for the 11th consecutive year Sonae wins the European Good Practice Award 2012/2013 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Continente as Trusted Brand in Environmental For more information, please consult our website at http://www.sonae. • Publication of Sonae, • Publication • Joined the Global • Joined the GEP Global • Creation of the Sonae Performance, for 4th consecutive year pt/en/sonae/awards-and-achievements/ much more than of A commitment Business Oath Enterprise Project Sustainability Award numbers 50 years ahead of the World Economic Forum • Joined the Retail • Joined the European • Subscribed to the Code • Adoption Forum for Sustainability initiative to combat of Practice on HIV/AIDS of the Sustainable • The 1st Sustainability (European Comission) waste in retail Fishing Policy Forum open to all • Subscribed to the United stakeholders took place Nations Declaration under the theme Sonae of Human Rights for the Better S O N A E 1 1 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T Sustainability at Sonae 015 Retail 029 Sonae Sierra – Core Partnership 069 Appendix 077 í ndice 1 3 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT S ustainability at S onae S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT Sustainability at Sonae O U R S TA K E H O L D E R S Understanding our stakeholders’ expectations is one of the fundamental elements for the success of our business. To relate and communicate with all of them, we have implemented dedicated communication channels that will allow us to value and address their expectations and concerns. “Our business approach reflects our commitment to generating value shared by our company and society on a short, medium and long term. We believe that a prosperous, sustained growth must include an investment in the development of our employees, in the creation and sharing of knowledge, in promoting innovation and, naturally, getting involved with the COMMUNICATION WITH STAKEHOLDERS community. And 2013 was no exception: we offered 1.1 million hours of training to our employees, invested 10.6 million euros in the community, fostered entrepreneurial volunteering which resulted in a total volume that surpassed 8600 hours, granting 360 million euros in discounts to Portuguese families. Sonae is therefore a brand close to the people and always present in their daily lives: Sonae ‘Improving Life’.” Luís Filipe Reis, Sonae´s Chief Corporate Centre Office Customers and Visitors Employees Investors Suppliers O U R C O R P O R AT E S T R AT E G Y How will Social climate studies Suppliers’ websites Mission: What is our we act Values: Websites General meetings Intranet News purpose? towards our Suggestions and complaints Visits and audits Internal publications Quarterly Financial Reports stakeholders? systems Reciprocal training To create Ethics and Trust; Sonae Ombudsman Surveys Sonae Ombudsman Surveys long-term economic People at the heart Knowledge sharing forums Reply to specific questionnaires Surveys and social value, bringing of our success; Ambition; Surveys Performance Evaluation the benefits of progress Innovation; Social and innovation Responsibility; Frugality to a growing number and Efficiency; of people. Where are we headed and why? Co-operation and Independence. Our corporate strategy is based upon the creation of value full ownership, majority or minority interests, with or without through 3 strategic pillars: special rights. We may be involved in the capital of companies which we do not control, in situations where we do not Regulatory possess the necessary resources or where the input of third and government Community Media Shop tenants International Expansion entities parties is valued as a factor for the creation of superior economic value. Internationalisation is the foremost strategic priority for future growth and it focuses on core businesses and adjacent business areas. As such, we will make use of all the resources Leverage and Reinforce our Exceptional Asset Base necessary in order to make the most of the opportunity of in Portugal increasing our presence outside Portugal, transforming Partnerships with representative Written communications Sonae into a large multinational. Continue exploring new business opportunities associated institutions Conferences Participation in various Meetings with our exceptional asset base held in Portugal, as a way to Community engagement Interviews sector-specific associations Training create a set of options for future growth. A significant part projects Reply to specific questions Diversifying our Investment Style of the capital will be allocated to new projects, depending Surveys Surveys on their capacity to generate economic growth and value. Leveraging Sonae’s resources and the efficiency of the implementation strategy by adopting the investment styles most appropriate for each business, whether it ranges from S ustainability at S onae 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT OUR PEOPLE At the end of 2013, we had 39,951 colleagues. Of this total, 56% are young people under the age of 35 and 67% are female colleagues. Our Management Leadership Availability Commitment Constructive WHAT ARE WE LIKE? Sonae’s culture and values are part of an ethical and methods and teamwork values, as well as our management’s behavioural legacy that is deeply rooted in our history. “Our leadership. At times of growth and change, we wish to bring way” puts into writing the principles that we already share together everything that sets us apart and makes us special AcknowledgeOpen mind Resoluteness Excellence Challenge and live by within the company. We instil these values in to all our people, everywhere. ment all our colleagues so that they reflect our conduct, work Leading Honesty Courage Credibility by example People at the heart Ambition Our Values Trust and Integrity of our success Cooperation Frugality Social Innovation and Independence and Efficiency Responsibility With How we work With With frankness excellence merit and clarity Wealth and diversity Teamwork With Innovation With With Our Teams of our people’s as the key and Talent With common individual paths creativity curiosity boldness to success sense and profiles Truthfull With and transparent Good work Quality By being By Respect a sense of relationships environment and rigour customer focused Communicating ownership S ustainability at S onae 1 9 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT HOW DO WE MANAGE OUR PEOPLE? Our performance management model Improving Our Rede Contacto (Contacto Network) People encompasses all of our colleagues, in all the businesses and locations where we are present. Based on Contacto Network, launched in 2010, and restructured in the principles of meritocracy, pluralism and participation, our 2012, was developed to enable closer contact with the aim is to be rigorous concerning the results and up front younger generation, facilitating the brand’s communication concerning recognition given, valuing the diversity of process and establishing itself as an open innovation backgrounds and profiles of our colleagues and involving channel, through which activities are promoted with the aim them in their own development. In 2013, we expanded of identifying and attracting young talent. Improving Our People to 100% of our staff, adapting the model and tools for our in-store sales force. Adopting English as the official language, the platform has become accessible to users from other countries. By the end Continuous Development Effective attraction and Training of people We use a career model, which supports our talent by striking of 2013 it had more than 27,000 users, and had been of Employees a balance between our business priorities and our people’s accessed from more than 99 countries. Integrated professional development expectations. Talent Management Dia Contacto (Contacto Day) This model reflects two different management approaches. One focuses on human resources planning requirements, Contacto culminates in Contacto Day the final phase of while the other one allows our colleagues to shape their own selection which is an annual event aimed at final year personal and professional development. students and recent graduates of universities in Portugal, who are selected through the Contacto Network. Around 60 young people have the opportunity to be in contact with the INITIATIVES WE PROMOTE Sonae companies’ top level management, and to become Structured evaluation, Challenging familiar with the reality of their businesses, development fair and recognising and diversified Contacto performance career plans and strategies for the future. It also becomes the final phase of the selection process, with an internship being awarded to the best students, which open doors for the development of personal and professional skills and the possibility of them joining Sonae’s staff. In 2013, Sonae Training plays a crucial role in the personal and professional executive education, aiming to offer programmes supported Companies awarded 33 internships through this programme. development of our colleagues. Therefore, in 2013 we by alternative methodologies like action learning, Sonae is a pioneering organisation in relation to the launch created the Sonae Management & Leadership Academy, on-the-job-experience, coaching or mentoring. We designed of internship programmes in Portugal for students in further an educational solution that is available to all our colleagues customised programmes, which are challenging and Encouraging knowledge sharing among our colleagues education. We have promoted Contacto since 1986, and this in Sonae’s different business areas and geographical innovative, taking into account the current needs of each programme is currently aimed at final year undergraduate locations. We thus believe that we are contributing to our and every executive member. We periodically hold a number of diverse forums for the and masters degree students and recent graduates of the colleagues becoming more attuned to Sonae’s culture, sharing of opinions, knowledge and promotion of good top Portuguese universities. Through this programme, values, strategy and objectives. We would like to emphasise the sponsorship provided by the practice among various businesses, encouraging innovation, approximately 20 to 30 young people with high potential Executive Commission members for these training sharing and adoption of good practices. join Sonae every year. The Sonae Management & Leadership Academy offers programmes as a source of motivation and a challenge. We highly specialised training by focusing on the development also highlight the internal training component as a privileged To this end, there are 9 forums in Sonae for the sharing of The opportunity given to these young people to experience of the different organisational levels, from the more way to transmit the fundamental management processes knowledge, with the following objectives: business life, the exposure to creativity and innovation, as operational to the more strategic levels. Each programme is practised at Sonae. well as the opening of a door which connects them to the job designed based on our areas of competence and focuses on Administrative and Fiscal Forum Sharing knowledge market, becomes, in the current economic situation, a state-of-the-art management and leadership skills. Our The partnerships we have established with the most and experiences to promote synergy between fiscal and fundamental commitment to the next generation. This is an objective is to provide our team with the best preparation for prestigious national (PBS – Porto Business School, the CBS administrative functions; essential initiative that is valuable both to the community management and leadership and, consequently, for this to – Católica Lisbon School of Business & Economics and the and to the company. be recognised by our stakeholders. At the same time, we New School of Business & Economics) and international Ecommerce Forum Increase awareness and general intend to boost our ability to produce innovative and universities (INSEAD, London Business School, Harvard, knowledge about the tendencies in ecommerce and As the fundamental source of support to this programme, entrepreneurial leaders, capable of developing and among others) guarantees that the most up-to-date concerning initiatives underway in Sonae; ensure we have developed an exclusive online platform diversifying our businesses, and keeping them in leading topics are addressed and ensures that our programmes are coordination of efforts in the development of platforms for connecting with universities – Contacto Network positions in their business sectors. highly reputed. and projects related to ecommerce in each company; (www.contactosonae.com). For our executive members, we have an integrated vision Engineering and Construction Forum – Discuss the concerning their training and development. We go beyond implementation of best practise with special focus on issues and matters related to engineering and construction; S ustainability at S onae 2 1 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT FINOV – Innovation Forum – Stimulate and support a and experience, and four consulting groups, which meet Casa da Música culture oriented toward innovation, capable of sustaining frequently, with the aim of sharing and coordinating SUPPORTING OUR high levels of value creation; information (organisation of internal training), including COMMUNITY We are sponsor’s of Casa da Música, which aims at promoting the continuous review of existing organisational policies in culture and stimulating creativity and innovation, through Legal Forum – Share experience and knowledge between these areas. prominent cultural displays that allow enriching personal In 2013, support to the community reached 10.6 million legal teams, promoting a broad discussion on fundamental development experiences. euros, around 5 million euros of which were food items, with legal topics and encouraging a shared approach to legal a total of 2.059 institutions supported. Like the previous procedures and interpretations; Innovation and ongoing improvement for creating and year, we continue to develop support to the community in sharing knowledge in-house EDUCATION six main areas: Marketing and Communication Forum – Promote and encourage the exchange of information, knowledge and ShineOn Investing in education ensures that our investment in the Environmental Awareness; experience on Marketing and Communication issues; community today has a positive multiplying effect in the Launched in May, this is a model for collecting ideas in which Culture; medium and long-term, for children and young people, colleagues respond to specific challenges posed by the retail Education; Negotiation Forum – Analyse and discuss negotiating teachers, schools and family units. In 2013, we focused on companies and present them to the respective Executive Health and Sports; strategies, identify joint business opportunities and share the following initiatives: Committees. Subsequently, the most viable ideas are Science and Innovation; experience and knowledge; chosen to be implemented. Social Solidarity. Porto de Futuro / Partnership with the Cerco School Management Planning and Control Forum – Encourage BizShare Events and Experiences Group and discuss the implementation of the best methodoloCULTURE gies of control throughout the company; Events for sharing knowledge and experience among This partnership which provides support to the managecolleagues from the company’s various businesses. Serralves ment and development of schools. The project recognises Sustainability Forum – Share knowledge about sustainthe fundamental role of education in sustainable developability and best practice guidelines, increasing awareness Kaizen ment of a more competitive and dynamic society. on matters in which it is important to seek synergies and Under the Kaizen programme in our stores, internally known cohesion to deal with the various challenges in this field. as the Improvement Implementation System, we created a As part of this project, we have established a partnership team to fight waste with a view to increasing the productivity We are sponsor’s of Serralves, with the objective of promotwith the Cerco School Group aiming at strengthening the In addition to these forums, we have two commissions of operators whilst performing their duties. ing culture and bringing community closer to the art. link between schools and their community, promoting a whose purpose is to act as a platform for sharing knowledge healthier life-style through sports, providing support for Project with the following objectives: management consulting, encouraging entrepreneurship and rewarding merit. We believe that together, we can improve Stimulate national artistic production; the social environment in these schools. Promote national art internationally, as well as the Consulting exchange of young national and international artists; Groups Support institutions dedicated to art; Bring art closer to society through support and disclosure of initiatives. FINCO Information IOW Human Risk Improving Technology and Resources Management our Work Communication Cerco School Group School Community Link Promoting Sports Singing for The Future Rugby project Auditing Finances School magazine Donation of sports equipment Commissions Encouraging Entrepreneurship Support for Management Consulting Rewarding Merit Junior Achievement programmes Development of strategic planning Award best students Junior University Training non-teaching staff Braço Direito S ustainability at S onae 2 3 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT An in-depth reflection of our strategic policies in 2013, SONAE ACTIVSHARE allowed us to redesign the action plan developed jointly, in M A I N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y an effort to contribute more frequently and more effectively I N D I C AT O R S 3 to improving results and preventing school drop-outs. For Sonae, taking part in this project represents an opportuECONOMIC PERFORMANCE nity to contribute to the development of the educational secThe objective of the Sonae Activshare programme is to tor, whose importance is vital in creating a more fair, cohesive consolidate and aggregate all of Sonae’s Social Responsibility Turnover | € 4,821 million 3% and competitive society, in compliance with our mission and actions, as well as to develop and consolidate the Volunteer with making an impact on an increasing number of people. activities to involve all of our colleagues EBITDA| € 475 million 1% The actions were mainly in 2 areas: Junior Achievement Net debt | € 1,219 million -32% Volunteering our skills Through these actions, we place our colleagues’ skills at the Taxes paid to the State | € 23 million = During the academic year 2013/2014, we continued our service of the community. partnership with Junior Achievement Portugal (JAP), a nonprofit association, which provides programmes to schools to Objectives: foster and develop a love for entrepreneurship in children Improving the quality of life of the communities; Contribution of business units to turnover Contribution of business units to EBITDA and young people, stimulating their personal development, Providing the institutions with better skills; providing a clear vision of the business world and facilitating Strengthening the sense of belonging and motivation of access to the work force. our colleagues; Actions regarding other areas are detailed in the Retail Sonae MC Sonae SR Sonae RP Sonae IM Sonae MC Sonae SR Sonae RP Sonae IM chapter, under the section Better Purpose. Team-building activities 70% 71% Actions that encourage team-building among work groups and motivate our people to adopt socially responsible 53%54% practices through experiences in the field. 132 1,088 1,912 Objectives: 26% 25% 23% 24% Create team-building exercises with Sonae teams; 16% 15% Motivate colleagues to adopt socially responsible prac3% 3% 4% 5% Sonae Hours Students tices through experiences in the field. 0% Volunteers of activity supported -5% 2012 2013 2012 2013 112 194 Institutions Actions supported developed 8,634 1,800 Hours of Colleagues volunteering involved work 3 The 2012 values were recalculated excluding Optimus since we ceased to report those values after the ZON OPTIMUS fusion. The EBITDA excludes the Optimus values for the same reason. S ustainability at S onae 2 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT SOCIAL PERFORMANCE ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Investment in the community | € 10,6 million +4% Energy consumption | 3,290,527 Gj -13% Absenteeism rate| 5% = Water consumption | 1,869,087 m3 -9% Work accidents | 1,576 11% Waste Recovery | 71% -4% CO2 Emissions | 241,724 tCO2e -18% Absenteeism Rate Number of work accidents Energy Consumption (GJ) Water Consumption (m3) 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 1,576 4,523,375 2,049,402 5% 5% 3,290,527 1,869,087 1,421 Investment in the Community (M€) CO2e Emissions (tCO2e) 2012 2013 2012 2013 10,6 295,671 10,2 241,724 S ustainability at S onae 2 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT R E T A il S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT RETAil Better Purpose Strategic axis Commitments For Sonae MC, 2013 was a year of solidification of its activities and diversification of their businesses and supplied products, accelerating the investment in distinctive practices in the sector. The promotion of healthy and responsible choices for our clients, the launch of innovative products, like Yämmi or the new My Label ranges, are examples of great practices that are changing the way of doing business in the retail sector. In a difficult economic context, we reinforced our partnerships with our Responsible offer and informed choice Promote the adoption of healthy lifestyles and keep Sonae’s national producers like, for example, the Producers Club that contributed with investment and knowledge to the development customers informed, providing them with the knowledge they of a competitive, efficient and innovative agri-food industry. Our brands offer more and more an improved proposed value that Responsibility in own-brand products need to make responsible, nutritionally balanced choices is recognized by our consumers through consecutive awards as a Trusted Brand. Contribution to sustainable fishing Endeavour to promote social well-being in the communities Luís Moutinho, Sonae MC CEO where Sonae is present, so contributing towards citizenship Increase sharing and promote social well-being and social cohesion Better Planet “Ambitioning to continue growing, Sonae SR strengthened its presence in Portugal and maintained a significant investment to continue the internationalization to other territories, currently marking its presence in 22 countries. This expansion process contributes to the progressive reinforcement of Sonae’s international revenues outside the Iberian Peninsula and, at the same time, allows it to benefit from contacting markets with different stages of economic growth. In 2013, Zippy and Worten were recognized as Strategic axis Commitments Trusted Brands by the Portuguese, showing that we are a solid reference in terms of quality and excellence in the Portuguese market, a status that we aim to establish in other territories as well. We have total confidence in our ability to overcome constraints and continue to make our brands grow. These brands’ achievements were only possible thanks to our teams’ efforts and hard work.” Miguel Mota Freitas, Sonae SR CEO Efficient management of environmental impact Focus on permanent improvement in order to attain top environmental performance, not only as a differentiating Sonae’s footprint factor but as a basic condition for the sustainable development FRAMEWORK In order to adjust its sustainability strategy, we have of Sonae’s business developed periodic consulting procedures in place for Environmental impact of packaging stakeholders . The sustainability roadmap for the three-year Sonae’s sustainability strategy is aimed at supporting the period 2013-2015 has benefited from this consultation retail business to achieve its strategic objectives, whilst procedure, allowing the: Better People managing the main social, environmental and economic aspects and making a real impact on the operations and (i) Identification and systematisation of the most relevant expectations of stakeholders. sustainability areas, With the redefinition of the Sustainability Strategy in 2012, Strategic axis Commitments (ii) Understanding the state-of-the-art, from the viewpoint we identified and communicated our commitments, which of the stakeholders, are based upon the sustainability programme for the triennium 2013-2015 – Our Way to a Sustainable Life. (iii) Understanding the expectations of the stakeholders, Based on three areas of activity, Better Purpose, Better (iv) Defining the main opportunities for improvement and Planet and Better People, this programme offers concrete the roadmap we should follow to position ourselves according and cross-cutting activities for the entire company, with to the stakeholders’ expectations, and Development of human capital Promote well-being and invest in the development of employees well-defined goals, responsible parties and a clear and skills and abilities, continuously enriching Sonae’s culture transparent implementation period. Wellbeing and internal satisfaction (v) Prioritising opportunities for improvement to be addressed according to the relevance attributed to each of Responsibility in the supply chain Integrate sustainability into the supply chain and align supplier the sustainability areas by each of the stakeholders. In 2013, practices with Sonae’s policies the first year the programme was implemented, the results achieved continue to be relevant in determining the path retail businesses investing in sustainability should follow. R E T A il 3 1 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT The development of this policy takes into account the Nutritional Traffic Light a) Nutrition Advice BETTER PURPOSE recommendations of the World Health Organisation and various national and international stakeholders, for example, Food (per 100g) Nutrition advice stands have been present in Continente the Platform against Obesity from the Portuguese stores since 2009 and aim to aid the consumer when it is RESPONSIBLE OFFER AND INFORMED CHOICE Directorate-General for Health. The policy is based on the time to decide. continuing improvement of the nutritional quality of its Low Medium High At Sonae, we feel that it is our responsibility to offer products Fat products, as well as strategies for promoting healthy life In 2013, with the nutrition advice initiative we were able to of the highest quality and to enable consumers to make an ≤ 3g 3g 20g >20g styles and preventing non-communicable chronic illnesses carry out 3,384 screenings, 1,865 nutritional counselling informed choice. Consequently, we have invested, on the one such as obesity, diabetes, cardiovascular disease and some sessions, 681 follow-up appointments and 900 shopping hand, in providing a wide range of products and services that types of cancer. aids with the support of our Personal Nutritional Shoppers. meet the needs and expectations of customers and, on the other, in communication and awareness in the areas of health, nutrition, quality and safety of the products consumed. Optimisation of the nutritional profile Saturated Low Medium High Fat ≤ 1,5g 1,5g 5g >5g In addition, we ensure that all of the products provided are The optimisation of the nutritional profile of Continente’s subject to a rigorous quality control and safety process own brand products continues to be an investment for the Over 32,000 before being made available to consumers. company, in order to promote a responsible offering. customers have received advice since 2009 The main objectives of this best practice is to reduce the Low Medium High Nutritional Policy Objectives salt, total fat, saturated fat and sugar contents; eliminate Sugar ≤ 5g 5g 12,5g >12,5g hydrogenated fats and enrich various products with Compliance with legal and internal requirements in the micronutrients (vitamins and minerals). In 2013, we focused development of our own brand products. on changing cereal recipes and involved the respective suppliers with the objective of ensuring a coherent change b) Awareness Activities Continually improve the nutritional profile of food among all suppliers of this product. The main results were: Low Medium High products. Salt ≤ 10,3g 0,3g 1,5g >1,5g In 2013, 4 awareness activities were developed with distinct Reduction of 1.7 tonnes of saturated fats in 2 breakfast themes: “Use the 5 Criteria Test to be Healthy!”, “Start the Provide the necessary information on the label of cereals; Day with Energy”, “Proof of the Sea – Choose Fish, Choose Continente’s own brand products, to allow informed Health!” and “Nutritional Personal Shopper – Buy Healthy”). purchasing. Elimination of hydrogenated fat from breakfast cereal; Hyper Healthy Movement In order to make customers aware of healthier eating habits, Work in partnership with various national stakeholders in Reduction of allergens from one type of breakfast cereal. these initiatives included 4 distinct areas: implementing programmes, actions and educational Raising awareness and mobilising Portuguese society to activities. Consumption of fruit and vegetables; Traffic Light Nutrition Labelling change attitudes and behaviours in favour of better eating habits and a healthier lifestyle are the objectives of the The importance of breakfast; Develop campaigns to promote healthy and informed New food products are developed and launched into the Continente Hyper Healthy Movement. consumption habits. Fish consumption; market every day, making it more difficult for the consumer to make an informed and health-conscious choice. In order In its third year of implementation, the Hyper Healthy Informed and health-conscious choices when it is time to Through our team of internal nutritionists, provide to circumvent this issue and keep the consumer wellMovement aims to reach children, young adults and the buy food products. complimentary clarification and nutritional advice in informed, we have introduced the Traffic Light Nutrition elderly through three complementary types of initiatives: Continente stores. Labelling, an innovative nutritional information system for Continente’s own brand products. a) Nutrition Advice Carry out awareness-raising actions for children and school-age youth as well as other segments of the b) Awareness Activities The Traffic Light Nutrition Labelling associates a threepopulation such as adults, the elderly and at-risk groups. colour code, similar to a traffic light, with the recommended c) Seminars, Events and Partnerships Since 2010 we daily intake (RDI) percentage of four specific nutrients: fat, carried out over 700 saturated fat, sugar and salt, per amount of food. awareness activities Health and Nutrition with over 16,700 In order to give the consumer a more informed choice with participants Conscious of our important role regarding consumers, we regard to the nutritional content of the other products formalised our health and nutrition policy for Continente’s available in the store, we have provided the Conversion Card own brand products. This policy is the result of a set of with reference values for the nutrients considered in the consolidated practices that allow us to keep consumers Traffic Light Nutritional Labelling System. informed, making it easier to choose food products that are In 2013, we carried out 308 awareness activities with of a good quality, healthy and safe. 6,520 participants, of whom 5,038 were children and school-age youth. R E T A il 3 3 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT To this end, we took part in some seminars directed at Commemorations of World Hypertension Day that took students of Nutrition and Diet, to promote the Hyper place in Santa Maria da Feira, in partnership with the Healthy Movement and raise awareness of the Traffic Light Portuguese Hypertension Association; Objectives Nutritional Labelling System as a tool to facilitate healthier of the food choices. The seminars were held at the following Week commemorating World Children’s Day at awareness activities educational institutions: Universidade Católica Portuguesa, Gulbenkian, with Nutriventures, which included various School of Nutritional Science of the Universidade do Porto, activities concerning nutrition; Egas Moniz Institute of Health Sciences and Leiria Polytechnic Institute. Healthy walk on Sunday mornings promoted by Continente in partnership with Solinca, in which the In addition, we took part in a number of relevant events that Hyper Healthy Movement took part in screenings and “Use the 5 Criteria Test to be Healthy”, for pre-school and elementary children were organised in partnership with other organisations, namely: nutritional counselling; Raises awareness of the importance of the daily consumption of fruit and vegetables of different colours; Encourages the daily consumption of fruit and vegetables; Greenfest, at the Estoril Conference Centre, for the Nutrition Fortnight for the fifth consecutive year. In 2013, Broadens knowledge of the various types of fish that can be eaten, through direct contact. second consecutive year; they partnered with Nutriventures and reached over 430 pre-school and elementary students. Conference of the Portuguese Association of Nutritionists “Start the Day with Energy”, for pre-school and elementary school children at the Lisbon Conference Centre; Reinforces the importance of eating breakfast every day; Provides information on the healthiest choices they can make for breakfast. “Proof of the Sea – Choose Fish, Choose Health”, for elementary and secondary school children Stresses the importance of eating fish regularly; Responsible offer Broadens knowledge of the various types of fish that can be eaten; and informed choice Performance Explains some concepts on canned food and aquaculture; 2013 Commitments for Promotes the protection of the ecosystems of the marine and coastal environments of the Portuguese sea; 2013-2015 Awakens children's curiosity, through direct contact with fish, so they can also take the message home to their parents. “Nutritional Personal Shopper – Buy Healthy”, for pre-school to secondary school children Investing in partnerships with universities and other learning institutions and promoting internships Provides knowledge on the healthiest food choices in order to make health-conscious purchases; related to food quality Raises awareness of the importance of a healthy diet based on the Food Wheel Deciphers nutritional labelling; By the end of 2013 we had 7 internship placements and 6 partnerships with universities in the area of food quality. Present the nutrition traffic light as a useful tool for making healthier food choices. Continue to promote a healthy life style, providing more and better information and working within the community See section “Responsible offer and informed choice”, namely the Hyper Healthy Movement. Our people were involved in the Hyper Healthy Movement, Ensure the continuation of the certification necessary for a system of suggestions and complaints as a means of acquiring new knowledge in the area of food according to ISO 10002 and nutrition. This allowed, on the one hand, greater Certification extended for another three years. awareness of the importance of a healthy diet based on the Food Wheel. On the other hand, it ensured awareness of the Promote feedback on products Partnership promotional campaigns such as the Traffic Light Nutritional wtih Notícias Implementation of Continente +, an application to be used in cell phones which allows employees to identify Labelling System and how it should be interpreted. Magazine and evaluate Continente products through the reading of the product’s bar code or through its description. Investing in sensory analysis in order to promote, monitor and ensure greater product quality c) Seminars, Events and Partnerships Objective achieved with over 25,000 sensory analyses conducted. Involvement with society is fundamental to ensure real 6 different articles Provide information on the product to ensure correct use by the end consumer change in consumer habits. In 2013, we continued to develop between May and June to develop informative Over 2,400 products labelled with information on the environment and safety, in addition to the information partnerships with various organisations that share the same content on healthy required by law. objectives as the Hyper Healthy Movement and our healthy eating for Notícias and nutrition policy. Magazine Fullfilled Partially fullfilled Unfullfilled R E T A il 3 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT RESPONSIBILITY IN OWN BRAND PRODUCTS Development highlights 2013 Development of other ranges and products for specific Launch of the Fácil & Bom range needs: The Fácil & Bom range was created to serve a new range Food Retail Launch of Café Origens Coffee capsules from specific of ready-to-eat and ready-to-cook items and includes sources are an innovation in the Portuguese market • Gelatine with a 0% sugar content; products in the Take-Away, Meat, Fish, Delicatessen and Demonstrating, on the one hand, a concern with reaching sources include Angola, Colombia, Goa, Timor and Organic Fruit and Vegetable areas. This product range was • Launch of the Continente Vegetarian Range Frozen ever more diversified populations and, on the other hand, coffee capsules. Each type of coffee has a different designed, developed and tested by Continente and is Meals to meet the needs of the most demanding promoting a balanced diet as one of the main principles for strength and composition to suit every customer’s taste. based on a multi-phase development process: conception customers for whom food is part of a healthy lifestyle; a healthy life style, we have a wide variety of products under The raw materials, packaging and packaging production of the idea, development of a product technical data the brands Continente Equilíbrio, Continente Biológico, Área are processed and managed entirely in Portugal. • Launch of the Área Viva Continente Chocolate range sheet, identification and selection of suppliers and taste Viva Continente and Continente Eco. with STEVIA; and validity testing. • Microwavable steamed mixed vegetables; In 2013, our portfolio of products consisted of 213 Continente Fácil & Bom is characterised as a highly practical product Equilíbrio products, 75 Continente Biológico products, 99 Área • New Área Viva Continente seeds: chia, fine oat flakes range, which allows customers to prepare meals easily Viva Continente products and 209 Continente Eco products. and oat bran. and quickly. Non-Perishable Food Products Launch of Continente Yoghurts made with 100% (No. of completed processes) Portuguese Fruit This product promotes Portugal and supports the national economy apples from Alcobaça, Rocha pears and pineapples from the Azores. • Launch of new MYLABEL product ranges The 2013 was a highly dynamic year of great change in the MYLABEL brand has grown significantly and this year Fácil & Bom range with emphasis on the following Dairy/ Frozen Foods 52 55 36 Sonae has invested in the launch of new ranges to activities: provide products targeted at specific areas. DPH 82 50 106 1) Launch of new products, such as Francesinha (ready meals) and new ready-to-cook solutions which enable Beverages 8 28 20 the end customer to give the meal a personal touch. Relaunch of Fruit Purees for Babies Prepared with 100% Groceries 93 75 66 Fruit, made in Portugal. 2) Renewal of image. Product development Product/ Supplier Alteration Renovation 3) Participation in several events: Tomar Soups Congress, Mega Picnic and Flavours Market. • Launch of the Continente Cotton Care range, a range 4) The first Fácil & Bom Fair, which took place at 44 of 100 % Organic Cotton hypo-allergenic sanitary stores where our customers were offered the opporPerishable Food Products towels and tampons. tunity to taste our range of Fácil & Bom products over (No. of completed processes) the course of 15 days. Contemporal Brand: Brand extension Área Viva Continente, extension of the gluten free range. 5) Overhaul of in-store space. In 2013, Contemporal wines received 22 awards, mostly Área Viva is a concept dedicated both to healthy eating in prestigious international competitions. To raise the 6) Involvement of new partners, such as the School of and other food requirements in Continente, Continente profile of the brand we launched the Contemporal Hospitality and Tourism in Lisbon, in gathering new Modelo and Continente Bom Dia stores. In recent years, we Selection range and the Port Wine Range with an elegant ideas for the range and in the introduction of meals Meats 16 have expanded our supply of gluten-free items through premium image. developed by final-year students. Área Viva as part of our commitment to diversifying the Fish 48 4 product range available for those with Coeliac disease. The Continente brand was undoubtedly one of our strong areas of focus this year, in particular through our emphasis Delicatessen 80 25 49 on national and regional products. For example, in fresh Fruits and 5 62 produce, we promoted the national and regional origin of the Vegetables products to highlight their quality. Bakery 16 6 88 Take Away 87 7 57 Product development Product/ Supplier Alteration Renovation R E T A il 3 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT Non-food Retail Popota Merchandising – Continuing our innovative approach, Objectives of our Own Brand development process For non-food retail child safety is an ongoing priority and Popota is no longer a Sonae symbol linked exclusively to commitment. Product approval involves the submission of The non-food retail area offers a whole universe of products children at a specific time of the year (Christmas) but has Consumer Satisfaction with our Own Brand products as a tests demonstrating compliance with standards, with and services to which customers are invited to give new life been transformed into a marketable, licensed product, to be strong factor in business success; European legislation and with the specifications for each to their homes through well-being and comfort, easily, sold exclusively in Continente stores. Popota merchandising product type. quickly and at low cost. is now available in several areas: textiles, toys, culture, home Guaranteeing that the development of our Own Brand and entertainment. products is the result of an ongoing concern to comply Product labelling is another essential aspect. In addition to with all the requirements, with thorough procedures, so the required information, in 2013 we analysed more than Highlights of the 2013 developments that they can be part of the objectives themselves; 2,400 products to include labelling information to enable customers to use them properly. Rebranding of the Kasa Modelo brand for Kasa – 2013 saw Ensuring more professional organisation to improve the completion of the rebranding of the Kasa Modelo brand operational efficiency, raise the company’s productivity for Kasa, through an innovative overhaul of home lines as and ensure that our people are highly satisfied in their Good Practice product displays. This innovation enabled: work; The production process is monitored by internal and The creation of inspiring, low cost, mini home environNote.it in CTTs – Sale of our own Note.it brand through other Strengthening relationships with suppliers to ensure that external technicians, and the different stages of ments, closely aligned with the hypermarket context operators and for the first time in Portuguese Post Offices the products obtained are of the desired quality; production are validated; where the mini-displays are positioned at eye level and (CTTs). within reach of the customers. Strict compliance with the applicable regulations in all External agencies are subcontracted to carry out Efficient Point of Sale – Introduction of a efficient point of areas of our business. inspections in the factories of origin; Launch of our own brand exclusive design products, with sale to reduce waiting times and the amount of staff activity, new lines in the Festa, crockery, linen and towel ranges, as well as to ensure that staff contact with the customer is Upon receipt of the goods, tests are performed in accompanied by the “Querido, Mudei a Casa” programme. always face-to-face. laboratories located in the warehouses; Product Quality and Safety Inclusion of the Kasa Catalogue in Continente Online, to Literature Competition – An initiative offering amateur The products are tested before delivery to the stores. complement shop sales. Portuguese writers the chance to launch a book, edited by One of our priorities is to ensure the quality and safety of our book.it and distributed nationally (in all Sonae stores – own brand products, by controlling the whole process from Making products available through the virtual stock Continente, Worten, book.it) preparation of the products to their in-store availability. To concept, with home delivery or preparation for collection achieve this goal, we focused on certification of the developIn-store food safety at the customer’s preferred store. Tracer – Delivery times of glasses with stock gradations ment of our own brand products, on product feedback rehave improved with the installation of a device that allows ceived and on continuous quality monitoring. In 2013, the food safety management system implemented the eyepiece of the frames to be read so that the lenses can in stores was reviewed. This review involved training for Yämmi: The Kitchen Robot for Smart Food Lovers come already ground by the supplier in accordance with the managers of fresh foods and store food safety officers, while Certification of the development of our own brand products requested parameters. for the new stores in Madeira, colleagues of the various sections were also included. As part of the review, these In July 2013, we continued the expansion of the certification Dental service – Dental treatment in Well’s stores. In 2013, colleagues were granted approximately 260 hours of of the development process for our Own Brand products. Continente, always mindful of Portuguese families, their Well’s opened 3 Malo Clinic dental surgeries, thus leading the training, delivered by 7 expert food safety trainers. Following Food certification in 2012, in 2013 certification aspirations and new ways of making life’s pleasures simpler, way in providing this service in chemists and supermarkets. covered Worten, which then achieved the ISO 9001 set itself the challenge of creating a multifunctional cooking certification, the internationally recognized benchmark for Continente+ machine that is affordable for most families. Thus, the idea Well’s discount booklets – the first health and wellness retail quality management. behind the Yämmi was born, a product developed from brand to create targeted discount booklets for mass scratch by Continente, with international recognition and distribution to its main target customer audiences. certifications. Quality and safety monitoring of our Own Brand products Rebranding of non-food products including Note.it, Zoko, With the introduction of the Yämmi, we became the second Continente, Continente Seleção, Wild Nature, É Continente We have a dedicated team of skilled professionals to monitor In 2013, we implemented Continente+, a mobile phone app distribution brand worldwide, and the first in Portugal and and Pack.it. the quality and safety of our Own Brand products through (for iphone and android) used to provide feedback about Europe, to launch a multifunctional cooking machine. audits and physico-chemical, microbiological, sensory and Continente brand products through the involvement of our performance analyses conducted by internal and external colleagues. laboratories. This supervision is adapted to each type of product, so long as the laboratory tests, production controls The app is used to evaluate Continente brand products and annual plans for collection, and control of products being identified with a barcode reader or product description and marketed have been defined. to extract evaluation reports for Quality Assurance and Monitoring of Continent Brand Products. R E T A il 3 9 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT Sensory analysis (Minilabs and sensebus) 2013, was a year marked by the start of operations in the “Worten Resolve” Customer Support Project Sonae Ombudsman United States which entailed the need to study and evaluate Minilab and Sensebus are mobile sensory analysis the requirements of this market in terms of product The duty of the Sonae Ombudsman is to follow up customer laboratories used to gauge consumer opinion of Continente requirements, as they are different from the European complaints or suggestions. The Ombudsman is available to brand products. Union. Products therefore needed to be prepared, changed all of our colleagues, customers, suppliers and the general This service allows to support all the after-sales customer and adapted, at the level of markings, labelling and public to provide a response to any contact made regarding service in store, and for that: These laboratories comply with all the food hygiene and evaluation of new performance, toxicity and fire behaviour all of Sonae’s business areas (Sonae MC, Sonae SR, Sonae safety rules required for sensory testing. The Minilab is used parameters under US law and standards. Addressing easily-resolved (technical) complaints made RP, Investment Management, Sonae Sierra and Sonaecom). in Continente stores while Sensebus is used in Continente by customers, by solving problems on the spot. The ombudsman is also responsible for all follow-up answers. Modelo stores. Easy repair troubleshooting for customers, so the item Safety monitoring good practice The Ombudsman reports directly to the Chairman of Sonae’s can be delivered immediately to the customer. Board of Directors. Reliability: All products are initially analysed to test their Provision of support services, such as sale of accessories provedoria@sonae.pt components and to ensure the reliability of the products and/or components, to complement the repair needed. Minilab in order to increase their useful life. e Sensebus In addition to troubleshooting, Worten Resolve has led to a Results Dispatch inspections: All of our own brand products are reduction in the amount of waste electrical and electronic inspected upon departure so that the functional, that would be potentially generated. aesthetic and safety compliance of each batch is guaranteed. • 6,144 customers Quality control in warehouses: All products in stock are • 25,195 evaluations monitored, in accordance with a pre-set ranking of • 6 Minilab articles/suppliers. Responsibility • 7 Sensebus in own brand actions Performance products 2013 Customer Feedback Commitments for 2013-2015 Quality and Safety Electronics Listening to our customers and understanding them has always been a priority at Sonae, so that we can improve and The products offered by Worten are subject to rigorous quality guarantee their total satisfaction at all times. The and safety tests to ensure the elimination of health risks, suggestions and complaints system is managed to process To provide a balanced offer of the different types of own brand products. lower electricity consumption, easier recycling at the end of and give visibility to issues involving the organisation in New, innovative and differentiated product developments, have been introduced (ex: Café Origens (coffee), the life cycle and, last but not least, the safety of the end user. continuous improvement plans, in order to strengthen our Fácil&Bom range and Popota’s merchandising). relationship with customers through monitoring and the resolution of complaints. Maintain the NP EN ISO 9001:2008 certification covering the process for developing Continente own Quality and Safety Textiles brand products. Accordingly, in 2010, we began certification of the Maintenance of guaranteed certification. In this area, the strict safety requirements for approval of Suggestions and Complaints Management System under children’s play articles are of particular importance. The Certify the Worten own brand products development process. ISO 10002:2007. We are currently the only company in the production process is monitored by in-house technicians sector with this certification system. Certification awarded in 2013. and the different production stages are validated from proto sample, through pre-production sample to golden sample. In Establish a formal health and nutrition policy for own brand products. Every year the system undergoes about 20 internal and addition to technical support from international agencies, external audits, to monitor the teams, stores and central Formalised policy. there are inspections at the source factories and monitoring structures in compliance with the requirements of the processes in place upon receipt of the product. When Fullfilled Partially fullfilled Unfullfilled system and to promote continuous improvement. The products are received in the warehouse a random product system enables customer satisfaction to be improved, collection is followed for toxicity tests to evaluate the corrective actions to be taken, customers to be heard within possible presence of hazardous chemicals. the company and the quality of our services to be measured. R E T A il 4 1 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT SUSTAINABILITY OF FISHERIES Contribution towards sustainable fishing We have defined a Fishing Sustainability Policy for the according to fishing methods used; (iv) compliance with sustainability of ecosystems, species and fish stocks, to legislation on scientific names and minimum fish sizes; (v) In order to contribute to the sustainability of fisheries, we Introduction of organic products; ensure that we comply with all national and EU legislation transmission of trust and loyalty to consumers. have implemented the following measures: Priority for cod purchases from Norway (sustainable stock); applicable to the fisheries sector. The Fishing Sustainability Policy has the following major advantages: (i) guaranteed For more information about the Fishing Sustainability Priority for fish purchases at Docapescas auctions; Prohibition of the sale of Shark and Greenland Halibut; avoidance of suppliers blacklisted by Greenpeace; (ii) Policy, go to the Sonae website: Promotion of an increase in purchases of Bacalhau Promotion of reductions in purchases from trawling with introduction of new tags in Fresh Fish (PPA Proof of http://www.sonae.pt/en/sustainability/environmental-policy/ Seleção4 (Cod); particular emphasis on bottom trawling; Purchase at Auction); (iii) choice of suppliers, Promotion of increased sales of farmed fisheries products; Reduction in purchase and sale of monk fish. Traffic light system Measures implemented to Enhance Measures Implemented to Reduce Sustainable Fishing Non-Sustainable Fishing 2012 2013 Increased Increased Prohibit Reduce quantities sales the sale of purchase of products of quality dried of aquaculture Greenland caught using bottom 4% 4% cod bought products halibut and shark trawling 31% 44% 24% 32% 41% 20% Increase Decrease of in Sustainable Non-Sustainable Fishing Fishing Fishing methods used are harmful to other species/habitats Fishing methods pose little risk to the species There are some problems regarding the fishing methods used Aquaculture Reduce Buy fish Introduction Buy Cod amounts in fish of Biological from of monkfish Sonae’s Fish Supplier Requirements markets products Norway bought and sold When suppliers sign a contract with Sonae, they agree to the (iv) Only supply fish caught on vessels not “blacklisted” by following: Greenpeace with an undertaking to submit documentary proof of compliance whenever requested. Additionally, (i) Comply with and meet the legally established maximum the documents accompanying the goods are required to In addition to these measures, we are aiming to raise Movement. Furthermore, we clearly display the CPA Label fish catch quotas, include information on species, batch, capture zone and consumer awareness about fish sustainability issues so that (certificate of purchase at auction) on our fresh fish counters, method. Moreover, annually this information and the they can help to contribute to the protection of marine with posters at fish counters explaining the label and we are (ii) Operate their fishing equipment so as to avoid harm to vessel names, certificates, names of captains and port of biodiversity, among other things by not buying endangered in contact with the Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) to the seabed and ecosystems, landing must be updated. species. One of the ways of achieving this objective was by promote sustainable fishing. giving greater visibility to products from more sustainable (iii) Act in accordance with a sustainable fish capture policy A further means of monitoring suppliers is through quality catch methods and through awareness raising campaigns, and audits. lectures, events and partnerships within the Hyper Healthy 4 Amongst other attributes, particularly quality, Bacalhau Seleção (Premium Cod) is caught using the hook and line fishing technique, an ancient method which increases the sustainability of fish stocks in the sea. R E T A il 4 3 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT The Sport Zone Card also improved its market penetration Science and Innovation and customer engagement, and at the end of 2013 numContribution bered about 1 million families participating in sports and As a member of COTEC, we aim to contribute to a culture to Sustainable outdoor activities, thus contributing to Sport Zone’s leaderof innovation and support for investment in research in Fishing Performance ship in Portuguese sport retail. Portugal. 2013 Commitments for 2013-2015 Agile Marathon – Innovation marathon in ecommerce, in Environmental Awareness partnership with the Centre for Products and Services Development and Innovation Skills (CIPS) of the Faculty Equipa Worten Equipa (EWE) Launched in 2009, EWE of Engineering, University of Porto (FEUP). is a Worten social responsibility project which aims to Raise customer awareness of fishing sustainability issues contribute to an environment free from harmful waste, We clearly display the CPA Label on our fresh fish stalls. This label marks auction fish and is a way of communicating while supporting those most in need. Welfare sustainable fishing methods. We also have posters on our fish counters explaining the label and we have started negotiations with a credible partner for the promotion of sustainable fisheries. In 2014, we will consolidate our Over the past five years, EWE has collected over 23,000 Welfare is still highly relevant, especially in the current sociocustomer campaigns. tonnes of Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment economic climate. We therefore continue to support Give greater prominence to fish products captured using sustainable methods (WEEE) and has supplied over 13,000 new appliances to reputable organisations with concrete and tangible results 1,280 institutions, which represents direct support to in the area of social well-being: Aldeias SOS Criança, AMI, We have increased our percentage of fish caught using sustainable methods from 24% (2012) to 32% (2013). This more than 314 000 people in need. Associação Ajuda de Mãe, Banco Alimentar Contra a Fome, goal was achieved mainly in fresh fish, by increasing purchases in national auctions. Cáritas Portugal, Portuguese Red Cross, Make a Wish, among Raise the awareness of our cod suppliers about sustainable fishing certification The “Environmental Footprint of Food Products” (PEPA others. Project) – Continente supports Quercus, as a sponsor, in Efforts are in place to raise awareness among cod suppliers in order to promote sustainability of the business. In 2013 we ensured that all of our cod suppliers were certified by the Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) in terms of raw the development of this project for monitoring and Portugal mais Feliz Happier Portugal (Worten) Support materials for dry salted production. training Portuguese producers in the implementation of for needy families rebuilding their life projects, the standard European methodology for the calculation by combating poverty and social exclusion. Through Implement increasingly demanding sustainability requirements of PEPA, currently under development by the European this initiative, in 2013 we raised 175,000 euros for the Hake is an item that is always a top seller. In 2013, we started to transfer purchases from a site identified by Commission (EC). The PEPA project aims to contribute to Portuguese Red Cross through 200,000 Christmas Greenpeace as a risk region to a second location where we work with MSC certified suppliers. Furthermore, we have the greater competitiveness and sustainability of parcels sold. limited our purchases of sole in order to avoid catching species from zones identified on Greenpeace’s red list. Portuguese agri-food products through the creation of a Fullfilled Partially fullfilled Unfullfilled knowledge transfer and information sharing network for Animal Welfare Bank Project (Continente) A welfare improved knowledge of the calculation and environmental initiative involving the collection of items for animals footprint of products in the food area. (particularly food) in partnership with Animalife and the 90 associations for abandoned animals that it represents. INCREASED SHARING AND PROMOTE SOCIAL WELL-BEING Health and Sport Missão Sorriso (Continente) In 2013, Missão Sorriso (Smile Mission) exceeded 2 million euros in donations, of Through Sport Zone, Sonae promotes the organisation which over 1 million was in donated products, 880,000 to of events to encourage sport such as the Sport Zone Half projects that received more than 4 million votes, involving Marathon, Women’s Run, Sport Zone Marginal à Noite more than 5,500 Portuguese Red Cross volunteers and Night-time Run, National Deeply-Circuit Surf, Gira more than 800 of our people in food collection campaigns. Volei Volley-ball, Sport Zone Soccer Camp and Sport Environmental Health Science and Zone Island. Culture Education Welfare Projeto Nós (Mo) Projecto Nós (We Project) supports Awareness and Sports Innovation causes contributing to improved living conditions for the Through Continente’s Projeto Pêra a range of food neediest Portuguese people. Thus, in 2013, 25,000 products were donated, resulting in breakfast being scarves were sold, raising 50,000 euros for Make a Wish provided for 613 needy children in 10 schools in the Portugal. At Sonae, we believe that our business can contribute to the Additionally, it should be noted that, in 2013, we consolidated Greater Porto area. promotion of the social and cultural well-being of the our commitment to Portuguese families, supporting saving communities where we operate. With this in mind, we are through the Continente Card and Well’s discount booklet, continuing to develop community support in six priority the first health and wellness retail brand to create booklets areas: Environmental Awareness, Culture, Education, Health of targeted discounts and distribute them in masse among and Sports, Science and Innovation and Welfare. its main target consumer audiences. We are proud of our community engagement through direct In 2013, about 3,4 million customers received Continente or indirect support for projects, with the participation of Card and discount voucher benefits and reductions, namely customers, suppliers and our people in community support. in fuel, gyms, health, culture and sport. Specifically with regard to retail, overall support reached 9,4 million Euros in a total of 1,457 supported institutions. R E T A il 4 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT Increased sharing and promote social well-being Performance Sonae 2013 26 Retail Business Commitments for Environmental Area Continente Continente Continente 2013-2015 certifications (corporate) Modelo Bom Dia maintained 1 3 8 2 Define Sonae’s formal strategy for community support, including definition of strategic areas, goals and information reporting practices. Production The process begun in 2013. Centre Warehouses Worten (4 in Portugal (Meat and 1 See section “Increased sharing and promote social well-being”. Processing in Spain) Centre) Continue with projects that have positive impacts on the community in the fields of Health and Sport, Education, Solidarity, Environmental Awareness, Culture, Science and Innovation. 1 6 5 Commitment fulfilled. See section “Increased sharing and promote social well-being”. Continue with investment in the community 1 New Worten We have increased our budget for investment in the community relative to 2012, from €10.1 million Store to €10.6 million. environmental certification Cascais Develop and promote volunteering in the company through the Sonae Activshare Programme, diversifying the activities and making them more accessible. 1 We continued to encourage all of our colleagues to be actively involved in volunteering activities. In 2013, 1,800 colleagues were involved in 194 activities in 112 institutions. Fullfilled Partially fullfilled Unfullfilled Coolants In 2013, we continued the programme to constantly improve BETTER PLANET the efficiency of our refrigeration plants to preserve food in Type of coolant fluid used in refrigeration plants our stores (Continente) by using coolants that have the least impact on the environment. The main initiatives EFFICIENT MANAGEMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL Environmental Best Practices implemented were: PERFORMANCE 2011 2012 2013 The implementation of best practices is not confined to the continued use of R 290 in smaller stores whenever 82% Management and good environmental practices management of existing stores, it also includes new facilities, technically feasible; 79% 79% major renovations and home deliveries. Environmental Certifications use of R 134, a new gas first tried in 2013; Furthermore, our significant efforts in this area are further As in previous years, we have strengthened the series of evident through the use of an environmental dashboard in pilot implementation of hybrid refrigeration systems Environmental Certifications it has under ISO 14001 stores, the use of coolants that have less environmental (cascade) in 4 new stores, using R 134 gas in the primary international standard. impact, the sale of reusable bags, the management of waste positive cold circuit and R 744 (CO2) in the negative cold generated through our activities, or waste products circuit; 10% 9% In 2013, all the 25 environmental certifications for facilities deposited by customers in the stores and the reuse of rigid 9% 10% 7% 6% 2% 1% 1% 2% 3% 1% remained in place. Seven of them were renewals and 18 were cool boxes in home deliveries. As a result of our efforts, and notwithstanding the organic maintained, and the corporate environmental certification growth recorded, 2013 was notable for a reduction of 3 pp in R404 R427a Glicol R22 R134 R290 R744 for the Sonae Retail Business Area was renewed. In addition, a The environmental dashboard is a monitoring system for the percentage of R 404 gas used the most harmful greennew certification was granted to one of Sonae’s Worten stores. environmental indicators (water, energy, fuels, waste, etc.). house gas and 4 pp in the accumulated percentage used. In 2013, all Continente and Worten stores (Portugal) had This series of certifications reflects our unwavering concern implemented this tool. for environmental performance. R E T A il 4 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT Waste management The purpose of UTRAD (Depreciated Product Management In 2013, we continued to motivate customers to reuse Final waste destination Unit) is to minimise unsold merchandise throughout the bags for their shopping and we saw a 6% rise in the sale of Waste management in the Retail business includes both the Tons entire value chain by recovering depreciated items to sell in reusable bags. waste generated by our activities and the waste deposited Outlet stores, thus leading to a reduction in unsold in our stores by customers, as we try to encourage everyone merchandise, waste and transport. This has the advantage Finally, we also tried to implement practices in home deliverto behave in a manner that is more environmentally of allowing an exchange of knowledge between partners and ies that would lead to a more responsible environmental responsible, and our role is crucial in making it easier for Recycling Organic Recovery Energy Recovery Landfill the acquisition of components so that articles can be performance. For example, freezer bags are gradually being them to do so. repaired. Without this service such articles would be sent for replaced with rigid cool boxes. There was a usage ratio of 39,728 38,422 recycling. The Outlet / UTRAD programme thus has benefits around 60% for rigid cool boxes and 40% for freezer bags in that extend along the whole of the value chain. In 2013, we 2013, and the latter were only used when there are no rigid achieved a recovery rate of 79% of depreciated merchandise, boxes available. Therefore, in this area, we have also cut the Waste a significant amount and clearly representative of the added use of plastic bags in home deliveries in 2013. management value of UTRAD. 14,067 12,958 7,157 5,804 3,297 3,150 Waste Management Waste deposited of Environmental generated in stores by Performance 2012 2013 Performance customers 2013 Commitments for 2013-2015 Environmental Responsibility Programmes + 3.9% 58,567 4,426 -15% to Minimise Waste waste ton. ton. waste Extend the ISO 14001 Environmental Certification plan to Textiles and Sports stores Of the initiatives that are helping to reduce the volume of waste generated by Sonae, particularly noteworthy is the The expansion of the environmental certification programme is scheduled for the 2013-2015 period; however, no In 2013, the Retail business handled 62,993 tonnes of waste, management of food products bought by Continente but certification was obtained in 2013. which is 2.3% more than the previous year. which are not sold, through Worten’s Outlet/ UTRAD Maintain current ISO 14001 Environmental Certification and expand the certification plan to Worten programme. In addition, the increase in the sale of reusable stores This increase is associated on the one hand with increased bags and the gradual replacement of freezer bags with rigid The environmental certifications were maintained in 2013 and one new certification was granted to one of our activity and on the other hand with a reduction in waste cool boxes are helping to cut the amount of waste generated Worten stores. deposited by customers. These factors should be noted: by our customers. Conclude the R22 coolant replacement plan in refrigeration plants the dissociation of the increase in waste generated by our The programme was delayed because of the heavy investment required and the uncertainties noted in 2013, activities given the growth of business, which is testiarising from successive proposals (within the European Union) to review the European regulations on the use of +6% APED mony to the efforts made by Sonae to minimise its envicoolant gases, which directly affects the technology options that could be adopted. (Portuguese ronmental impact; Sale of reusable Distribution bags in 2013 Promote the use of hard boxes with disposable lining and replace hard box inners, in home deliveries Companies the significant increase in the amount of clothing brought compared Association) Progressive replacement was started. to the stores by customers, which reflects the awareness + Continente with 2012 actions implemented. However, there was a fall of about bags Reduce the use of plastic bags in home deliveries 15% in the waste deposited in stores by customers. In 2013, an average of 14.9 bags were used per order, which is less than in 2012. We continued to aim to exploit the waste in 2013, and Strengthen the concept Outlet/UTRAD (Depreciated Product Management Unit), in order to recover achieved a recovery rate of 79.4%, an increase of 2.2 pp over Regarding the food business, there is a central unit whose articles that would have been disposed of as waste 2012. The following contributed most to the improved aim is to control and reduce the amount of food products A depreciated merchandise recovery rate of 79% was achieved in 2013. recovery rate: which are bought but not sold. This unit is helping to reduce the potential generation of waste, since part of what is Implement best environmental practices in new facilities (stores, production centres) and when existing very slight growth (0.4%) in the production of municipal facilities are overhauled (use of recyclable materials easily adaptable to climate changes, energy bought and not sold results in waste. Items in good condition solid waste (MSW); efficiency, use of renewable sources, water efficiency, etc.) but that cannot be sold (mostly because of defects in the within the category of MSW, a growth in the amount sent packaging) are given to organisations in the tertiary sector. Best environmental practices were implemented in new facilities and in existing ones in 2013. for organic recovery and a decrease in the amount sent Furthermore, constant interaction with suppliers, described Install an Environmental Dashboard in 80% of Continente and Worten stores to landfill, both of which were considerable; in more detail in the Better People section, enables us to achieve production which is better suited to consumer Installed in all Continente and Worten stores (Portugal). an increase in recyclable waste generated by our preferences (thus resulting in fewer unsold products) and we activities (mostly waste packaging). Fullfilled Partially fullfilled Unfullfilled also encourage suppliers to use packaging with a lower environmental impact. R E T A il 4 9 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT SONAE’S “FOOTPRINT” Regarding the CO2e emissions related to electric energy Transport and logistics consumption, there was a reduction of 6% over 2012. Energy In 2013, we continued our efforts towards transport efficiency Logistics efficiency was also significantly better in 2013. With regard to the energy associated with the Projeto Trevo, and maintained our requirements with transport firms so as We continued to optimise the routes and achieved a Energy consumption is one of the main environmental we continued to focus on the independent generation of to improve the contracted fleet. At the end of 2013, therefore, reduction of 4% in terms of km per delivery. Regarding impacts derived from the Retail business, and represents a energy from renewable sources, with the installation of 13 94.1% of vehicles complied with Euro 4 standard or later, which supplying stores, 7.8 containers were transported per km significant operating cost. Electricity is the main form of new power plants. Thus, at the end of 2013, we had installed meant an increase of around 5pp relative to 2012. More travelled (7.2 in 2012). If we look at emissions per container energy consumed (around 76.4% of all energy used by the 113 independent power plants using renewable sources 112 specifically, 65.8% of vehicles now complied with Euro 5 transported in 2013, around 102 kg of CO2 were emitted per Retail business in 2013), followed by fuels (especially diesel using photovoltaic technology and 1 using wind technology. standard. The contracted fleet covered nearly 33.7 million km, 1000 containers, which is a reduction of 9.7% over 2012. fuel used by the contracted vehicle fleet). Total energy 43 of the 113 power plants are micro-generation plants and accounting for CO2 emissions of 26,842 tonnes, which is consumption was 1,957,092 GJ in 2013, corresponding to a 70 are mini-generation systems. These power plants can around 2.4% lower than the figure for 2012. reduction of around 2.7% over 2012. generate a total installed power of around 5.1 MWp. In 2013, the combined output of these 113 plants, all feeding kg CO2/1000 containers carried Nr. of containers carried/km travelled Electricity consumption into the relevant national grid, was 6,018 MWh (6 GWh), GJ which is a year-on-year increase of 195%. Finally, it should be noted that with this project and the 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 respective feeding into the national grid, in 2013 we helped 2011 2012 2013 to prevent the emission of around 2,830 tonnes of CO2e into 120 7.8 the atmosphere. 7.2 1,773,315 113 0.477 6.7 0.557 0.452 Energy Optimisation 102 1,541,095 1,497,786 Food retail Projeto Trevo (The Clover Project) Optimisation of performance of refrigeration plants (80 stores), including: − installation of suction and floating condensation systems; Electricity consumption CEE stores − mechanical tuning of refrigeration plants; Greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) − turning and adjustment of operating parameters of the Emissions plants and cold stores. Overall GHG emissions in 2013 were around 196,182 tonnes, ton CO2 In terms of electricity consumption, in 2013: 5.3% lower than the previous year. Regulation of air-conditioning set-points (39 stores) Electricity consumption was approximately 415.3 GWh GHG Emissions comprise of: Specialised retail (including stores, warehouses and production centres), Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 equivalent to 1,495,242 GJ, which yielded emissions of Optimisation of lighting levels in different parts of the scope 1 emissions (direct), from fuel consumption by 158,308 tonnes of CO2e. stores; stores and for transporting goods and our colleagues; 168,400 158,308 Optimisation of air-conditioning set-points; Specific electricity consumption (SEC) for the stores, scope 2 emissions (indirect), related to electricity by sales area, was about 0.45 GWh / 1000 m2, continuing Implementation of new climate control technologies (free consumption; its downward trend (-5.2%); cooling and night time vacuuming); scope 3 emissions (other indirect emissions), related to 34,589 33,900 Raising awareness of our colleagues. There was a year-on-year decrease in electricity waste management. 4,2713,974 consumption of 3%. There was a 2% drop in scope 1 emissions relative to 2012, The reduction in electricity consumption reflects a series of even though the business grew in 2013. The reduction in 2012 2013 measures adopted in both food retail and specialised retail scope 2 was 6% and for scope 3 it was 7%. that have been implemented over the last few years and boosted by new measures implemented in 2013 under the Projeto Trevo. R E T A il 5 1 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT Water Carbon and water footprint Environmental awareness In 2013, the total consumption of drinking water in the In keeping with its leading position and in anticipation of its As a retailer, we have the opportunity to encourage our In addition to these initiatives we are also helping to raise Continente hypermarkets and supermarkets was 650,744 chosen path, Sonae embarked on a pilot project to calculate customers to make responsible choices. Consequently, in awareness of environmental issues, in relation to our m3, 1.3% less than the previous year. Specific consumption the carbon and water footprints of products. In 2013, we un2013 we appealed to our customers to purchase the most customers and our colleagues alike. was 1.18 m3 per m2 of sales area, corresponding to a decline dertook a trial calculation of these footprints for certain fish, energy efficient appliances. More specifically, Worten of 5.6% relative to 2012. Like-for-like figures for all stores delicatessen and meat products. This project will continue in launched a campaign with coupon discounts of 20% for The following initiatives were undertaken in 2013, oriented show specific consumption was 4%. 2014, with the focus switching to the fruit and vegetable major household appliances in energy classes A++ and towards: area and using the method adopted in 2013, which is: A+++. The effect of this initiative in 2013 was that we The decrease in water consumption was due to a number of continued to sell increasingly more efficient appliances. Customers: choosing basic products for modelling; measures taken recently to control waste, including: Distribution of the Guide to Good Environmental Practices; technical visits to producers; Meanwhile, as in previous years, in 2013 we continued to use of more efficient equipment; collect waste electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE) Distribution of pocket calendars and bookmarks – developing calculation models; our colleagues encouraged to change their behaviour; under the Equipa Worten Equipa (Team Worten Team) Awareness of topics such as used cooking oil, water, testing the models for consistency. project (EWE). There was a 16% fall in the amount of such energy, transport and waste; accidental leakages dealt with quickly. equipment collected in 2013, related to the economic Inclusion of environmental topics in customer satisfaction Determination of the carbon footprint will afterwards show circumstances of Portuguese families. Furthermore, under the Projeto Trevo, 2013 saw a general surveys; us which animal and vegetable production practices release programme of intervention in equipment starting to be the most GHGs, enabling us to take the necessary measures Encouraging customers to join the “We want your end-of­ implemented, focusing in particular on taps, to step up the with the producers to minimise the impact related to these Sale of efficient appliances life equipment” campaign, launched by APED and reduction of consumption in stores. Although nearly all the products. included in Worten’s EWE project. The goal is to encourage water used comes from the mains supply, there are Household appliances the collection and recycling of WEEE. boreholes in some of the stores that provide water for We also intend to promote the reduction of the carbon irrigation and washing outdoor pavements. 89% of appliances sold in 2013 were Class A+ or higher. footprint by shortening the distance between the places Our colleagues: where perishable goods are produced and the stores. A pilot There was a 6 pp increase in Class A+++ goods. Distribution of desk calendars – Increased awareness project was started in 2013 whereby local lettuce producers Water consumption of topics such as water, energy, transport and waste; delivered directly to a limited number of stores. Television sets Publication of quarterly newsletters with Sonae’s main 70% of appliances sold in 2013 were Class A or higher environmental initiatives and outcomes; When it comes to wastewater treatment, most of the liquid There was a 19 pp increase in Class A+ goods Inclusion of environmental issues at the daily meetings effluents generated at our facilities are discharged into the 2011 2012 2013 There was a fall of 27 pp in Class B and lower items at the start of business in food stores (Bom Dia meetings). public sewer system, except for three stores (Vagos, Cancela and Ribeira Brava) and five warehouses (Azambuja, Plaza I, 724,414 Overall figures Plaza II, C1 and C2), where this does not happen because 1.40 there is no public infrastructure available. These facilities 54% of appliances sold in 2013 were Class A+ or higher 1.25 1.18 have wastewater treatment stations that provide biological Increase of 19 pp in Class A+ and higher items 659,481 treatment (secondary treatment). 650,744 There was a fall of 20 pp in Class A and lower items (pp calculated relative to % in 2012) Total water consumption (m3) Specific water consumption (m3/ m2) R E T A il 5 3 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF THE PACKAGING Sonae’s Aware of the importance that packaging represents, due to Besides the measures already mentioned, we also reduced footprint the nature of our business, we have made substantial efforts the quantity of plastic used in the packaging of fruit and Performance to reduce the materials associated with the packaging of the vegetables, eliminated the plastic handles on the 3-kg sacks Commitments 2013 products of our own brand, whilst continuing to guarantee of potatoes and began selling exotic fruit and vegetables in for 2013-2015 their quality. bulk, replacing the packages. Lastly, we also replaced the tickets and labels on some products of our own brand by In 2013, we made some minor alterations to a set of printing directly on the products. products, which has already resulted in significant reductions. Calculate the carbon footprint of selected products The main measures implemented were the reduction of cardboard in the yoghurt packages and a change in the tops Process started in 2013. Taking into account the first steps taken for selected Meat, Fish and Delicatessen of the bottles of cooking oil. In this area, we were able to products. achieve important savings in packaging materials, Implement a car sharing system specifically in the reduction of 8.1 tons of cardboard for Continente brand soya yoghurts Área Viva and 8.6 tons of At an early stage of development. plastic in Continente brand cooking oil bottles. Maintain the route optimisation procedure in home deliveries, thus helping to reduce the carbon footprint We continued to cut the number of km per delivery in 2013, thus reducing the related CO2. Examples of Reduction of packaging materials Replace tri-temperature vehicles with bi-temperature ones involved with home deliveries 100% replacement level achieved in 2013. Material Product Change Reduction (Tons/Year) Calculate the water footprint of selected products Continente brand soya Cardboard Removal of any extra cardboard 8.1 yoghurts Área Viva Process started in 2013. Taking into account the first steps taken for selected Meat, Fish and Delicatessen Removal of the label on the side Paper Continente brand marmalade 0.5 products. of the package Continente and Cont. Equilíbrio Study and promote best practices in animal and vegetable production to reduce the carbon and water Plastic Removal of the seal of guarantee 0.5 brand jellies Equilíbrio footprint of products from the Continente Producers Club Paper Continente and Cont. Equilíbrio brand jellies Reduced size of label 0.5 No significant developments in 2013 because it also relies on the project which calculates the carbon and water Plastic Continente brand vegetable oil bottles Two-piece capsule changed to one-piece 8.6 footprints. Help reduce the carbon footprint by shortening distances between the places where perishable products are produced and Continente stores, if feasible for the members of the Continente Producers Club Process started in 2013. The reduction in the packaging materials was achieved not (implementation of the SRP Solution – Self Ready only by intervening at the level of the main packaging of the Packaging) for 4 articles of controlled brands: 2 types of bin Continue to focus on the installation of new autonomous energy generation plants that use renewable products themselves, but also in their transport boxes. More bags “É Continente”, 1 type of Continente biscuit and 1 type sources, according to investment capacity and applicable laws with regard to mini-generation and specifically, in 2013, the transport boxes were optimised of Continente own brand tinned tuna. microgeneration plants In 2013, we installed 13 new plants and closed the year with 113 plants installed. Include environmental issues when monitoring customer satisfaction Impact of the In 2013, we included environmental topics in customer surveys. packaging Performance Include environmental issues in the Bom Dia monthly meetings Commitments for 2013 Process started in 2013. 2013-2015 Fullfilled Partially fullfilled Unfullfilled Reduce packaging materials on own brand products In 2013, we continued to significantly reduce the packaging materials used. Optimise transport boxes in order to reduce packaging materials In 2013, we optimised the transport boxes of products such as “É Continente” own brand bin bags, Continente own brand biscuits and Continente own brand tinned tuna. Fullfilled Partially fullfilled Unfullfilled R E T A il 5 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT Call For Solutions We are determined to reach all of our people and respond to profile; custom-designed contents; and a highly qualified BETTER PEOPLE the specificities of each geographic area. The factors behind training team. In 2013, the 1 million hour mark was surpassed Call For Solutions is an open innovation programme that our success are already well known. They include: diverse with 109,195 training events divided as follows: invites some final year Masters students from the top programmes segmented according to area and functional DEVELOPMENT OF HUMAN CAPITAL Portuguese Universities to take an internship at Sonae, contributing with ideas and solutions to overcome the In 2013, our retail business personnel numbered more than challenges presented by Sonae’s various companies. 37 thousand colleagues, a 4% increase over the previous 2013 No. Events No. Events year, 67% of whom were women and 8% were international Portugal Spain This programme aims to bring added value to our business Programmes workers spread across four geographic areas: Spain, Brazil, and it allows us to identify young talent, exposing these China and Turkey. students to a real work environment at a very early stage of their careers. During a 4-5 month period, we focus on Attracting people effectively promoting the development of both their personal and Business Academy 48 66 professional skills, allowing them to take part in this privileged Management Academy 20 213 In order to identify and attract young talent, we at Sonae opportunity to prepare themselves for the job market. Leadership Academy 94 88 have been creating programmes and partnerships with various universities. By promoting different programmes, we Over the last 4 years, the programme has involved more Soft Skills Academy 505 10 support the personal and professional development of than 30 management teams and has received students Continuous Improvement / Kaizen 18,277 57 students and recent graduates and we attract talented from over 10 universities. In 2013, the programme was held Perishables School 19,056 youth to join our teams. two times and presented 37 challenges to those final year Health School 33 Masters students, whom we considered to have the potential to come and join the ranks of Sonae, after their internship. Processes/Systems Training (Workflows, SAP, Retek, Supply Chain...) 5,527 Technical training for suppliers/products 24,360 286 Environmental Management 82 Movement for Youth Employability Occupational Health, Safety and Hygiene 7,374 23 + than + than 1,400 100 In conjunction with the Institute of Employment and Logistics School 453 Professional Training, we assumed the commitment to give Continente Operations School 3,221 professional internships to young people who have recently Sport Zone Academy 4,200 21 completed their academic training and are looking for an opportunity to enter the job market. In 2013, 71 young Other Actions 25,105 76 academic professional people were chosen, who have begun their 1-year internship Total 108,355 840 internships internships at Sonae. Training and development Agile Marathon The qualification and development of our people is a vital element in the strategy to create value in the short, medium and long-term. In 2013, we continued to promote diverse and differentiating training programmes in reputable schools based in Portugal and abroad. These programmes are designed to strengthen key management and leadership Launched in October, this was a marathon that brought skills, as well as personal and interpersonal skills. together 130 students of the School of Engineering of the University of Porto for 29 consecutive hours, in which, as a team and through programming techniques, the students Sonae Retail School had to develop an app for Continente Online. The Sonae Retail School is a global training system The challenge sought to stimulate and support innovative organised into schools and academies aligned with our e-commerce projects in the retail area, encouraging a true different strategic business areas. It continues to be a culture of synergy and collaboration amongst the students. central focus and a foundation for the development of human capital. R E T A il 5 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT Performance Assessment and Management WELL-BEING AND INTERNAL SATISFACTION We are recognised by many health-related companies, who believe in our ability to positively influence the health of Upward Feedback – The Team Voice Occupational health internal and external customers, with many of our partners involved in various activities. In 2013, another edition of Upward Feedback was held with Inherent in this bottom-up development tool is the formalisaThe well-being of our people is a continuous priority and the leaders of the Retail business area, but this year using a tion of a time for our colleagues to give feedback to their leadconcern. We have identified the main factors that could We promoted blood drives for the Portuguese Blood and tool and model that was revamped to be more in line with ers. The purpose is to provide each management team with influence well-being, both positively and negatively, so Transplant Institute, stressing our Social responsibility. “our way”. information on its performance as a Team Manager in 3 spethat we can act proactively and anticipate changes in health. cific areas of development: Activity manager, Development We believe in prevention from sustainable long-term The well-being of our customers is also our concern. promoter and Commitment inspirer, serving as an anchor for perspective. Continuing the programmes of automated external the on-going process of change and individual growth. defibrillation (AED) we implemented the AED Programme Workplace Medical Care is applicable to all of our colleagues at the Sonae Companies Business Centre, which is now a and sometimes steps outside the boundaries of the company, Protected Cardio Area certified by the National Medical since it is a service for everyone, and is always available. Emergency Institute (INEM). Development of Human Capital We look after and promote the health of our people through Performance Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) Commitments 2013 medical exams by specialised professionals, taking into for 2013-2015 account not only work aspects but also the overall health of Health and Safety on the job is a daily concern of the entire our people. We contribute to reducing absenteeism, avoiding company. occupational illnesses and collaborating to prevent workplace accidents. The existence of 150 doctors’ offices within the The whole management line is supported by a network of company’s facilities provides a more rapid and efficient service safety technicians, who develop and implement preventative Increase the proportion of women in management positions adapted to the needs of our colleagues. We performed and protective measures within the scope of OHS 20,500 medical exams with 100 healthcare professionals. We are currently working in this direction, and the present situation shows: management and with the goal of improving performance. Non-Qualified to G1 54% Women in management positions Plan for integrating new colleagues All new colleagues The safety technicians work on-site in close collaboration receive training in Workplace Medicine, Work and Best G6 to G1 33% Women in management positions with the “Safety Facilitators”, representatives who actively Practices in Health. aid in the implementation of these measures, thereby Universe: all the women in management positions. ensuring that the store operations are safe and healthy. We developed an “Occupational Health Management Continually monitor internal diversity indicators System” which will improve all workplace medicine activity In 2013, we intensified our efforts to reduce accidents, Leadership Diversity with regard to greater control of health and safety, Nationality 21% of leadership positions occupied by colleagues who are not Portuguese nationals carrying out a set of actions that included: consolidating all of the activity developed in this area. Gender 54% Women in leadership positions Generational 19% Generation Y in leadership roles “Safety Walks” The Safety Technicians actually visiting We invest in promoting health and well-being through the the units, raising the awareness of our people, observing Diversity development of different campaigns to promote sensitivity Nationality 16% are not Portuguese nationals their behaviour and giving feedback; and awareness concerning prevention in the area of health Gender 67% women and adopting healthy life-styles. Ten health activities were Generational 46% Generation Y External audits With the goal of ensuring the continuous developed to reach all our colleagues in various ways. improvement of the OHS management system, all units Maintain medium to long-term strategic Human Resources planning Specific programmes were created for logistics and CPC are audited by an external entity to assess their compliance according to identified needs. As was the case in 2012, in 2013, in line with the cycle of the strategic business planning, the medium to long-term with applicable legislation and internal policies; planning of our human resources was carried out We provide on our portal the “Vita Salutis Interactive Continue internationalisation of Human Resources policies and processes Semi-annual events between the safety technicians and Platform”, which covers various health-related topics the Safety Facilitators for training and sharing knowledge Existence of policies and processes at the international level, specifically with regard to the management policies throughout the year. and good practices; for performance and talent, training policy and the development of salary and mobility policies We promoted 100 Health Screenings, 120 Nutritional Keep streamlining the Human Resources structure in order to increase efficiency and achieve improved Guideline Sessions and Workshops on breast cancer in response to business requirements collaboration with other areas of Sonae and outside entities. Taking into account that the HR strategic axes for 2013 given below, all our actions and resources were designed with a view of fulfilling these strategic guidelines. These, in turn, are in line with the theme of being streamlined, efficient and close to our business needs. 1. Moving Forward & Closer – evolve in a direction that is more open, more international, with a greater presence in the market and being closer to our customers 2. Step up – identify, develop and strengthen skills, our people and our team 3. Speed up – challenge and contribute to the businesses reaching their objectives more quickly 4. Faster, Better & Value Adder drive – promote a culture of greater speed, simplicity, efficiency and added value Fullfilled Partially fullfilled Unfullfilled R E T A il 5 9 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT “Safety Alerts” Using a “lessons learned” dynamic, International Good Practice Award in Occupational Monitoring of Internal Satisfaction Continente Bom Dia information related to Health and Safety is systematically Health and Safety Christmas Bazaar for our people held with the objective shared, which explain the risks and the preventive In 2013, we continued to carry out a set of programmes of making it possible for all those who are going through measures to be adopted. aimed at increasing internal satisfaction. a time of greater economic difficulty to acquire certain articles at almost no cost. Work accidents investigation Within that same Sonae Sharing Views approach, all work accidents are investigated to Worten determine the causes, and measures to prevent any In 2013, Sonae was once again a winner of the European Regular knowledge and understanding of each of our further occurrences are defined and implemented. Good Practice Awards. Awarded by the European Agency for Remodelling of the social spaces and the installation of colleague’s way of experiencing their work environment and Safety and Health at Work, these prizes recognise best changing rooms in some stores where the lockers were professional relationships is essential. In addition, the way Survey of our collegues with regard to Occupational practices with regard to safety and health in organisations. inappropriately located, as well as the placement of the company’s policies and practices are felt and perceived Health and Safety, including questions related to Health This distinction amongst hundreds of companies from 29 drinking fountains in stores that did not have any. by each colleague is fundamental to putting into practice our and Well-being. Every year we provide two annual medical European countries results from the good practices followed conviction to “walk the talk” with regard to our strategy of consultations for all of our people, with the rate of by Sonae, specifically in the involvement of top management Meals offered to our colleagues on special days such as personnel management. participation in the 1st consultation being 84% and 8% in and our people in the prevention of risks and the promotion May 1st and the “Notas 20” programme. the 2nd consultation. The results of the consultation are of health and safety at work in the retail sector. For this reason we periodically diagnose the social climate in analysed and shared with the units for the subsequent Sonae MC and Sonae SR in the region of the Algarve order to measure the level of well-being of our colleagues definition of preventive measures. Suppliers’ Manual for Health and Safety and to be able to act on potential risk situations. In line with Pilot programme for social support – in partnership with this policy, after the 2012 end-of-the-year survey was the Red Cross, designed for our neediest colleagues, who Plan for the integration of new colleagues. All of our Occupational health and safety issues are one of our top carried out, 2013 was dedicated to the dissemination of the do not have the means to resolve certain problems on people are given Occupational Health and Safety training priorities at Sonae and in line with this thinking, we pledge to results, the identification of opportunities for improvement their own. The type of support is very diversified: ranging when they begin work. guarantee conditions of safety, health and well-being for all and the systematisation of the corresponding proposed from the management of family finances, legal aid, of our people, and whenever possible, to ensure that the actions. support in finding institutions to contact according to the Campaign “Em Abril, segurança mil”. In 2013, we personnel of other companies that work with us enjoy those type of problem, or technical support, and including help launched the 3rd edition of this campaign, which is same conditions. Examples of some of the initiatives already implemented are consisting of goods in kind, if such is the case, etc. designed to promote a set of awareness events in the as follows: area of Safety and Health. The main focus of this As a way of ensuring that this commitment is successfully campaign is to lower the rate of absenteeism and achieved, the following practices were carried out: Logistical Operations and Production Centres accidents, as well as improve levels of satisfaction and well-being in health and safety, increasing the An OHS Guide to Good Practices was prepared – This Solidarity in Logistics – provide our colleagues with preventative measures taken and good practices in these guide aims to inform all the subcontractor companies of opportunities for sharing and social action areas. Among the initiatives carried out, some noteworthy the rules that must be strictly followed when they are examples are the production of an internal OHS film, the providing services at Sonae. The Guide offers practical Social Events creation of an area of Health and Safety on our intranet information related to Occupational Health and Safety, Events designed for the joint celebration of anniversary portal, the Sonae Safety Day Competition – which in this way guaranteeing that the service providers are dates, theme days – such as Mother’s Day, Children’s Day, highlights the actions that contributed most to the able to keep their colleagues informed and aware of the Women’s Day, Family Day and the anniversary of the reduction of unsafe behaviour, work accidents and risks inherent to the activities they will be performing. units – and various workshops on nutrition, oral hygiene, professional illnesses, with the direct and effective or domestic violence, for example. participation of our people – as well as other initiatives Preparation of Occupational Health and Safety Criteria that touch on themes such as healthy life-styles, good for specific procedures, such as the selection and hiring SMILE Programme eating habits and raised awareness concerning the of suppliers of goods and services. This document sets This programme includes various events designed for subject of ergonomics and the moving of loads manually. forth all the criteria for health and safety that must be on-the-job well-being and happiness. guaranteed and all the situations to which attention must be paid for each type of contracted service and each type of equipment used. R E T A il 6 1 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT SUPPLY CHAIN RESPONSIBILITY Sonae subscribes to the European Code of Conduct for the Food Supply Chain Well-being As part of the process of developing our Own Brands (OB) and internal and accompanying the product and the suppliers following Sonae signed the European Code of Conduct (ECC) for Good satisfaction Performance 2013 the development/launching of these products, which are Practices in the Food Supply Chain, a European initiative Commitments for certified in accordance with the international standard EN that results from an agreement between the main European 2013-2015 ISO 9001, all of our own brand products and suppliers are associations in the food and food distribution industry on the subject to a process of pre-validation and pre-approval. This principles that should govern the relations between aims at ensuring compliance with all the regulatory production and distribution. requirements for safety and performance, which are required Implement a health promotion programme in the Logistics Department within the scope of the standard of quality for own brands. This Code relies on self-regulation as the best way to govern the relationships in the food supply chain, favouring dialogue With the support of specialists, the Health Promotion Programme was successfully implemented in 2013 for our colleagues of the Logistics Department. Emotional well-being, Care of the feet, Oral health, Prevention consumpAt the same time, our suppliers are subject to an evaluation and establishing healthy competition. The European tion of alcohol and medications, Relaxation techniques. process, during which audits are carried out for selection and agreement gives special attention to the small and medium qualification. These evaluations aim to assess the degree to enterprises, which is especially important in Portugal, as Implement a software tool to provide support to Sonae’s Health and Safety Management System which suppliers comply with our policy, leading to the acthere are large multinational companies in the production A software tool to provide support to Sonae’s Health and Safety Management System has been implemented. ceptance, or not, of the supplier, as well as the implementasector, but also many SMEs. tion of corrective actions in conjunction with the supplier. Implement a software tool for support to Occupational Medicine In order to guarantee good relations between the parties and A software tool for support to Occupational Medicine has been implemented. Whether an audit is required or not, or if the supplier’s resolve any disputes that arise, the ECC includes mechacertificates are accepted depends on the origin of the nisms for resolving litigations, among them being mediation Promote health actions within the scope of internal social responsibility supplier. Thus, depending on the risk criteria associated with and arbitration, as well as an observer group that includes 3 actions implemented: Blood donations, 100 health screenings, 102 nutrition advice activities. each country, a list of risk countries has been drawn up, and representatives of all the parties of the value chain and that if the country of origin is included on this list, the supplier is ensures that the best practices are implemented. Keep our colleagues focused on healthy lifestyles subject to an audit, even if they are certified. Approximately 10 campaigns aimed at all of our colleagues and other actions focused on a more critical target International Certification of Sonae Suppliers audience: Women's Day; Flu; Breast Cancer; Cardiovascular Prevention; Diabetes; Nutrition; Managing stress; These audits are made, based on about 300 requisites, Ergonomics; Allergies; Monitoring pregnancy; Programme Smile. organised into 20 sections, which touch on aspects related With the objective of establishing long-term, mutually Continue to promote internal communication regarding well-being, health, safety and hygiene issues to the quality, ethics, environment and the safety and beneficial partnerships with the product suppliers, we began with our colleagues hygiene in the factories of domestic and international a supplier certification process. suppliers. To measure the execution of this initiative, we used the degree of compliance with the plan of internal communication regarding well-being, health, safety and hygiene issues with our colleagues. In order to obtain this certification, the supplier must obtain In 2013, a review was made of the risk classification criteria an acceptable score on the quality index for the past two Create and distribute to suppliers a Supplier/Subcontractor Safety Manual, containing a description of for the suppliers, taking into account the geographical good practices on this subject years, which is calculated on the basis of audits carried out, location of each one, and of the requisites that determine inspections, quality assessments and concerning issues This commitment is currently underway. During the first phase, a procurement procedure was defined and the type of audit to be carried out. This review focused such as the recall of products from the store, laboratory implemented that meets the requisites of Occupational Health and Safety for the acquisition of goods and services mainly on environmental aspects. tests, warehouse non-conformities and store and customer (service providers and subcontractors), which was drawn up and implemented with the collaboration of the department of Procedure Management. complaints. Furthermore in 2013, a procedure for assessing the nonA pilot programme for the distribution of an “OHS Guide to Good Practices for Suppliers and Subcontractors” was conformities found in the audits was formalised. The This certification process brings greater trust and transparinitiated in one of our stores. integration of these corrective actions and opportunities for ency to our relationship with the suppliers who are relevant improvement by the suppliers are monitored carefully by Fullfilled Partially fullfilled Unfullfilled to the business areas, whilst at the same time, it will reduce our team, making closer relations with the suppliers possible the supply costs, both for the suppliers as well as for Sonae. and ensures Continente own brand products are of the highest quality. This process makes it possible to systematise all the activities needed to confirm the implementation of the corrective actions. In 2013, audits were made on 827 suppliers in all the business segments. R E T A il 6 3 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT Communication and relations with the suppliers – Energy Efficiency Supplier Portal All the products are chosen, taking into account that their The Supplier Portal is a modern and exclusive communication energy efficiency is the best possible option (according to channel that allows closer and more efficient relationships the requirements of each line of products). Currently 53% of in supply chain management. The Supplier Portal enables a the products are rated class A and 47% have a rating of A+. Gold Silver quick, secure, integrated and consistent exchange of For the totality of products sold in 2013, 54% were classified Final Classification Final Classification documents and information, optimising business activities as A+ or higher, and a reduction of 20pp was seen of items ≥ 90% ≥ 75%; < 89% and improving the overall quality of services delivered to the in Class A or lower. end customer. The portal’s main benefits include: This requirement guarantees a reduction in electrical Quicker and easier access to information; consumption. Elimination of data loss risks; reduction of operating and administrative costs; Textile Suppliers Improved quality of services provided to the end customer. • Certificate valid for 2 years • Certificate valid for 1 year • Re-audited in the social and Our textile suppliers are subject to different types of audits, • Re-audited in the social and environmental environmental areas at the end of a 2-year specifically for qualification and selection, as well as period. If the classification is maintained, areas at the end of a 1-year period. Electronic Suppliers If the classification is maintained, the validity diagnostic, technical and social audits. In this way, we ensure the validity period of the certificate is raised period of the certificate is raised to 2 years. that we contract only those suppliers that operate in to 3 years. At Worten, all suppliers are initially audited, with a further accordance with safe practices and quality guarantees. Control: renewal audit every three years, with a view to their final Control: • 25% of its articles are checked on arrival. classification and validation. In 2013, the number of suppliers • 10% of its articles are checked on arrival. The diagnostic and technical audits are initially designed to audited increased to 24 of the 159 suppliers. In these audits, • Following the detection of the 3rd • Following the detection of the 3rd assess the supplier’s potential for certification. besides the general aspects included in all audits, such as non-compliance incident within the space non-compliance incident within the space production capacity, quality, safety and social responsibility, of 1 year, the control level goes up to 25% of 1 year, the control level goes up to 40% The social audits for the award of the Social Ethic and Enviand the costs inherent in the increased and the costs inherent in the increased other specific requisites are also included, specifically with ronmental certification are used to ensure compliance with sampling are borne sampling are borne regard to electrical safety, electromagnetic compatibility the Sustainability Policy by the suppliers, as well as with the by the supplier. by the supplier. and energy efficiency, amongst others. good practices in the social, ethical and environment areas, according to the commitments publicly adhered to by Sonae. LVD – Electrical Safety Levels of Certification All the products must comply with the requisites for electriBronze cal safety according to the European norms for each family Final Classification There are three levels of certification awarded to textile ≥ 60%; < 75% of products. For this, the suppliers send the entire technical suppliers, depending on the final score they achieve in the dossier and an initial sample for analysis (through external evaluation of the audits—diagnostic, social, ethical, partnerships with ISQ – the Institute of Soldering and environmental and technical: Gold, Silver and Bronze. These Quality, IEP – the Portuguese Electrotechnical Institute, three levels of certification imply different criteria for the CATIM – Centre for Technological Support to the Metalworkcontrol of these articles, the frequency of audits carried out ing Industry, SGS Portugal, SA and TÜV Rheinland Group). and the validity period of the certificates awarded. Whenever serious non-conformities are detected, the suppliers lose This requirement guarantees the safety of the product to • Certificate valid for 1 year their certification, and in the event that non-conforming the end customer. merchandise is found, the supplier has to accept the • Re-audited in the social and environmental rejection and pay any costs involved. areas at the end of a 1-year period. If the EMC – Electromagnetic Compatibility classification is maintained, the period of validity of the certificate is raised to 3 years. All products must comply with the requisites of electromagControl: netic compatibility according to the European norms, the • 40% of its articles are checked on arrival. suppliers submit the tests carried out on their products by their laboratory partners. • Following the detection of the 3rd non-compliance incident within the space of 1 year, the control level goes up to 50% This requisite eliminates the health risks, among others, to and the costs inherent in the increased the end customer. sampling are borne by the supplier. R E T A il 6 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT Oeko-Tex Certification Continente Producers Club Maintenance of Continente Producers Club Certification The OEKO-TEX® Standard 100 is an independent system The CPC aims to “bring the best of Portugal” to customers The technical specification developed by the company in for the testing and certification for textile products that by promoting domestic products in accordance with high partnership with a specialist company aims to describe the checks for the presence of substances harmful to health and quality and safety standards and by supporting its members requirements, criteria and activities that apply to Continente the environment. in a consistent and structured way. Producers Club operations. These checks for harmful substances are carried out, taking Producers therefore have a guaranteed avenue for their In 2013, we focused strongly on the Continente brand, inter into account the actual use of the textile, so that, the more The Continente Producers Club (CPC) continues to be one produce and Sonae can be sure its customers are supplied alia by enhancing our national offer, with particular emphasis intense the contact of a product with our skin, the more of Sonae’s clear priorities in national and regional economic with national products of proven origin and quality. on the suppliers, seasonal products and region of the rigorous the compliance with the human and environmental development. At the end of 2013 it had 267 members (14 products in question. requirements are. We have been working with its suppliers, more than in 2012) and the total sales volume of Club with the aim of favouring suppliers that obtain this members was 253 million Euros, 8% up on the previous year. certification and/or progressively adopt the requisites of the Oeko-Tex certification. In 2013, the CPC was represented at various events, including the following: Supply Chain ColorADD in the Zippy/MO spring-summer collection 2013 Responsibility Performance Flavours Market, held at the Porto Customs Building Commitments for 2013 promoting the knowledge and flavours of Portugal, We are promoting social inclusion by adding these colour 2013-2015 attended by 17,500 people; codes to Zippy and MO brand clothing, thus enabling colourblind people to easily identify the colours through symbols. Continente Mega Picnic, held in Lisbon, attended by over Following the internationalisation of Zippy, this 600,000 visitors. implementation of ColorADD has become even more relevant as a differentiating factor, as currently the inclusion Implementation of the Supplier Manual, which includes the Supplier Policy and Supplier Code of Conduct As part of this programme, we developed the Producers Club of colour names on labels is not a requirement in the various Supplier Manual drafted within the Sustainability Forum. Innovation Award, now in its fourth year, to recognise languages. All Zippy and MO products have ColorADD labels. members for their performance and alignment with retail Increase in the number of own brand suppliers audited, including qualification and selection audits policies. It is a means of stimulating innovation and sustainability in the Portuguese economy among our With the exception of textile and food suppliers, we strengthened our supplier audits, including sport, electronics and non-food suppliers. suppliers and, at same time, bringing high visibility and recognition to the winners with the most innovative projects Increase in the number of textiles suppliers with Social, Ethical and Environmental certification in areas such as the environment, marketing, production and In 2013, it was not possible to increase the number of certified suppliers although it should be noted that this will product development. The 2013 Innovation Award was be a priority for 2014 and 2015. awarded to the Borba CRL Wine Cooperative’s project, the “Environmentally friendly wine-cellar”. Ensuring the maintenance of the Continente Producers Club certification, in accordance with its technical specification Continente Producers Club certified in accordance with its technical specification. Creation of a formal procedure for the evaluation of non-conformities detected during supplier audits Procedure for the evaluation of non-conformities detected during supplier audits. Fullfilled Partially fullfilled Unfullfilled R E T A il 6 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT S O N A E S I E R R A C O R E PA RT N E R S H I P S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT SONAE SIERRA CORE PARTNERSHIP Development “Taking a wider future perspective, I am particularly proud of the work we have commenced in 2013 to support the long-term resilience of our business, as well as our ongoing achievements in terms of safety, health and environmental performance. Whilst improvements in our management of energy, water and waste enabled us to reduce our environmental impact and avoid Announced Inaugurated Commenced our first development costs of €18.3 million in 2013, our research into solutions for effective resource resilience (such as water reuse and renewable the development Inaugurated Boulevard Londrina in Morocco, a joint energy systems) is vital for sustaining our assets’ value in the long-term.” Hofgarten Solingen Shopping and Passeio of Parklake in Romania, venture with Marjane, (Germany) das Águas Shopping a joint venture Al Futtaim and Société (both in Brazil) with Caelum d’Aménagement Fernando Guedes Oliveira, CEO Sonae Sierra development de Zenata (Groupe CDG) KEY ACHIEVEMENTS Investment Management Sierra Fund Launched Implemented Sierra Fund Reached Agreement Launched ‘Digital Consolidated coop store project rainwater harvesting Sold Valecenter and CBRE Iberian Value with Rockspring Property Lounge’ Pilot Project Promofans® to foster entrepreneurship or water reuse systems and Airone (both in Italy) Added Fund Sold Parque Investment Managers in Hofgarten Solingen Platform achieving and the emergence at six shopping centres to Blackstone Principado (Spain) to acquire 50% stake – The first of its kind 360,000 registered of new brands and (47% of our centres Real Estate Partners for €141.5 Million in Cascaishopping in our portfolio users since launch concepts in our now have these for €144.5 Million (Portugal) shopping centres systems) Announced Inaugurated the expansion €4.5 Million expansion and refurbishment Professional services of AlgarveShopping of Franca Shopping (Brazil), and commenced €5 Million with €31 Million refurbishment investment adding of NorteShopping 11,000M2 GLA (Both in Portugal) Signed 59 new Entered Joint venture Consolidated service contracts across the Turkish market partnership formed with activity in Morocco, Europe, North Africa with the creation Citic Capital to provide signing seven and Asia with of service provider property management new services contracts a combined value company Sierra services in China with clients of €12.2 million reval S O N A E S I E R R A C O R E PA RT N E R S H I P 7 1 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT We may hold minority positions associated with KEY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE management services. I N D I C AT O R S Sonae Sierra’s corporate governance policies were adopted by We may render services to third party owners without any the Company based on the models of its shareholders, Sonae financial capital invested by the Company. and Grosvenor. The shareholders’ corporate governance policies impose levels of transparency, independence, In all cases, we will strive for the creation of innovative Number Average remuneration compliance rules and sustainability policies which shopping concepts that will adjust and evolve in order to be OMV of owned of tenant Real Estate Occupancy Index have contributed to shaping Sonae Sierra’s own management the preferred choice of the customer. Assets contracts under (% by GLA, across our NAV (€ million) (€ million) model, corporate values, business strategy, sustainability management owned portfolio) policies and transparency in public reporting. We operate a Sustainability Steering Committee (SSC) which is responsible CAPITAL ALLOCATION for overseeing the delivery of work under our four long-term sustainability priorities as well as Safety, Health and We aim to increase our exposure to developments. This will 6,320 5,789 5,638 8,495 8,428 8,288 96.7 96.1 94.4 1,173 1,050 1,000 Environment (SHE) and Risk Management. The SSC reports be achieved through a combination of acquiring exposure to directly to the Executive Committee and is chaired by our CEO. new development opportunities and reducing our exposure The Committee meets regularly to: discuss decisions that need to investment properties. to be taken collectively, inform the Executive Committee of any issues related to the implementation of the Sustainability We will also shift from a mature market concentration to a Strategy and to provide the overall vision for the company’s greater weight towards emerging markets. Our market Tenant Lost Workday SHE Strategy, including setting and periodically reviewing S&H priorities will be: (1) Brazil, (2) emerging markets with Number Case Accidents satisfaction Index Average hours and Environmental policies and long-term objectives. The significant shopping centre potential that can deliver high of non-conformities Frequency Rate (scale of 1 of training per hour senior‑­­level employees who champion each of our long-term returns in the long term, and where we may enter via the (‘not satisfied’) to 6 per employee (LWCAFR) of reference SPO5 sustainability priorities are required to report three times a year provision of professional services and (3) Germany, Italy and (‘very satisfied’)) on construction sites to the Sustainability Steering Committee on progress made Romania where the objective is to reduce financial capital with respect to their area of priority. employed and adopt a developer approach. Portugal and Spain will continue to be core stable markets 4.6 4.5 4.6 48.9 35.8 32.2 7.8 7.4 8.4 17.2 5.0 4.3 for the Company but with no prospects for new O U R B U S I N E S S S T R AT E G Y developments. For Greece, the objective is to realise value in an orderly way. With 25 years of experience, Sonae Sierra creates value for stakeholders throughout the entire lifecycle of each asset. Electricity Total waste The combination of our know-how, our commitment to PROFESSIONAL SERVICES Greenhouse gas Water efficiency efficiency recycled as a innovation and our long-term approach has created an (GHG) emissions (excluding tenants) (excluding tenants) proportion of waste integrated business model that embraces shopping centre We will continue to reinforce a professional services of our owned of our owned of our owned produced development, ownership and management as well as component focused on development, leasing and property portfolio and (% by weight, across portfolio (kWh/m2 portfolio professional services. management services. This enables us to optimise the corporate offices mall and toilet our owned (litres/visit) (tCO2e/m GLA) 2 area) portfolio) resources of the Company under market fluctuations and Our business strategy comprises four axes to allow our improve know-how on markets, partners and projects. business to expand its market presence, deliver sustainable 0.028 0.043 0.021 514 479 444 3.7 3.6 3.7 53 55 59 financial returns and create added value for stakeholders through our business model: CAPITAL INTELLIGENCE 2011 2012 2013 We will reinforce a capital-light approach in the use of equity. SHOPPING CENTRE SPECIALIST For this, we will use partnerships with the purpose of minimising the financial capital invested in a given operation We aim to maximise the value captured along the complete allowing us to share risk, maximise returns through service value chain of the shopping centre business. For this, we will delivery and improve know-how. keep an integrated approach, covering development, investment and management of shopping centres. We We will aim to maintain the financial capacity to commit to define ourselves by our sector focus and not by the amount ambitious and relevant shopping centre projects, namely in of financial capital committed to properties. That means, in terms of accessing funds in debt markets. For this, we will some properties: aim to keep a relevant balance sheet size, associated with prudent financial ratios. We may hold a controlling position, by ourselves or with 5 Safety, health and environment Preventive Observations (SPOs) are a form of safe behaviour audit undertaken at our shopping centres in operation. partners. S O N A E S I E R R A C O R E PA RT N E R S H I P 7 3 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT Resource Resilience – Trying to be energy independent, had been achieved in 87% of our shopping centres in We generated 41,595 tonnes of waste , of which 59% was S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y S T R AT E G Y using innovation and technology to rethink our proceses operation and OHSAS 18001 certification had been recycled and 20% was sent to landfill. The increase in and reusing water on our sites. Safety, Health achieved in 59.6%. recycling rates – up 5.9% since 2012 has enabled us to Our business strategy is supported by our sustainability divert 1,361 tonnes of waste from landfill or incineration. strategy. In addition to our ongoing Safe People & Eco­ Our SHEMS covers all safety, health and environmental We exceeded our 2013 target to attain a minimum ‑efficiency and risk management commitments, we have S A F E T Y, H E A LT H impacts across all stages of our business cycle for assets recycling rate of 55.1% across our owned shopping identified four long-term focus areas which address the AND ENVIRONMENT which Sonae Sierra owns or occupies. centres and guarantee the proportion of waste (by principal sustainability risks facing our operations in order to weight) sent to landfill does not exceed 28.6%. safeguard our continued capacity to do business: MANAGEMENT SYSTEM K E Y S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y BIODIVERSITY AND HABITATS Prosperous Retailers – Partnering with tenants to make Our Safety, Health and Environmental Management ACHIEVEMENTS 2013 their business more resilient. System (SHEMS) is the framework we use to manage our During 2013, 100% of new completed development impacts and improve our performance in relation to safe In 2013 Sonae Sierra commissioned a new materiality review projects occurred on previously developed land. Sustainable Lifestyles – Using our reach and public influpeople and eco-efficiency. The SHEMS is based on a that identified 25 different relevant aspects. From these 25 ence to encourage our visitors to make the right choices. cyclical approach that involves planning, implementation, aspects we can highlight a summary of the most relevant Altogether, we have managed to avoid combined costs of monitoring and review to ensure continuous improvement. key achievements: €18.2 million in 2013 as a result of eco-efficiency improveLeveraging Knowledge – Empowering our employees by It is regularly updated, most recently in 2013 with ments introduced since 2002 (for electricity and waste) and building their skills and knowledge and raising the reference to the increasing focus on professional services 2003 (for water). At the same time, this has enabled us to standard of education at a collective level in the and capital light approach that forms part of our business ENERGY reduce water consumption by 14% (since 2003) electricity communities where we operate. strategy. As of 31 December 2013, ISO 14001 certifications consumption by 40% (since 2002) and increase recycling We achieved an average electricity consumption of 444 rates by an impressive 214% (also since 2002). kWh per m2 of mall and toilet area, a 7% reduction Financial Capital compared to 2012. We achieved our 2013 target of 488 kWh per m2 and remain on track to meet our long-term SAFETY AND HEALTH Saf goal to attain a maximum electricity consumption of 400 nt eP kWh per m2 by 2020. We deliver SHE training to our staff and other key me eo e ple stakeholders on an ongoing basis, and in 2013 we ag & an EMISSIONS delivered a total of 31,680 man hours of training ncy Ris (including meetings) on SHE to staff, suppliers and kM Shopping icie Eff Centre tenants across our shopping centres, development We achieved a GHG emissions rate of 0.021 tonnes per m2 Specialist oprojects and in our corporate offices. Ec of GLA, a 51% reduction compared to 2012, meaning we achieved our target of 0.044 tonnes per m2. Overall, we In 2013 we performed 9,697 hours of Safety, Health and have achieved a reduction of 75% since 2005, our baseline Environment Preventative Observations (SPO) across year, meaning we have surpassed our long-term goal of a our shopping centres (including some of those which we 70% reduction by 2020. Consequently, we have since set manage on behalf of others). The number of hours of SPO Capital Capital a new long-term goal for an 80% reduction by 2020. Intelligence Allocation performed in 2013 decreased by around 5% in comparison to 2012. WATER Sonae Sierra obtained four new ISO 14001 and five new Our shopping centres consumed 3.7 litres of water per OHSAS 18001 certifications for Safety, Health and visit. We exceeded our 2013 target of 3.82 litres per visit Environment Management Systems at three operational and remain on track to meet our long term objective to shopping centres and two construction projects. Professional achieve a level of water consumption at or below three Services litres per visit by 2020. For more information on Sonae Sierra sustainability Leveraging Resource performance please consult Sonae Sierra Economic, Knowledge Resilience Environmental and Social Report 2013 on http://www. WASTE sonaesierra.com/en-GB.aspx. We applied our waste management practices to all Prosperous Sustainable projects under construction and achieved a recycling rate Human Retailers Lifestyles Natural of at least 95% for our completed projects, meaning we Capital Capital met our target of 85%. Social Intellectual Manufactured & Relationship Capital Capital Capital S O N A E S I E R R A C O R E PA RT N E R S H I P 7 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT A N N E X E S S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT ANNEXES GLOSSARY A COMPLIANCE WITH PRINCIPLES AND MEMBERSHIP O F A S S O C I AT I O N S A N D P A R T N E R S H I P S W I T H O R G A N I Z AT I O N S APED Portuguese Association of Distribution Companies. B Business Council for Sustainable Development. This entity is devoted to developing and promoting the business case BCSD Portugal for sustainable development. Benchmark Methodological process used to evaluate ideas and procedures and select the ones most likely to improve performance. Biodiversity Biodiversity is the degree of variation of life forms within a given species, ecosystem, biome, or planet. C Capital-light Investment models that require little or no capital expenditure. investments Carpooling Sharing car journeys so that more than one person travels in a car. The purpose of the CCL – proof of purchase at auction – is to enhance the qualitative and quantitative value of catches CCL traded at auction on mainland Portugal, and so to improve the sustainability and yield of the fishing sector in the country by identifying and differentiating the catches in the auctions for the final consumer. The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) is a non-profit non-governmental organisation that maintains the largest database on the impact of corporate climate change in the world. Over 3,000 organisations located in around 60 countries measure CDP and disclose data about their greenhouse gas emissions, water management and climate change strategies through CDP, allowing reduction goals to be set and performance improvements to be made. CES Customer Effort Score A measure of how much effort a customer perceives they spent to resolve an issue. Checklist List of items for comparison, verification, or other checking purposes. Climate change Alterations to Earth’s climate patterns over time. Clusters A group of the same or similar elements gathered or occurring closely together. Coolant gases Chemical substances responsible for heat exchange in refrigeration and climate control systems. A N N E X E S 7 9 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT C F Core business The primary area or activity that a company was founded on or focuses on in its business operations. FMCG Fast moving consumer goods. Products generally sold in large quantities. Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission. A private, non-profit organisation devoted to Format leader A leader in its format. COSO improving financial reports and studying the reasons frauds occur in financial reports. Licence sale system in which the franchisor cedes the right to use its brand, patent, infrastructure and know-how Franchising CO2e Carbon Dioxide Equivalent– a reference unit which allows the quantification of all greenhouse gases. as well as the exclusive or semi-exclusive rights to distribute products or services. Forest Stewardship Council. FCS’ seal on a product ensures it comes from a responsibly managed forest, thus meeting FSC the needs of present and future generations. Fuel Something consumed to produce energy. D G Data centres Facilities used to house computer systems and associated components. DRV Daily reference values. Process of auditing and revising corporate information (accounting, legal, non-financial, liquid debt, etc.) for the purpose Due diligence of providing analysis and recommendations about the company’s value to parties involved in a transaction. Global Enterprise Project. Initiative which promotes entrepreneurship among secondary school students GEP throughout Europe. GLA Gross leasable area – Total floor area designed for tenant occupancy and exclusive use. m2 GLA Gross leasable area square meters. Greenhouse Gases. Gases which retain heat from solar radiation on the Earth surface. The increase in the amount GHG of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere causes a rise in global temperatures. E EBITDA Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortisation. H Ecological This term refers to the amount of land and water required to sustain present generations, bearing in mind all the material footprint and energy resources spent by a given population. Energy efficiency Optimisation of energy use. ERT European Round Table. Organisation which brings together the main European business leader. HVAC Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning. European emission standards. In Europe, all new car models are subject to various legally compulsory technical tests for Euro Standards the purpose of contributing to a cleaner environment by reducing pollution levels. EWRM Enterprise-wide risk management. Business risk management programmes. A N N E X E S 8 1 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT I M IIA Standards International Internal Audit professional standards. Microgeneration Electricity production in small-scale power plants using renewable sources or high efficiency conversion processes. IIA Institute of Internal Auditors. Autonomous energy production and sale to the national grid by the consumer, through the implementation of power Minigeneration plants in facilities that use electricity. International Organisation for Standardisation. A non-governmental organisation mainly involved with the standardisation ISO of goods and services using standards to continuously promote product quality. MSC Certified Sustainable Seafood. A certification programme which rewards and recognises sustainable fishing. J O Association of companies for the purpose of exploring a specific business venture, without losing their independent legal Oeko-Tex Joint ventures International certification for raw, semi-finished and finished textile products at all stages of the process. capacity. Certification OSHAS Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series. OSHAS 18001 Standard. L P LCD Liquid crystal display. Leaseback Asset relocation. Programme for Endorsement of Forest Certification. A voluntary forest certification programme. The PEFC seal ensures PEFC us of a product originating from forests with sustainable management. LED Light-emitting diode. Product Link Hyperlink. end-of-life Product disposal by authorised entities (elimination or recovery) after the end of its useful life. disposal LWCAFR Lost workday case accidents frequency rate. A N N E X E S 8 3 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT R W REACH European European Union directive regarding hazardous substances – Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction World Business Council for Sustainable Development. This is a leading organisation in terms of tackling sustainable Directive of Chemical Substances. WBCSD development themes. It is a major platform for sustainability in terms of sharing information, experiences and better practices. Recycling Reusing materials to deploy them in new components. Wholesale Risk and control Wholesale trade agreements. Methodology for the internal evaluation of control processes and risk management. agreements self-assessment WEEE Waste electrical and electronic equipment. European Union directive regarding the restriction of hazardous substances which forbids certain hazardous substances ROHS Directive from being used in product manufacturing processes, 2002/95/CE. World Economic This non-profit making organisation annually promotes meetings where urgent issues such as health Forum and the environment are discussed. World Safety This is a formal invitation to action and a vehicle for promoting collaboration in the safety at work area. It is a commitment Declaration by global industry to the development of ideas which can be shared and adopted worldwide by companies. S Y Sustainable Development which satisfies the needs of the present without comprising the capacity of future generations to meet development their own needs. SUW Solid urban waste. Yields The income return on an investment in stocks. Expressed annually as a percentage based on the investment's cost. Stakeholder These are people or groups of people who affect or are affected by the targets of a given organisation. U The main purpose of the Global Compact is to promote alignment of business policies and practices with the values United Nations and objectives which are universally agreed upon and internationally applicable. These main values have been separated Global Compact into ten key principles in the fields of human rights, work, environment and anti-corruption. A N N E X E S 8 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT FIND MORE To access information on GRI, visit Sonae’s site Sustainability area / Sustainability Report. S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT DECLARATION OF VERIFICATION S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT Credits Sonae, SGPS, SA Lugar do Espido, Via Norte 4470-909 Maia Portugal Consultants: KPMG & Associates Tel: +351 22 0104000 Design: Ivity Brand Corp. www.sonae.pt Published: May 2014
