PIGMENTS OUR COMMITMENT TO UN GLOBAL COMPACT “COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS” OCTOBER 2014 PIGMENTS LIMITED Sakchi Boulevard Road, Jamshedpur-831001, India Tel 91 657 2290273 / 2290274 Fax 91 657 2434039 E-mail md@tatapigments.co.in Website www.tatapigments.co.in 1 PIGMENTS October 8, 2014 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Introduction Tata Pigments Limited is committed to the ten principles of the Compact which foster better corporate responsibility in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. This Communication on Progress provides an insight into our recent activities in support of the Global Compact’s objectives. Statement of Continued Support As a member of the Tata Group we follow the principles of corporate governance and a code of ethics (called the Tata Code of Conduct) very similar to the Global Compact. This code of conduct is signed by all our officers and most of our employees and has been shared with our suppliers and customers too. For further information of the Company, please visit our website www.tatapigments.co.in For and on behalf of Tata Pigments Limited (Prakash Sarode) Managing Director 2 PIGMENTS October 8, 2014 U N GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress (A) HUMAN RIGHTS: Principle 1: Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. (A1) Company’s Policies affirming this Principles: Tata Group has a common code of conduct for its companies, which is a shared set of ideals and beliefs that govern and guide the business. Tata Code of Conduct 2008 is a guide to each one on the values, ethics and business principles expected from each one. The Code consists of 25 principles, which enshrine the human rights principles, the commitment towards environment protection, adherence to labour standards and anticorruption. Besides, all employees are also governed by the Works Standing Order duly approved by the concerned Government Authorities. The Team comprising the Managing Director and Chief Ethics Officer, Chief Ethics Counsellor, Departmental Heads are in charge of resolving any concerns that are reported. (A2) Company’s Initiatives to support the Policies and outcomes:  Tata Code of Conduct (TCoC) & Works Standing Order include clauses on Human Rights, advising every employee of a Tata Company to preserve the human rights of every individual and the community and strive to honor commitments. Total No. of employees (top to bottom) is 193 (as on 31.03.2014). All employees undergo training on TCoC on regular basis. The Code is posted on the company’s Website www.tatapigments.co.in and printed copies are distributed to all employees, dealers and major suppliers. All employees of Tata Pigments have submitted a written undertaking to abide by the TCoC in letter and spirit. Systematic procedure has been established for receipt and resolution of concerns received on TCoC by any stakeholders of Tata Pigments. From time to time Management of Business Ethics survey is being getting conducted from an independent agency to know Opportunities for Improvement for appropriate action. TCOC coverage 120 100 100 100 100 100 % of TCOC coverage 100 80 60 40 20 0 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 3 PIGMENTS Ethical concern recieved Good 8 7 7 7 6 6 5 5 4 3 3 2 1 0 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14  Employee Grievance Redressal, a part of the Human Resources Management Department, reviews and addresses the grievances of employees. No human rights violation case has been reported till date.  Established Disciplinary Procedure enumerated in the Works’ Standing Orders (WSO) of the company deals with any violation on Human Rights. WSO is applicable to all employees and have been communicated to all employees at the time of joining the company. Besides, there is an Officers Rules abiding all officers of the company.  Contractors’ works for the company are required to follow the guidelines such as the Safety Rules and Regulations, compliance of all relevant acts including Payment of Minimum Wages Act and Provident Fund and Miscellaneous Provisions Act. No Child Labour is employed.  Occupational Health and Safety issues related to various operations are systematically reviewed and improved through certification to OHSAS18001:2008 which is audited thrice in a year by Internal Certified Auditors and once in a year by internationally accredited external authority for recertification. Clause 8 of TCoC also deals with the subject. Regular safety campaigns are being conducted on 4th of every month for the entire workforce including contract workers. Entire workforce has to undergo yearly medical checkups. Besides, medical checks ups are being carried out to such employees who are required to under go medical checkups as per Factories Act & Rules.  The Company not only provides medical facilities to its employees but also conducts free Medical Camps with registered doctors and pathologists in the adjoining villages for underprivileged class of the society under “Mother & Child Care” program.  To support continuing education particularly to under privileged class – SC/ST, the company sponsors scholarships under Affirmative Action. 4 PIGMENTS (B) LABOUR STANDARDS Principle 3: The freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. (B1) Company’s Policies affirming the Principles:  Tata Pigments Works Standing Orders  Tata Pigments Officers Rules  Tata Code of Conduct – Clause 4 on Equal Opportunity Employer (B2) Company’s Initiatives to support the Policies and outcomes:  Tata Pigments abides by the prevailing regulatory laws, in India. Its Human Relations and Industrial Relations practices allow collective bargaining. All employees other than officers are represented by the Tata Pigments Workers; Union. Collective bargaining issues are discussed with the Tata Pigments Workers’ Union on regular basis.  The Joint Works Council (Union & Management) meets periodically to discuss issues like productivity, quality, safety, environment and employee well being issues.  Dialogues and meetings with the Union members, proactively deliberates issues of possible area of conflicts and creates a congenial environment in pursuit of corporate sustainability.  As per the laws of the land, forced and compulsory labour is prohibited and Tata Pigments fully abides by the law. Senior Leaders and Ethics Counsellor periodically review any violation of such requirements.  As per the Works Standing Order of the Tata Pigments Limited, minimum age required for the employment is 18 years and hence the company engages no Child Labour. The recruitment process requires furnishing of appropriate proof of age to ensure conformance to the age bar.  All dealers, suppliers and contractors who work for the company are required to follow the guidelines of no Child Labour employment and Contract Labour (Regulation & Abolition) Act.  The company is committed to be an equal opportunity employer – Clause 4 of TCoC and follows the company policy which states that employment will be solely based on eligibility and merit of the applicant without any discrimination against their gender, race, religion, caste, colour, ancestry, marital status, nationality and disability. 5 PIGMENTS  The Tata Code of Conduct emphasizes equal opportunities and nondiscrimination. The company Ethics Counsellor monitors concerns raised on discrimination in its activities, services and products. During the year no concern was received on discrimination or violation of the Code of conduct or Policy. (C) ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. WORLD ENVIRONMENTAL DAY FUNCTION 05.06.2014 WORKS GARDEN (C1) Company’s Policies affirming the Principles:  Tata Pigments Environmental Policy  Tata Pigments Corporate Sustainability Policy  Tata Code of Conduct Clause 8 & 9 6 PIGMENTS Key Need Support Support Programms Outcomes community assessment (workforce) leaders Mother & Child Care unit at Monetary Bagbera, Contribution to Netra support, Jyoti Mahayagna – eye camps; Aid Neighborhood Volunteering Community NGOs, Local and awareness programms for school of the and satisfaction, health administration volunteering children & community, vocational manufacturing monetary and improving DC, Health, and training, Blood donations, Family unit contribution quality of life participation Planning initiatives through FPA of Review India, & IRS, contribution to NGOs and philanthropic organizations Group Guidelines, Scholarships for Education, Human Monetary Training for employability, support Monetary development, contribution for health, contributions for National Interest; Larger contribution Affirmative and national calamities and Education to Community and Actions, volunteering rehabilitation programmes through underprivileged volunteering Support during Review Tata Relief Committees and Indian Natural Red Cross Society, calamities Resource Finances, availability Sponsorships of programmes, New developments Others groups Participation ideas and participation in deliberations etc. and recognitions participation Key community needs, support, programmes and outcomes Stake Social Practice/ holders Impact/Risk Key Measures Targets responsibility Processes affected Pollution, EMS ISO Environment, Environmental Ecological Compliance to community 14001 100% leadership importance, legal norms and society non compliances OHSAS – Compliance to Community Health care, Safety and norms and contractor, safety, legal 18001 100% Health system employees compliance requirement Ethical values, Fair Supplying Spread of business 100% Supply chain partners, MOU, TCOC transactions, compliance interface Customers, TCOC Number of Product used and to norms Society cases analyzed disposals Social Responsibility (C2) Company’s Initiatives to support the Polices and outcomes:  Tata Pigments uses proactive approach towards minimizing environmental impact in manufacturing processes.  Tata Pigments uses environment-friendly technology in the manufacture of its products and ensures that all operation and activities not only conforms to statutory regulations but also strives to go beyond the regulatory norms. Tata Pigments continuously upgrades its manufacturing technology to reduce environmental impact, energy consumption, improve productivity and quality – Clause 8 and 9 of TCoC. 7 PIGMENTS  The present technology used by Tata Pigments has completely eliminated the emission of CO2 & CO3 gases. Area Action Taken Effect Red Oxide Plant Closure of calcinations Reduction in dust and stack emission. Process Effluent Treatment Installation of ETP & Improvement in discharge water quality. an additional clarifier Red Oxide Plant Closure of all 4 nos. Improvement in ambient air. open tray type drying furnace. R.O. Washing Area Closure of old Red Reduction in dust emission. Oxide Powder washing system R.O. Drying Installation of Spin Reduction in energy consumption. Flash Dryer. Sapling Plantation Distribution of sapling Improvement of ecological balance. for plantation Employee welfare Installation of solar Reduction in carbon foot-print water heater & solar light Pro-Active Measures for Public Concern  Tata Pigments is an Integrated Management System – ISO 9001:2008; ISO 14001:2004 and OHSAS 18001:2007 certified Company.  Tata Pigments promotes Rain Water Harvesting in its work place and effluents generated in the plant are being sent to Effluent Treatment Plant. Treated water is recycled and thus conserving water and reduces requirement of fresh water.  Tata Pigments promotes greening and therefore to offset climate change and to promote environment awareness saplings are being planted by its officers and employees on various occasions. Clause 8 of TCoC specifically mentions about offsetting the effect of climate change in all spheres of its activities. (D) ANTI CORRUPTION Principle 10: Business should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. (D1) Company’s Policy affirming the Principles:  Financial reporting & Records – Clause 2 of Tata Code of Conduct;  Gift Policy Clause 5 of Tata Code of Conduct;  Whistle Blower Policy (WBP) Clause 25 of Tata Code of Conduct;  Tata Code of Conduct, Clause 17: Ethical Conduct 8 PIGMENTS (D2) Initiatives to support the Polices and results:  Tata Pigments has systems of internal controls and procedures covering most of the financial and operating functions to detect corruption and frauds Clause 2, 18 & 24 of TCoC. It provides reasonable assurance about existence of proper accounting controls, preventing corruption, the reliability of financial and operational information.  Board of Directors of Tata Pigments monitor and review Company’s performance, Corporate Governance and Corporate Sustainability in its quarterly meetings.  All Tata Pigments employees are committed to abide by the Tata Code of Conduct and all managerial employees have signed their commitment to abide by it. TCoC has specific clauses on Gift & Donations (Cl.5); Ethical Conduct (Cl.17). The Whistle Blower Policy encourages employees to raise genuine concerns and provides assurance to protect the Whistle Blowers from any subsequent harassment or retaliatory action. For this a Whistle Blowers Protection Committee has been constituted.  Training on TCoC is made a part of the orientation programme of employees joining the company. All employees go through the reinforcement training on TCoC.  All employees had participated in Management of Business Ethics (MBE) survey, which is used by the leadership team to review the effectiveness of business ethics programme and identify opportunities for improvement. (Prakash Sarode) Managing Director 9 PIGMENTS 10 PIGMENTS 11 PIGMENTS 12 PIGMENTS Stake Holders Proactive Measures Improve EVA Share holders Improvement in productivity. Customers Customer’s feedback, Strategic out-sourcing of products. Treatment of effluent water. Community and Environmental friendly process. society Support to community. Climate change initiatives Safe and healthy working conditions. Health checkups, Use of safety appliances, Employees TPM, ISO14001 & OHSAS implementation Proactive Measures for Stakeholders 13
