United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2013 – 2014 Contents 1 Statement of continued support 3 2 Corporate Responsibility at MTU Aero Engines 5 3 Human Rights 9 4 Labor 13 5 Environment 19 6 Anti-corruption 31 © AIRBUS Cover photo: GP7000 MTU supplies the low-pressure turbine for the GP7000, the engine that powers the Airbus A380. This plane has an average fuel consumption of less than three liters per hundred passenger kilometers. With its high level of efficiency, our low-pressure turbine contributes significantly to the A380’s fuel efficiency. With its four GP7000 engines, the mammoth A380 also meets the most stringent ICAO Chapter 4 noise standard. Geared Turbofan™ is a trademark application of Pratt & Whitney. 2 1 Statement of continued support Dear readers, MTU Aero Engines AG views climate change as one of the greatest global challenges facing society, politics and the economy. This was the catalyst for drafting Clean Air Engines, our ambitious product and climate objectives, which applies to all future engines until 2050. As part of our climate strategy, we promote the use of environmentally friendly technologies in aviation; as one of the world’s leading high-tech companies in the engine industry, we feel this is one of our responsibilities. MTU’s products are extremely reliable, meet the highest technical requirements and set standards in terms of eco-efficiency. A key contribution is the Geared Turbofan engine family, which will enter into service from 2015. These aircraft engines are characterized by their unprecedentedly low environmental impact—offering significant in-flight reductions in CO2 emissions and other pollutants as well as engine noise. We are particularly strong when it comes to product responsibility, and this is where we can help most to keep air traffic sustainable. But that’s not the only way MTU stands out. During the reporting year, our comprehensive commitment to corporate responsibility was awarded Prime Status by oekom research, an independent and leading global rating company in the field of sustainable investment. We also intensified dialog with our stakeholders to obtain further feedback. Since the end of 2013, we have asked our target groups in an online survey about their beliefs and opinions on Corporate Responsibility at MTU. We want to continue improving our economic, social and environmental performance in the future. Reiner Winkler We have already taken one important step towards sustainable supplier management during this reporting period by establishing a Code of Conduct for Suppliers as a standard part of our contracts with suppliers. From now on, cooperation with our 4,500 partners worldwide will be defined by binding work, social and environmental standards, which are oriented on the principles set out in the UN Global Compact. This is our third UN Global Compact Communication on Progress. The aim is to document how we are implementing the ten principles, what progress we have already achieved in this and where we still need to take action. For the first time, we have expanded the report’s focus to include all of Europe. MTU Aero Engines is committed to continuing to support and promote the implementation of the principles of the UN Global Compact. Yours sincerely, Reiner Winkler CEO MTU Aero Engines 3 MTU Aero Engines Our role in the aviation industry MTU Aero Engines is Germany’s leading engine manufacturer and a technology leader in low-pressure turbines, highpressure compressors, repair techniques and manufacturing processes. The company is a key-partner in all national und international technology programs of note, and cooperates with the top names in the industry. Revenues 2013 OEM MRO Research and development expenditure 2013 3,741.7 2,392.0 1,381.8 m€ m€ m€ 193.2 m€ OEM (Original Equipment Manufacturing) MRO (Maintenance, Repair & Overhaul) covers new commercial engines, incl. spare comprises all commercial maintenance activities parts, and the whole of the military sector. for aircraft engines and industrial gas turbines. Total number of employees 8,695 7,765 89.3% 4.0% 6.7% 578 352 Europe: MTU Aero Engines, MTU Maintenance Hannover, MTU Maintenance Berlin-Brandenburg, MTU Aero Engines Polska North America: MTU Maintenance Canada, MTU Aero Engines North America, Vericor Power Systems Asia: MTU Maintenance Zhuhai 50 percent (50/50 Joint Venture) 4 2 Corporate Responsibility at MTU Aero Engines MTU at a glance In the aviation industry, three simple letters stand for top-notch engine technology: MTU. With a workforce of more than 8,600 people worldwide Germany’s leading engine manufacturer, the country’s only independent engine builder, has been providing propulsion systems to power aircraft for almost 80 years and has become an established global player. MTU Aero Engines engages in the development, manufacture and support of commercial and military aircraft engines and industrial gas turbines. Together with other manufacturers, MTU cooperates on novel propulsion systems, its The company makes products in all thrust and partners being the big players in the industry. and power categories and on all major engine In the commercial area, MTU is the world’s components and subsystems, such as comlargest independent provider of engine mainpressors and turbines. tenance services. In the military arena, MTU is Germany’s leading industrial company for Technologically, MTU commands full engine practically all engines flown by the country’s systems integration capabilities, being a leader military. in the major engine areas and excelling especially in low-pressure turbines and high-preswww.mtu.de sure compressors, as well as manufacturing and repair techniques. Eco-efficient engines sporting MTU technology (clockwise from top left): Boeing 787, Airbus A380, CSeries and Airbus A320neo. 5 Corporate Responsibility Management MTU’s CR management system MTU Aero Engines has had a management Board of Management system in place for the company-wide development and implementation of corporate responsibility (CR) since 2009. CR management CR Steering Committee includes directing sustainability activities and CR Coordination goals as well as guiding overall CR strategy. The CR steering committee responsible for CR Divisional Coordinators the sustainability strategy is made up of the Corporate Communications and Public Affairs and Corporate Quality departmental directors and reports directly to the board of management; the board then makes decisions about Relevant data and information regarding MTU’s the sustainability strategy. A centralized CR commitment to sustainability and its achieved coordination team, under the auspices of the progress are collected by the CR specialist Corporate Communications department, dicoordinators and are brought together by the rects the sustainability strategy’s implementacentralized CR coordination team. An intetion in CR activity areas and is responsible for grated database for combining, verifying and reporting. Meanwhile, the CR divisional coorevaluating key CR data and information is an dinators in the various business areas have an important tool for this process. The CR corpoimportant role, namely in implementing CR rate bodies meet regularly to exchange inforactivities in their department or location and mation and to agree on measures to impleto play a major part in designing and develment. oping the company’s CR strategy. They are also responsible for measuring the success of the defined goals within their areas. MTU appears at major industry events such as the Berlin Air Show ILA 2014. We use career events to get in contact with our potential junior staff. 6 MTU reports regularly on sustainability topics MTU received an important assessment of both internally and externally in order to create its commitment to sustainability at the end of transparency and to strengthen awareness 2013 from oekom research AG, one of the of corporate responsibility among employees, world’s leading rating agencies in the sustaincustomers, partners, suppliers and shareholdability investment segment. With a C+ rating, ers. A major aspect of CR communications is MTU has achieved prime status, which demonthe sustainability report, which follows the strates that the company has met the miniinternationally recognized standard, the Global mum standards set by oekom research. The Reporting Initiative GRI. MTU plans to gradually analysts evaluate the company’s ecological expand the degree of reporting; we achieved and social achievements based on more than pan-European coverage in 2014. The next sus100 selected sustainability criteria related to tainability report will be published in summer the aviation industry. 2015 and will integrate the next UN Global Compact communication on progress. MTU is We are always open to external assessment preparing for the G4, a new reporting standard, of our sustainability achievements. In May in order to continue ensuring transparency and 2014, MTU was rated by imug Beratungsgecomparability in reporting. sellschaft für sozial-ökologische Innovationen, Sustainability Report 2012 a German consulting firm that advises invesMTU Aero Engines MTU involves its stakeholders in an effort to tors in sustainable investment decision makachieve sustainability in our business. We have ing. extended our reporting period to accommodate dialog with them and, for the first time, organThis year, MTU will undergo renewed assessized an online stakeholder survey to ask stakement by Transparency International, a global holders for their perceptions and opinions of non-governmental civil society coalition against corporate responsibility at MTU. Representacorruption. MTU achieved a good result after tives from all relevant MTU stakeholder groups Transparency International‘s initial examination rated the sustainability topics and achievein 2012. ments as well as the sustainability report itself. Find out more in Chapter 6, Anti-corruption. For more information about dialog with stakeholders consult pp. 18-19 of the Sustainability Report 2012, available online at www.mtu.de. Furthermore, we also actively provide more information online relating to our compliance activities, how the company is organized in this regard, and regulations covering conflicts of interest or insider trading. Compliance at MTU: www.mtu.de Issues can be raised with and questions put to MTU at the annual general meeting. 7 MTU’s social responsibility Our role as a fair and responsible employer MTU respects the internationally proclaimed human rights set out in the United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights and ensures that they are safeguarded within the company. MTU is committed to respecting the individuality and dignity of all, upholding equality of opportunity in recruitment and preventing discrimination. 8,695 employees Some 4,500 suppliers Zero complaints worldwide operate under worldwide operate under received during the the binding Code of the Code of Conduct for reporting period regarding Conduct Suppliers human rights violations by MTU Occupational safety 2010 Percentage of the total workforce covered by OHSAS 18001 Health rate at European locations in 2013 as an annual health and safety management: average: 4.70* 2013 1.45* *Average of accidents at European locations per 1,000 employees 87.8% 95.5% 8 3 Human rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Internationally recognized human rights form the basis of our actions at MTU. In our social and work standards, we acknowledge the principles set out in the United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the core labor standards adopted by the International Labour Organization (ILO). MTU Aero Engines respects the protection of human rights and ensures it is not complicit in human rights abuses. Dignity and the right to equal opportunity for each individual employee, regardless of gender, ethnic origin, age, religion, sexual orientation or physical impairment, are of the highest priority. Employee recruitment and promotion is based solely on individual competence, skills and experience. We promote diversity within the company. Further details are provided in Chapter 4, Labor. A binding Code of Conduct enforces our ethical principles for all employees throughout the company. Our commitments and management systems prevention of corruption and adequate staff • The ten principles of the UN Global Compact training. Our Code of Conduct corresponds • A Code of Conduct that applies in all areas with the ten principles of the UN Global Comof the company pact and is supported by a positive company • The MTU Principles, with the focus for 2013 culture that values responsibility, mutual reson continuous improvement and actively pect, diversity, fairness and regulations, as driving change formulated in the MTU Principles. • A Code of Conduct for Suppliers • Occupational and health safety in accorThe Code of Conduct is available online dance with OHSAS 18001 at www.mtu.de. These overarching ethical principles govern Code of Conduct for employees successful labor relations for more than 8,600 employees worldwide: As in previous years, Long-term business relationships shape and MTU received no complaints regarding human guide our business. As a cutting-edge technolrights infringements during the reporting peogy leader and an important global player in riod. Formal mechanism defined in internal the industry, we enjoy the trust of our employregulations and process descriptions are in ees, partners, customers, suppliers and shareplace to ensure that evidence of discriminaholders. This means legal conformity as well tion, human rights abuses or illegal activities as responsible and exemplary behavior are can be reported. These include a confidential part of our self-image. Company-wide, a bindombudsman as contact person for both eming Code of Conduct for all MTU employees ployees and external parties. Any violations of and board members summarizes our guiding the Code of Conduct or applicable laws will principles and rules for internal cooperation be pursued and punished accordingly. All emand behavior towards external partners. This ployees received training when the Code of guarantees unified business behavior across Conduct was introduced in 2007. Since then, national borders and locations, characterized we have provided regular compliance training by the protection of human rights, compliance and informational meetings for new employees with applicable labor laws, fair working conabout these key standards. ditions, a safe and healthy work environment, 9 Supplier management Occupational safety MTU has expanded its strategy of sustainable MTU places high value on occupational safety business to the supply chain. In early 2014, and employee health, which are anchored in a binding Code of Conduct for Suppliers went our business processes and reflected in the into effect. Under the auspices of the responMTU Principles, in the Code of Conduct and in sible CR coordinator, the purchasing departour corporate goals. ment and the legal department have drawn up appropriate guidelines that will now be includCompliance with national regulations on occued in our contracts with all the MTU Group’s pational safety is mandatory for all internationsuppliers. In total, the company works with al MTU subsidiaries. The management system around 4,500 suppliers worldwide. Among the in which the required measures, goals and rescriteria to be fulfilled as part of the Code of ponsibilities are defined is certified externally Conduct for Suppliers, and in compliance with in accordance with international standards. the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, Major MTU production sites are validated by are respect for human rights, the avoidance of the standard for industrial safety management, forced or child labor, the fight against corrupOHSAS 18001 (Occupational Health and Safetion and protection of the environment. ty Assessment Series). Nearly 90 percent of the workforce is covered by an OHSAS 18001 The Code of Conduct for Suppliers is certified occupational safety management available on the website at www.mtu.de. system. At each location, one person is given overall responsibility for occupational safety. MTU is committed to using socially responsible Among the comprehensive measures in place raw materials in its value chain. This includes relating to occupational safety are safety trainensuring the traceability of conflict minerals, ing, first aid training and workplace risk assuch as tantalum, gold, tin and tungsten. Many sessment. Each individual workplace is thorof these are mined in the Democratic Republic oughly checked and evaluated for any risks of Congo or neighboring states. Tantalum, tin and hazards present both before work begins and tungsten can be found in some MTU enand regularly thereafter. gine components. Since the adoption of the MTU has expanded its strategy of sustainDodd-Frank Act in the U.S.A. in 2010, American All certifications are documented at able business to the supply chain. companies listed on the stock exchange are www.mtu.de. required by Section 1502 to disclose the origin of conflict materials and to acquire them only We aspire to continuously bring down the numfrom mines or master alloy producers that are ber of work-related accidents and reach a level found on the Compliant Smelter List (available of prevention that seeks to exclude any acciat http://www.conflictfreesourcing.org/). The dent (zero accident rate vision). Our ongoing goal of this regulation is to avoid financing prevention work and analysis of accidents and armed groups in the Democratic Republic of near-misses is bringing us ever closer to this Congo or in neighboring states via the extracgoal. This sustained objective is reflected in tion and trading of raw materials. U.S. partners MTU’s work safety figures, which indicate a have passed on this requirement to MTU as a comparatively low level of accidents. For 2013, supplier of engine components and parts. In the average accident rate was less than two turn, MTU has identified the suppliers that per 1,000 employees at our European sites. provide it with components containing conflict Out of a total of 8,695 employees worldwide, minerals. These suppliers will now be required 7,765 were working at the four locations of by MTU to present all necessary information Munich, Hannover, Ludwigsfelde and Rzeszów about the origin of conflict minerals. MTU at the end of 2013. has also adjusted its procurement guidelines accordingly. MTU places high value on occupational safety and employee health. 10 Accidents at European locations per 1,000 employees (End-of-year figures) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2010 2011 2012 2013 2010 2011 2012 2013 2010 2011 2012 2013 2010 2011 2012 2013 9.1 8.0 8.3 6.1 6.1 5.1 5.1 4.7 4.5 4.1 3.0 2.9 3.3 2.4 2.3 1.45 1.1 0.6 0.6 0.0 Munich Hannover Ludwigsfelde Rzeszów Total (Average) Health management support with work and performance-related issues, and answer questions on matters such Healthy employees are an important prerequias mental health. Among the additional sersite for maintaining our company’s economic vices offered by MTU are an on-site health performance. MTU is taking a step-by-step club or agreements with gyms, physiotherapy, approach to developing holistic and sustainhealthy food options in the company restauable health management. As the company’s rant, tips on ergonomics in the workplace and largest site, Munich takes on a pioneering role area-specific Health Days. in this regard, but all locations outside of Germany will be included in the medium term. In 2013, we expanded the range of MTU deA cross-learning network has already taken partmental Health Days. The new structure is its first steps toward tailoring measures and designed to ensure more sustainability, with establishing uniform standards across all MTU the three-step modular concept (awareness, locations. deepening of knowledge, self-reflection) stretching over three years. The Health Days The key societal challenge of changing demoprogram offers lectures from experts and graphics also affects MTU. A large proportion activities in tune with the individual needs of of the company workforce (83.7 percent) each department on topics such as nutrition, works in Germany, where the average employexercise, stress or relaxation. ee age, now over 44, increased by 2.1 percent in the past five years. Yet the longer employees The back coach and extended risk assessment work for MTU, the more valuable their many pilot projects will be continued in this reportMTU's health promotion comprises numeryears of professional experience and related ing period and rolled out at other sites. A back ous initiatives including company physicians. expertise are to our highly specialized busicoach observes work situations and analyzes ness. This is why we want to identify strategic employees’ movements and posture in the areas of action within the context of health workplace to help them identify daily activities management and develop strategic areas of that overtax the joints or result in poor posaction for maintaining effectiveness and emture. Together with the employee, the physioployability. Managers are to be supported in therapist then develops methods to prevent their special responsibility in health matters these unhealthy practices and to encourage through measures which raise awareness and healthier behavior. Starting in fall 2013, traintransfer knowledge and skills. ing in ergonomic seating positions was introduced covering a large area as a complement Special preventive healthcare offers and a to the back coach project. variety of activities for promoting a healthy lifestyle are already integrated into the health Extended risk assessment evaluates physical management program. We see a constant and psychological risk factors in the workquality of health despite an ever aging workplace. Here, too, managers work with their force as vindication of these efforts. Health staff to develop and implement appropriate services cover occupational and emergency strategies for improving workplace health and medicine as well as general preventive mediminimizing possible negative factors. cine. Counselling services offer employees 11 An attractive employer Our role in creating fair working conditions Building on legally binding employment contracts, we provide secure and attractive employment, above average and performance-related compensation, combined with numerous work options that help our employees balance their professional and family commitments. We also provide the requisite technical training for safeguarding the company’s store of valuable know-how. Diversity and equal opportunity are given high priority—especially when it comes to recruiting more women—and we actively support the necessary conditions through various measures. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 5.2% 2.8 3.4 m € * across Germany ** across Europe percentage of apprentices Training days per employee Training costs 2013** 2013* 2013** Percentage of female employees* 2010 2013 * across Germany 13.0% 13.9% Our commitments External recognition 12 4 Labor Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Working at MTU As a conscientious employer, we provide fair, socially responsible terms of employment and foster a workplace atmosphere that is based on mutual respect and appreciation and excludes all forms of discrimination. MTU creates fair working conditions for its employees throughout the organization. We are committed to respecting employees’ rights and safeguarding the freedom of association of our employees. When drafting employment contracts, we observe statutory requirements as well as internal company agreements. We place our trust in long-term, secure employment relationships as a means of securing our technological leadership and retaining the associated expertise. It is precisely the expertise and commitment of our Our commitment to fair working conditions employees that helps shape MTU’s success. includes strict opposition to forced or child labor in any form along with the safeguarding of human rights. We have enshrined these emAs a condition for cooperation with suppliers, ployment and social standards in binding form we lay down comparable social and employfor the entire organization in the MTU Code of ment standards, which are based on the UN Conduct. Employment contracts are concluded Global Compact principles and the Internatiowith employees on a voluntary basis. A comnal Labour Organization’s (ILO’s) core labor pany-wide guideline on cooperative and fair standards and include observation of the princonduct prohibits bullying, sexual harassment ciples set out in the UN’s Universal Declaration and discrimination. In the guideline, MTU also of Human Rights. By means of this binding undertakes to punish violations with appropriCode of Conduct for Suppliers, we require our ate measures. Defined processes have been business partners to observe these standards established to deal with reported breaches of in their sphere of responsibility. the Code of Conduct and internal guidelines. Employees at any MTU site who suspect illegal MTU takes occupational health and safety very conduct can report their concerns to an omseriously. For each of the company’s European budsman, who can be contacted confidentially sites, an occupational safety officer is appointby e-mail at any time. ed. In addition, as part of our integrated management system, the occupational health In Germany, moreover, the General Act on and safety at our German sites is certified to Equal Treatment (Allgemeines GleichbehandOHSAS 18001. lungsgesetz) applies, which prohibits employment discrimination. MTU continued its sucFor more on occupational health and safety at cessful streak in 2013 with zero complaints MTU, see Chapter 1, Human Rights. under the General Act on Equal Treatment at MTU’s German sites. Neither were any cases of discrimination reported at our Polish subsidiary MTU Aero Engines Polska during the reporting period. 13 Dialog with employee Remuneration and benefits representatives The right to appropriate remuneration is one In Germany, labor agreements negotiated with of the pillars of MTU’s social policy and is enemployee representatives supplement the shrined accordingly in the Code of Conduct. statutory foundations in defining working conFair and appropriate remuneration is ensured ditions. These collective agreements apply to by a standardized, transparent and consistent the entire MTU workforce in Germany, with the compensation structure. Compensation for exception of the Board of Management and senior managers is tied to the company’s longthe top two tiers of senior management. They term performance. MTU enables its employees have their own representative body. In 2013, to participate in the company’s success through 98.4 percent of employees in Germany were various profit-sharing programs, which are covered by collective agreements. In accoravailable to the workforce as a whole and dance with the German Works Constitution Act defined in special rules for each employment (Betriebsverfassungsgesetz), each of MTU’s group (interns, degree candidates and other sites in Germany also has a works council. In students on work experience are excluded). addition, the Board of Management maintains For example, an employee stock option proregular, open and trust-based dialog with the gram in place at the Munich, Hannover and Group Works Council. At the Rzeszów site in Ludwigsfelde sites achieved a take-up rate of Poland elected employee representatives look 18.5 percent in 2013. In addition, there is a after the interests of the workforce in dealings consistent methodology for evaluating perwith management. The applicable employee formance at all levels of the hierarchy. The rights form the basis of employment contracts. performance criteria are based on company, center or department objectives and measure Our next employee survey at German sites is how the employees contribute to reaching planned for 2015. The survey is an important these goals. All MTU employees throughout means of getting valuable feedback from emEurope regularly receive an evaluation of their ployees on MTU as an employer and as a comperformance and prospects within the context pany. of a development plan. To this end, management is required to conduct an interview with every single employee once a year about their training and career development. MTU provides fair and appropriate remuneration through a standardized, transparent and consistent compensation structure. 14 Top employer Once again, MTU performed very well in the Top Employer Germany evaluation for 2014, particularly in the Secondary Benefits & WorkLife Balance category. But that’s not all: the MTU site in Rzeszów took part in the evaluation for the first time and achieved Top Employer title as well. This acknowledges MTU Aero Engines Polska as one of the 39 best companies to work for in Poland. In particular, top marks in such categories as Secondary Benefits & Work-Life Balance and Corporate Culture confirm the very attractive range of additional benefits available to employees at the site, such as a health service and flexible work models to help employees attain a better balance between working and family life. MTU Maintenance Canada in Vancouver also ranks among the best. In 2013, it was chosen as a Top Employer in the Canadian province of British Columbia. An employee survey formed part of the application process. It is important for technology companies like MTU to recognize and make the most of employee potential. MTU received further positive feedback from its employees in a study carried out by Focus, a German weekly news magazine, and the XING professional networking platform. EmSince 2010, we have been a signatory to the ployees at all hierarchy levels were asked to Charter of Diversity, a joint initiative between rate companies in terms of working environthe German federal government and German ment, career perspectives, salary and leaderbusiness. This commits us to providing a workship culture. The results put MTU at 19th place ing environment free from prejudice and with among Germany’s best employers, while in the diverse opportunities for employees. MTU’s sector-specific ranking MTU took fourth place. Code of Conduct also explicitly commits the company to equality of opportunity and equal Audits and certifications treatment for employees. In addition, we have enshrined the topic of diversity in the MTU • Top employer in Germany Principles, where we set ourselves the goal of • Top employer in Poland enhancing our innovative capability by means • Top employer in British Columbia (Canada) of having a workforce that includes different • trendence Graduate Barometer cultures and age groups and a broad base of • Universum ranking specialist expertise. It is important for tech• Chief Learning Officer nology companies like MTU to recognize and make the most of employee potential. As part For more on MTU awards and certifiof our occupational reintegration management, cations, see the Career section at we help employees to return to the workplace www.mtu.de. after an extended absence. Managers have a particular responsibility on Diversity and equal opportunities account of the major role they play in this process. Effective changes cannot be achieved MTU is committed to diversity and equal opporby means of rules and targets alone; managers tunities in the company and works to establish must support diversity in their area of responthe requisite structures and environment via a sibility and contribute toward incorporating variety of measures. For us, there is no better diversity into everyday working life at MTU by expression of diversity than employees of difcreating a suitable working environment. ferent generations, genders, cultures and countries all working side by side, not to mention Our commitments integrating people with disabilities. Diverse teams are more productive, creative and inno• Charter of Diversity vative. A diverse workforce enhances MTU’s • UN Global Compact capacity for innovation and makes a decisive • Munich Memorandum for Women in contribution to the company’s future. This is Management why we want to further promote diversity in the make-up of our workforce and appreciation of the benefits of diversity within the company. 15 Internationalization percent. When it comes to the hiring of young employees, the figures make for even better For MTU, internationality is an expression of reading, with the proportion of women surdiversity and is typical for our engine business, passing the 20 percent mark over the past which is strongly characterized by transnatiofew years. As for management positions, 7.9 nal cooperation at all stages, including develpercent were occupied by women at the end opment, manufacture and maintenance. We of 2013. Many measures were initiated as part are working to intensify internationalization at of MTU’s career program for women, which MTU through various measures. will bear fruit over the long term. The main focus is on attracting more female talent to These include the following international the company and giving female employees development programs: better support throughout their careers. MTU has undertaken to significantly increase the • International Leadership Program proportion of female employees at the com• International Building on Talent pany, including at management level. With our • Health management at all MTU sites targeted employer branding strategy and the continuation of our measures and programs, On top of this, we have developed a concept we are committed to bringing about long-term that will pool and systemize exchange proceschange. ses between MTU sites in a company-wide rotation program. To further encourage netOur programs and initiatives promoting working and sharing of expert know-how the advancement of women throughout the company, MTU is planning employee exchanges of between three and twelve • Munich Memorandum for Women in months in duration. In addition, MTU wants to Management systemize its health management for all MTU • Cross-Mentoring Munich (a program organsites (see Chapter 2, Human Rights). ized by the city of Munich) • The MTU ‘Studienstiftung’ foundation to help young women studying for engineering Gender diversity and scientific careers • Girls’ Day The value of equal opportunity is something • Research Camp for Girls we consider to be self-evident. Remuneration • Engineer on High Heels levels and promotion prospects are determined solely by the job to be performed; qualificaAt MTU’s site in the southern Polish city of tions are the deciding factor, not gender. This Rzeszów, MTU Aero Engines Polska launched was confirmed by an internal screening we the “Engineer on High Heels” initiative in 2013. carried out. In order to better unlock talent and Kicking off the initiative was an event aimed innovation potential, we have specific policies at female students at the academic high school that facilitate women in technical and manin Rzeszów, who were given an insight into agement roles and encourage the hiring of new technical professions at the company. The female employees. At the end of 2013, women event, which is a part of the European “Innomade up 13.9 percent of the total German vative Economy” project, will take place in workforce, which represents an improvement 2015 again. over 2012, when the same figure was 13.7 MTU has specific policies that facilitate women in technical and management roles. 16 MTU has already achieved a high level of work-life balance for its employees. Work-life balance Education and training MTU has a variety of offers designed to help Investing in our future workforce is also a big its employees achieve a healthy work-life balpriority at MTU. Traditionally, apprentices have ance and is increasingly focused on respondalways made up a large percentage of our ing to their different life phases and particular workforce, and we view this as an important needs. These offers include: investment toward securing the company’s future. At our German sites, apprentices made • Flexible working hours and flextime up 5.2 percent of the total workforce in 2013. accounts We place great value on giving apprentices a • Part-time employment in over 50 models well-grounded education that includes metho• Education leave (new from 2013) dological, social and environmental aspects • Working from home and communicates the company’s values in • Sabbaticals addition to technical qualifications. Apprentice• Part-time work for older employees ships are thus designed to help develop ap• Job-sharing prentices as rounded individuals in line with • Services that assist families (e.g. daycare— MTU’s corporate culture. such as the “Sommerkinder” initiative that offers company-sponsored daycare during MTU is actively involved in numerous educathe summer vacation—nursing services, and tional projects and initiatives aimed at getting credit counseling) young people excited about technology and aviation: These offers are subject to regular monitoring and we are constantly expanding and devel• Training Night We provide apprentices with well-grounded oping them. For instance, we launched a new • Science Exhibition in Hannover education that includes methodological, social and environmental aspects. education leave measure during the reporting (IdeenExpo Hannover) period, which is designed to support MTU em• Nature and Technology Days ployees in their individual professional devel• Long Night of Museums opment path or career reorientation goals. • Work placements for high school students, The part-time model for education leave is discovery weeks flexible and can be used for up to 36 months— and in exceptional cases, for even longer. We place special emphasis on encouraging new generations of female talent, including MTU has already achieved a high level of workmeasures aimed at schoolchildren and stulife-balance for its employees. Our repeated dents (Girls’ Day, Research Camp for Girls). “Top Employer Germany” ranking and our “Work and Family” audit certification further For more on this subject, see the Gender Distrengthen our resolve. For the future, we have versity section in this chapter. undertaken to drive ahead with further measures to help our employees achieve a good work-life-balance and are working on a pilot agreement to facilitate mobile working for selected job categories in Munich. This will create an important basis for greater autonomy and personal responsibility within MTU’s working environment. 17 MTU climate strategy Our role in creating a low-carbon aviation industry Climate change is one of the greatest global challenges of our era. It is generally accepted that CO2 emissions caused by human activity are largely responsible for global warming, and that the increasing mobility of the human population is a contributing factor. MTU wants to design engine components that in the medium term will help the aviation industry to stabilize its CO2 emissions and in the long term even reduce them. “As a responsible engine manuAbout 2 % of all human-induced CO2 emissions stem from facturer, MTU takes a proactive air travel approach to dealing with economic, environmental and societal issues. 2 %* Our climate strategy consists of implementing improvements that CO2 will enable us to reduce the carbon footprint of aircraft engines and associated greenhouse-gas emissions. Our aim is to manufacture sustainable products that will help to create a more eco-efficient aircraft industry.” Dr. Rainer Martens, Chief Operating Officer, MTU Aero Engines *According to the IPCC A 70 % reduction per seat kilometer of CO2 emissions Our goals for a Clean Air Engine* caused by air travel was achieved in the last 50 years (40% of which is attributable to modern turbofan engines with -40 % higher bypass ratios) 1964 Carbon reduction of aircraft engines -70 % -25 % CO2 2014 -15 % MTU is committed to the goal of introducing sustainable fuels for aviation 2020 2030 2050 * We have set these goals in our technology roadmap Clean Air Engine (Claire). They are in line with the targets of the Strategic Research and Innovation Agenda (SRIA) by the European aviation industry and the research community. 18 5 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Integrated environmental protection Protecting the environment is something we value greatly at MTU. Not only is environmental protection explicitly enshrined in our Code of Conduct and the MTU Principles, it is also a permanent feature of our annual corporate goals and the object of a dedicated program of environmental measures. We view our environmental responsibility as encompassing in equal measure both our products and their development, manufacture and maintenance, and this broad understanding of our environmental responsibility informs our business decisions. The biggest contribution we can make to environmental protection is by means of ecologically efficient products. We are actively pursuing the use of environmentally friendly We make our biggest contribution to environmental aviation technologies as part of our climate protection with our eco-efficient products. strategy. For more information, see the MTU Climate tion is a top priority. Although production volStrategy section in this chapter, pp. 20-23. ume at MTU continues to rise, our consumption of energy remains constant or is rising at The environmental impact of air traffic includes a considerably slower rate. Our consistent aircraft noise as well. reuse of waste materials has for many years resulted in high recycling ratios at our producFor more information, see the section Aircraft tion sites. We intend to maintain the standards noise in this chapter, pp. 24-25. already achieved in the years ahead, even as production volumes climb. Levels of airborne Equal importance is attached to cleaner propollutants released by our plants and test rigs duction. The targets we have set ourselves are within the limits described in the relevant in manufacturing and maintenance activities permits, as confirmed by documented mandaaim at minimizing pollution from emissions, tory measurements. harmful substances or noise arising from our processes. We take great care to conserve reFor more on this subject, see the Eco-friendly sources such as water and raw materials, and manufacturing section in this chapter, use energy sparingly: energy-efficient producpp. 26-29. 19 MTU Climate Strategy dioxide (CO2) and nitrogen oxide (NOx) emissions and through the formation of cirrus Climate change is one of the greatest global clouds. challenges of our era. It is generally accepted that CO2 emissions caused by human activity Of these, the greatest impact on climate are largely responsible for global warming, change is produced by CO2 emissions; it has and that the increasing mobility of the human already been possible to reduce these by 70 population is a contributing factor. According percent per passenger-kilometer over the past to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate 50 years. Modern turbofan engines with their Change (IPCC), global air traffic accounts for higher bypass and overall pressure ratios have approximately two percent of all man-made played a significant role in this respect—they CO2 emissions. Industry analysts predict that alone have reduced CO2 emissions by more the aviation sector will grow by five percent than 40 percent. Pollutants such as NOx, CO, each year until at least 2020. In response, the unburned hydrocarbons and soot are produced aviation industry has set specific targets to when kerosene is burned in the combustor. reduce its impact on climate. New combustor designs can further reduce the quantity of these waste products. Another MTU aims to meet this goal by designing enway in which climate change is influenced by gine components that in the medium term will aviation is through the creation of contrails, help the aviation industry to stabilize its CO2 which if they persist may give rise to cirrus emissions and in the long term even reduce clouds. Flight altitude is one of the crucial them. Our responsibility to protect the planet causal factors in this case. This means that is anchored in our MTU Principles, in which we the creation of contrails and cirrus clouds can state our commitment to reduce emissions be avoided or at least significantly reduced and limit consumption of natural resources by modifying flight routes or flying at a lower and energy. These principles apply in equal altitude. measure to our production processes and the resulting products. The main leverage point for MTU is that of reducing CO2 emissions, because the company’s Our climate strategy will enable us to gain a standard product portfolio doesn’t include decisive edge over our competitors, because combustors. engines with a lower carbon footprint inevitably consume less fuel and thus help to reduce the customer’s operating costs. More-over, Climate protection goals this strategy will help us to meet the emissions requirements defined by aviation authorities. The European aviation industry and research community have formulated ambitious goals for the future. This voluntary commitment is Impact of aviation on climate laid down in the new Strategic Research and Innovation Agenda (SRIA), which incorporates A special report ( Aviation and the Global Atthe earlier ACARE 2020 and Flightpath 2050 mosphere ) by the IPCC indicates that aviation targets. contributes to climate change through carbon CO2 emissions and fuel SRIA 2020 SRIA 2035 SRIA 2050 burn targets Air traffic per passenger-kilometer -43 % -60 % -75 % of which airframe -20 % -30 % -68 % of which propulsion system -20 % -30 % of which air traffic management -7 % -12 % -12 % of which operation -4 % -7 % -12 % NOx emissions targets Vision 2020 SRIA 2035 SRIA 2050 Air traffic per passenger-kilometer -80 % -84 % -90 % Margin rel. to ICAO CAEP6 requirement -60 % -65 % -75 % (as against the year 2000 in each case) 20 In 2009, the International Air Transport AssoSpecific fuel consumption ciation (IATA), the world’s leading airline repEngines in service resentative body, formulated the following MTU’s Claire program SRIA targets long-term targets for the global aviation fleet: 70% • Efficiency to be improved by 1.5 percent 60% per annum between 2009 and 2020 • CO2-neutral growth to be achieved by 2020 50% Specific fuel consumption (Cruise, rel.) • Total CO2 emissions from aircraft to be halved by 2050 (baseline 2005) 40% 30% These targets relate to emissions by the entire global aviation fleet and make allowance for 20% its expected growth. To date, no other sector of the transportation industry has taken on 10% SRIA SRIA SRIA such a wide-ranging voluntary commitment to 2020 2035 2050 mitigate climate change. The required improve0% ments, which are far from minor, will necessi-10% tate innovations in the fields of aircraft and engine design and air traffic management, and -20% CLAIRE 1 also demand the cooperation of the airlines. -30% CLAIRE 2 -40% Clean Air Engine 2050 CLAIRE 3 -50% We measure our performance on the basis of 1960 1970 1980 1990 2000 2010 2020 2030 2030 2050 the European SRIA agenda, which matches the IATA requirements to a large extent and forms a binding part of our climate strategy. In our engine configuration will enable further improduct development department, we have provements to be made during the period up brought together all R&D activities for sustainto 2030, for instance by increasing the bypass able propulsion systems and new technologies ratio. Moreover, the core engine’s thermal under the joint management of the Clean Air efficiency could be further improved by inEngine (Claire) project. Through its Clean Air creasing the overall pressure ratio and temEngine concept, MTU aims to achieve several peratures. The ultimate aim is to achieve a ambitious goals in respect of future passenger reduction in fuel consumption and CO2 emisaircraft, including that of reducing CO2 emissions of 25 percent. sions by 40 percent by 2050 relative to 2000. In the third and final stage of the project, revoIn the first stage, through the use of a geared lutionary new features such as integrated and turbofan engine designed in partnership with distributed fans will be introduced in order to Pratt & Whitney and due to enter series proincrease propulsive efficiency, coupled with duction in 2015, the aim is to reduce fuel conthe use of heat exchangers to recuperate sumption and hence CO2 emissions by as much waste heat. In this way, it could be possible to as 15 percent. In the next stage, conceptual boost CO2 savings to 40 percent by 2050. design studies based on a geared-turbofan An A320neo powered by PW1000G engines will emit around 3,300 tons less CO2 every year. 21 Alternative fuels Research activities Alternative fuels with a positive net carbon As an integral part of our research activities, footprint derived from sustainable resources we compile regular interim reports in which constitute another important approach in we compare the progress we have achieved efforts to reduce aviation-induced CO2 emiswith our objectives and measure our goal sions. At the moment, two second-generation attainment. Long-term technology development biofuels are authorized for use as substitutes programs are conducted ahead of product for kerosene. But what counts is the overall development, mainly within the framework of CO2 balance, which depends on the type of national or EU research projects. In addition, biomass and the manufacturing processes we have built up a nationwide network of used to produce the fuel. Above all, the crops research partners in which we cooperate with involved must not be in competition with food selected universities in subject areas of speproduction or compromise the diversity of cial interest. In the review period, ENOVAL, a natural vegetation. Such problems can be overnew European research project was launched; come by selecting suitable plant species. it is led by MTU and will run for four years. Its Moreover, alternative aviation fuels must guarobjective is to reduce CO2 emissions by five antee the same reliable performance as conpercent by developing new technologies for the ventional fuels, namely a very high gravimetric low pressure system in aero engines. Moreand volumetric energy density, a low freezing over, in July, the Clean Sky 2 program was point and a high flashpoint. launched as an extension to the current Clean Sky initiative. MTU is one of the founding memMTU supports efforts to spread the use of biobers of Clean Sky 2. In various research and fuels as an alternative to kerosene in numerous demonstration projects over the next eight ways: by commissioning studies at the Bauyears, the program will provide the technologhaus Luftfahrt, by taking part in engine and ical basis for the development of the next combustor tests, and as a founding member generation of greener and more cost-efficient of the non-profit association Aviation Initiative aircraft. for Renewable Energy in Germany (aireg e.V.). This association, whose members include airDuring the reporting period, MTU participated lines, manufacturers and research organizain the following major EU research programs: tions, brings together all relevant activities and sources of technical knowledge in Germany. • Clean Sky, Clean Sky 2 MTU has supported Lufthansa in carrying As a partner in the burnFAIR research project, • ENOVAL out a practical experiment for introducing we provided support that enabled Lufthansa • LEMCOTEC sustainable fuels in aviation. to launch its first use of biofuels in scheduled • E-BREAK flights. MTU’s propulsion system specialists analyzed the engines’ behavior during test More information on MTU’s technology flights and confirmed the fuel’s conformance programs and research partnerships with requirements. can be found on our website www.mtu.de. Through the use of the geared turbofan engine, fuel consumption and hence CO2 emissions will be reduced by as much as 15 percent. 22 We also want to improve the CO2 balance of aircraft engines during the production phase. Production Through this climate strategy we wish to play an active role in efforts to reduce the carbon To operate our production sites around the footprint of the aviation industry. In terms of world, we consume raw materials and electhe products we make, we are close to reachtricity and use various resources to generate ing this goal, given that by far the highest energy. Our long-term goal is to maximize share of CO2 emissions from aircraft engines energy efficiency and minimize the consumparises during the in-service phase of the prodtion of natural resources. We have already uct lifecycle, which can last for several detaken steps to reduce greenhouse-gas emiscades. But we also intend to go a step further sions at our Munich location by launching the and take appropriate measures to improve the Clean Air Industrial Site (CLAIR-IS) program, CO2 balance of aircraft engines during the through which we aim to slash CO2 emissions production phase. by 25 percent by the year 2020 (baseline 1990). As the largest site in our manufacturing network, it accounts for around 66.5 percent of the group’s gross profit (2013). The measures currently in place have already enabled us to reduce MTU’s total carbon footprint by an amount in the order of 23,000 metric tons of CO2 per year (averaged over the past three years). This corresponds to an average annual reduction of 1.5 percent. Moreover, 35 percent of the electricity supplied to our Munich production site is generated from renewable sources, and is thus carbon-neutral. The individual measures we have implemented to improve the energy efficiency of our production site are as follows: • making greater use of well water as a coolant in production processes • modernizing the district heating network • improving insulation for buildings • deploying building automation systems • using renewable fuels (vegetable oil powered cogeneration plant) • using a more energy-efficient compressed air supply • installing more energy-efficient lighting systems The new MTU blisk production facility has a particularly energy-efficient design. 23 Aircraft noise The environmental impact of air traffic includes aircraft noise. Engines produce the most noise during take-off. But also the aircraft itself is a perceptible source of noise caused by vortex effects of the air flowing over the fuselage, wings and landing gear. The main sources of engine noise are the fan and airflow. To obtain approval, aircraft and engines must demonstrate compliance with the noise requirements prescribed by the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO). Moreover, the landing and take-off fees charged by the majority of airports worldwide are indexed according to noise levels. The operation of noisy aircraft is increasingly restricted. Since the 1960s, the introduction of engines Engines built using MTU components such as the with increasingly high bypass ratios has led to V2500 for the A320 familiy are among the quietest available on the market. drastic reductions in the level of aircraft noise. Engines built using MTU components are among the quietest available on the market, ics that are poorly absorbed by the atmoswith noise levels that lie significantly below phere. The geared turbofan’s noise profile is the authorized limits. Examples include the 70 percent lower than that of conventional V2500 for the A320 family and the GP7000 engines, thanks in part to MTU’s engineering for the A380, both of which represented sigskills, and future generations promise to be nificant technological advances at the time even quieter. In every project that calls for they were launched. the redesign or optimization of an engine’s operating characteristics, MTU integrates new Even greater improvements are possible with technologies to mitigate noise. Our experithe new geared turbofan engine design. The enced acoustic engineers are involved in every large, slow-rotating fan reduces engine noise phase of product design. to a significant extent. Our high-speed, lowpressure turbine rotates at three times the The cumulative noise emissions of first-generspeed of conventional turbines, and as a result ation geared turbofan engines, such as the generates none of the low-frequency harmonPW1000G family, are 20 decibels lower than Reduction of 75 dB noise contour due to new geared turbofan technology at Munich airport 0 1 2 Miles 0 1 2 Miles Today’s aircraft. Next generation with Geared turbofan engines SEL Contour (dB) 75 80 85 90 95 Runway Abatement Flight Track 24 Reduction of aircraft noise (at landing and takeoff) 30 Stage 2 B737-200 Noise level (cumulative margin in EPNdB 4) 20 Stage 3 10 B747-100 A300 Stage 4 0 A310 A320 CFM56 B737-800 A320 -V2500 Stage 5 -10 A340-600 A380 -20 A320neo GTF1 today’s GTF 2 -30 ACARE 2020 target With its GP7000 engines, the A380 meets the most SRIA 2035 stringent ICAO noise standard. -40 1960 1970 1980 1990 2000 2010 2020 2030 2040 Year of aircraft certification the strictest standard to date, noise category 1 Existing A320 design with GTF 4. The target for the second stage of our Clean 2 All-new aircraft design with first generation GTF Air Engine program is to implement further 3 The sum of the differences at all three measurement points between the maximum improvements that will halve noise emissions noise level according to the aircraft certificate and the maximum noise level by 2030 and even reduce them by 65 percent by 2050. In October 2013, the EU launched its aeronautical technology program, ENOVAL, which is led by MTU Aero Engines. The research project aims to reduce engine noise by 1.3 decibels (per operation) between now and 2017 by increasing bypass and overall pressure ratios. The aviation industry has set specific targets to reduce its impact on the environment. 25 Eco-friendly manufacturing With regard to continuous improvements in environmental protection, we have made the We are committed to the principle of integratfollowing progress during the reporting period: ed environmental protection for the manufacturing and maintenance of our products. For • CLAIR-IS: program for reduction of CO2 us, this comprises the following: emissions (25 percent by 2020 at Munich) • Efficient use of heat energy: new logistics • Continuous improvements hall heated by waste heat from compressors • Precautionary approach (2013, Hannover) • Employee involvement • Energy use around 20 percent below statu• Minimum possible environmental impact tory requirements under German Energy • Careful compliance with statutory limit Savings Ordinance: special insulation of new values, usually with room to spare logistics hall (2014, Munich) • Processes that use resources and energy • Use of well water for process cooling, heat sparingly recovery (-70 percent heating energy) and LED illumination in new logistics hall (2014, MTU is pursuing the goal of energy-efficient Munich) manufacturing that minimizes the generation • Conversion to LED illumination of emissions, pollutants and noise. We are (since 2013; Ludwigsfelde, Hannover) tackling the reduction of CO2 emissions as • Recycling of engine alloys in new collaborapart of our climate strategy, which includes tion with specialized companies production. For more information, see the (since 2013; Hannover) MTU Climate Strategy section in this chapter. • Approximately 585 liters of jet oil (Type II) saved during test runs annually (2013, When manufacturing and repairing products, Ludwigsfelde) we use resources such as water, raw materials • Reuse of packaging materials for transand energy with care. In times of rising proporting parts (since 2013; Rzeszów) duction volumes, MTU either maintains existing levels of energy consumption or manages to The manufacturing and repair methods used significantly limit their increase. by MTU, some of which were developed inhouse, are particularly efficient in their use of For waste materials, the company has a sysmaterials and energy. One example of this is tematic recycling policy that follows the prinwaterstripping, which removes protective ciple of a circular economy wherever possible. thermal coatings from engine parts without As a result, we have reached high recycling using chemicals. We have decided to harness rates at our production sites for years. On averthe potential of the new additive manufacturage, this figure was approximately 83 percent ing methods for engine production. This comat our European sites in 2013. Our goal is to pletely new technology involves making commaintain this high recycling level as production ponents directly from a powder bed via laser rates increase. We observe the statutory emismelting based on CAD data, which delivers sions limits for airborne pollutants when operating manufacturing plants and test rigs and document this compliance by means of regular measurements or calculations. MTU is pursuing the goal of energy-efficient manufacturing that minimizes the generation of emissions, pollutants and noise. 26 major material savings. During the reporting MTU Group period, MTU manufacturing specialists were Water consumption* able to initiate series production of the first (cubic meters per 1 million production hours) components made using additive processes. 2010 45.525** We plan to widen the range of parts manufactured by additive methods in the future. 2011 35.904 MTU is seeking to reduce its use of environ2012 35.811 mentally hazardous materials in engine manufacturing, and we have already achieved initial 2013 30.318 success. For example, we have completed the development of a chromium-free paint for engine coating, which is now standard in MTU engine parts. The company’s environmental MTU Group experts are currently working on finding alterHeating energy consumption* native solutions to replace substances of very (MWh per 1 million production hours) high concern (SVHCs) as defined by the EU’s 2010 11.686** REACH Regulation. An implementation project has been launched to achieve this, the first 2011 8.347 step of which has been to record the affected components along with the corresponding 2012 9.321 tools and jigs. SVHCs are to be replaced as much as possible new applications using 2013 9.875 SVHCs will be rejected in the future. MTU Group Electricity consumption* (MWh per 1 million production hours) 2010 16.368** 2011 14.228 2012 13.856 2013 14.286 * average for each year across all production locations **corrected value Levels of airborne pollutants released by our test rigs are within the limits described in the relevant permits. 27 Certified environmental Hannover • ISO 9001:2008 management • EN 9100:2008 Company-wide environmental protection is • EN 9110:2010 given top-level management priority through • ISO 14001:2004 direct reporting to the Board of Management. • EMAS Regulation (EC) No. 1221/2009 A certified environmental management system, (Eco Management Audit Scheme) in which all processes, responsibilities and • OHSAS 18001:2007 goals are defined, ensures that consistently high standards are upheld throughout the comBerlin pany. Internal standards corresponding to laws, • EN 9100:2009 ordinances, permissions and other regulations • ISO 9001:2008 are binding for MTU’s sites and in some in• ISO 14001:2004 stances exceed statutory compliance. The • OHSAS 18001:2007 stringent environmental criteria apply to all divisions, processes and systems, extending Rzeszów from an engine’s development through to pro• EN 9100:2009 duction and repair. These criteria are described • ISO 9001:2008 and regulated within documented process flows and special standards applying to the • All certifications were successfully verified company’s production units. in audits during the reporting year. As part of the company’s integrated environFor an overview of certifications at all mental, quality and occupational safety manMTU sites, see: www.mtu.de. agement, MTU’s sites in Europe have the following certifications: Independent external auditors and environmental consultants conduct annual reviews to Munich confirm adherence to the applicable environ• ISO 9001:2008 mental protection requirements. This monitor• EN 9100:2009 ing is supplemented by internal inspections • ISO 14001:2004 and audits. In its controlling and monitoring • EMAS Regulation (EC) No. 1221/2009 role, MTU’s management carries out regular (Eco Management Audit Scheme) management reviews and directly steers devel• OHSAS 18001:2007 opment of the management system. The • GQA Certificate Ludwigsfelde production site near Berlin is currently evaluating the introduction of an High standards of environmental protection energy management system in accordance are upheld throughout the company. with ISO 50001 for improving energy efficiency in manufacturing processes. We use vegetation on top of buildings to improve their insulation. 28 By constantly monitoring energy consumption we can see where efficiency can be improved. MTU involves its employees in its environMTU’s environmental protection efforts also mental protection endeavors and promotes extend to its suppliers. With the new Code of environmentally aware behavior by means of Conduct for Suppliers, which entered into information campaigns, action days and simiforce at the start of 2014, we set out requirelar initiatives: ments for cooperation with suppliers, who must: • Environmental Action Day (Hannover, annually) • Observe laws and international standards • Trainee Eco Day (Munich, annually) • Apply the precautionary principle in dealing • Health, Safety and Environment with environmental problems (HSE) Days (Ludwigsfelde, annually) • Commit themselves to promoting a greater sense of responsibility In addition, employees are invited to submit • Support the development and spread of their ideas for improving environmental proenvironmentally friendly technologies tection through the company suggestion program. As a member of the Bavarian “UmweltFor more on the new Code of Conduct for pakt Bayern” initiative, MTU’s Munich site has Suppliers, see Chapter 2, Human Rights. committed itself to actively supporting a call for industry in the region take greater responDuring the reporting year, the oekom research sibility for environmental protection. Since rating agency awarded MTU its Prime Status, 2010, the site has also been a member of an which recognizes—among other distinctions— energy efficiency network involving the city of the sustainable nature of the company’s enviState-of-the-art technology ensures energyMunich and surrounding Upper Bavaria. ronmental achievements. efficient production. The public are regularly informed about measFor more on the award, see Chapter 2, ures, results and successes relating to enviCorporate Responsibility Management. ronmental issues through statements issued by MTU for its Munich and Hannover sites. See environmental statements at: www.mtu.de 29 MTU compliance culture Our role in creating a fair business MTU has set up a company-wide compliance management system, which successfully prevents corruption and other forms of improper conduct in the company and organizes regular training for employees on compliance issues. Compliance rules and regulations Legislation and internal Code of Conduct for Code of Conduct for guidelines Employees Suppliers Compliance instruments We regularly review all divisions for signs of possible corruption. Risk training management report Employees Compliance audits Compliance Board report Stakeholder Ombudsman 30 6 Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Respecting the prevailing laws and regulations is part and parcel of our corporate responsibility and forms an important basis for responsible dealings with our business partners and employees. MTU acts as a fair employer, business partner and client and advocates transparent competition where all parties are on an equal footing. Integrity and responsible behavior are important values in our corporate culture and are binding throughout the company for employees and managers by virtue of the rules set out in our Code of Conduct. These obligations also explicitly apply to board members. MTU’s organization-wide Compliance Board is a key instrument for ensuring legal conformity and the implementation of internal guidelines and principles. MTU denounces corruption, including bribery A Compliance Board is a key instrument for ensuring and extortion, and all other forms of white-collegal conformity. lar crime. The binding legal framework we impose on all acting parties operating on MTU’s behalf strengthens the confidence of our stakeWe have also expanded our dialog with stakeholders. We are committed to building longholders during the reporting period, as we term business relationships on the foundation want to strengthen our communication on comof good, attractive products; this stance inpliance issues. See our website for detailed cludes not supporting any political parties information about organizational and other through financial donations. measures we have undertaken in this regard. MTU’s Code of Conduct for Suppliers obliges www.mtu.de them to refrain from corruption in all its forms, including offering and accepting bribes and other important benefits. Since 2014, the Code of Conduct for Suppliers is now a permanent part of our supplier contracts. MTU’s two Codes of Conduct for employees and suppliers respectivelycan be accessed at: www.mtu.de. 31 Compliance Board Another of the Compliance Board’s key duties is to prevent misconduct and raise employees’ We regularly inspect all divisions for signs of awareness of what constitutes misconduct. possible corruption in order to ensure compliFirst and foremost, this takes the form of comance at MTU. To this end, the company set up pliance training courses for all employees, with a superordinate Compliance Board, which is special courses for employees and managers made up of the heads of the legal department, in positions of trust. These courses are repeatCorporate Audit and Corporate Security. The ed at regular intervals. In total, over 1,000 Compliance Board reports directly to the Extraining hours have already been devoted to ecutive Board at regular intervals. It is comthis issue to date. In 2013, compliance training mitted to fully clearing up reported suspicions courses were held for employees and manand incidents of irregular behavior and inspects agers in positions of trust in Germany; these consultancy contracts for potential corruption courses will be held at the MTU site in Rzeszów, risks before they are signed. On top of this, Poland, in 2014. In addition, compliance trainconsultancy contracts are also assessed by ing is compulsory for all new employees workTRACE, an independent organization specialing in areas with customer contact. ized in business practice transparency and due diligence reviews of agents, intermediaries and In our global whistleblower system, an omconsultants. Only once the Compliance Board budsman acts as a confidential point of conhas given a positive recommendation does the tact to whom employees and external stakeCEO approve the conclusion or extension of a holders can report suspicions of corruption. contract. Transparency International, an indeOnce again, there were no indications of pospendent organization that combats corruption sible corruption at MTU during this reporting worldwide, rated MTU’s approach in its dealperiod. Furthermore, MTU was not the object ings with intermediaries and sales consultants of any significant monetary fines or criminal on a scale from 0 to 2 and awarded it top proceedings, nor were such proceedings pendmarks. In addition, our internal auditors coning. We will continue to pursue this goal in the duct regular compliance audits, in which they future, and we view it as confirmation that our scrutinize business processes and procedures compliance management system is working. in the company for legal conformity and adherence to internal guidelines. Respecting the prevailing laws is part and parcel of our corporate responsibility. 32 Working alongside the central Compliance Risk management Board are group officers for individual topics, such as data protection. They are responsible As part of our risk management, we regularly for making sure that specific statutory regulaidentify and evaluate the risks and opportutions are observed and that uniform standards nities in our business, including corruptionapply across the whole company and that related compliance risks in the organizational these meet the relevant legal requirements. units. As part of the rating process carried out by For MTU’s complete risk report, see 2013 oekom research—which awarded MTU Prime Annual Report, p.88ff. Status for its overall social and environmental performance—the external analysts rated these MTU measures as “good.” Corporate governance Corporate governance is all about company Outlook management and control guided by the principle of responsible-minded, long-term value MTU is currently being assessed by Transparcreation. It is an integral part of MTU’s identity ency International in the context of the Deand encompasses all areas of the company. fence Companies Anti-Corruption Index 2015. As a company with global operations, MTU The final result is due in October 2014; the observes national and international standards. comparison with other companies in the form In Germany, where MTU has its headquarters, of an index should be available by April 2015. the bulk of these rules are laid down in the In 2012, MTU already performed well in an Stock Corporation Act, the Co-Determination initial assessment. Act and the German Corporate Governance Code. MTU complies with all recommendations MTU is a member of the AeroSpace and Deof the German Federal Ministry of Justice’s fence Industries Association of Europe and Corporate Governance Code in its version of recognizes the organization’s standards against May 13, 2013. corruption, bribery and unfair competition. For the full corporate governance report, see 2013 Annual Report, p.14ff. 33 GER 07/14/MUC/00000/DE/XX/E MTU Aero Engines AG Dachauer Straße 665 80995 Munich • Germany Tel. +49 89 1489-0 Fax +49 89 1489-5500 corporateresponsibility@mtu.de www.mtu.de
