from the CEO Topsil in business Cases CSR efforts in line with business strategy UN Global Compact Supplier assessment Additional information COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2013 from the CEO Topsil in business Cases CSR efforts in line with business strategy CSR-report 2013 2 UN Global Compact Supplier assessment Additional information Topsil It is our mission to provide solutions that enable customers manufacture advanced, energy efficient power components. Topsil CSR-report 2013 2 From the ceo from the CEO Topsil in business Cases CSR efforts in line with business strategy Topsil CSR-report 2013 3 UN Global Compact Supplier assessment Additional information Topsil Semiconductor Materials A/S hereby reconfirms its continued support of the UN Global Compact in the below statement: March 2014 United Nations Global Compact On behalf of Topsil Semiconductor Materials A/S I hereby reconAltogether, I am happy with the results of 2013. I am confident firm our company’s continued support of the Ten Principles of the that the goals set for this year will further help us on our path to a United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, more sustainable existence. Labour Rights, the Environment and Anti-Corruption. We acknowledge our ongoing responsibility to balance the economic interests of our company with those of our external environment and comKind regards, mit to share our efforts and concerns using our primary channels of communication. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe the actions Kalle Hvidt Nielsen taken in the past year to improve our performance on CSR-related CEO matters as well as the goals set for 2014. In 2013, we continued minimising our environmental footprint by installing new and improved production equipment in our new plant. We set up targets to encourage a more even gender balance in managerial positions, and we enhanced our efforts to make Topsil a safer workplace. We furthermore addressed the well-being of our employees in the biannual employee survey, rolled out on all company locations. This led to fruitful discussions on departmental and management level alike which has helped us better understand and approach the strengths and challenges of our organisation. ”” We are proud that Topsil’s ultrapure silicon wafers contribute to energy efficient power solutions. Kalle Hvidt Nielsen, CEO Topsil CSR-report 2013 3 from the CEO Topsil in business Cases CSR efforts in line with business strategy CSR-report 2013 4 UN Global Compact Supplier assessment Additional information Topsil silicon is used in all parts of modern society Wind turbines A wind turbine must be able to catch the wind and rotate, generate electricity and connect to and disconnect from the power grid depending on the wind force. Intelligent electronics is required for operating wind turbines and transporting energy, and this is where silicon comes in. Silicon is used in the electric components of the wind turbine nacelle. It is also used in the transformer system collecting energy and distributElectric and hybrid ing it to the power grid. Vehicles Electric cars and hybrid vehicles are expected to become more common on the road in future. However, they can only run if their batteries are charged beforehand, and it is only possible to shift to a higher or lower gear if the electricity supply is regulated. Silicon has good power control properties and may be used for energy-efficient electricity supply and regulation. Silicon is used, for example, under the bonnet and in the charging stations used to charge the car. Production machinery The industry needs electricity to manufacture goods. Production machinery requires turning on and off, and it must be possible to adjust electric energy and speed. Silicon is used in machine control mechanisms and electric motors to control and conduct electricity. Silicon is a highly efficient material contributing to optimum machine control as well as optimum energy consumption. Topsil CSR-report 2013 4 from the CEO Topsil in business Cases CSR efforts in line with business strategy Topsil CSR-report 2013 5 UN Global Compact Supplier assessment Additional information topsil in Brief… • Topsil’s is a dedicated manufacturer of ultrapure silicon. research institutes and universities located all over the The silicon is so pure that only a handful of companies in world. the world have sufficient knowledge and capabilities to produce it. • The megadrivers for Topsil’s main market, the power market, are population growth and a global rise in per • Topsil provides silicon in the form of wafers. Ultra-pure capita income. Population growth and growing middle silicon is inserted in advanced electrical components classes leads to an increased demand for energy and a that form part of various high-voltage applications. functional energy infrastructure, transport investments, green energy, and energy efficiency. In order to exploit • Topsil was founded 1959 by the Dane Dr. Haldor Topsøe. this long-term market potential, Topsil has invested suband is publicly listed on the Nasdaq OMX Nordic stock stantially in new facilities, technology and equipment. exchange. Topsil is headquartered in Copenhagen Cleantech Park, Frederikssund, Denmark, and has subsidiaries • Topsil’s expected revenue in 2013 is in the range of DKK in Warsaw, Poland and Kyoto, Japan. 310m. The average number of employees in 2013 was 344. • Topsil’s customers are mostly large multinational corporations in the semiconductor industry and a few are Learn more: www.topsil.com Power grids Silicon contributes to energy-efficient transport of electricity. In the intelligent electricity distribution network of the future , “Smart Grids”, different energy sources may be connected or disconnected according to need in order to balance consumption day and night. Silicon helps convert electricity from, for Electric trains example, alternating current to direct current, to connect to the grid, and to Electric trains moving at high speeds pick up ensure a smooth transport of current, energy from overhead wires and the rails. often over long distances. An energy-efficient electricity supply is required, and this is where silicon comes in. Silicon helps regulate train speed and pick up energy. For example, it is used in complex power control systems installed on top and underneath trains. Topsil CSR-report 2013 5 Washing silicon ingots from the CEO Topsil in business Cases CSR efforts in line with business strategy CSR-report 2013 6 UN Global Compact Supplier assessment Additional information Topsil Case: Facility – Washing silicon ingots Case: Safety – Focus on employee safety Facility Washing silicon ingots is better and cheaper than etching Take two chemical engineers, an It was probably during discussions of production flow at Topsil’s established production process and new plant that the idea first popped up. The plant was built around the production process silicon goes through from receipt some coffee. Add constant eagerness of the raw material through melting and post processing until, cut into smaller units, the finished silicon ingot leaves the plant to improve the state of things, a whiteagain. During the planning of flows, processes and machinery, the board and a good deal of creative various process steps before and after the silicon production were discussed. thinking. An idea pops up. The idea takes hold in a project organisation – Two chemical engineers, Loghman M. Easa and Leonardo Malcovati, had an idea: maybe a certain type of finished silicon could it is thoroughly discussed – and by the be washed with a soap and thereby treated in a rather milder end of 2013 an automatic washing process than the etching process otherwise used. Working with the steps around melting the raw material, they have detailed machine is installed at Topsil’s new knowledge of the material and the customer demands that any plant in the Copenhagen Cleantech proposed production-process changes must meet. They assessed that the milder treatment of silicon with soap instead of etching Park. By using the washer, silicon would produce the same good end result. ingots no longer have to be etched, “What is important is that metals are removed from the silicon instead they can be washed before ingot. We made calculations to see whether the soap could replace the stronger etching process otherwise used at Topsil,” the next process step. What is the Loghman M. Easa explains. “It was improvements to other steps effect? It is expected that the washer in the process that led us in the right direction. We got the green light for experiments with the soap, and the results were good. We will shorten the processing time and were able to remove the traces of metal as before, and we conreduce the environmental impact. It cluded that the new approach would in fact speed up the process.” also means lower operating costs. Milder washing of silicon ingots Calculations were made of the improvement potential, which turned out to be significant with respect to time, the environment and consumption of materials. It was demonstrated that the new washing process does not change the silicon quality. This paved the way for developing the washer. Jens Lillegaard, who was appointed project manager for the job, explains: “We defined a number of requirements with respect to how the crystal should be handled with washing, rinsing and drying. This resulted in three solution models which were tested in terms of criteria such as avoiding contamination and minimising Topsil CSR-report 2013 6 from the CEO Topsil in business Cases CSR efforts in line with business strategy Topsil CSR-report 2013 7 UN Global Compact Supplier assessment Additional information Case: Facility – Washing silicon ingots Case: Safety – Focus on employee safety Loghman M. Easa (left), Leonardo Malcovati (middle) and Jens Lillegaard (right) inspecting a silicon ingot after its wash. the use of soap and water. It was also important that it was easy He explains, “We estimate that our annual consumption of chemito fit the machine into the existing production flow.” cals for etching will be reduced by one third because of the new set-up. The soap is substantially less environmentally harmful The machine selected is as easy to operate as a conventional and cheaper. In addition, it simplifies and shortens the process dishwasher: Open the front, place the crystal in the machine and step. Altogether, I believe this it is a well thought out improvepress the start button. Another advantage was that it could easily ment we can be quite proud of.” be fitted into the existing work cell as there were no hazardous chemicals involved. As a result, the process involves fewer hand-overs as the same working group can now handle the entire process from silicon melting to warehouse storage. Looking forward to seeing the first results Tests of the new machine produced successful results, and Jens Lillegaard looks forward to seeing the effects of the new process. “Although the name indicates something different, this is not a conventional washing machine like the one people use at home. It is uniquely designed for our purpose and based on a special proprietary process. We expect a lot from the new method.” Topsil CSR-report 2013 7 CSR efforts in line with business strategy from the CEO Topsil in business Cases CSR efforts in line with business strategy CSR-report 2013 8 UN Global Compact Supplier assessment Additional information Topsil CSR efforts in line with business strategy Topsil’s CSR activities are well aligned with our overall strategy of The CEO is responsible for Topsil’s aggregated CSR efforts while our company and an important element in our continued success. dedicated management resources drive continuous improveWe aspire to grow responsibly, to focus on our use of resources ments in each field. Thus, the personnel manager safeguards and to maintain a motivated workforce to drive our business overall compliance with the human rights and anti-corruption forward. principles whereas production management is responsible for the safety and environmental initiatives. When prioritising our CSR initiatives, we will focus on areas believed to generate the most benefit. For instance it makes great Stakeholders, goal setting and reporting sense to find new ways to minimise our harmful impact on the In order to structure our approach to CSR and decide where to external environment, while at the same time cost optimising our focus, we distinguish between our sphere of control and sphere of business. influence as depicted below. Sphere of control Sphere of influence Stakeholders with whom Topsil does not do Business relations, business, however who Wider community, Employees facilities forward and backwards have a natural interest in e.g., national and and equipment in the supply chain us, e.g., local community EU legislation‑ Within our sphere of control, we continually monitor our perforEnhancing of our environmental performance is further supported mance by setting corporate goals year-on-year. Hence, we have by use of the TS16949 and ISO14001 tools, which are our certifor instance set specific targets for reducing our environmental fied quality management system and environmental manageimpact, improving our safety performance, and encouraging a ment system, respectively. more even gender balance in our Board of Directors and other managerial positions. The outcome of all CSR performance is reported to the Board of Directors. Topsil CSR-report 2013 8 Supplier assessment from the CEO Topsil in business Cases CSR efforts in line with business strategy Topsil CSR-report 2013 9 UN Global Compact Supplier assessment Additional information Supplier assessment Although the vast majorities of the CSR resources are applied supplier will receive lower aggregated ranking. When reporting its within our sphere of control, Topsil also seeks to exercise its influfindings to the supplier, Topsil presents suggested improvement ence on external stakeholders. actions, including those concerning CSR. Hence, we have established an internally managed supplier asEach supplier belongs to a certain supplier category. The category sessment system that ranks our suppliers in relation to a vast depends on its relative importance to Topsil in terms of key number of parameters. The system, including its main paramemanufacturing processes. The most business critical suppliers ters, is showed in the figure below. Corporate social responsibility are ranked as A and B suppliers and are as a minimum reviewed forms part of the risk management assessment. every 3rd and 5th years, respectively. A number of evaluation criteria have been set up in relation to In relation to other stakeholders within our sphere of influence, the various parameters. This enables a regular rating. Topsil we obey national and international legislation and will further addresses each criterion when screening and auditing a bring forward our view points and concerns whenever supplier, and if a current or a potential supplier fails to relevant. meet an explicit expectations on a certain matter, that Risk Management Quality Supplier Technology Performance Evaluation and Continuous improvement Purchasing Logistics Topsil CSR-report 2013 9 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES from the CEO Topsil in business Cases CSR efforts in line with business strategy 10 CSR-report 2013 UN Global Compact Supplier assessment Additional information Topsil Human rights principles Labour rights principles Environment principles Anticorruption HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Topsil supports the following human rights principles • Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and • Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Goals for 2013 and measurement of outcome Policy on diversity In March, Topsil’s Board of Directors approved the following policies and targets for the under-represented gender in manageOperating globally, Topsil regards a diverse work¬force ment: as an asset. We hire on the basis of talent and personality and offer the same possibilities to all employTarget for under-represented gender, Board of ees, regardless of their background, religion, political Directors conviction, gender or age. We encourage that everybody In selecting new candidates for Topsil’s Board of Directors, it is reach their full potential in accordance with personal important that candidates have specific professional competenambitions and goals. cies and qualifications from listed companies and international experience. In addition, consideration concerning diversity in We promote a work environment of respect and incluterms of nationality, religion, political conviction, age and gender sion and expect our employees to act politically and applies. Specifically in respect of gender, Topsil aims to retain religiously neutral, when acting on the behalf of the and, if possible, increase the number of women on the Board of company. We acknowledge the right to organise and Directors in the current strategy period (2013-2015).To be able to bargain collectively and do everything in our power to meet this goal, Topsil will ensure that during potential recruitavoid discrimination. Topsil CSR-report 2013 10 from the CEO Topsil in business Cases CSR efforts in line with business strategy Topsil CSR-report 2013 11 UN Global Compact Supplier assessment Additional information Human rights principles Labour rights principles Environment principles Anticorruption ment processes, employees and external partners involved will be Focus of 2014 fully informed of the Company’s diversity policy. In 2014, Topsil management plans to follow up on the employee survey to make sure that agreed focus points will be duly Target for under-represented gender, other levels addressed. of management In regard to women in managerial positions, Topsil currently is Topsil will furthermore make sure that during recruitment prounder-represented. It is Topsil’s aim to increase the number of cesses, the diversity policy and targets for a more even gender women in managerial positions by ensuring a number of qualified balance in managerial positions will be put forward. female candidates for future management positions. Hence, in hiring processes, Topsil will instruct its recruitment agencies to OTHER INFORMATION act accordingly. According to the Danish Companies Act, Topsil’s employees have a statutory right to elect a number of Board of Directors Status of gender balance, managerial positions representatives, corresponding to half the number of externally 2013 Males Females elected members. Hence, two Topsil employees are full members of the Board. Board of Directors 4 0 According to EU legislation, Topsil calls for works council meetManagement 23 6 ings on a regular basis, in which representatives from management and appointed employees have the possibility to discuss Total 27 6 the overall situation and working climate of Topsil. The minutes of these meetings are communicated to local staff. Employee survey As planned, Topsil conducted its biannual employee survey end Topsil’s next employee survey is scheduled for end of 2015. of 2013. The survey consisted of around 40 questions related to employee wellbeing and opinions on the organisation. It was Topsil’s aggregated distribution of gender, age and ethnical conducted anonymously and extended to comprise all company composition is publicly available here: http://www.topsil.com/en/ locations. The results were presented to management and staff career/personnel-figures.aspx for further discussion. Based on these discussion, areas for improvement were identified and action plans being implemented. Topsil CSR-report 2013 11 SAFETY from the CEO Topsil in business Cases CSR efforts in line with business strategy 12 CSR-report 2013 UN Global Compact Supplier assessment Additional information Topsil Case: Facility – Washing silicon ingots Case: Safety – Focus on employee safety The new facility and new production equipment have given Topsil a unique possibility to strengthen its safety culture explains Safety Jakob Kyllesbech, responsible Manager, Denmark. Focus on employee safety Transferring production from one ing and, thus, fewer potentially hazardous situations, for instance location to another means new safety with respect to hand injuries,” explains Jakob Kyllesbech. “On the other hand, we now handle larger silicon ingots than we did beroutines. New production equipment fore. This has increased the need for using lifting cranes between the various process steps. Employees must be trained to handle must be handled correctly and safely, the equipment correctly and to understand the importance of usand larger-diameter silicon ingots ing the equipment. In other words, we are working with the whole safety culture.” have increased the need to use cranes throughout the production area. One thing is that employees directly involved in production are required to wear protective clothing so they can avoid injuries Production Manager and manager during the production process. In this respect there are no major responsible for safety at Topsil, changes from the previous to the new location. But the transfer has lead to new standards for the entire organisation “As we were Denmark, Jakob Kyllesbech, defined already in the process of implementing new safety routines in new safety standards for production in production, we decided to also focus more on safety throughout the organisation. For example, we have reviewed our contingency 2013 and altogether lifted the focus on plan at meetings attended by all employees, and we have tested employee safety even further. our procedures in the event of a fire alarm,” he says. It creates greater assurance in an organisation when all employees know the procedures and what to do. But safety is not just about what goes on at Topsil’s premises. “We also need effective Changing well-established company routines often requires a lot interaction with the people outside the organisation who will help of resources. Strong habits may be difficult to break. A transfer us in case of an emergency. We recently had healthcare staff from of production was the natural occasion for defining new safety the local hospital visit us as well as representatives from the Poistandards at Topsil. son Control Hotline who are experts in handling injuries caused by chemicals. It is important to us that the local hospital has the “The ongoing transfer of production to a new, future-proofed necessary knowledge and knows which countermeasures to apply production plant has given us a unique opportunity to increase if a staff member is exposed to hazardous chemicals. That is all safety and strengthen our safety culture. The new generation of important if an accident occurs,” explains Jakob Kyllesbech, then production equipment is built according to the latest knowledge adds “We have a zero injury safety policy. That is a good benchabout machine safety. More specifically, this means better shieldmark. We will be taking more initiatives in the coming year ”. Topsil CSR-report 2013 12 LABOUR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES from the CEO Topsil in business Cases CSR efforts in line with business strategy Topsil CSR-report 2013 13 UN Global Compact Supplier assessment Additional information Human rights principles Labour rights principles Environment principles Anticorruption LABOUR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Topsil supports the following labour rights principles • Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; • Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; • Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and • Principle 6:the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Goals for 2013 and measurement of outcome Policy on safety Management regularly follows up on Topsil’s safety performance. This is done by presenting corporate safety figures to manageSafety must be top of mind when Topsil employees ment every three months at a management evaluation meeting. go to work. It is our position that all accidents can and should be prevented and that all hazards must be Focus of 2014 minimised through ongoing, structured efforts. Literally Topsil strives to obtain an ultimate goal of zero work related speaking, we want our staff to go home from work as accidents, defined as any work related injury, resulting in one or healthy as they were when they arrived at their work more days of absence. place. Again in 2014, the safety organisation will scrutinise every work In order to obtain this goal, it is a continuing objective related accident as a means to improve its intelligence on safety to prevent accidents and work related ill-health through and to avoid recurrence. Furthermore, the safety organisation effective management, administration, education and will perform preventive inspection rounds of the production training. areas regularly to prevent the occurrence of potential dangerous situations. The safety organisation will, moreover, increase the number of emergency drills in order to train company employees in handling possible emergencies. OTHER INFORMATION Following national legislation in Denmark and Poland respectively, a health and safety body is set on each company location. The safety organisation consists of management and staff representatives and is overall responsible for Topsil’s health and safety performance. The body oversees compliance with applicable legislation and plans activities to minimise safety risks. It is also responsible for conducting workplace evaluations and implementing improvements. Topsil CSR-report 2013 13 ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLES from the CEO Topsil in business Cases CSR efforts in line with business strategy 14 CSR-report 2013 UN Global Compact Supplier assessment Additional information Topsil Human rights principles Labour rights principles Environment principles Anticorruption ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLES Topsil supports the following environment principles • Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; • Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and • Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Goals for 2013 and measurement of outcome Policy on the environment Again in 2013, Topsil set up specific goals to minimise the consumption of energy and water. Topsil continuously strives to reduce the environmental impact of our operations by integrating environmental The corporate figures of the environmental performance were consideration into any activity with an environmental presented to management every three months at a management impact. evaluation meeting. We give priority to areas where we believe the effect will focus of 2014 be greatest, and commit to working methodically with Programs for reduction of Topsils’s environmental impact are reducing our energy consumption and waste, year on an integrated part of Topsil’s strategic initiatives. In 2014 new year. targets have been set which covers also the new production plant. The KPIs for the year include water and energy consumption as well as chemical usage and waste handling. We continue our discussion as to how we may further reduce our environmental impact. OTHER INFORMATION The managerial framework for the monitoring of Topsils’s environmental performance is the ISO14001 system to which all production sites are certified. Topsil CSR-report 2013 14 Anticorruption from the CEO Topsil in business Cases CSR efforts in line with business strategy Topsil CSR-report 2013 15 UN Global Compact Supplier assessment Additional information Human rights principles Labour rights principles Environment principles Anticorruption ANTICORRUPTION PRINCIPLE Topsil supports the following anti-corruption principle • Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Goals for 2013 and measurement of outcomes Guidelines on In 2013 Topsil’s main focus was the implementation of our Code anti-corruption of Conduct to make sure that our employees are able to identify possible ethical dilemmas and that they are able to make the right choices. We furthermore continued to address the issue It is Topsil’s fundamental principle that any business with our external business partners. activity and relation with customers, business partners and authorities must be honest, fair and transparent FOCUS OF 2014 and in compliance with applicable laws. We do explicTop strengthen our overall anti-corruption activities, a plan to itly not accept bribery or facilitation payment in any establish an employee whistleblower function has been decided form and we do not permit gratitude activities between in the beginning of 2014. The function will be set up to further private individuals. encourage that possible unethical behaviour or misconduct of the workplace will be duly reported to be acted upon. Topsil has adopted an internally communicated set of guidelines concerning business related gratitude, i.e. how we handle gifts, entertainment and hospitality provided by Topsil and its business partners. Topsil CSR-report 2013 15 Additional information from the CEO Topsil in business Cases CSR efforts in line with business strategy 16 CSR-report 2013 UN Global Compact Supplier assessment Additional information Topsil Additional information DISSEMINATION OF OUR COP REPORTING • Topsil’s COP for 2013 is published on Topsil’s website www.topsil.com • Topsil’s COP for 2013 is published on the UN Global Compact website www.unglobalcompact.org • Topsil’s COP for 2013 is published on Topsil’s intranet. • Topsil’s COP for 2013 will be communicated to our suppliers REPORTING PERIOD: This report focuses on the results of activities for Topsil’s fiscal year 2013 (from 1 January 2013 through 31 December 2013. PUBLICATION: Topsil signed the UN Global Compact 8 March 2011. Current issue: March 2014 Next issue: Scheduled for March 2015, covering FY 2014 FURTHER INFORMATION: Further information on Topsil A/S to be found on www.topsil.com In case of inquiries, please contact Communications Manager Ms. Christina Fris Bjørling, phone +45 2152 1011 or e-mail: cfb@topsil.com Topsil CSR-report 2013 16 from the CEO Topsil in business Cases CSR efforts in line with business strategy Topsil CSR-report 2013 17 UN Global Compact Supplier assessment Additional information Topsil CSR-report 2013 17 from the CEO Topsil in business Cases CSR efforts in line with business strategy UN Global Compact Supplier assessment Additional information
