SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index COLD THAT TRANSFORMS Upon waking, when we have our breakfast; how we do this: we invest in compact products in the aernoon, when we want a cold glass of that consume fewer raw materials and less water; or in the evening, when we enjoy a glass energy. With this, we reduce impacts on the of wine at the right temperature, it’s present environment and ensure that our customers in our life: cold. As mastery over ﬁre was one have products that meet their needs. of the most important steps for mankind, the Aware that we generate economic, social possibility to create cold meant a revolution in and environmental impacts, we strive to our way of life. perfect our points of improvement, generate Bringing more quality to people’s daily opportunities and beneﬁts for our value chain lives is part of our mission and motivates us to while at the same time develop the community constantly innovate, making modern life more where we operate. enjoyable, comfortable and healthy. Through our technological vocation, We’re recognized for the technology of talented team and customer focus we anticipate our compressors. But we also know that just market trends and we oﬀer, globally, innovative as important as producing cold with quality, is cooling solutions for your day to day. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 2 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index SUMMARY Our Principles Our Products’ Lifecycle Private Social Investment Inputs Manufacturing Customers Message from the Board Post-Consumer About this Report Vocation to Innovate Products and Technologies Adjacent Information Doing More with Less About Us GRI Index Corporate Governance People who make Embraco Credits Strategy for Sustainability SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 3 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index OUR PRINCIPLES GRI 4.8 MISSION VISION PILLARS Oﬀer innovative solutions for a better quality To be leader everywhere by 2020 and of life. recognized by our customers as the preferred partner. VALUES Technology leadership and Diversity and inclusion BRAND VALUES innovation Spirit of winning Delivering Intelligent Performance Integrity Cultivating Passion Respect Shaping the Global Scenario Teamwork Transcending the future Operational Revenue growth excellence and value creation Sustainability People SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 4 FROM THE BOARD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 5 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index Leading for the future GRI 1.1 and recognized by our customers as the In 2013 we also began implementing a We have made the commitment to preferred partner. methodology that will make us an even more share with our stakeholders Embraco’s For this, we work to deliver innovative eﬃcient company, World Class Manufacturing main economic, social and environmental solutions for a better quality of life. We (WCM), which contributes to developing results, consistently and continuously. In this diﬀerentiate ourselves, above all, by how increasingly agile processes, ensuring global Sustainability Report, you will ﬁnd our foremost we develop and produce our products with operational excellence. In addition, through achievements, challenges and strategies. investment in technology innovation, valuing our Supplier Excellence Program, we actively a talented and passionate team for what they In 2013, environmental and social do and emphasizing that sustainability is a inﬂuence our partners to optimize their issues gained even more relevance in global strategic pillar of the business that permeates performance and also to think in a more discussions, while on the other hand, the year the entire value chain. sustainable manner. was characterized by an unstable economic Our products allow longer food preservation, We believe businesses that combine environment. With slow economic growth, more eﬃciently and quieter to end consumers. concern for people and the needs of the slowdown in China and stagnation in the In our production process, we seek to reduce environment sustain themselves and grow euro zone, the period presented itself as water and energy consumption and waste in the long term. New business models must very challenging. It was at this moment that generation, guiding ourselves through better we rethought our strategies and focused allow for responsible and stable growth with use of natural resources, already scarce on making changes necessary to further respect to the environment. Thereby, with the on the planet. We also disclose, in a public strengthen our position as global leaders facing launch of Nat.Genius, we revolutionized the database, greenhouse gas emissions from an ever changing market. During this year we all our operations around the world and we way we deal with post-consumption. Inspired created our new vision, which reaﬃrms the continue ﬁrm with our commitment of sending by the circular economy concept, we’ve need for Embraco’s presence in the future of zero waste to landﬁlls from our compressor created a new business focused on recycling society: to be leader everywhere by 2020 operations by 2018. household appliances. Roberto H. Campos, President of Embraco. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 6 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index Customer focus Understanding our customers’ needs While the challenges are great, we’re and ensuring quality delivery, we anticipated on track to continue being a company of trends and took important steps in 2013. As a sustainable growth. For this, we rely on the result of our consistent incentive on research dedication and hard work of each one of and innovation and focus on sustainability, we the 12,000 people on our team and many launched Wisemotion technology which will partners worldwide. revolutionize the refrigeration market. Without I hope that this report will help you the use of oil and using half the amount understand our way of producing cold, our of raw materials, Wisemotion enables the progress in 2013 and aspirations for the future, development of more versatile, more eﬃcient seeking a better quality of life. and quieter compressors. We have a strong global expansion strategy Good reading. that aims to provide greater agility in customer service. In 2011, we started the operation of our new factory in Mexico and in 2013 opened Roberto H. Campos a business unit in Russia. President of Embraco Embraco Wisemotion technology. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 7 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index A view of sustainability Twelve years ago we made the commitment is only possible with the right people focused on to report our social environmental information a clear purpose in a company that plays to win. through the Sustainability Report. By means of Thus, we have become agents of change which the consistent actions described in this document beneﬁt, beyond the planet, especially people. we reaﬃrm day aer day our commitment to And this includes our employees, customers, sustainability, globally. shareholders, consumers, partners and the We know that every action generates impact communities where we operate. on the whole. As a company, we recognize the responsibility to be present in daily life and Ursula Angeli positively inﬂuence your way of life. Therefore, Vice-president of Human Resources, we have Sustainability as one of our business’ Communication, Sustainability, Institutional strategic pillars, seeking balance among the Relations and EHS (Environment, economy, society and environment. Healthy and Safety) We further believe that sustainable growth Ursula Angeli Vice-president of Human Resources, Communication, Sustainability, Institutional Relations and EHS. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 8 PRODUCTS AND TECHNOLOGIES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 9 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index Focused to best meet our customers’ demands through innovation, in 2013 WISEMOTION and 2014 we made important product and technology launches that have gained in eﬃciency and versatility. Wisemotion Residential Energy Savings Versatile One of our main launches in 2014, With high energy efficiency levels, For being oil-free it can Wisemotion, is a technology that will it can generate consumption be installed in different savings of 20% when compared locations, inside or outside revolutionize the refrigeration market, mainly to the most sold compressors the refrigeration system. This because it’s the ﬁrst compressor for residential worldwide. allows for elaboration of new applications that doesn’t use oil a concept refrigerator designs outside the traditional formats. that, in addition to being greener, expands the innovation possibilities in designing Embraco Wisemotion technology. new refrigerators. This new technology is developed with smart electronic components, incorporating Compact and eco-friendly Maximum preservation Silent 100mm shorter, uses approximately With Wisemotion it’s possible Brings the most modern and new materials and mechanical parts coated 50% less raw material and 20% to obtain minimal temperature innovative solutions in noise with a technology capable of eliminating less gas refrigerant charge than differences inside the refrigerator, control. The usual ‘on and off’ traditional compressors. which contributes to reducing noise of traditional refrigerators the use of lubricant oil. In the Wisemotion food waste. is imperceptible. compressor, the refrigerant gas goes beyond the role of cooling, also being responsible for friction point lubrication. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 10 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index VEGD Launched in 2014, this compressor is able Commercial and Residential Still thinking about energy eﬃciency, we to reach evaporating temperatures ranging launched in 2014 the VEGD. With a focus on from 35ºC to 0ºC, and works with an energy the North American market, VEGD is the most savings up to 9% when compared to current eﬃcient Fullmotion R134a compressor family, models with the highest eﬃciency level consuming 5% less energy than its predecessor available in the market as well as operates (VEGZ) and with a noise level up to 5 decibels stably under the toughest application conditions lower than the VEGY (perceived as the category’s such as high temperatures, low network most silent compressor until then). In addition, voltage and consecutive starts (albeit with the VEGD also provides greater stability of the unequalized pressures). refrigerator’s internal temperature, since its With this technology, manufacturers can cooling capacity is variable, adjusting itself to use the same compressor model in applications the most diverse needs. with very distinct characteristics and can still FFU achieve maximum performance and reliability. Commercial Reinforcing our commitment to support the This versatility simpliﬁes logistics processes, market through solutions with high eﬃciency, inventory management and demand versatility and that provide savings along the forecasting, since the refrigerator manufacturer entire production chain, we launched FFU, a 2 in can manage the demands of diﬀerent types 1 solution of the light commercial refrigeration of refrigerators, such as freezers/ horizontal compressor line, which can be used in vertical coolers plus food and beverage displays, using beverage displays, as well as horizontal freezers only one compressor model. The model is being with glass or solid lids. produced in Brazil. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 11 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index NEU Plug-in Commercial Commercial With low noise and vibration level, NEU Created to meet the commercial refrigeration compressors are the evolution of the NEK market’s needs, the Plug-in is a sealed unit that family, being up to 10% more eﬃcient and with has as a diﬀerential fast installation and easy up to 10% greater cooling capacity from their maintenance. The solution has the capacity to predecessors. Specially designed to meet the cool self-service cabinets of up to 2,000 liters, needs of retailers, NEU compressors stand out with the beneﬁt of having its entire system for robustness, which ensures their performance assembled by us, which brings reliability and in severe working conditions. The model is signiﬁcantly reduces the occurrence of problems manufactured in Slovakia. in the ﬁeld. One of the Plug-in’s main beneﬁts is that its installation can be done by one operator and in less time compared to conventional assembly systems. Using the Plug-in, displays that used to take up to an hour to be assembled, can now take approximately 20 minutes. NEU family compressors. Plug-in. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 12 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index New Business Our New Business workstream has a useful life, our plan is that Nat.Genius begins permanent focus on innovation and alternative operating in Brazil in 2015. The plan also foresees business segments in which we can use our implementation of ﬁve reverse manufacturing knowledge in research, development and units in strategic regions of the country in Engineering innovation and apply it in other segments to the coming years to attend customers from • Statistical analysis and sorting of discarded develop innovative products in new markets. household as well as commercial refrigeration. products and materials; Discard • Definition of potential innovative products Nat.Genius and their production processes. Circular innovation Launched in 2014, Nat.Genius is a new The circular innovation process uses operation using our expertise of over 20 years engineering and technology to ﬁnd the in reverse compressor manufacturing and our tradition in Research and Development to oﬀer best application for each recycled material. services in reusing materials in the production Allied to specialized reverse manufacturing, chain and thus collaborate with the circular this prevents materials from returning to the economy. primary manufacturing steps, generating Inspired by nature, where all cycles are closed expressive energy savings. Circular innovation Processing Specialized disassembly and all elements are reused at the end of their works as follows: • Appropriate component sizing • Specialized separation of parts and and structure; materials of discarded products; • Equipment and processes tailored • Different equipment and processes for to each innovative product. each type of discarded product. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 13 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index Self-lubricating steel The technology is especially beneﬁcial Lubricant steel is an innovation that promises for the metal mechanical industry such as to revolutionize mechanical engineering, since it the automotive industry since it brings dual oﬀers the possibility of eliminating the use of oil functions for coatings and is the world’s ﬁrst to all systems that require some lubrication to self-lubricating high-strength steel, which can prevent friction between parts. increase industrial productivity and reduce Developed by powder metallurgy combining environmental impact in production lines. powdered iron and carbon, sintered with stocks In addition to eliminating waste, the new of solid lubricants the technology makes it technology doesn’t use toxic gases and emits possible to create a high-strength mechanical no pollutants, making it an environmentally system with parts that self-lubricate throughout friendly solution. their entire useful life. DC Mobile Plasma reactor Strong and robust, DC Mobile is a mobile The result of research that began in 1992 compressor with special suspension, making (conducted in partnership with the Federal it suitable for the automotive market. The University of Santa Catarina), the plasma technology can also be applied in refrigerators reactor is an innovative solution used to coat on buses, trailers, boats as well as refrigerators metal mechanical parts with a resistant and used for transporting organs or those powered anti-corrosion layer; it coats and cleans the by solar energy. part in a single production cycle, enabling The compressor is 100% designed and complete removal of all waste and making manufactured in Brazil being the only product the part more reliable concerning its useful of its kind produced in the country and relies life and performance. on, inside, Fullmotion technology. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 14 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index TRADE SHOW PARTICIPATION To stay on top of new developments in Febramec our industry and reaﬃrm our position as March/2013 leaders in the refrigeration market, we take With a focus on oﬀering smart solutions for the machinery and equipment market we also part in strategic business trade fairs around participated in the Brazilian Fair of Mechanical the globe. In 2013, the main fairs that we and Industrial Automation (Febramec) for the participated in were: ﬁrst time. The technologies we presented at the fair, self-lubricating steel and plasma reactor, AHR United States were developed by our team of engineers January/2013 in partnership with the Federal University Considered the United States’ largest event in of Santa Catarina (UFSC), resulting in four the air-conditioning, heating and refrigeration patent applications. segment, AHR brought together in 2013, more than 1,800 manufacturers in the city of Dallas. Feimafe At the event, we presented our condensing June, 2013. Our booth at FEBRAVA. During the 14th Feimafe, Latin America’s main units, optimized line for distribution market and fair focused on tooling machines and quality Febrava Brazil compressors from the NT and NTU families. We control, we presented our self-lubricating steel September/2013 have a complete portfolio of compressors using and plasma reactor. Our decision to participate Held in São Paulo, we took to our stand products, with high energy eﬃciency and fast hydrocarbons (recognized for their low impact in the fair is included in the strategy to also at the 18th International refrigeration, cooling for various applications, highlighting on the ozone layer), which are available for oﬀer smart solutions for the machinery and air-conditioning, ventilation, heating and air the Plug-in as well as DC Mobile and North America, with variable cooling capacity. equipment market. treatment fair (Febrava) intelligent, silent Fullmotion technologies. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 15 US SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 16 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index OUR OPERATING STRATEGY Residential Light Commercial Distribution New Business • Freezers • Bakery Displays and Resale • Beyond core solutions • Vertical refrigerators • Large freezers for Merchandising • Resale • Ice Machines • Spare Parts • Horizontal Freezers • Ice Cream Machines • Vending Machines • Post Mix SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 17 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index PROFILE AND HISTORY GRI 2.1 2.2 2.3 2.4 2.5 2.7 2.8 We’re Embraco, a global company, a world leader in the hermetic compressor market for refrigeration, founded in 1971, headquartered DO YOU KNOW WHAT in Joinville (SC), Brazil. With 43 years of experience and a focus on technology and A COMPRESSOR IS? innovation, today we have a structure with Compressors are the heart of refrigerators, freezers, wine presence in Brazil, Mexico, United States, Italy, coolers and other equipment responsible for preserving Slovakia, Russia and China, customers in more food and keeping drinks at the ideal temperature. than 80 countries and production capacity of Compressors, together with the cooling system, over 37 million units per year. generate cold. Our products are part of everyday life for all people, both in homes as well as in industries and commerce. Through them, we guarantee that life is more comfortable and has more quality. You may not realize it, but cold is present at life’s important moments, from the simplest meal to a remarkable celebration among friends and family. Compressor. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 18 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index OUR GLOBAL PRESENCE 43 years of history More than 500 people completed in 2014 dedicated to R&D More than 90% of suppliers 1,277 registered patents adhere to Code of Conduct More than 40 R&D laboratories A company that’s a reference in strategic people management More than 30 thousand people benefited from social investment actions 1 EMBRACO UNITED STATES Suwanne Warehouse and Sales office 2 EMBRACO RUSSIA 4 EMBRACO BRAZIL EMBRACO CHINA 6 EMBRACO SLOVAKIA Moscow Joinville Spisska Nova Ves Beijing Sales office Headquarter Office and Compressor factory Office and Compressor factory 3 EMBRACO MEXICO Office, Compressor factory, Foundry and Electronics unit 7 EMBRACO ITALY Apodaca, Monterrey Itaiópolis Qingdao Riva Presso Chieri Compressor factory and office Component and cooling systems factory Electronics unit Office and Compressor factory SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 19 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index Our entire operation is driven by the development and implementation of the objective that the business be sustainable in National Solid Waste Policy. the long term, and for this we have Sustainability One of the most striking features in our NEW UNIT IN as one of the strategic pillars that guides our DNA is innovation. With it we encourage RUSSIA decision making. In Embraco, we constantly development of a large research network and We’ve operated with commercial activities and continually evaluate our impacts and create products that consume less raw material in the Russian market for over 10 years, and opportunities in the economic, social and in 2013, we inaugurated our business unit in and are more energy eﬃcient, which guarantee a environmental spheres, seeking to develop the country, which is part of the organization’s lower environmental impact, bring beneﬁts and a lasting business and a value generator for global expansion strategy and aims to oﬀer generate a perceived value for our customers, all stakeholders. more ﬂexibility in serving Russian clients as with a focus on creating extraordinary results Thinking sustainable is present in directing well as expand business in the region. for our business. We’ve operated in Europe since 1994, with new products, along our value chain and Historically, we’ve been investing 3% to manufacturing units in Slovakia and Italy, engaging people around our values, our culture 4% of our annual net revenue in Research & and through them we have attended the and our strategy. As a result of this process, Development (R&D) funding that is dedicated Russian market for six years. Now with an over time we’ve become signatories to global oﬃce dedicated to Russia and an exclusive initiatives, such as the Global Compact (since to more than 40 state-of-the-art laboratories, sales team for the Residential, Commercial 2004) and the Sustainable Energy for All which house 500 professionals, in addition to and Aermarket segments, we support local (since 2012) both led by the United Nations strategic partnerships with universities and demand more quickly, ensuring more ﬂexibility (UN). In Brazil, we signed an Ethos Institute research institutes in various countries. Because to customers for product sales and technical document which aims to strengthen the of this proﬁle, we are now in possession of 1,277 support in the country. private sector’s commitment to sustainable patents granted worldwide. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 20 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index Our brand consistency To strengthen our global leadership, Performance (understanding customers’ needs, CONTROLLER anticipate trends and create innovative solutions responsiveness and eﬃciency in delivering that oﬀer better quality of life to consumers, in innovative and customized solutions; Shaping CHANGE 2011 we began the process of restructuring the Global Scenario (strategic presence and In 2006, aer a shareholder reorganization, our global brand. The new image reinforces global market leadership); Transcending the the company joined with Multibrás a home attributes such as innovation, simplicity and Future (foreseeing trends and creating the future appliance producer forming, in Brazil, Whirlpool power to change; reﬂecting the company’s of technology); and Cultivating Passion (pride S.A., controlled by the American Whirlpool Corporation, which is today the largest home transformation over four decades of activities. and engagement of talents in diﬀerent nations appliance manufacturer in the world. Power to Change is the main concept that and close relationship to customers). Since it provides cooling solutions to the entire inspires the new Embraco brand and reﬂects Two years aer the launch, we constantly market, Embraco maintains an independent the company’s operating strategy worldwide, reinforce our new brand through actions that management, with a strong shield policy that translated into four pillars: Delivering Intelligent permeate our internal and external public. ensures the conﬁdentiality of information, protecting its business as well as that of its customers. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 21 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index OUR HISTORY GRI 2.6 1970s 1990s 2010s • Empresa Brasileira de Compressores S.A. • Italy operations begin through a merger with • Wisemotion and NatGenius launch. (Embraco) is founded in 1971. Aspera compressor factory. • Inauguration of new factory in Mexico. • Production exports begin to Peru, United States • Industrial joint venture in China is created. • New brand launch. and Canada. • Slovakia operations begin. • Embraco Russia inauguration. • Embraco reaches the end of the decade producing 21.7 million compressors per year. 1980s 2000s • First technical cooperation agreement, with the • Mexico Sales office inauguration. Federal University of Santa Catarina (UFSC). • Embraco receives international certifications, such as • R&D area is created and the first compressor with ISO 14001 and QC 080.000. 100% Embraco technology is produced. • Company signs UN Global Compact. • United States sales office inauguration. • Begins operating in Brazil with corporate name Whirlpool S.A. • Participation in UN Montreal Protocol, seeking to • Eletronics inauguration to produce electronic components used eliminate CFC gas use. in compressors (Brazil and China). • China factory inauguration. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 22 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index Awards and Recognitions GRI 2.10 • We were voted as one of the companies, in respected publications on sustainability and the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Brazil, with the most innovative management corporate responsibility. We were highlighted National Award Program Via Bona Slovakia for in the Large Company category by Financier in the Electronics sector and winner in the the works developed in 2012. We were also of Studies and Projects (Finep). The award is theme “Community relations”. recognized with first place in the Supporter of the most important recognition for innovation The recognition is the result of consistent Volunteering and Good Partner for Community in Brazil and has been held since 1998. actions such as the Embraco Ecology Award, categories. • We received the Best Innovator award which for 21 years has encouraged public and • Embraco Slovakia also received the Cooling for being one of Brazil’s 10 most innovative private schools in Santa Catarina to undertake Award for developing the NTU compressor, companies according to Época Negócios projects geared towards a more sustainable launched in 2012. The recognition was given magazine and the international consultancy way of life. by the Slovak Union for cooling and A.T. Kearney. For us, innovation is in each • We’re considered Santa Catarina’s most air-conditioning technique. detail of the technology cycle of products remembered brand when it comes to Social • Embraco United States received honorable and processes. and Environmental Responsibility. That’s mention in the contest Metro Atlanta’s • We were also elected, once again, one of what Top of Mind tells us, the state’s biggest Top 100 Workplaces, a survey conducted the Best Companies to Work for in Brazil and most important brand recognition and by the Constitution newspaper and its and, for the second consecutive time, in first valuation award. partner Workplace Dynamics, involving 184 place in the Diverse Industries sector, by the That’s what the Top of Mind award says, the companies. Você S/A guide. most important prize in brand recognition and • The North American unit was also voted one • We were elected, for the third consecutive valuation of the state. of the best companies to work for (Atlanta’s year, as one of the most sustainable companies • Embraco Slovakia received, in 2013, the Best and Brightest Companies to Work in Brazil by Exame Sustainability Guide, Responsible Large Company award, For) by the National Association for Business one of the country’s largest and most granted by the Pontis Foundation through Resources (NABR). Roberto Campos receiving Guia Você S/A trophy. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 23 GOVERNANCE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 24 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index Corporate Governance GRI 4.1 4.10 In our company the highest level of COMPOSITION OF PRESIDENT’S STAFF corporate governance structure responsible for the decisions that have potential to impact all Embraco stakeholders is the president’s staﬀ, a forum comprised of nine members who meet weekly to track implementation of the President company’s strategy, monitor the performance of the organization and executives through quarterly assessments and make key decisions on economic, environmental and social aspects. This forum also ensures that results are delivered to shareholders in accordance with the Six Vice-Presidents established goals. Another important staﬀ role is to perform the company’s risk management using Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) methodology by executing action plans and deﬁning Three Directors those responsible to monitor risk factors • Logistics and, in parallel, identify opportunities for • Legal Embraco’s business. • Procurement SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 25 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index Ethics and transparency GRI 4.6 Combating corruption GRI SO2 Change in structure: Our principles and values are consolidated Besides observing and fulﬁlling speciﬁc Subsequently, this information is validated and Vice President for Asia GRI 2.9 Due to the importance which the Asian in our Code of Ethics and our Global Policies, as legislation in each location, we adhere to certiﬁed by an external audit on an annual basis. market has for our business and for the well as in documents such as our Organizational requirements of the American Sarbanes-Oxley During 2013, 205 controls in 40% of Embraco’s strategic growth that the continent has Act (SOX), created to reduce the risk of ﬁnancial plants were audited. Letter of Values and our Code of Conduct. taken on a global level, in 2013 we made fraud and adopted mainly by companies with In 2013, SOX controls were implemented in a change in the structure of the President’s Besides employees, direct suppliers distributed shares traded on stock exchanges. We also China (Compressors and Electronics) and will be staﬀ to create the Vice President for Asia, throughout the Americas, Europe and Asia have a position currently occupied by Luis Felipe conduct internal audits to assess the internal audited in 2014. access to these directives, and over 96% of Berthi Abboud Dau. control environment. Besides SOX, we use another control tool: The purpose of this change is to ensure them have already signed the document that Following SOX rules, all internal controls over operational audits. Currently, 100% of the units greater autonomy and a quick decision among other issues has guidelines on the signiﬁcant ﬁnancial reports are documented are subject to periodic review of all processes making process always linked to our global posture of the companies regarding social and and tested by the internal audit area, which that are carried out and documented in them. In strategy and, in this way, increase our relevance in the Asian market. environmental issues. also tests the controls that concern aspects 2013, six operational audits were conducted in In order to manage all these issues, we have related to design, performance and eﬃciency. order to verify the internal control environment. Strategic engagement an Ethics Committee that meets periodically and To connect Embraco’s management and is responsible for monitoring compliance with SOX assessed processes the day to day operation aligning them to its the code and maintaining all communication strategy and objectives, we held events such as Brazil Italy Slovakia United States channels for claims or complaints. Our 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 the Annual Leadership Meeting and Strategic Dialogues, which counts on the participation of employees have a speciﬁc line (hotline) with Total 13 13 9 9 9 9 6 6 directors who are part of the Company’s staﬀ. guaranteed anonymity. Percentage 45% 45% 24% 24% 24% 24% 16% 16% SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 26 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index Our Employees Participation Employees trained in anti-corruption GRI SO3 SO4 policies and procedures To ensure knowledge of our practices and 2011 2012 2013 their applications, we continuously transmit Brazil 21% 59% 15,3% our values to our employees. In addition, one of the tools with an essential role for this China 9% 8% 4,8% engagement is our Code of Ethics which Italy 26% 28% 3,7% Reporting channels Hotline addresses issues such as corruption, money Slovakia 13% 33% 11,6% We maintain a channel for anonymous laundering and antitrust and trade practice allegations about corruption through a laws being the subject of presential training for United States 80% 91% 100% free hotline that is available to employees, new employees. Additionally, we have 15 global Russia N/A 80% 0% customers, suppliers and other stakeholders. internal compliance and ethics policies. In 2013, Mexico N/A 98% 14,8% Once performed, a speciﬁc committee veriﬁes we trained 1,540 people, among managers, conﬁdentially all allegations received. administrative personnel and interns. Global 17% 47% 12,4% Reporting channels Brazil: 0800 891 4247 Italy: 800 788 476 Slovakia: 800 961 2419 China: 11 800 711 0475 Just as in the last three Mexico: 001 800 961 4262 years, in 2013 there were no confirmed cases of corruption in Embraco. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 27 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index Public development GRI SO5 Focused on formulating guidelines for PARTICIPATION IN ASSOCIATIONS AND ORGANIZATIONS GRI 4.13 innovation, energy eﬃciency, professional • American Chamber of Commerce in Slovakia; • Brazilian Foreign Trade Association (AEB); • Electricity Utility Company of Santa development and refrigeration industry regulation, we actively participate in articulating • Brazilian Electrical and Electronic Industry • Occupational Health and Safety Professionals Catarina (Celesc); public policies that contribute to our industry’s Association (Abinee); Association of Joinville and Region (APSSOJ); • Center of Industries of the State of Santa development. We’ve established partnerships • Brazilian Association of Advertisers (ABA); • Joinville Business Association (ACIJ); Catarina (Ciesc); with research centers and universities in the • Brazilian Business Communication Association • Latin American Electrical and Electronic • Joinville Architect and Engineer Center (Ceaj); countries where we operate, conducted research (Aberje) and development of technologies applied to Industrial Association (Alainee); • Joinville – Spisská Nová Vês Sister City • Brazilian Foundry Association (Abifa); our products and processes. We also work • National Association of Manufacturers of Committee; strategically with government agencies in these • Brazilian Association of Technical Standards Electro-electronic Products (Eletros); • National Confederation of Industry / Brazilian countries to utilize beneﬁts and incentives oﬀered (ABNT); • National Research Association Business Coalition; to our sector. We’ve also established partnerships • Brazilian Human Resources Association (ABRH); with research centers and universities in the • National Research, Development and • National Council for Scientiﬁc and Technological • Brazilian Refrigeration Association countries where we operate, conducting research Engineering Association of Innovative Development (CNPq); • Brazilian Refrigeration, Air Conditioning, and development of technologies applied in our Companies (Anpei) • Federation of Industries of Santa Catarina Ventilation and Heating Association products and processes. (Abrava); • Human Resource Development Association – (Fiesc); Additionally, we work strategically with government agencies in these countries to utilize • Itaiópolis Commercial and Industrial Association Slovakia; • Federation of Industries of São Paulo (Fiesp); beneﬁts and incentives oﬀered to our sector. (ACII); • Business Leaders Forum – Slovakia; and In the list of organizations that count on our • Slovakia Electrical Equipment Industry Association; • American Chamber of Commerce Slovakia; • International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC). cooperation are: SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 28 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index In relation to these entities, we highlight our Regulations work focused on the following areas: Through representative bodies, we monitor political decisions and bills that impact the Innovation refrigeration market and we collaborate towards We operate in a coordinated manner constructing public policies and incentive together with a large group of companies to programs aimed at the refrigeration sector, create in the units where we operate, particularly always focused on issues that concern the in Brazil, a favorable environment for innovation. sector’s energy eﬃciency and sustainability. The idea is to discuss, formulate, suggest and build policies and programs in cooperation with the competent agencies on topics such as laws to encourage innovation, patent systems and partnerships between universities and businesses. Energy eﬃciency We support the creation and adoption of programs aimed at energy eﬃciency. In this way, we work with major companies in the energy distribution sector with a focus on structuring research and development as well as energy eﬃciency projects in refrigeration systems. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 29 FOR SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 30 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index Learn more about the initiatives that we’ve developed in each of these stages within the chapters of this Report, identified in this infographic by the symbol* SUSTAINABLE Learn, get inspired, participate, contribute! THINKING GRI 1.2 Actions in communities Definition, strategy and governance We perceive sustainability as a continuous where we operate • Vocation to Innovate (future) journey that challenges, guides and inspires • Vocation to innovate (future) • Corporate Sustainability Structure day aer day our practices, decision-making • Private social investment and management of our businesses. Through our business we deliver food Product design and development preservation to people and, consequently, Our products’ post-consumption care • Integrated management for efficiency an improvement in quality of life. We have • Manufacturing (production) • Post-consumption (reverse logistics) sustainability as a pillar of the business and • Customers (products) • Vocation to innovate (future) therefore it permeates all stages of our value chain: Our environmental commitments • Doing more with less Managing our • Our commitment to the planet supply chain • Vocation to innovate (future) • Inputs (suppliers) • Private social investment Training our teams • Vocation to innovate (future) • People who make Embraco SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 31 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index Corporate Sustainability Structure GRI 4.9 In Embraco we engage sustainability in our daily life through three workstreams: Sustainable products, Sustainable value chain and Engaged people. Sustainable value chain Our sustainability view extends to our value chain, from supply to postconsumption. In the supply chain, we work in partnership with our suppliers to incorporate into their daily practices sustainability requirements, promoting joint work on finding solutions. In post-consumption, we have a reverse compressor logistics program, ensuring the product’s recycling Sustainable products after its disposal by the final consumer. Innovation plays a central role in the sustainability strategy. Within this context, the energy efficiency of our products is an essential aspect. We invest in developing innovative solutions and reducing the use of raw materials. The structure is composed of the vice president of Sustainability (Ursula Angeli), who is also accountable for the areas of Human Resources, Communication, Environment, Health and Safety as well as Institutional Relations. Engaged people We have a private social investment policy that guides We have a corporate Sustainability structure us to permanently apply resources in the communities and in each one of our units there are local in which we operate, through educational and teams who in addition to managing corporate environmental projects. social responsibility, integrate sustainability into other Embraco’s strategic pillars and promote engagement of various stakeholders. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 32 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index OUR COMMITMENT TO THE PLANET GRI 4.12 Sustainable Energy for All adopt fundamental and international values waste to landﬁlls from compressor factories by In 2012, we became the ﬁrst company that include human rights, labor relations, the 2018 and from Foundry by 2022. based in Brazil to sign the global commitment, environment and anti-corruption. In 2012, we Sustainable Energy for All, whose goal is to strengthened our commitment by signing the Silver Medal in Brazilian double the production of energy from renewable Global Compact’s Letter of Commitment during GHG Protocol sources by 2030. our participation in Rio+20. Since 2012, we receive the silver medal in The initiative originates from the United the Brazil GHG Protocol a methodology that Letter of Commitment to permits accounting for greenhouse gas (GHG) Nations (UN) and was launched in 2011 with Sustainable Solid Waste the goal of promoting the mobilization of emissions. The rank in the protocol attests to Management governments, business and civil society to the inventory of all direct and indirect emissions On June 5, 2013 World Environment ensure access of all to energy, increase global arising from electrical energy consumption. In Day we signed a Letter of Commitment to energy eﬃciency and elevate the participation 2013, we conducted the inventory for 2012, Sustainable Solid Waste Management from the of renewable sources in the energy mix. Ethos Institute, which aims to strengthen the with emissions of China, United States, Italy, private sector’s commitment to sustainable Slovakia and Mexico along with the Brazilian Global Compact development and implementation of the plants (Itaiópolis, Foundry and Headquarters). For 11 years we’ve been a signatory of National Solid Waste Policy. The commitment More information about our emissions can be the UN Global Compact, an initiative that is in sync with our sustainability strategy which, found in the chapter Doing More with Less in aims to engage the business community to among its global goals, strives to send zero this report. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 33 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index Product Safety Certiﬁcations GRI PR1 An important part of managing our operations is adherence to global certiﬁcation From the early stages of new product standards, through which we apply best practices in monitoring and operationalizing diﬀerent development, we work to reduce health and business aspects. safety risks of employees and customers. We have Quality ISO 9001 Environmental Management System ISO 14001 a list of 655 harmful substances, which must be Brazil (Foundry, Compressors, Components Brazil (Foundry, Compressors, Components and avoided in our processes and our products. The and Eletronics) Electronics) process is certiﬁed by the QC080000 standard. China (Compressors and Electronics) China (Compressors and Electronics) In addition, internal and external tests Slovakia (Compressors) Slovakia (Compressors) Italy (Compressors) (partners) are also performed to ensure Italy (Compressors) Mexico (Compressors) transparency and quality in our manufacturing process. During the development and Occupational Health and Safety Hazardous Substances Process manufacturing of compressors we do a series Management System OSHAS 18001 Management and RoHS (Restriction of Hazardous Substances IECQ QC 080.000 of tests and simulations to detect potential Brazil (Foundry, Compressors, Brazil (Foundry, Compressors, Components and Electronics) Components and Electronics) improvement opportunities and avoid potential China (Compressors and Electronics) failures when the products are in the market. This China (Compressors and Electronics) Slovakia (Compressors) evaluation is performed on 100% of compressor Slovakia (Compressors) Italy (Compressors) families, following a representative statistical Italy (Compressors) All compressors manufactured by us undergo a series of sampling. tests before reaching the market. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 34 LIFE CYCLE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 35 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index Daily we seek to optimize all phases of our of continually analyzing our processes brings Da Vinci Project Or, in other words, understand the market and operation, from the materials purchased from beneﬁts such as reducing our production We believe that improving the future is oﬀer innovative and eﬀective solutions through our suppliers, to recycling our ﬁnal product cost and a better relationship with all an ongoing commitment and inspired by agile and sustainable processes. aer the end of its useful life. The exercise our stakeholders. Leonardo Da Vinci’s phrase “Simplicity is the Know the project’s beneﬁts: optimize the ultimate sophistication”, we began the project transport ﬂow; standardize the raw material that focuses on transforming our supply chain, process; gain productivity; standardize plant from planning to product delivery, creating indicators and processes; a more cohesive team, a competitive diﬀerential in the service we focused on meeting customer demands; better provide our customers. We seek eﬃciency in planning of our operations: customer demands, our operations, and for this to happen, we’re products, materials and production; intelligent working to strengthen integration among areas. inventory. We divided the project into 15 workstreams, To get an idea of Da Vinci Project’s impact which are being implemented interdependently in our operation, Embraco’s portfolio included in our units around the world: Brazil, Mexico, 17,000 compressor models, of which less than Italy, Slovakia and China. 50% were eﬀectively used for sales. This excess The project has inserted new habits into our of products in the portfolio made the operation culture and has brought results that have already even more complex, which could hinder been perceived by our team as well as by our optimization of sales, planning, production customers and our suppliers. We’ve consequently processes and even impact correct customer achieved, in practice, total adherence to our ﬁrst service. Since August 2012, we’ve reduced our Embraco Fullmotion Technology. brand value: delivering intelligent performance. available portfolio to 4,000 models. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 36 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index SUPPLIERS GRI HR1 HR2 HR6 HR7 Our suppliers are an extension of our and improvement of its products, as well as in Supplier self-assessment Supplier self-assessment manufacturing process and, because of this, matters relating to supply chain management. Every two years, we invite our suppliers + 18 p.p we encourage all who participate in our supply In addition, suppliers must comply with our code to complete a self-assessment questionnaire chain to adopt sustainable practices. of conduct. which includes questions regarding proﬁle, 90% When a company begins supplying us In 2013 the document was sent to 100% of labor relation rights, environmental impact with their products and/or services, we build our direct suppliers globally and received 96% management and production chain control. In 72% a partnership so we can support it to evolve adherence. We had not cases of forced labor or 2013 we carried out this process and achieved 2012 2013 its business, with regard to the development child labor in any of our suppliers were identiﬁed. feedback from 90% of our supplier base. Supplier Adherence to the Code of Conduct in 2013 Self assessment feedbacks in 2013 Plant Adherence In progress Nº of processes % Plant Received In progress Nº of processes % Brazil 158 0 158 100% Brazil 117 41 158 74% China 135 5 140 96% China 135 5 140 99% Europe 267 9 276 97% Europe 267 9 276 68% Mexico 24 12 36 68% Mexico 32 4 36 88% Total 584 26 610 96% Total 551 59 610 90% SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 37 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index Supplier Excellence Program Developed since 2012, our Supplier Excellence Program aims to improve the performance of our supply chain in aspects related to service, quality, costs SUCCESS STORY  HUAXIANG FOUNDRY and sustainability. In 2013 we took the Supplier Excellence as professionals from the Huaxiang Foundry, Program to the Huaxiang Foundry, a global to suggest solutions, such as standardization The program seeks to achieve improvements supplier with a plant in China. Aer initial of measurement methods of the parts. in the operations of partner companies analysis, our team concluded that there were through workshops and joint work carried Improvements were also made as a result of good opportunities for improvement in the out between our multidisciplinary teams the change in procedures in the production partner’s production process, which could and supplier partner to develop diﬀerent types line equipment of our supplier. generate beneﬁts for both companies. of actions. Through these initiatives we were able to With an initial focus on the quality of the machined parts process, we gathered a achieve substantial gains for our partner, such team of professionals from diﬀerent areas as an increase of up to 39% in the productivity In 2013, 22 workshops were held of Embraco Brazil, China and Mexico, as well of certain parts. with suppliers in Slovakia, Italy, China and Brazil, generating several actions to responsibly optimize our supply chain. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 38 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index MANUFACTURING World Class Manufacturing In 2013 we began implementation of World through it we seek to have zero work accidents, Class Manufacturing (WCM) in our operation. zero energy and raw materials waste, zero PILLARS OF WCM Introduction of this system is in sync with production obstacles that increase our costs, WCM is based on 10 technical pillars to our cost leadership strategy, in other words, among other zeros that contribute to elevating increase an organizations’ performance. we’re reducing the cost of our compressor our performance. They are: production to be even more competitive in the As we are a global company, this methodology • Safety market and, of course, without sacriﬁcing our becomes particularly interesting and strategic, • Cost renowned quality. since it allows us to replicate success stories • Focused Improvement For this we’ve invested in a system to from a particular plant to other continents, • Autonomous Activities (Autonomous standardize our processes globally and bring always considering and respecting each Maintenance and Workplace beneﬁts such as simplifying and organizing our region’s particularities. Standardization) routine, gains in productivity and quality, besides Initiated in 2013, the project implementation • Professional Maintenance reducing accidents in all units and countries is expected to be completed in 2014 and • Quality • Logistics where we operate. impacts four management systems: Embraco • Early Management In its implementation phase in Italy, Brazil Lean System (ELS); Embraco Quality System • People Development and Slovakia operations, WCM is a methodology (EQS); Environment, Health and Safety System WCM: lower production costs, more competitiveness • Environment and Energy in the market. that remains “focused on zeros”, for example, (EHS); and Productivity for Growth (P4G). SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 39 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index CUSTOMERS GRI PR5 We have customers in over 80 countries, For 2014, an increase in scope is expected, conducts the training with support materials was redesigned in 2013 and was renamed and to meet their needs, we seek to understand the satisfaction survey will be conducted in such as catalogs and manuals. In other cases, Refrigeration Club and today is one of the how they perform their activities to always oﬀer 12 languages, covering over 400 customers the training is done in our own facilities. sector’s most important publications. the best solutions. in more than 60 countries. The new magazine was conceived as part Since 2012, we’ve been the only compressor In 2013, we conducted of Embraco’s branding strategy “educate to Relationship with training for more than promote” acting as an educational support manufacturer which conducts an annual survey Contractors 1,226 contractors from tool in the refrigeration sector, through the of this public to ﬁnd out what their level of We maintain a close relationship with various countries. dissemination of useful information to assist satisfaction is in relation to us and understand contractors, who play a key role in recommending contractors in their day to day work. what the main factors are that impact our Refrigeration Club our products to customers. We invest in training For its redesign, we carried out an extensive customers’ purchasing decisions (product these professionals so that they are able to For 30 years we’ve produced a magazine study with the target public. First, we conducted quality, price, credit, logistics, portfolio, etc.). provide more qualiﬁed service to Embraco with content geared towards contractors, a survey of contractors, counter sales and As in previous years, in 2013 the survey was product users and stay informed about our main retailers and technical assistants from retail owners to understand what their real conducted with partners in over 30 countries. launches through speciﬁc training. The work is the refrigeration segment. The traditional needs are in the day to day. Next, we prepared For strategic reasons, we do not disclose the done through a partnership with our customers: publication, which appeared in 1984 and a diﬀerentiated editorial design, layout and survey’s result. an Embraco team goes to the company and until 2012 was named Revista Bola Preta, visual identity. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 40 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index The result of this work is a clear and Product labeling GRI PR3 accurate publication, with relevant guidelines To enhance the safety of consumers and for contractors. The pages contain interviews, CARBON FREE customers, we publish on our site the compressor opinions from recognized market professionals, SEAL application manual with information on electrical installation, mounting, handling, storage, good technical content along with commercial, In June 2014 the Refrigeration Club use and solutions to the main technical problems marketing and sustainability issues in a didactic received the Carbon Free seal, a that may occur. and detailed manner, serving as permanent certiﬁcation that recognizes 100% On our products’ labels, we disclose reference material for the contractor, as certiﬁcations obtained from regulatory agencies neutralization of greenhouse gas emissions well as indicating courses, lectures, fairs and which certify the models’ safety, such as the seals generated by the publication’s printing industry books. of Underwriters Laboratories (UL), Association for processes and distribution. Electrical, Electronic & Information Technologies The Refrigeration Club magazine is free   To neutralize the emissions, we promote (VDE), Instituto Argentino de Normalización y of charge, quarterly and has a circulation of  Certiﬁcación (Iram), Rheinland Technischer the planting of more than 80 tree species 52,000 copies distributed in diﬀerent Latin   Uberwachungs-Verein Rheinland (TUV) and American countries and oﬀered in Portuguese per hectare in Areas of Permanent China Quality Certiﬁcation Centre (QCC). On and Spanish. The magazine is also available on Preservation (APPs), oﬀsetting 7.9 tons compressors that have outsourced components, the site www.clubedarefrigeracao.com.br, with of emissions. the label has a speciﬁc coding, indicating this weekly news. special situation. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 41 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index Obsolete compressors recycling history POST CONSUMPTION GRI EN2 EN26 EN27 Anticipating the demand from society for This theme is also highlighted in our R&D sector, 2014 proper disposal of post-consumer products, which guides the choice of the best raw material creation of we manage our products at the end of their to be used in the production process so that a 2013 life cycle through the Top Green Program, an large part of what is produced can be recycled. 2007 3,7 million initiative created about 20 years ago that has 1 million Because of this, 99% of discarded materials are recycled compressors* recycled enabled the collection and recycling of more compressors* treated and reused in our production cycle. 2010 than three and a half million used compressors. In 2014 the Top Green program becomes 2 million In 2013 alone there were nearly ﬁve thousand recycled compressors* tons of recycled material. part of the new business Nat.Genius (see more 2004 However, the challenge for us to recycle and on page 13), focused on recycling and closing 0,5 million recycled compressors* use these products as inputs in our production the appliance and commercial refrigeration is not limited to the material’s collection stage. product cycle at the end of its useful life. 2000 1992 Top Green Program start Mato Velho campaign The main recycled materials in 2013 were: creation Steel: 4,724,625 kg Iron: 976,520 kg Aluminum: 38,537 kg Copper: 328,649 kg Oil: 138,570 l *Accumulated amount SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 42 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index VOCATION TO INNOVATE The constant pursuit for operational Recognized Innovator DNA excellence led us to be a company that Innovation is part of Embraco’s DNA and See how our innovation process works has innovation as one of its most striking this characteristic led us to be drivers of the Innovator DNA Reducing our customers’ characteristics. Every day we feel challenged to global scenario. In recognition of our daily work, electricity bill look to the future and think about how tomorrow we’ve received important awards that reﬂect the will be. importance that this concept has on our agenda, 3% to 4% of annual Our innovations are the result of a long such as the most innovative management of revenue invested in R&D Increasingly efficient GHG emissions products reduction Research and Development (R&D) work, fostered Brazil award by Finep and the Best Innovator by continuous investment of 3% to 4% of our Award, for being one of the 10 most innovative annual revenue and an operational structure companies in Brazil. More than 500 Reducing raw Smaller products with designed to stimulate the creative side of our You can ﬁnd more information about the employees dedicated to material use each time more quality research and innovation employees. awards on page 23. New possibilities for Partnerships with Solutions focused on our customers universities customer demands Partnerships with Reduced customers production cost SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 43 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index Stimulating innovation Innovation network In 2013 we created the Innovation Program to stimulate employees from diﬀerent areas to think about solutions for our Opportunities for researchers We have on hand a team of nearly 500 EMBRACO INNOVATION AWARD strategic challenges. professionals present in ﬁve countries Held since 2011, the Embraco Innovation Award In this edition, the technical committee Through a customized soware tool, we dedicated to new product R&D and to encourages Chinese students and researchers to carefully evaluated all six ﬁnal projects of launched a challenge for employees, encouraging encourage our employees to always innovate, develop high energy eﬃciency cooling solutions. 2012. Aer alignment with professors and them to suggest solutions to improve our we oﬀer diﬀerentiated salary opportunities for In the awards’ third edition, in 2013, we received evaluators, it was decided that, despite production system and bring beneﬁts to the researchers with compensation equivalent to 57 projects from students and professionals the good quality and innovative ideas of company as well as the environment. administrative management positions. in the refrigeration market. All were analyzed projects, none of the ﬁnal projects had A pilot version of the program involved by a team of over 30 members, in the criteria suﬃcient maturity and technical quality 510 people from eight areas of the company innovation and originality; social-environmental to receive the award. The prize value is in Brazil and, in all, 52 ideas were generated, impact; marketing and application for the being applied in developing prototypes and of which three were chosen as ﬁnalists and market; technical quality; and energy eﬃciency. improving research. should be gradually implemented within the company. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 44 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index Partnerships with universities Partnerships with our customers Increasingly eﬃcient product Since 1982, when we began our partnership To ensure meeting our customers’ demands with the Federal University of Santa Catarina in directing our developments, within the Energy eﬃciency INNOVATION AND (UFSC), Embraco has expanded its partner Energy eﬃciency is a topic that is constantly programs and projects with universities in order annual survey we conducted with this public on the agenda of our employees involved with EFFICIENCY to combine expertise to ﬁnd solutions that fulﬁll (more on page 40) we included questions about new product developments. The guideline for Energy eﬃciency evolution is an aspect our customers’ demands and are in conﬂuence innovation to evaluate if we’re being eﬀective in Embraco’s products is to use the least amount constantly worked in our projects focused on with our pillars and values. our work in the customers’ eyes. of energy to produce cold that preserves food. innovation, both to manufacture products In 2013, the great exponent of this trend was This method of thinking and acting was with less consumption need as well as in our “Catarinense Talents”, a partnership between We also establish strategic partnerships to responsible for an evolution in our product compressors’ performance. Therefore, we the Foundation for Research Support of Santa bring customers into our modern laboratories line: Embraco Fullmotion technology. Through Catarina (FAPESC), Whirlpool Latin America and seek in our portfolio to increase eﬃciency so that we can develop together solutions it, the compressor works on demand and with Embraco to beneﬁt state researchers, allowing generating better results for our customers that are aligned to our customers’ needs less speed oscillation, in other words, if the masters and doctoral students to develop their and minimizing the environmental impact theses within the partner companies. (co-development). refrigerator is at its maximum capacity (with reducing the consumption of natural more food), the compressor will work harder resources and disposal of used equipment, and, if it’s empty, it will work less. This system for example. allows refrigerators and freezers to save up to 40% on the electricity bill. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 45 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index Fullmotion: global expansion of compressor production In 2013, we announced global production Do you know Embraco Fullmotion expansion, by approximately 140%, of the technology? 3rd compressor generation with Embraco Pioneer in manufacturing variable speed preservation, avoiding waste and reducing noise Fullmotion technology by 2015. To achieve this compressors, we perfected conventional levels of refrigerators, providing better acoustic index, we’ll invest in our factories’ production compressor on-oﬀ technology and created comfort. Noise reduction in refrigerators is a trend in Italy and China. Our expectation is to ensure Embraco Fullmotion compressors. that’s increasingly present in the segment, which faster response to global customers’ needs, When we compare technologies used in older needs to address changing habits and customs. In strengthen its presence in the Asia Paciﬁc region refrigerators, up to 10 years old, common this case, the solution deals with the current reality and ensure its global competitiveness. in many regions of the planet, Embraco of ever-smaller spaces to live. In an increasingly Fullmotion technology brings a 40% gain in crowded planet, apartments and houses where the Investment in the Italian and Chinese energy eﬃciency. This occurs because this fridge and television share the same environment factories is our ﬁrst step to expand the supply technology allows the refrigerator commercial are becoming each time more common. With the of compressors with Embraco Fullmotion or residential to automatically “know” the Embraco Fullmotion, it’s possible to reduce by up to technology worldwide. Therefore, production system’s demand, operating in accordance with 2 decibels the noise coming from the refrigerator, of these compressors in these units will be the consumer’s needs. which makes a signiﬁcant diﬀerence for those dedicated to European and Asian markets, In practice, a signiﬁcant energy consumption listening. Furthermore, another advantage of this ensuring more supply of technology that enables reduction, allowing consumers to save on their technology is faster cooling and better temperature refrigerator manufacturers to meet the market’s electricity bill, as well as bring more well-being control inside the refrigerator, which ensures food demands for increasingly more eﬃcient and low to their day to day as it provides better food safety and more eﬃcient conservation. environmental impact equipment. Embraco Fullmotion technology. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 46 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index Since the launch in 1998, Embraco has sold solutions in both commercial refrigeration Miniaturization GRI EN26 over 11 million Embraco Fullmotion compressors with propane (R290) as well as in household The exercise of constantly evaluating our worldwide. When compared to the technology production process allowed Embraco to reduce, refrigeration with isobutane (R600). Such over the years, the use of raw materials. Today, used at the time it was launched, it’s estimated refrigerant gases, in addition to being harmless our products weigh on average 5.8 kilos, that adoption of this technology would allow to the ozone layer, have the beneﬁt of having but they’ve already weighed on average 7.2 savings of 2.7 thousand GWh equivalent to the a potential of global warming virtually nil, or in kilos. This means that we use less material to electricity consumption of Rome’s population manufacture our compressors and, moreover, other words, its contribution to global warming for 6 months. are producing smaller and lighter products, which is not representative when compared to other besides being sustainable allow our customers major refrigerant gases on the market. Besides Refrigerant gases to have more internal space in their products. the environmental beneﬁts, systems with We are pioneers in the use of alternative gases to chloroﬂuorocarbons (CFCs) by hydrocarbon refrigerant gases help signiﬁcantly In 2013 Embraco in reducing energy consumption when compared used 7.1 tons of raw refrigerant gases that have no impact on the to synthetic ﬂuids. We’ve produced compressors material less than that ozone layer. Until today, we focus our eﬀorts used in 2009. on developing even more innovative solutions with hydrocarbons for over two decades and that have less impact on the environment. This our extensive expertise enables us to develop way, we prioritize, for example, application of better and more sustainable technologies Embraco Wisemotion pilot line. natural refrigerant gases, oﬀering our customers around the world. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 47 MORE WITH LESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 48 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index Doing more with less With the decrease in production in 2013, Direct Energy Consumption Global Energy Eﬃciency Our entire production is guided by a our indicator related to energy which measures GRI EN3 EN4 EN5 philosophy called Lean Thinking. In practice, the ratio of GJ consumed for each compressor Using less and less energy in compressor produced had a performance lower than that the proposal is to make it so that teams are production is a goal in all our plants. In 2013, we of 2012, in direct energy as well as indirect focused on avoiding waste of all inputs used consumed globally 1,468,991 GJ, meaning energy. This decrease is mainly explained by the that there was a 7% reduction to what we in our operation including water and energy ﬁxed energy consumption, which is not linked to consumed in 2012. Analyzing direct and indirect -, eliminate reworks and maintain factory production variation. energy consumption, we observed that the production adjusted to our demand, avoiding, in reduction was 5% and 8%, respectively. 95% o Natural gas Energy Consumption in 2013 (GJ) 2% o LGP this way, excess inventories. Consequently, these This reduction, in absolute terms, is due 1% o Propane Direct Energy 1% o Gasoline initiatives are aimed at reducing GHG emissions to the result of our global initiatives to reduce 1% o Diesel Natural gas 495,957 0% o Methanol (Greenhouse Gases). energy consumption as well as the variation of Methanol 393 our production. Our concern with what we consume is Propane 4,109 also present in the transportation issue. We Energy Consumption in 2013 (GJ) LPG 13,482 avoid unnecessary travel and perform regular Diesel 5,379 2011 2012 2013 equipment maintenance so that they operate at Gasoline 3,383 Direct 476,908 551,004 522,703 Total direct energy consumed 522,703 full capacity and thus improve our productivity Indirect 913,044 1,033,215 946,288 Indirect Energy and reduce our costs. TOTAL 1,389,953 1,584,219 1,468,991 Eletricity 946,288 Total indirect energy consumed 946,288 Total energy consumed 1,468,991 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 49 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index Analyzing our plants’ direct and indirect energy consumption, we observe the following scenario: In Italy, construction of a new cafeteria at Eﬃciency in Produced Compressors the factory located in Riva Presso Chieri opened GRI EN6 Direct Energy Consumption Indirect Energy Consumption the possibility for us to replace the water heating Through research and innovation, Embraco invests to produce ever more eﬃcient products. system previously done by electric boilers for One of the leading exponents in energy a solar heating system. For this, the Italian team eﬃciency is Fullmotion technology, which opted to install a thermal heating system with allows on average a 25% reduction in energy consumption compared with on/oﬀ compressors a high degree of coverage, with approximately (more information on page 46.). 50m2 of absorbent surface (solar panels). There 41% o Brazil (Compressors) 38% o Brazil (Compressors) To get an idea of the impact of this reduction, 8% o Mexico 6% o Mexico 2% o Brazil (Components) 1% o Brazil (Components) are about 18 thousand gallons of heated water in Munich (Germany) the average consumption 3% o Brazil (Foundry) 23% o Brazil (Foundry) 0% o United States 1% o Brazil (Electronics) of a common refrigerator is 227 kWh per year, 13% o China (Compressors) 1% o China (Electronics) per day, used to prepare 300 meals daily in the 10% o Italy 0% o United States 23% o Slovakia 12% o China (Compressors) while a refrigerator with Fullmotion technology 5% o Italy factory refectory, which will generate a savings MORE INFORMATION ON PAGE 82. 13% o Slovakia consumes, on average, 170 kWh annually. of more than 15 MWh/year. Considering that the per capita electricity For 2014 our objective is to reduce our global consumption in the German town is 7 kWh Eﬃciency in oﬃces and In Brazil, replacing all light ﬁxtures in an production process GRI EN6 oﬃce, with individual switches, generated 65% consumption by 5%, which represents a great per day, and the energy saved due to using During 2013 we implemented projects in savings in electricity used to light the ambiance. Fullmotion technology in one year could serve challenge and makes our Health, Environment ﬁve countries which will save, in 2014, more We also repaired leaks in the compressed air nearly 15 million people for a month, or even and Safety team feel motivated to look for supply the German city’s 1,350,000 residents than 15,000 MWh/year, enough energy to power network of our plants, which will generate 218,000 homes for one year. savings of 871.2 MWh per year. creative alternatives to achieve the goal. during 11 months of the year. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 50 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index Emissions GRI EN16 Direct Emissions Compressors units Other units In 2013 we emitted 109,553 tons of CO2 globally to run our operations in our plants and oﬃces, which means a low increase of 0.7% compared to what we had emitted last year. 67% of the emissions occurred due to indirect emissions in Embraco’s case, the entire amount is due to obtaining electricity and 33% of emissions were direct. 50% o Brazil (Compressors) 62% o Brazil (Foundry) 21% o Slovakia 35% o Brazil (Components) 8% o Italy 3% o Brazil (Electronics) 6% o Mexico 15% o China (Compressors) Global emissions (tCO2) Indirect Emissions 108,823 109,553 + 0.7% Compressors units Other units 65% 67% 35% 33% 2012 2013 35% • China (Compressors) 69% • Brazil (Foundry) Indirects 19% • Brazil (Compressors) 20% • China (Electronics) Directs 17% • Slovakia 5% • Brazil (Components) 11% • Italy 4% • United States Analyzing emissions with a focus on our 18% • Mexico 2% • Brazil (Electronics) plants, we ﬁnd the following overview: MORE INFORMATION ON PAGE 84 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 51 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index Water GRI EN8 Water Consumption Compressors units UNDERSTANDING OUR DIRECT Embraco uses diﬀerent water sources around the globe. In 2013, we reduced our global EMISSIONS BETTER water consumption by 9.6% due to actions such as the treatment and reuse of water. Direct emissions are classiﬁed into stationary emissions, as shown in the three types: following chart: • Stationary: emissions arising from Water Consumption (m3) EMBRACO Direct Emissions Embraco GLOBAL burning fuel to generate electricity, steam, 43% • Brazil (Compressors) 2011 2012 2013 7% • Italy heat or power stationary equipment, such 15% • Slovakia Wells 292,583 332,195 273,448 14% • Mexico as boilers, furnaces, etc.; 21% • China Water supply • Mobile: emissions arising from burning networks 309,236 396,616 385,735 Water Consumption Total 601,819 728,811 659,183 Other units fuels for transportation vehicles, such as cars, trucks, trains, aircras, ships, etc.; and • Fugitive: emissions that aren’t physically Global Water Consumption (m3) controlled but result from release of GHGs, 79% o Stationary 3% o Mobile 728,811 arising from the production, processing, 18% o Fugitive 659,183 601,819 transmission, storage and use of fuels and other chemical agents. 80% • Brazil (Foundry) Analyzing our direct emissions, we observe 2% • Brazil (Electronics) 3% • China (Electronics) that, in 2013, most of them arose from 3% • United States 12% • Brazil (Components) 2011 2012 2013 MORE INFORMATION ON PAGE 85. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 52 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index Water Reuse GRI EN10 Recycled and reused water EMBRACO GLOBAL Globally, 27% of all water that enters our China Brazil Mexico Foundry Total units, whether from internal or external sources, 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 is treated and recirculated. The recycled water Total volume (m3) 32,545 40,634 144,994 141,621 20,000 31,751 27,972 22,997 225,511 237,003 is used in toilets, cooling towers and washing Recirculation rate (%) 24% 34% 59% 67% 31% 42% 28% 23% 31% 27% containers and ﬂoors. Global Recirculated Water Water Discharge GRI EN21 Global Water Discharge (m3) In 2013 we discharged 25.2% more treated water than in the previous year. 485,373 31% 4 p.p. Discharge of eﬄuents (m3) EMBRACO GLOBAL 387,628 27% 321,199 2011 2012 2013 Return to collection point 278,552 337,155 394,360 Public Sewage System 2,430 0 0 Evaporation 30,065 50,254 44,781 Irrigation 10,152 219 46,233 2011 2012 2013 Total 321,199 387,628 485,374 2012 2013 MORE INFORMATION ON PAGE 86. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 53 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index Waste GRI EN22 EN24 We’re generating less When analyzing global waste generation, it’s possible to note that between 2012 and 2013 waste globally and recycling there was a 15% reduction. In addition, the amount of hazardous waste sent to industrial landﬁlls a higher percentage of our reduced by 27% compared to last year. hazardous waste. Total waste EMBRACO GLOBAL Non-hazardous waste (t) 2011 2012 2013 Economic recycling 96,653 107,896 89,790 Goals Environmental recycling 77 1,042 1,625 The results presented are already a Incineration 0 0 0,1 consequence of our eﬀorts to reach our global Landﬁll 16,953 18,511 16,702 goals, which include the challenge of sending Construction/remedial waste 167 0 0 zero waste to landﬁlls from our compressor Subtotal 113,849 127,449 108,117 plants until the end of 2018 and our Foundry Hazardous waste (t) 2011 2012 2013 plant until 2022. Economic recycling 255 306 308 Environmental recycling 1,985 1,992 1,973 Incineration 880 844 784 Landﬁll 581 967 704 Currently 96% of the Subtotal 3,701 4,109 3,868 waste we generate Total 117,550 131,558 111,985 globally in our compressor MORE INFORMATION ON PAGE 87 factories is recycled. Compressors components. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 54 WHO MAKE EMBRACO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 55 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index People who make Embraco We develop and implement human resource We know our market leadership is a reﬂection Extraordinary Performance systems aligned with the industry best practices, of our talent management and passion for what Highly effective organization to oﬀer the best quality possible for everyone. we do. Therefore, we believe that each one of the that consistently delivers Validating our strategic human resource results ahead of expectations. 12,000 people are fundamental to the success management recognition, we were elected one of our operations around the world. of the Best Companies to Work for in Brazil by Accordingly, our people management the Você S/A guide for two consecutive years in strategy is based on the strategic pillar Brazil; and our USA unit was recognized too by Excellence in People. Therefore, we invest time, Great People major awards such as Metro Atlanta’s Top 100 Robust and diverse talent resources and research to be a global company, and leadership pipeline Workplaces and Atlanta’s Best and Brightest comprised of professionals from diﬀerent for the future. Companies to Work for. (see page 23). nationalities, genders, languages and cultures, who share diverse ways of seeing the world and, in this way, drive us to always innovate. This is a Winning Culture strong competitive diﬀerential. Internally and externally recognized as Great Place to Work. Embraco Wisemotion Test Line. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 56 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index Our employees proﬁle GRI LA1 Employees of Embraco In all, Embraco had on December 31, 2013 12,444 employees distributed in six countries as follows: Embraco Global Employees China United States Italy Mexico Slovakia Brazil Russia 2,557 51 594 879 2,045 6,310 8 Employees by employment contract 50.7% • Brazil 20.6% • China China United States Italy Mexico Slovakia Brazil Russia 16.4% • Slovakia 7.1% • Mexico F M F M F M F M F M F M F M 4.8% • Italy Deﬁnite time (Temporary) 82 311 25 26 0 0 246 621 41 133 11 62 M H 0.4% • U.S.A. 0.1% • Russia Indeﬁnite Time (Permanent) 651 1,513 0 0 181 410 0 0 644 1,227 1,509 4,470 5 3 Interns 0 0 0 0 2 1 9 3 0 30 48 0 0 0 Total 733 1,824 25 26 183 411 255 624 685 1,360 1,550 4,580 5 3 Employees by employment type China United States Italy Mexico Slovakia Brazil Russia F M F M F M F M F M F M F M Full workday (8h) 733 1,824 25 26 181 410 255 624 685 1,360 1,442 4,192 5 3 No control of workday 0 0 0 0 2 1 0 0 0 0 108 388 0 0 Total 733 1,824 25 26 183 411 255 624 685 1,360 1,550 4,580 5 3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 57 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index Employees by job category China United States Italy Mexico Slovakia Brazil Russia F M F M F M F M F M F M F M Vice-presidents and President 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 5 0 0 Board 0 2 0 0 0 2 0 1 0 1 1 23 0 0 Management 8 10 0 1 2 8 0 1 2 6 7 55 0 2 Leaders 18 36 4 8 6 13 7 23 6 23 21 75 1 0 Administrative 176 289 19 11 36 64 33 102 100 214 290 876 4 1 Operational 507 1,453 2 6 139 324 206 494 577 1,116 1,230 3,546 0 0 Others 24 34 0 0 0 0 9 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total 733 1,824 25 26 183 411 255 624 685 1,360 1,550 4,580 5 3 Respecting Labor Relations GRI LA4 Employees covered by collective bargaining As a global company, we are always aware agreements of and comply with all local laws of the countries Percentage of Unit employees covered where we have plants and/or sales oﬃces. Brazil 100% China 77% United States Not applicable* Italy 100% * Our United States operation is run through a sales office Slovakia 11.30% and a warehouse, which according to American law Mexico 68% doesn’t require a collective bargaining agreement. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 58 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index Diversity We value and celebrate Diversity in all our interactions where synergy among diﬀerences OUR OLYMPICS around common goals makes the company On September 9th the 7th edition of We also held the 26th edition of Oliembraco, increasingly prepared to work as an organization that thinks and acts globally. Paraoliembraco was held in Joinville, our internal Olympics. The games feature Diversity permeates our entire business, a sporting event for employees with 32 sports, both female and male, and, besides culture and relationships and is seen as a disabilities in which approximately 150 encourage practicing sports, act as an management model, essential for making athletes with visual and auditory, intellectual important integration point. The main goal, decisions about people, processes, products and physical disabilities competed in however, is to strengthen Embraco values. and markets. In practice, this means more leadership involvement and building a diverse 11 diﬀerent sports including futsal, Oliembraco reinforces the importance and accessible environment for everyone. dominoes, bowling, general, canasta, table of teamwork and is part of the actions One of its exponents is the Talents of tennis and billiards. The event was open to of organizational climate management. Last Diversity Program that, since 2005, has oﬀered the public and admission was free. year, 3,809 athletes participated in the event. employment and training courses for people Paraoliembraco is a pioneering initiative in with disabilities, accelerating integration and employability. Close to 230 people have already the country. In addition to games, the event gone through the program with 70% being hired. held at Embraco Sports Association featured Also considering accessibility in physical spaces, an inclusion fair, in which entities that serve we oﬀer sign language courses and translation people with disabilities in the region could along with internal awareness actions. On exhibit their social work to the community. December 31, 2013 the number of PWDs in Embraco was 63, which corresponds to 0.5% of our workforce. Athletes competing in the 7th edition of Paraoliembraco. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 59 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index Embraco employees with disabilities GRI LA13 Brazil* China Italy Slovakia United States Mexico Vice Presidents, Directors and Managers 0.14% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% Leaders 0.34% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% Team 24.91% 0.08% 2.84% 2.24% 0.00% 0.00% * Embraco Brazil plants don’t control diversity indicators for temporary employees. Embraco employees by age GRI LA13 Brazil* China Italy Slovakia United States Mexico Up to 30 years 2,420 1,357 16 306 3 316 30 to 50 years 3,261 1,046 478 1,313 39 534 Over 50 years 376 154 100 426 9 29 Total 6,057 2,557 594 2,045 51 879 * Embraco Brazil plants don’t control diversity indicators for temporary employees. Participation of women in workforce GRI LA13 Brazil China (Compressors) China (Eletronics) Italy Slovakia United States Mexico Vice-Presidents, Directors and Managers 10% 47% 0% 0% 0% 0% 13% Leaders 21% 31% 31% 1% 0% 4% 23% Team 26% 18% 69% 29% 33% 21% 29% SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 60 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index Attraction and Retention Hirings in 2013 by gender GRI LA2 Brazil China United States Italy Mexico Slovakia Daily we attract, recognize and develop our F M F M F M F M F M F M people to retain the best talents, also focusing 471 1,186 125 178 0 0 3 5 78 533 112 41 on development of our leaders. Total 1,657 303 0 8 611 153 In 2013 we conducted, globally, 2,732 hirings and 2,955 terminations. The hirings were Hirings in 2013 by age group made as follows: Brazil China United States Italy Mexico Slovakia < 30 years 1,145 201 0 5 337 82 30 and 50 years 486 102 0 3 267 65 > 50 years 26 0 0 0 7 6 Total 1,657 303 0 8 611 153 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 61 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index Dismissals were performed as follows: Trainee Program As part of our strategy to prepare leaders Dismissals in 2013 by gender for the future, we have a global trainee program, Brazil China United States Italy Mexico Slovakia F M F M F M F M F M F M held once a year in Brazil, Slovakia and China. 1,511 559 178 238 2 6 16 16 30 281 42 76 With the program, trainees know the Total 2,070 416 8 32 311 118 company’s business comprehensively so that, throughout their career, they are able Dismissals in 2013 by age group to take on challenges in diﬀerent areas. Brazil China United States Italy Mexico Slovakia > 30 years 1,268 263 1 0 178 38 In the ﬁrst year, they receive a strategic project 30 and 50 years 701 132 3 15 132 56 and count on the support of former trainees, < 50 years 101 21 4 17 1 24 HR professionals and the requesting area. Total 2,070 416 8 32 311 118 The professional who has the best performance Facing the challenges posed by the 2013 more eﬃcient, simple and agile. Focused and the new business team -, we had as a (based on reviews of HR and results) will economic climate, in September we began on maintaining competences that are the result of this project a reorganization of the participate in the International Trainee program, an Organizational Eﬀectiveness project great diﬀerentials in our industry such administrative structure, which involved about which evaluated our processes and redeﬁned as constant maintenance of our products’ 90 people (less than 1.5% of Embraco Brazil’s where they will develop a strategic project in priorities for the company to become quality, research & development innovation total workforce). one of our units abroad. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 62 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index Local hiring Compensation GRI LA14 Proportion of base salary and compensation between women and men We have no speciﬁc policies aimed at local Based on merit and with the intent to China China United Italy Mexico Slovakia Brazil (Eletronics) (Compressors) States hiring. However, due to our culture of valuing value and retain our talents, our compensation Vice-Presidents, diversity and merit, we have in general a large 5% 63% 0% 59% N/A* 91% 13% policy aims to reward people according to their Directors and Managers percentage of local leaders in our plants, as performance. To provide salaries compatible Leaders 7% 243% 3% 50% 89% 106% 2% shown in the following table: with the market, we have the support of Team 88% 391% 1% 59% 104% 117% 41% consultants to conduct compensation and * Mexico’s director and manager positions, however, are all Brazilian expatriates and therefore are included in the Local hiring GRI EC7 number for Brazil. (Leadership positions*) beneﬁt surveys, monitoring the market as well Proﬁt Sharing Program Plant 2011 2012 2013 as our operating segment. In order to attract and motivate those of Embraco. Brazil 100% 100% 100% In order to identify opportunities for wage our employees, we maintain a variable Therefore, in addition to the company’s China (Compressors) 79% 86% 91% growth, either through horizontal and/or vertical compensation policy that aims to motivate China (Electronics) 85% 83% 60% general goals, each area has to choose movement, we use internal performance our professionals to improve and constantly Italy 86% 77% 91% two speciﬁc goals aligned with Embraco’s evaluation tools to review the employees’ development themselves. Implemented in Slovakia 88% 88% 100% strategy of that year. Additionally, our PPR Mexico 2% 2% 84% salaries through the annual compensation 1996, the Proﬁt Sharing Program (PSP) was cycle. Whenever there is a vacancy available, we program includes an individual portion United States 66% 66% 91% revised in 2013 to make it simpler and thus guide our leaders to look for internal promotion show more clearly to our employees the called Performance Award which awards our * Leadership positions include: president, vice president, board and leaders. to value the careers of all our professionals. relationship between the areas’ results and employees, according to their performance. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 63 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index Beneﬁts GRI LA3 Beneﬁt Oﬀered to permanent Oﬀered to temporary Private Pension Plan GRI EC3 employees employees In line with our strategy to retain our talents, Only plants in Brazil, Italy and China oﬀer a and strictly comply with local labor laws in Health care pension plan to their employees. Units installed all countries where we operate, our beneﬁts Dental care in Slovakia, Mexico and the United States have policy expresses the care we have with Food no such beneﬁt. our employees and the mission to provide him/her and his/her dependents well-being and Transportation In Brazil, participation is voluntary and open quality of life. to all positions. The contribution varies from Private Pension Plan For this, we also have a Sports Association, 1% to 5.5% of the employee’s gross monthly in Joinville, Brazil where our largest ﬂow Life Insurance salary in accordance with the salary range of employees is located which oﬀers Maternal Care (nursery) being that we contribute with the same value. various activities for both employees and the community. Pharmacy Beneﬁt The plan provides coverage for normal or early retirement and disability. The pension in case of Christmas gi death, is paid to dependents. Homage for length of service In Italy, joining the pension plan is also Social Assistance voluntary and is foreseen in collective agreements. Marriage gi The contribution is 1.2% (employees) and 4% Bonus for punctuality and regular attendance (managers). We contribute with the same value. China has a statutory pension insurance for Housing assistance all employees and the contribution is 8% by the Education aid employee and 20% by Embraco. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 64 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index Professional development Employees that receive performance analysis GRI LA12 China (Eletronics) China (Compressors) United States Italy Mexico Slovakia Brazil Performance assessment F M F M F M F M F M F M F M Performance assessment is a topic widely studied by our HR area so that the process is 83% 17% 100% 100% 49% 51% 30% 70% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% each time more accurate and fair. To accomplish this task, we adopt the EP&R (Extraordinary Performance & Results), an assessment model Y Career with a focus on balancing the delivery of results Our commitment to innovation always “what” with quality and sustainability “how.” involves the talents that make up our company. The model is structured in ﬁve dimensions: To recognize the talent of our R&D teams and • Results x Goals value the diversity of our talents, we oﬀer our • Work scope researchers compensation compatible with • Leadership Practices employees who are in management positions. • Adherence to Embraco’s culture This management model called Y career was • Talent and personal development. designed to attract, retain and encourage the In addition to EP&R, in particular cases we use the 180 degree assessment, which professional who has a technical background consists of the employee’s self-assessment, his/ to invest in his/her main talent and collaborate her manager’s assessment and his/her direct so that Embraco constantly continues report’s assessment. to innovate. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 65 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index Corporate Education Our Corporate Education model underwent Another important change was the a major restructuring in 2013 that sought to largest engagement of our leadership in the bring the Training and Development (HR) area training process, since by bringing decision to a People Training Strategic Model. This makers to the classroom, we can align our implies a culture change, since this new line leadership and, consequently, strengthen our of corporate education foresees greater culture for all our employees and contribute alignment with the company’s strategy and to the standardization movement of our a more planned and proactive (and less production worldwide. Culture change: more active and less reactive corporate education. reactive) behavior. Average number of training hours GRI LA10 In practice, this means that instead of China (Eletronics) China (Compressors) United States Italy Mexico Slovakia Brazil reacting upon the need for training certain F M F M F M F M F M * F M employees we begin to deﬁne what Executives 40 21 5 9 0 0 174 909 17 17 806 0.1 0.4 competences are needed for each area Middle management 870 621 5 5 1 2 154 2,204 20 19 2,810 0.3 0.4 and apply training so that our employees Team 13 83 3.01 4 10 16 1,073 10,720 27 27 47,351 23 21 assimilate this knowledge in the most Per employee 52 288 5 5 10 13 15 59 31 31 2 23 22 eﬀective manner. * The Slovakia plant recorded, in 2013, training data per employee without distinguishing between genders. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 66 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index Scholarship The English Acceleration program uses The scholarship is a beneﬁt for employees immersion tools so that the student has intense Leadership Academy between the operational and administrative contact with the English language during the levels that oﬀers ﬁnancial assistance to those course period. Measurement of the results is The Leadership Academy, a program for its culture needed to be reviewed, maintained wishing to take technical and graduate courses. done through TOEIC1, applied before and aer global long-term development, underwent or strengthened so that this culture was the course. Thinking strategically, the scholarship always a restructuring to oﬀer better solutions for aligned with Embraco’s strategy. Based on Has duration of six months the following focuses on the next hierarchical level of the our leaders at diﬀerent hierarchical levels employee, so he/she can be prepared for his/ activities: these studies, the modules using diﬀerent in 2013, from the ﬁrst leadership level to her next step within Embraco. • English level assessment before and aer resources such as classroom, video the president of the company attended the program conferencing, coaching, successful case Speaking English for real! • 2 English classes per week the academy. studies and others were developed. In 2013, Being a global company, we invest in training • 2 phone calls a week in English To carry out this restructuring, we ﬁrst our employees so that they can speak and write • Extracurricular activities conducted a study to understand what the nearly 400 employees participated in the in English and therefore communicate with all • One day per month of full English immersion company’s main needs are, what aspects of Leadership Academy our plants. Created in 2013, the Accelerated English program was developed in partnership with language schools to make the learning process more eﬀective and so that we could more accurately measure the results of this initiative. In Brazil, 60 people whose English level was at the intermediate stage were invited to join the 1 TOEIC The “Test of English for International Communication” program in 2013. is an international English language proficiency test. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 67 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index Health and Safety GRI LA6 LA7 LA9 Behavior-Based Safety Global BBS numbers Since 2011, we’ve adopted globally the • Observations and conversations among The most important step of the Feedbacks received by Region Behavior-Based Safety (BBS) program as a tool coworkers about safety always with a methodology is the stimulus to the teams employees in 2013 positive approach focused on reinforcing Brazil 214,134 to build a safer and healthier work environment through positive feedbacks made during safe behaviors; China 115,798 by observing employees’ behavior and positive conversations that reinforce safe behaviors. Italy 10,165 feedback. The process is based on three • Plan actions to remove barriers that prevent In 2013 more than 500,000 feedbacks were Slovakia 119,649 main elements: safe behaviors during observations and given to employees in all plants considering Mexico 26,206 conversations; and all our units. As a result of this work, we’ve United States 755 • Celebrate the improvements implemented. been able to have appreciable reductions Brazil (Eletronics) 2,223 in incident rates which, since the program’s China (Eletronics) 17,438 In December 2013 we inception, have fallen 43% overall in the total reached the milestone of 1 We celebrate these numbers since they accident rate and 50% in the accident rate with represent a step forward, however our goal million feedbacks oﬀered to time away. remains Zero Accident. our employees. With the intention of going beyond and increase even further our people’ safety, in 2012 we initiated the second phase of the program and began coaching, conducted by the leaders with their teams, aiming to continuously improve the quality of conversations and feedbacks. In 2013, 2,739 coaching sessions were held in all our plants. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 68 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index Since 2012, we also developed a global Other Health and Safety vehicles, docks and general storage), assessment project of all installed machinery initiatives Disciplinary Action Policies, Accident in order to increase the safety of our In addition to the initiatives described Registration and Investigation. manufacturing processes. Besides enabling above, we carried out other global actoions to In 2014 we’ll continue to invest in the the exchange of best practices among plants reduce the number of accidents. They are: various EHS workstreams such as global and to ﬁnd a solution to any problems, this initiative • Campaigns on safety, health and local campaigns, use of BBS as a stimulus tool seeks to standardize best practices in Health environment focused on awareness of for safe behavior, participation in the projects and Safety management. professionals working in our operations, of new production lines, issuance of new CIPA addressing topics such as: World Day global standards aligned to the organization’s Our units in Brazil rely on the Internal for Safety and Health at Work, World No needs, creation of new management tools and Commission for Accident Prevention (CIPA), Smoking Day and World Environment Day; implementation of new global projects. consisting of a group of employees whose main • Participation of the EHS area in the World Class Manufacturing aim is to support actions that prevent accidents. project development of new factories World Class Manufacturing (WCM), chosen CIPA is present in Brazil to fulﬁll the Ministry of and machinery purchases in all units, to be our new management tool, has the item Labor’s Regulatory Standard 5 (NR-5). The 92 establishing the necessary deliveries for safety as the ﬁrst among 10 technical pillars members of this Commission incorporate into the proper risk management as well as that make up its methodology, which also their routine monthly meetings, inspections, seeking an environment free of injuries and includes quality, logistics, maintenance, participation in improvement groups, running environmental damage. among others, having as its main objective the campaigns, conducting internal work accident • Creation/revision of global standards for pursuit of zero accident. More information prevention week and the environment (SIPATMA), among other activities. various elements of the EHS system such about WCM on page 39. as Safe Handling of Materials (industrial SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 69 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index Indicators Disease Prevention GRI LA8 In 2013, we reduced globally the injury rate by 29%, occupational illness rate by 33% and days away In 2013 we carried out a severe disease rate by 42%, compared with the previous year. prevention work together with our employees. In the Brazil plants we promoted: Health and Safety • STDs/ AIDS awareness campaign; Injury Rate Occupational Illness Rate Days Away Rate for Accidents • Influenza Vaccination Campaign (with 6,352 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 doses to employees, contractors and family Brazil (Compressors) 1.16 1.18 0.02 0.04 6.71 2.28 members); • Breast Cancer prevention campaign and China (Compressors) 0.70 0.37 0.00 0.00 0.57 0.00 support to the international movement “Pink China (Electronics) 0.63 0.00 0.00 0.00 29.17 0.00 October”, which also aims to combat the Italy 2.31 0.51 0.00 0.00 11.60 17.67 disease; Slovakia 0.53 2.49 0.00 0.00 1.87 6.21 • Awareness about the importance of hand United States 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 hygiene; Mexico 1.34 0.75 0.00 0.00 6.05 2.67 • Diabetes Prevention (with 2,128 tests conducted on employees, their families and Brazil (Electronics) 1.50 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 general public); Components 0.52 0.70 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 In Slovakia, we supported no Smoking Day Foundry 1.35 3.11 0.45 0.00 0.45 7.76 and in Mexico we conducted a Vaccination Total Embraco Global 1.02 0.72 0.03 0.02 4.60 2.69 Campaign against Inﬂuenza. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 70 SOCIAL INVESTMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 71 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index Private social investment GRI EC8 Private social investment (US$) As a global company, we know that we generate direct and indirect impacts on 395,982 285,216 various communities where we operate and we make every eﬀort to ensure that these 170,529 impacts are always positive. We’re willing to transform realities, so we believe that we have 2011 2012 2013 a responsibility to work to improve the lives of people who live in locations where we operate. Private social In 2013, we planned and carried out Unit investment (US$) various social projects that contributed to the 2011 2012 2013 well-being of 33,862 people. During this period, Brazil 120,192 241,402 190,710 United States 8,495 2,550 8,700 we invested US$ 285,215.72 thousand and Slovakia 36,200 52,198 62,173 oﬀered 8,970 hours of community service in China 5,642 7,103 6,600 more than 30 actions, among which stand out Mexico N/D 1,500 14,500 is the Embraco Ecology Award which this year Italy N/D 91,228 2,533 reached its 21st edition Embraco Volunteer TOTAL 170,529 395,982 285,216 program and Global Volunteer Day. N/D – não disponível. Mexico Global Volunteer Day volunteers. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 72 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index Global Volunteer Day Global Volunteer Day is a global event and a storage area for selective trash the park and making drawings of nature that seeks to value the communities’ collection. alongside children with diabetes. beauty and, through volunteer work, aims • China: on September 21, 54 volunteers Although the intervention moment in the helped the Mulan community to organize community is carried out in one or two to transform reality by realizing a dream. the local library and make signs to indicate days, Global Volunteer Day uses the Oasis The program encourages our employees to the location of the most important points. set aside one or two days a year to work methodology, which foresees intense behind • Mexico: on October 26 restoration work in a location, performing diﬀerent activities the scene work in the months preceding the of José Guadalupe Zuno Arce School that directly beneﬁt the population. In 2013 action so that the team involved observes was carried out by cleaning the garden, the following activities were undertaken: and listens to the community, this way, painting the handrails, restoring the school • Brazil: on November 22 and 23, volunteers understands what their main needs are vegetable garden and planting six live oaks went to the Amador Aguiar Municipal School on the property. and evaluates what types of actions can and Centro de Educação Infantil Espaço da • Slovakia: On September 21, volunteers be performed considering the number of Criança and made repairs to playgrounds, worked in the Spišská Nová Ves National volunteers, their diﬀerent expertise and other painted fences, cleaned up the yard and Park, collecting trash and debris, planting variables. Learn more about aspects of the built vegetable gardens in mandala form trees, restoring the existing cemetery within methodology in the table. Brazil Global Volunteer Day volunteers. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 73 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index In 2013, Global Volunteer Day involved Award encourages schools to develop projects 619 volunteers, 1,903 hours devoted to work that address three dimensions holistically: in communities and beneﬁted 1,600 people in pedagogical, management and infrastructure. diﬀerent cities around the world. In that year a Besides the pedagogical part, the Award survey was conducted with those involved which invites the school to think of ways to consume less indicated 92% satisfaction of the people in the energy, improve acoustic comfort and integrate communities and 94% of volunteers. the environment with the school infrastructure to be an example of environmental behavior for Embraco Ecology Award parents and students. With 21 years of history, the Embraco Ecology In 2013, the winners received the QueroAward aims to disseminate environmental Quero Trophy and ﬁnancial resources to education among public and private schools implement the awarded projects totaling in the city of Joinville, Santa Catarina (Brazil), R$ 56,000. In the Transformation category, the encouraging the development of projects Doctor Hans Dieter Schmidt Municipal School related to environmental education and inviting was awarded with the “Interactive School the participating schools to include the issue in Space” project, which will transform an unused their pedagogical-policy plan. school area into a proper place for countless Divided into two categories Action and learning possibilities. Transformation the Award involves the discussion The Action category awarded the schools of sustainable practices together with principals, Alegria de Viver Child Education Center, teachers and students. In the Action category, Espinheiros Education Center, Lea Maria Aguiar the focus is on pedagogical and management Lepper Basic Education and Teacher Eladir aspects. In the Transformation category, the Skibinski Municipal School. Embraco Ecology Award. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 74 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index Since its founding in 1993, the Embraco In 2013, developing educational activities, Ecology Award has already recognized the using the vegetable garden as a tool, was work of 64 learning institutions from Joinville proposed along with developing activities (Brazil), involving more than 100,000 people, related to the theme during the school year. including principals, teachers and students. In Every month, reports on the activities were sent total, 93 projects have been awarded. Get more by schools for publication in the project’s blog. information about the Award by accessing the blog www.premioembracoecologia.wordpress. com or the site www.embraco.com.br/ecologia. Breaking the Routine The Volunteer Program was created 10 Embraco Environmental years ago in Brazil and its goal is to get our Gymkhana employees closer to the communities where we Since 2011 we’ve conducted an operate. Through structured actions, we oﬀer environmental education work that mobilizes the training courses and invite them to “get their school community in Itaiópolis, Brazil, through hands dirty” in periodic actions. a gymkhana involving principals, teachers and In 2013, the program involved volunteers students, and also has the support of the State in all countries in which we operate and during and Municipal Secretaries of Education. their work, those involved received food, The Embraco Environmental Gymkhana transportation and materials so that their promotes cooperation among the participating experiences were always positive and their schools and brings the discussion about the actions increasingly eﬀective. environment to the student’s world through Other units such as the United States, activities such as volunteering, practicing Slovakia, Italy and China also have an internal Brazil Global Volunteer Day. agroecology and themed parades. volunteer program. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 75 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index Embraco Slovakia SOME EXAMPLES OF In Slovakia 1,546 hours were devoted to social works in 2013, through 22 diﬀerent VOLUNTEER PROGRAM activities. During the year, we helped clean ACTIONS the Nová Ves Spišská zoo, made a partnership with ﬁshermen to clean the Hornad river Anjos do Bem (part of the same city), collaborated in The Anjos do Bem (Good Deed Angels) project has existed for 11 years and reconstructing a public gallery in High Tatras, operates with 20 volunteers in the Embraco Ecology Award winning schools took people with mental disabilities for a trip, participating monthly in recreational activities with children and young people among many other activities donating time, and interacting with the elderly in nursing homes. Eecon@legria aﬀection and attention. The Eecon@legria project is primarily engaged in recreation with children of the Vitoriosas do Juquiá Institution reusing recyclable materials. The group has existed for eight years and, in 2013, was comprised of 22 volunteers. Bem Aventurados The Bem Aventurados project began in 2013 and saw the participation of 12 people to carry out recreational activities with children from the Tia ISSO institution. Among the activities developed are theatrical performances for children and revitalizing vegetable gardens. China Global Volunteer Day volunteers. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 76 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index Sharing Best Practices executives from diﬀerent areas and aims to • Embraco’s association to innovation; and discuss the company’s long term strategy. • Our volunteer actions; Business Leader Forum The council met every three months and is led The survey showed that most respondents The Business Leader Forum (BLF) is an by our President, Roberto Campos, the vice consider the support we oﬀer to all projects and informal gathering of 26 companies from president of Human Resources, Communication, organizations with which we are involved as Slovakia who meet to discuss best practices Sustainability and EHS, Ursula Angeli, necessary. In addition, people who responded to related to corporate responsibility. Besides the survey believe that for the next projects, we and the board. Embraco, the Forum includes names like should give priority to the areas of health, sport Volkswagen, US Steel, Slovak Telekom, HP, and education. Community Survey among others, who meet quarterly to share By the end of 2013 we had registered In 2012 a survey was conducted with the best practices and discuss through seminars 160 requests for donations, of which 70 have community to assess the perception of Spisska and workshops topics involving questions been met. Altogether, 67,000 euros were Nova Ves inhabitants regarding the activities about employees, environment, suppliers distributed in the form of social investment for we’ve carried out. The survey was designed so and markets. the local community throughout the year. that we could know people’s opinions about the In an event held in November 2013, following aspects: Štefan Leibiczer our Europe Purchasing • Our image; Manager presented Embraco cases on Supply • Social assistance oﬀered; Chain Responsibility for the public present • Family Day; in the Forum. • Quantity and quality of information Sustainability Council provided by Embraco; In 2013 we implemented the Sustainability • Projects supported by us; Council, an initiative that brings together • Our sustainable actions; Slovakia Global Volunteer Day volunteers. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 77 THIS REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 78 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index About this Report This report aims to meet the level B of the discuss achievements and events of 2014 too GRI 3.1 3.2 3.3 3.6 3.7 3.8 GRI 3.1 application guidelines that determine always properly marked. The annual Embraco Sustainability Report reporting all proﬁle indicators and at least 20 includes part of our history, our structure, performance indicators. To better understand Materiality Matrix our management policies and major events GRI 3.5 4.14 4.15 4.16 4.17 what this means, more information is available and achievements of the company for the The materiality matrix used in this report in the chapter “GRI Index” of this report. period January 1 to December 31, 2013, was prepared in 2011, based on the guidelines The GRI oﬀers 84 performance indicators to from an economic, social and environmental of AA1000 Accountability Principles Standard be answered, of which we responded to 40. With point of view. 2008 which focuses on consultation and the intention of making this document relevant The report follows the reporting guidelines stakeholder engagement, developed by to all our stakeholders, we consulted with our proposed by the Global Reporting Initiative AccountAbility, British non-governmental stakeholders to ﬁnd out which aspects of our (GRI), a nongovernmental organization based organization specializing in these topics. The operation they consider most important for our other reference was GRI methodology itself. in Amsterdam, Netherlands, which proposes business to sustain itself in the long run. standard reporting to provide solid parameters These material aspects presented in so that companies can be evaluated by the market before their peers, and also to the materiality matrix below were our guide MAIN STAKEHOLDERS enable them to assess the evolution of their to choose which performance indicators we • Customers; own performance in relation to corporate would address. • Suppliers; sustainability. The principles that guided the Although all performance indicators • Employees; and report’s design and development are: balance, report only the year 2013, to maintain the • Communities surrounding our operations. comparability, accuracy, periodicity, clarity and report updated on its release date (2014, reliability of the information divulged. September), some contents of this publication SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 79 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index The process included analysis of internal GRI Indicators Report documents, online consultation to the internal From the material issues raised in this public and customer survey, as well as interviews consultation with our stakeholders, the GRI with then president of Embraco (João Carlos indicators related to each theme were selected. Brega), sustainability specialists and community To address these indicators, we created a work representatives. group with professionals from diﬀerent areas of the company which was responsible for In 2012, materiality was updated through obtaining the information that served as input a query to some of our stakeholders. Material for the report. aspects, maintained in this reporting process which guided us in the choice of performance indicators are: 1. Eco-efficiency 2. Sustainable energy solutions 3. People development and training 4. Ethics in business 5. Minimizing environmental impact 6. Respecting and valuing diversity 7. Product quality and customer satisfaction indexes SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 80 INFORMATION RELATÓRIO DE SUSTENTABILIDADE 2013 81 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index Direct and Indirect Global Energy Consumption GRI EN3 | EN4 Energy consumption (GJ) COMPRESSOR UNITS China Italy Slovakia Brazil Mexico Total Direct Energy 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 Natural gas 78,007 68,606 59,410 52,841 117,086 114,796 228,721 206,330 31,858 39,276 515,083 481,849 LPG 0 0 0 0 0 0 6,089 5,880 0 0 6,089 5,880 Diesel oil 399 220 28 0 1,531 2,006 1,845 1,926 59 37 3,862 4,189 Gasoline 1,318 1,449 0 0 0 1,801 140 131 2 2 1,459 3,383 Subtotal 79,724 70,275 59,438 52,841 118,617 118,603 236,794 214,267 31,920 39,315 526,493 495,302 Indirect Energy 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 Eletricidty 118,718 110,224 53,675 43,412 127,707 126,749 410,855 361,046 48,135 56,451 759,091 697,883 Subtotal 118,718 110,224 53,675 43,412 127,707 126,749 410,855 361,046 48,135 56,451 759,091 697,883 TOTAL 198,441 180,500 113,114 96,254 246,325 245,352 647,650 575,313 80,055 95,766 1,285,584 1,193,184 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 82 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index Energy consumption (GJ) OTHER UNITS Components Foundry Brazil (Electronics) China (Electronics) United States Total Direct Energy 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 Natural gas 0 0 10,445 12,105 0 0 0 0 987 2,003 11,433 14,108 Methanol 367 393 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 367 393 Propane 3,264 4,109 0 0 0 0 0 0 328 0 3,592 4,109 LPG 3,687 4,235 3,631 3,367 0 0 0 0 0 0 7,318 7,602 Diesel oil – 22 1,801 1,168 0 0 0 0 0 0 1,801 1,190 Subtotal 7,319 8,759 15,878 16,640 0 0 0 0 1,315 2,003 24,511 27,402 Indirect Energy 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 Eletricity 14,205 14,971 245,586 218,836 7,299 6,733 5,046 6,044 1,987 1,822 274,124 248,405 Subtotal 14,205 14,971 245,586 218,836 7,299 6,733 5,046 6,044 1,987 1,822 274,124 248,405 TOTAL 21,524 23,730 261,464 235,476 7,299 6,733 5,046 6,044 3,302 3,825 298,635 275,807 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 83 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index Emissions GRI EN16 GHG emissions (tCO2)* COMPRESSOR UNITS China Italy Slovakia Brazil Mexico Total 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 Direct Emissions 5,757 5,408 3,482 2,954 7,405 7,213 17,717 17,335 1,740 2,143 36,101 35,053 Indirect Emissions 33,046 30,682 7,201 5,831 8,939 8,872 7,381 9,650 8,022 9,408 64,589 64,444 Total 38,803 36,091 10,683 8,785 16,344 16,085 25,098 26,985 9,762 11,551 100,690 99,497 GHG emissions (tCO2)* OTHER UNITS Components Foundry Brazil (Eletronics) China (Eletronics) United States Total 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 Direct Emissions 490 563 969 1,009 62 47 0 0 73 0 1,594 1,619 Indirect Emissions 258 400 4,399 5,856 133 181 1,404 1,683 345 316 6,539 8,436 Total 748 964 5,368 6,865 195 228 1,404 1,683 418 316 8,133 10,056 * The methodology used is the GHG Protocol. All direct and indirect emissions arising from electrical energy consumption were recorded. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 84 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index Water Consumption GRI EN8 Water Consumption (m3) COMPRESSOR UNITS China Brazil Italy Slovakia Mexico Total 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 Wells 0 0 176,391 139,631 40,382 30,298 0 0 0 0 216,773 169,929 Water supply networks 134,231 118,336 68,023 73,037 10,370 10,743 105,163 86,688 63,900 76,282 381,687 365,085 Total 134,231 118,336 244,414 212,668 50,752 41,041 105,163 86,688 63,900 76,282 598,460 535,014 Water consumption (m3) OTHER UNITS Components Foundry Brazil (Electronics) China (Electronics) United States Total 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 Wells 14,355 11,238 94,527 88,524 0 0 6,540 3,757 0 0 115,422 103,519 Water supply networks 2,509 4,040 5,265 11,126 3,324 2,240 0 0 3,831 3,243 14,929 20,649 Total 16,864 15,278 99,792 99,651 3,324 2,240 6,540 3,757 3,831 3,243 130,351 124,169 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 85 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index Water discharge GRI EN21 Discharge of eﬄuents (m3) COMPRESSOR UNITS Brazil Italy Mexico Slovakia China Total 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 Return to collection point 75,768 146,782 48,214 38,989 0 0 83,396 79,345 63,227 50,869 270,605 315,985 Public Sewage System 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Evaporation 34,218 28,343 2,538 2,052 1,313 1,086 0 0 0 0 38,069 31,481 Irrigation 0 38,972 0 0 219 217 0 0 0 0 219 39,189 Total 109,986 214,097 50,752 41,041 1,532 1,303 83,396 79,345 63,227 50,869 308,893 386,654 Discharge of eﬄuents (m3) OTHER UNITS Components Foundry Brazil (Electronics) China (Electronics) Total 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 Return to collection point 13,660 8,601 52,890 63,777 N/D 2,240 N/D 3,757 66,550 78,375 Public Sewage System 0 0 0 0 N/D 0 N/D 0 0 0 Evaporation 3,204 1,035 8,981 12,265 N/D 0 N/D 0 12,185 13,300 Irrigation 0 3,364 0 3,679 N/D 0 N/D 0 0 7,044 Total 16,864 13,001 61,871 79,721 N/D 2,240 N/D 3,757 78,735 98,719 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 86 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index Non-hazardous and hazardous waste GRI EN22 EN24 Total Waste (t) COMPRESSOR UNITS China Brazil Italy Slovakia Mexico Total Non-hazardous waste 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 Economic recycling 12,708 7,914 65,270 50,168 5,590 5,006 19,852 19,701 3,666 6,150 107,086 88,939 Environmental recycling 0 229 8 73 1,027 544 3 2 0 726 1,038 1,574 Incineration 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Landﬁll 957 842 1,466 1,317 0 7 819 563 128 70 3,370 2,799 Construction/remedial waste 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Subtotal 13,665 8,985 66,744 51,558 6,617 5,557 20,674 20,266 3,794 6,946 111,494 93,312 Hazardous waste 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 Economic recycling 25 23 241 226 0 0 32 52 0 0 298 301 Environmental recycling 1 6 70 61 0 23 1,912 1,705 2 151 1,985 1,946 Incineration 39 32 683 635 0 0 0 0 92 60 814 727 Landﬁll 90 58 288 78 195 219 281 291 45 58 899 704 Subtotal 155 119 1,282 1,000 195 242 2,225 2,048 139 269 3,996 3,678 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 87 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index Total Waste (t) OTHER UNITS Components Foundry Brazil (Electronics) China (Electronics) United States Total Non-hazardous waste 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 Economic recycling 597 707 107 126 76 0 28 18 0 0 808 851 Environmental recycling 2 48 0 2 0 1 0 0 0 0 2 51 Incineration 0 0 0 0 0 0,1 0 0 0 0 0 0,1 Landﬁll 69 60 15,065 13,840 0 1 6 2 38 0 15,178 13,903 Subtotal 668 815 15,172 13,968 76 2 34 20 38 0 15,988 14,805 Hazardous waste 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 Economic recycling 4 13 1 3 2 83 0 0 0 0 7 99 Environmental recycling 3 4 3 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 6 7 Incineration 8 6 22 19 0 0 0 2 0 0 31 27 Landﬁll 8 6 58 51 1 0 0 0 0 0 67 57 Subtotal 23 29 84 76 3 83 0 2 0 0 111 190 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 88 INDEX RELATÓRIO DE SUSTENTABILIDADE 2013 89 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index GRI Index GRI 3.12 Proﬁle Indicator Information to be Obtained Page or Direct Response Status Report Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the organization’s most senior decision maker 6 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 31 2.1 Name of the organization 18 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services 18 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures 18 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters 18 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where its main operations are located or that are speciﬁcally relevant 18 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 22 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneﬁciaries) 18 Scale of the organization, including: • Number of employees • Number of operations 2.8 18 • Net sales or net revenues • Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity • Quantity of products or services provided 2.9 Signiﬁcant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership 26 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 23 complet partial SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 90 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index Indicator Information to be Obtained Page or Direct Response Status Report Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period 79 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 79 3.3 Reporting cycle 79 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 98 3.5 Process for deﬁning report content 79 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers) 79 3.7 Statement of any speciﬁc limitations on the scope or boundary of the report 79 Base for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations and other entities that can signiﬁcantly aﬀect comparability from 3.8 79 period to period and/or between organizations Responses to performance indicators follow the GRI protocols with respect to measurement 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations techniques and collection of data and are based on our internal monitoring systems In this report there are no re-statements of 3.10 Explanation of the eﬀect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports information provided in earlier reports 3.11 Signiﬁcant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary or measurement methods applied in the report There were no changes from the previous report 3.12 Table identifying the location of information in the report 90 to 96 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report The information disclosed has not been audited complet partial SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 91 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index Indicator Information to be Obtained Page or Direct Response Status Report Corporate Governance 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body 25 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive oﬃcer Not applicable For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of independent or non-executive members of the highest 4.3 There are no independent or non-executive members governance body Whirlpool SA holds an annual meeting with their shareholders. Moreover, this public has a 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body permanent communication channel, which can be triggered by the site, by phone and by e-mail Systems of variable remuneration are based on Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body (senior managers, and other executives) and economic goals and ensure consistency between 4.5 the organization’s performance the company’s performance evolution and the ﬁnancial recognition of leadership 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conﬂicts of interest are avoided 26 The competencies assessed of the members of the highest governance body are associated with 4.7 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conﬂicts of interest are avoided the knowledge that the executive has of Embraco’s business and their speciﬁc area of expertise 4.8 Statements of mission and values, codes of conduct, and internal principles 4 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identiﬁcation and management, including relevant risks and opportunities, 4.9 32 and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles 4.10 Processes for performance self-assessment of the highest governance body 25 We don’t fully adopt the Precautionary Principle, but we seek to act with environmental responsibility 4.11 Explanation of if and how the organization applies the Precautionary Principle by eliminating from products and processes substances proven harmful to the environment. 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses 33 4.13 Participation in associations and/or national/international organizations 28 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 79 4.15 Basis for identiﬁcation and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 79 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 79 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement 79 complet partial SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 92 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index Performance Indicator Information to be Obtained Page or Direct Response Report Status Economic Performance EC3 Coverage of pension plan obligations deﬁned by the organization 64 Aspect: Market Presence EC7 Members of senior management hired within the local community 63 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services oﬀered, primarily for public beneﬁt, through commercial, in-kind, EC8 72 or pro bono engagement Environmental Performance Aspect: Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption broken down by primary energy source 82 and 83 EN4 Indirect energy consumption broken down by primary energy source 49 and 50 / 82 and 83 EN5 Energy savings due to improvements in conservation and eﬃciency 49 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-eﬃcient or renewable energy based products and services 50 Aspect: Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 52 and 85 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 53 Aspect: Emissions, Eﬄuents, and Waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 51 and 84 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination 53 and 86 EN22 Total weight of waste, by type and disposal method 54 and 87 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and EN24 54 and 87 percentage of transported waste shipped internationally Aspect: Products and Services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services 42 and 47 EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by product category 42 complet partial SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 93 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index Indicator Information to be Obtained Page or Direct Response Report Status Labor Practices and Decent Work Performance Indicators Aspect: Employmen LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender 57 and 58 LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region 61 and 62 LA3 Beneﬁts oﬀered to full-time employees that are not oﬀered to temporary or part-time employees, by the main operations 64 Aspect: Labor/Management Relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 58 Minimum in advanced notice period(s) regarding signiﬁcant operational changes, including whether this procedure is speciﬁed in collective For being a global company and addressing diﬀerent LA5 legal aspects, Embraco has no minimum period for all its bargaining agreements plants, but respects all local laws Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety The Internal Commission for Accident Prevention (CIPA) is the only formal health and safety committee we have Percentage of employees represented in formal joint management – worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on globally and is present in all our operations in the Brazilian LA6 occupational health and safety programs territory. The 92 members of CIPA represent 100% of our workforce in Brazil, which equates to 50.7% of our global employees. More information on page 68 LA7 Rate of injuries, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism, and work-related fatalities by region and by gender 68 and 70 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist employees, their families, or community members LA8 70 regarding serious diseases Beijing: The safety month, every year Work protection, supervision and inspection Brazil: Stability aer dismissal of up to 60 days and by INSS, stability aer dismissal of up to six months LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions Mexico: The Company must ensure and provide personal protection equipment as well as all conditions for Health and Safety mentioned in the federal work legislation Operations in Qindao, Italy, Slovakia and Russia do not have topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions complet partial SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 94 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index Indicator Information to be Obtained Page or Direct Response Report Status Aspect: Training and Education LA10 Average hours of training per year, per employee, broken down by gender and functional category 66 We do not have a speciﬁc program for this purpose, however we have a leadership model that directs us in the way to work and develop ourselves, and – in the LA11 Programs for competencies management and continuous learning and end of career manufacturing areas – we have started implementation of WCM, a program whose people development pillar performs a mapping of employees’ competencies of the factories and of all production processes LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance reviews 65 Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity Composition of groups responsible for corporate governance and breakdown of employees by functional category according to gender, age LA13 60 group, minorities and other diversity indicators Aspect: Equal Remuneration for women and men LA14 Proportion of base-salary and remuneration between men and women, broken down by functional category and operations in signiﬁcant locations 63 Human Rights Aspect: Investment and Procurement Practices Percentage and total number of signiﬁcant investment agreements that include human rights clauses or that were subjected to HR1 37 human rights screening HR2 Percentage of signiﬁcant contractors, suppliers and other partners that have undergone screening on human rights and the measures taken 37 Aspect: Child Labor HR6 Signiﬁcant operations and suppliers identiﬁed as having signiﬁcant risk for incidents of child labor and measures taken to abolish child labor 37 Aspect: Forced and Compulsory Labor HR7 Operations and suppliers with signiﬁcant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor and measures taken to contribute to its elimination 37 complet partial SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 95 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index Indicator Information to be Obtained Page or Direct Response Report Status Society Performance Aspect: Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units submitted to risks assessments related to corruption 26 SO3 Percentage of employees trained on anti-corruption policies and procedures of the organization 27 SO4 Measures taken in response to incidents of corruption 27 Aspecto: Políticas Públicas SO5 Positions relative to public policy and participation in public policy development and lobbying 28 and 29 Product Responsibility Aspect: Customer Health and Safety Life cycle stages of products and services in which health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement, and percentage of products PR1 34 and services subject to such procedures Aspect: Product and Service Labeling Type of information about products and services required by labeling procedures, and the percentage of products and services subject PR3 41 to such requirements PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including survey results measuring customer satisfaction 40 complet partial SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 96 RELATÓRIO DE SUSTENTABILIDADE 2013 97 Message from the Board Products and Technologies About Us Corporate Governance Strategy for Sustainability Our Products’ Lifecycle Doing More with Less People who make Embraco Private Social Investment About this Report Adjacent Information GRI Index Credits GRI 3.4 Layout, Review and Production Luz Publicidade General Coordination Embraco Corporate Communication and Sustainability Translation Spin Traduções GRI Writing, Design and Consulting RICCA RI Embraco Corporate Communication and Sustainability Photos Rua Rui Barbosa, 1.020, caixa postal 91 Embraco Archive CEP: 89219-901 Joinville Santa Catarina, Brazil If there are doubts, suggestions or comments about the content of the report, contact us by e-mail comunicacao@embraco.com. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 98
