Sustainability report 2013 With our customers all the way Content Steel manufacturing is energy and resource-intensive and has an impact on the environment globally and locally. SSAB’s high strength steels offer advantages for sustainable growth. SSAB’s environmental strategy is ­ long-term in nature and based on efficiency and innovation. One challenge facing the steel industry is to secure important competence in the future. Developing opportunities in a global and safe work environment are critical. SSABs activities 2013 Systmatic Business overview 1 ­environmental work 29 CEO´s comments 2 SSAB in a sustainable world 30 Drivers and challenges 4 Policies and guidelines 32 Strategy for value creation 6 Corporate governance 33 Stakeholders 8 SSAB's offering 34 Systematic environmental work 35 More efficient processes 36 Economic value creation 10 Employees and competence Suppliers 40 43 SSAB in the community 44 Swedish Steel Prize 11 Reporting and dialogue 45 Products and solutions 13 GRI-table 46 Focus: The EU's plan of action for the 14 Steel Talk ABC – a glossary 48 steel industry Addresses 49 The environment 15 Continuous improvements 16 Focus: The Steel eco-cycle 19 Social responsibility 20 High-performing organization 21 Focus: Safety work for contractors 24 Focus: Business ethics and internal dialogue 25 Securing the supply chain 26 Focus: Visit to supplier in Russia 27 Hardox Wearparts Center Stirling, Skottland On the front page, SSAB’s welders are shown repairing the customer’s bucket on site, in order to increase productivity at the recycling center in Stirling, Scotland. SSAB has mobile work teams that are able to visit customers on short notice – with our customers all the way. About this report SSAB’s Sustainability Report 2013 reflects the most important A complete content index, in accordance with Global Reporting aspects of SSAB’s activities from a sustainability perspective. The ­Initiative (GRI) 3.0, is presented on pages 46–47, and SSAB has report covers events that occurred during the 2013 calendar year. self-declared the reporting to be Application Level C. SSAB’s Reported data has been compiled during the reporting period and Sustainability Report 2013 also constitutes Communication on covers all business areas and subsidiaries, unless otherwise stated. Progress (CoP) reporting to Global Compact, where activities and The environmental data refers mainly to the Swedish and North results related to Global Compact principles are reported through American part of operations. The Sustainability Report is published cross-reference to a selection of GRI indicators. In the event of in Swedish and English. In the event of differences between the questions or comments, please contact SSAB at info@ssab.com. English translation and the Swedish original, the Swedish Sustainability Report shall prevail. SSAB in brief Vision A stronger, lighter and more sustainable world. Strategy SSAB shall be: a global leader within high strength steels, the leading supplier on our domestic markets, and the leader within value added services. In order to achieve this, we require: flexible operations, a superior customer experience, and a high performing organization. Offering SSAB is a leading supplier of high strength steels, offering a uniquely broad range of products with different qualities and dimensions. SSAB’s solutions also include value added services, from concept to finished delivery. Total shipments increased 6% Needs on the aftermarket constitute an important driver in SSAB’s development work and knowledge base. Proximity to the customers is very important as regards customer support and product development. Through the provision of advice either on site at the customer or at any of SSAB’s research centers SSAB contributes knowledge regarding ways in which the qualities of high strength steels can be utilized to maximum effect. SSAB Wear Services also offers advice, repairs, and sales of spare parts to the aftermarket. Markets and customers Business areas Group The business is organized into three business Sales, SEK m Total Försäljning total sales areas; SSAB Americas, SSAB EMEA and SSAB APAC as well as the subsidiary Tibnor, which SEK m 18,055 50,000 is the largest steel distributor in the Nordic 14,382 40,000 region. The largest customer segments are 5,245 30,000 Automotive, Construction machinery, Material 1,761 20,000 handling and Heavy transport. In 2013, the SSAB SSAB SSAB Tibnor EMEA Americas APAC 10,000 three largest markets comprised the US, 0 09 10 11 12 13 Sales Sweden and Germany. EBITDA, SEK m The steel industry 749 Operating profit and margin In 2013, the steel industry was characterized by 464 excess capacity, reduced demand, and strong 56 124 SEK m 3,000 % 30 pressure on prices. The steel industry plays a key SSAB SSAB SSAB Tibnor 2,500 2,000 25 20 role in the structure of society and in our dayEMEA Americas APAC 1,500 1,000 15 10 to-day lives. SSAB’s high strength steels contri500 5 Capital employed,SEK m 0 09 10 11 12 13 0 bute many advantages to sustainable growth, -500 -5 -1,000 -10 27,744 which is predicated upon achieving the same -1,500 -15 -2,000 -20 goals by using fewer resources. At the same Operating profit Operating margin time, the steel production process is energy13,773 intensive, harmful, and dependent on natural 1,268 1,240 The share’s performance resources, and is thus governed by rigorous SSAB SSAB SSAB EMEA Americas APAC Tibnor environmental and safety requirements. SEK 140 OMX Stockh Number of employees 120 SSAB A The year in brief 100 80 2013 2012 6,054 60 Sales, SEK millions 35,022 44,640 40 Operating profit/loss, SEK millions –1 ,131 2,512 1,488 20 Profit/loss after financial items, SEK millions –1, 728 1,998 782 200 0 09 10 11 12 13 Earnings per share, SEK –3.29 4.82 SSAB SSAB SSAB Tibnor Operating cash flow, SEK millions 1,956 2,200 EMEA Americas APAC Class A share Nasdaq OMX Stockholm Source: Six Trust Proposed dividend, SEK 0.00 2.00 Business overview The construction of a 183 meter long causeway in Ludvika opened officially during the spring 2014. Innovative design and SSAB’s high strength structural steel Domex and Weldox enabled an efficient industrial production. The year in brief • Launching of sustainability strategy • Decision to replace oil with natural gas in Borlänge • Battle of the Numbers concluded – an important springboard for continued work on equal opportunities • Continued focus on safety work for employees and contractors The weak trend on the steel market in 2013 meant a continued strong focus on cost control and production flexi­bility. At the same time, we continued to develop our high strength steels, which constitute an important part of our sustainability strategy. Efficiency improvements prioritized In many ways, 2013 was a challenging year for the steel industry. In Europe, the excess capacity on the market remained and many blast furnaces were mothballed during the year. Demand in Asia, especially China, did not take off as expected, and in the US the first signs of a clear recovery were not discernible until the second half of the year. Challenging market conditions have imposed major demands for cost-efficient operations. The efficiency program that was introduced within EMEA in 2012 was completed during the first quarter, and the program will reach full effect in 2014. As part of this program, an agreement was reached with most of our employees in Sweden regarding reduced working hours and pay, during a period of six months. One of our blast furnaces in Oxelösund was also shut down temporarily this year. Many of the improvements that have taken place within EMEA are thanks to increasingly systematic work on what we refer to as SSAB One: a common work method based on creating improved flows, increased flexibility and improved quality in our operations. We have also continued efficiency improvements in our US operations. Our steel mills in the US, which have always been among our most cost efficient, demonstrated during the year that this position could be strengthened even further. All of these factors, combined with the resolute work and loyalty of our employees, meant that we were in a much stronger position to withstand the severe economic climate than we otherwise would have been. Sustainability strategy and objectives During the year, we have also adopted a sustainability strategy which supports SSAB’s strategic objectives. 2 CEO's comments ssab sustainability report 2013 » It is now scientifically proven that the environmental benefits of high strength steels also greatly outweigh the impact on the environment from steel production.« Based on our ambition of increasing the use of high strength steels, we rail transport to a greater extent than at present and transportation are working with our customers to produce applications and solutions of steel by truck is more expensive for the industry and less environthat are more durable than applications made of standard steels. We mentally friendly. Thus, it is extremely important that the infrastructure also have an ambition to minimize the environmental impact of our be developed so that we can transport our products in a safe and operations. Consequently, the sustainability strategy also includes environmentally-friendly manner. targets for reductions in our use of energy, CO2 emissions, and waste. We have also continued our training in business ethics, which 87 Proven benefits of high strength steels percent of employees within the business areas had taken part in by We frequently point out that high strength steels provide major the end of the year, and we will also continue to ensure compliance economic and environmental benefits for our end customers. It is with our Code of Business Ethics. now also scientifically proven that the environmental benefits of high During the year, we also participated in Battle of the Numbers, a strength steels also greatly outweigh the impact on the environment multi-company project that aims to increase the number of females from steel production. Within the scope of a research program lasting in manager positions. Ten of the largest several years called Stålkretsloppet (the companies in Sweden have participated Steel eco-cycle), researchers have in the project, and as a result, several » During the year, we have also assessed steel from a life cycle perspective initiatives have been developed to adopted a sustainability strategy and found that the environmental benefits increase equal opportunities at SSAB, are significant, especially in the automotive which supports SSAB’s strategic which will now be implemented. sector. This knowledge strengthens our One of our most important sustainaobjectives.« continued efforts to realize our vision: a bility target is to reduce lost time injuries stronger, lighter and more sustainable world. per million work hours by at least 5 percent per year. We will achieve this by continuing with our safety work through OHSAS 18001 and by Stable basis for development further emphasizing that safety improvements are always top priority. SSAB has been a signatory to the UN’s Global Compact for several Despite our ambitious aims as regards safety in the workplace, during years, thereby making clear the responsibility we assume as regards the autumn we suffered a severe accident when two people were killed the environment, people and communities that are affected by our while carrying out repair work at our plant in Luleå. This was a serious operations. This report constitutes a part of our communication on and entirely unacceptable occurrence. Everyone who works at SSAB how we operate based on the Global Compact principles. We will – be they employees or contractors – must be safe in the workplace. continue to support the UN Global Compact and its principles. Work is continuing on incorporating those principles into our strategy Tougher regulations and their consequences and ensuring that they become integrated into our culture and our During the year, the new rules for EU emission rights were announced, day-to-day operations. and our allocation will not be in line with our full production capacity. At the beginning of 2014, we were able to announce our proposed SSAB’s blast furnaces already generate extremely low CO2 emissions combination of the Finnish company Rautaruukki. We thus took a compared with our competitors, our blast furnace in Luleå for example major step in the development of the steel industry in this part of the is among the front runners from an international perspective. world. Rautaruukki shares our ambitions on sustainability issues. How­ever, the competitiveness of SSAB and other European steel Together with Rautaruukki we can create a much more competitive producers will be adversely affected by an excessively low allocation company. We can operate our business even more flexibly and cost of emission rights. In the long term, this may result in increased steel efficiently and we can strengthen the offering to our customers. production in countries where emissions are not regulated – which, of course, will benefit neither the steel industry nor the environment. It is also worrying that the rules regarding ship fuel in the Baltic Sea, the North Sea and the English Channel are now being sharpened compared with shipping in other waters. This will lead to increased costs for the Swedish industry, since at present there are no wellMartin Lindqvist functioning alternative means of transport. It is not possible to use President and CEO ssab sustainability report 2013 CEO's comments 3 Steel builds a modern world Drivers and challenges Without steel, there would be no food, no clothes, no hospitals, and no bridges. In one way or another, modern society depends on products made of steel. Steel in agricultural machinery and tools used for growing and harvesting that ends up as food on the table. Steel in trucks that transport food products to the store. Steel in the fridge where the food is stored, and steel in the pot in which the food is prepared. Steel makes daily life possible, and steel can be recycled over and over again. By innovation and through close cooperation projects with its customers, SSAB and its high strength steels contribute to a more sustainable society. Environmental issues are global, and so are the needs of SSAB’s customers (and their customers, in turn) concerning process and product development. The more the benefits of high strength steels are exploited, the greater the beneficial effects for the environment. INCREASED COMPETITION FOR COMPETENCE The industry as a whole is facing a challenge when it comes to sourcing important competence for the future. Surveys indicate that in the western world interest in studying natural sciences and engineering is in decline, and unless this trend is reversed there is a risk of competence shortages in the future. Consequently, competition is increasing to attract jobseekers possessing desired competence and there are increasing demands on employers to be able to offer an attractive workplace with opportunities for development. Great potential in the transport sector Transportation People, products and goods around the world are being carried by various means of transport, every second of every day. Transpor­ accounts for: 20% tation accounts for 20 percent of total global primary energy use and approximately 13 percent of greenhouse gas emissions. High strength steel enables safer transportation through increased protection for passengers and freight. The use of high strength steel in transpor­ of total global primary energy use 13% tation vehicles means that weight and thereby fuel consumption can be reduced, thus contributing to reduced emissions. New, innovative designs can further increase the efficiency of the vehicle. From a product life cycle perspective, there is potential to reduce passenger of total global car greenhouse gas emissions by almost 70 percent. greenhouse gas emissions All facts regarding the global steel industry in pages 4-5 are from worldsteel, 2012 4 Drivers and challenges ssab sustainability report 2013 COMPETITION AND CO2 RESTRICTIONS The EU CO2 emission rights trading system is becoming increasingly restrictive as regards the allocation of emission rights. At the same time, European steel companies are competing in the global market. A distortion of competition runs the risk of hampering European production. To achieve an efficient global change in CO2 emissions, more countries must introduce a corresponding system. Pressure is increasing on the US and Asia to introduce regulations. In 2012, Australia declared its intention to link its emission rights trading system with the EU’s trading system as from 2015. This is a step towards increased international climate work. Suppliers and raw materials DEVELOPMENT AND GROWTH IN SOCIETY In the long term, demand is increasing for efficient use of In recent years, China and other emerging markets have demonstrated resources and utilization of by-products in both the production a higher rate of growth than other markets, and a need to develop their and user stages. The objective is to secure access to raw materials infrastructures in a sustainable and maintainable manner. An increasing from reliable suppliers evidencing a high level of responsibility for population requires new buildings in which to live, study and work. Global both people and the environment. The ability of companies to urbanization demonstrates that growth is taking place primarily in metroimpose requirements and monitor conditions at their suppliers politan areas; greater numbers of people living within smaller areas. constitutes an important confidence issue. Stringent requireThe use of high strength steels in structures, instead of standard steels, ments regarding safe working conditions are imposed, particularly generates many advantages – fewer resources are used and the strucin respect to the raw materials industry which is often associated tures are lighter, stronger and more durable. More than 50 percent of with a risk-prone work environment. global steel production goes to construction. Resource efficiency and recycling Steel is one of the most recycled structural materials in the world. When all sectors are considered, over 70 percent of steel is recycled globally. Efficient use of resources is an issue which has a bearing on both the economy and the environment. Obsolete steel structures give rise to new raw materials, instead of generating waste. In addition to surplus energy, the steel production process also gives rise to a number of by-products. For example, slag is processed into new products with various areas of use instead of being deposited in landfills, and energy-rich gases become electricity and district heating, instead of being burnt off. The industry’s objective is to minimize waste and to deposit in landfills as little waste as possible. THE STEEL INDUSTRY AND global economy CO2 targets AND TECHNICAL DEVELOPMENT The steel industry is a very cyclical industry which is greatly affected by The world’s steel industry accounts for almost 7 percent of global the state of the global economy. The European steel market is currently CO2 emissions. In Sweden, SSAB accounts for a large share of the characterized by excess capacity due to declining demand. Among other country’s total emissions. At the same time SSAB’s blast furnaces things, this is due to the slower rate of growth in China. This imposes are among the most efficient in the world. The SSAB Group emits on strong demands to have flexible and efficient cost structures in place in average 1.2 tonnes of CO2 per tonne of produced steel, compared order to be a competitive company when the economic climate recovers. with a global average of 1.8 tonnes. With currently known technolThe EU, which is the second largest steel producer in the world, ogy, CO2 emissions from iron ore-based steel production can be is reviewing structural and political measures in order to address the reduced only marginally. Increased demands for reduced CO2 excess capacity in the steel industry. According to the OECD’s forecasts, emissions require new steel production technology. In addition, the future increase in demand will come primarily from the construction, carbon capture and storage are required to achieve a more radical transportation and engineering industries in developing economies. reduction in emissions. Extensive research and development is taking place within these areas. ssab sustainability report 2013 Drivers and challenges 5 A stronger, lighter and more sustainable world Strategy for value creation The vision indicates the long-term focus of SSAB’s work. The economic climate of recent years imposes strong demands for perseverance, cost efficiency and innovation. SSAB’s work has been focused on achieving increased efficiency and greater flexibility, aiming at being one of the most profitable steel companies in the world. During the year, SSAB launched a new sustainability strategy. SSAB’s overall strategic priorities remain in place. Vision VALUES A stronger, lighter The customer’s business in focus We always take an active interest in the customer’s business and seek long-term relationships. By sharing knowledge, and more together we create value. True sustainable world We are dedicated and proud of what we do. We build strong relationships by being open-minded, straightforward and honest, and by sharing information and knowledge. Together with our customers, we will go further than anyone Always ahead else in realizing the full value of stronger, lighter and more We are result-oriented. To achieve the highest performance, durable steel products. we always proactively seek to be innovative and enhance our expertise further. LAUNCHING OF SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY During the year, SSAB developed a sustainastrategy contains targets for reducing the possi­bilities provided by high strength steels. bility strategy with clear monitoring goals, most significant sources of impact on the SSAB considers this to be the Group’s most which is presented in this report. SSAB is environment from the operations – energy important contribution to more sustainable a global company with operations in 45 consumption, emissions, and waste. Within development. By using high strength steels, countries and a strong position on its the area of social responsibility, the targets the customers can manufacture products domestic markets, namely the Nordic region relate to safety, employee development, that require fewer resources, are more and North America. In the long term, we and business ethics. durable as well as stronger and lighter than envisage increased demand for high SSAB’s vision of a stronger, lighter products made of standard steels. Thus, strength steels on the emerging markets of and more sustainable world focuses on an increased share of high strength steels Asia, Latin America, Eastern Europe and how, together with our customers, we represents both a strategic objective and Russia. The strategy has been developed in are to develop products that exploit the a sustainability objective. order to support the overall strategic objectives and enhance SSAB’s competitiveness. Global Reporting Initiative G4 As a global company, SSAB operates in The fourth generation guidelines from Global Reporting environments that are characterized by Initiative (GRI), the international guidelines for sustainability different cultures, values and traditions. reporting, were launched in 2013. SSAB currently applies G3 SSAB must operate a profitable business, and intends to report in accordance with G4 as from the while at the same time promoting long-term 2014 reporting year. As result of changes in the guidelines, sustainable development. Our business must SSAB has been particularly a clearer focus on materiality, SSAB has begun to be characterized by high ethical standards, a signatory to the prepare the transition to the updated reporting framework. UN’s Global Compact environmental responsibility and social since 2010. responsibility. Thus, the sustainability 6 Strategy for value creation ssab sustainability report 2013 SSAB’s strategic, financial and sustainability objectives products and s a ble olu tain tio n u s Leader within S s high strength SSAB’s strategy Taking the Lead is steels aimed at securing the Company’s Min for all involved Leader in Leader within long-term development and domestic value added WHAT SSAB ess imizing envir value for shareholders and other markets services MUST BE stakeholders, while at the same taking n the lead r time promoting long-term i THE WAY FOR Fa sustainable development. Flexible Superior operations customer SSAB TO ACHIEVE SSAB’s overarching objective is experience on m SUCCESS to be one of the most profitable ent steel companies in the world. High-performing al organization im pa ct STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES FINANCIAL OBJECTIVES SSAB’s strategic objectives relate to the six parts of the strategy. SSAB has four financial objectives within three areas. Strategy Objective Area Objective Leader in domestic markets Leader in terms of profitability and volumes in Profitability Taking into consideration the need to strengthen the North America and the Nordic region balance sheet and dividend policy, the objective is that Leader within high strength High strength steels shall account for 50% of the return on capital employed over the business cycle steels shipments, of which 35% to emerging markets shall exceed 15% Leader within value added 50% of shipments shall include value added Capital The Group’s operations are cyclical. The objective is a services services structure long-term equity ratio of approximately 50% and a long-term net debt/equity ratio of 30% Superior customer experience Leader in customer satisfaction surveys Dividends Dividends shall be adapted to the average earnings level High-performing organization Attractive employer with motivated employees. over a business cycle and, in the long term, constitute One of the world’s leading steel companies in approximately 50% of profit after tax, taking into considterms of health and safety eration the net debt/equity ratio. It shall also be possible to use dividends to adjust the capital structure Flexible operations Profitability at 70% capacity utilization SUSTAINABILITY OBJECTIVES SSAB’s sustainability objectives have been produced in order to supplement and support the strategic objectives. These sustainability objectives consist of environmental targets aimed at minimizing the impact of operations on the environment, and SSAB’s social responsibility objectives, aimed at achieving fairness for all involved. An increased percentage of high strength steels constitutes both a strategic objective and a sustainability objective that contributes to more sustainable products and solutions. Sustainability strategy Objective Environmental responsibility By the end of 2018, individual activities shall, in a sustainable manner and when taken together on an annual basis, have: • Reduced by 100,000 tonnes CO2 emissions derived from fossil fuels • Reduced by 20 GWh the use of purchased energy • Reduced by 10,000 tonnes the quantity of material deposited in landfills or sent for destruction externally Sustainable products • High strength steels shall account for 50% of shipments, of which 35% to emerging markets Social responsibility • An annual reduction by at least 5% in lost time injuries per million work hours • All employees shall have annual performance dialogues • An Employee Satisfaction Index of at least 90 • Ensuring compliance with SSAB’s Code of Business Ethics and behavior in accordance with our values • All employees shall be trained in business ethics ssab sustainability report 2013 Strategy for value creation 7 Openness and dialogue Regular contacts with stakeholders In SSAB’s operations there are a large number of areas of contact with different groups of stakeholders, and all dialogues must be characterized by openness and honesty. In the sustainability work, it is particularly important to obtain comments and feedback in order to engage proactively and foster confidence in SSAB. Large risk – large responsibility great value. This does not, however, divert “In our analysis, the “mining, metals and steel” focus away from our desire to see continuous sector is classified as a high risk industry, improvements and measures to increase meaning that we consider the core operations energy use efficiency and reduce CO2 emisto have a major social and environmental sions in the production processes. We are impact. Thus, we have high expectations that seeking clearer results and direction as regards companies in the industry will demonstrate a the work. Anna Nilsson Helena Larson high level of preparedness to address risks With respect to safety, the implementation relating to the environment and people, and of OHSAS 18001 provides an important signal, “WE ARE SEEKING will continuously show results.” underlining the fact that the work is serious. CLEARER DIRECTION As outside observers, we wonder what are the Top priority given to energy and safety differences between the work of the business AND TOUGHER “As regards SSAB, we consider the top priority areas, since the results are so different, and OBJECTIVES” areas to be energy and climate, as well as how experiences are shared within the Group.” Swedbank Robur is one of SSAB’s largest health and safety. shareholders, and SSAB is included in a When it comes to energy and climate, we Increased demands for anti-corruption number of its funds. SSAB’s investor and note that SSAB is responsible for a large share work and supplier monitoring CSR team meet regularly with Swedbank of the total CO2 emissions in Sweden, but that “Demands for work to prevent corruption, and Robur’s sustainability analysts. Anna the Company’s high strength steel products are a systematic approach to conditions and the Nilsson, Head of Sustainability Analysis, also able to contribute to major reductions in impact on suppliers, are extremely relevant as and sustainability analyst Helena Larson, emissions by users. This represents an imporregards SSAB. As the world changes, our give their impression of SSAB. tant opportunity for SSAB, on which we place demands and expectations are increasing as to 8 Stakeholders ssab sustainability report 2013 MEETING WITH MINISTER Dialogue with politicians and governmental authorities is important for SSAB since its operations are affected to a large degree by local and international rules and directives. In the autumn, SSAB Oxelösund hosted a visit by Sweden’s Minister for the Environment Lena Ek. The meeting provided the opportunity to present the environmental benefits of SSAB’s high strength steels in terms of product characteristics and effects in the user stage. The meeting also addressed the EU’s emission rights trading system and how it affects SSAB. LOCAL DIALOGUES It is important to maintain good relations with the communities around SSAB’s major plants. Within SSAB EMEA, SSAB has met the public at a series of different meetings what constitutes sound preparedness on these dealing with, primarily, the impact of production on the issues, and the bar has been set higher. We immediate environment in the form of noise and emissions welcome SSAB’s work of recent years and into the air. SSAB provides regular information about expect continued development in these areas changes made and is attentive to comments. going forward.” The issue of air quality around the steel mills is also a subject which is being addressed within the international Seeking a systematic approach and results industry organization, worldsteel. During the summer, a “As regards all areas that we consider relevant, working group on air quality visited SSAB in Luleå. The party we want companies to be able to show objectives, discussed dust emissions and other emissions into the air. measures taken and results. We are looking for facts, data and descriptions of clear measures taken. Management commitment plays a key role in the work and we appreciate the fact that SSAB’s CEO consistently addresses the most important sustainability issues in his presentations SSAB IN SUSTAINABILITY INDICES to the capital market. A number of investors and analysts assess SSAB’s In our analysis of development and trends, share based on the company’s environmental, we see issues that may become relevant to SSAB social and governance performance. SSAB has been selected for inclusion in the Ethibel EXCELin the future, for example an increased focus on LENCE Investment Register since 13/01/2014. conflict minerals, tax liability issues and risks in This selection by Forum ETHIBEL indicates that the customer chain.” the company performs better than average in its sector in terms of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). In addition, SSAB maintains its inclusion in the OMX GES Sustainability Sweden Ethical Index. ssab sustainability report 2013 Stakeholders 9 Economic value creation Docol Tube R8 is a tube that is developed specifically for racing. Docol, with its high-strength steel properties, combined with the ability to absorb energy improves performance and safety. SSAB’s offering SSAB’s offering is focused on products and solutions that utilize the productivity and environmental benefits provided by high strength steel. Together with the customers this enables stronger, lighter and more durable results. By strengthening its offering on the wear steel aftermarket, SSAB is also supporting the end-users who wish to increase the lifespan of equipment which is subjected to tough use. Efficiency and innovation allow SSAB to identify new areas of use and markets for by-products from the steel production process. 15 YEARS OF INNOVATION Swedish Steel The Swedish Steel Prize was arranged for the first time in 1999. Since then, the number of entries and participants has increased steadily, and the prize has established Prize celebrates itself as one of the most prestigious in the industry. This year’s event attracted more than 750 visitors from 45 countries and a large number of different industries. Over the course of the years, 800 entries have been submitted, of which more than 60 in 15 years 2013. The prize is independent and open to all users of high strength steels, not only SSAB’s customers. A MEETING PLACE FOR INNOVATIVE THINKING The event, which lasts for three days, is an important forum for networking, exchanging The aim with the Swedish Steel Prize is knowledge, as well as ideas about the future development of high strength steels. to inspire steel companies around the Visitors have the possibility to participate in Experience Days with visits to the world to develop new, innovative soluproduction plants in Sweden. In addition to plant visits, they can choose to see different segments based on industry and interest; this includes ”steel dating” in tions which utilize the potential of high which specific issues is discussed together with SSAB’s steel experts. strength steel. The prize, which was 2012 saw the establishment of University Challenge, a special prize awarded established to encourage the use of high to students who have either developed their own product or further developed an already existing product. The award attracts university students from around strength steels, is aligned with SSAB’s the world. The 2013 winner, Universida de Estadual de Campinas from Brazil, vision of creating a stronger, lighter and represented by a student team that developed a racing car with reduced weight more sustainable world. and enhanced performance. ssab sustainability report 2013 Swedish Steel Prize 11 Endless possibilities A shared vision concerning the future of steel All nominations and winners demonstrate that there are always new angles for producing stronger, lighter and more durable solutions. The theme for this year’s event was “Moments”. Winner of the Swedish Steel Prize 2013 to reduced welding. Improved aerodynamics This year’s winner was Mack Truck Inc., part of also contribute to a reduction in fuel conthe Volvo group. Their new suspension system sumption. includes two Y-shaped components made of high strength steel which replace conventional Moments from the history of the prize plate springs. The result is a multifold The 15th anniversary was an opportunity improvement in performance for heavy vehito look back at winners over the years. The cles – improved safety and better road grip, first winner, the Swedish company Bromma in­creased driver comfort, and a reduction of Conquip, was able to increase the lifting up to 25 percent in tire wear and tear. This capacity by up to 80 percent of some of its benefits the transportation economy and the harbor-based lifting yokes, by using high environment. The solution is a pioneering strength steels. The 2007 winner, Baryval improvement and will have a major impact. Condeco Technologies from Switzerland Serviplem from Spain, succeeded in reducing was nominated for its cookware made of by 2 tonnes the deadweight of its semitrailer Other nominees high strength steels. The steel improves food and cement mixer, thereby increasing the This year’s winner was chosen in the face of preparation conditions and, in addition, has payload by almost 20 percent. In 2010, Van tough competition from three other nominees. reduced the time in the actual manu­facturing Reenen Steel from South Africa won with its From Poland, PESA Bydgoszcz’s contribution process, thereby contributing to significant truck body for mining dumper trucks, where was a new chassis for train carriages in which energy savings. high strength steels made possible an high strength steel has been crucial as regards The Australian company Tuff Trailers 8 tonne reduction in weight. collision safety. It satisfies all four collision safety presented a new trailer with an innovative The US company Deere & Company requirements in accordance with the new Eurodesign. High strength steel combined with received the prize in 2011 for its harvester, pean standard. The high strength steel design closed ramp beams contributes to a more in which high strength steel generated signi­ contributes to a significant increase in absorbed flexible, safer, lighter and more efficient vehificant manufacturing productivity gains. energy in the event of a collision. cle. Production costs are much lower thanks PESA Bydgoszcz S.A., Poland Condeco Technologies AG, Switzerland Tuff Trailers Pty Ltd, Australia »At the beginning of the prize’s history, focus was placed on application and performance – weight reductions were achieved by replacing soft steel with high strength steel. Today, we see that environmental benefits, end user benefit, and a holistic approach to the product from design to production, are the drivers for competition entrants, whose objective is to enhance their competitiveness by utilizing high strength steels! « says Jan Kuoppa, one of the founders of the prize 12 Swedish Steel Prize ssab sustainability report 2013 Enhancing the customers’ competitiveness Products and solutions that benefit productivity SSAB’s strength lies in solutions which enhance the customers’ competitiveness through high-quality steel products and unique knowledge about the characteristics of the steel. This relates to many small improvements as well as important, revolutionary breakthroughs. STRONGER, LIGHTER AND MORE DURABLE SHIPMENTS The Swedish Steel Prize entries illustrate the wealth of possibilities that high strength steels – the core of our offering – can contribute to the customers. A winner one year Thousand tonnes was an entrant where the weight of a truck bed had been reduced by no less than 8 tonnes 5,000 by replacing standard steel with high strength steel, with the vehicle’s fuel consumption 4,000 being reduced by 10 percent. Another example is that a truck bed with a frame made 3,000 of SSAB’s high strength steels can achieve weight reductions of 1,300 kg, compared with using standard steels; this can be translated into a reduction of 30 tonnes in CO2 2,000 emissions over the life-span of the truck. 1,000 Many innovations come about through close cooperation with the customers, for Standard steel High strength steel example through SSAB Knowledge Service Center. Thus, the number of development 0 09 10 11 12 13 projects conducted together with our customers throughout the world is a gauge of success; during the year, that number increased by almost 20 percent. MORE DURABLE, LONGER In the customer’s cellphone During the year, SSAB launched a new customer SSAB was one of the first steel companies to launch a offering called Wear Services. SSAB aims to be cellphone app for its customers, providing information a complete supplier of services to the wear steel and functional tools. The app was updated in 2013 aftermarket. This is also one of the main objecwith new functions, including the WeldSaveCalc™ tives in the strategy. The objective is that SSAB, tool which calculates production savings in the together with its co-operation partners, shall welding process. In addition to the app, SSAB has also be developed into a One-Stop-Shop for Wear developed other valuable software, such as Instant Services. The segments on which SSAB aims ValueCalc™. The tool can calculate the economic and to focus are primarily mining, infrastructure, environmental savings when upgrading to steel from recycling and construction machinery. This SSAB. It calculates fuel savings, payload revenue, means that the life of already durable products effects on lifespan, and reduced emissions when can be extended even further. In times when the upgrading to Hardox and Domex. The tool is particucustomers’ customers – the end-users – are larly suitable for calculations relating to applications choosing to put major investments on hold, this connected to beds, semitrailers, buckets and containprovides a possibility to contribute to upgrading ers. The calculation service is available in seven differand extending the life of the products. ent languages and in different currencies. Cars of the future Vehicles and transportation have great improvement potential in terms of environmental impact. SSAB is actively participating in FutureSteelVehicle 39 (FSV), an international project for designing a light car made of steel. The project has produced a new steel chassis weighing 177 kg, which is thus 39 percent lighter than today’s cars and comparable with chassis made of, e.g. aluminum and other similar materials. The aim is to meet the requirements that enter into force in 2020 for a modern, ‘green’ electric percent lighter than today’s cars car. The chassis is designed to provide space for batteries and the technology required in such a car. ssab sustainability report 2013 Products and solutions 13 FOCUS: THE EU’S PLAN OF ACTION FOR THE STEEL INDUSTRY SSAB seeks specific political solutions During the year, the EU Commission presented an action plan for the European steel industry. The plan points out the challenges and conditions required to strengthen the steel industry. At the same time, industry associations in Europe and Sweden are taking initiatives regarding the industry’s prospects and possibilities. SSAB is participating in the dialogue and seeks more specific proposals for solutions from political quarters. What is the EU saying? the costs resulting from EU regulation), and industries through smart steel applications. The EU Commission notes that the industry is contribute to innovation and research. Reduced automobile weight and more suffering from low demand and global excess efficient power plants are cited as examples. capacity, while at the same time high energy Eurofer is seeking a holistic approach Eurofer believes that the potential prices and investments to make production During the year, the European industry reductions in emissions far exceed the steel more environmentally adapted are placing a organization, Eurofer, issued its response to industry’s carbon footprint and that this burden on operations. Even if the EU foresees the EU Commission’s “Energy roadmap should, instead, form the basis for EU policy. a slow increase in global demand, demand for 2050”. steel in the EU is still 27 percent below the In its response, Eurofer calls into question the “Steel shapes a better future” pre-crisis level. The EU accounts for 11 percent degree of realism in the EU’s plan in light of The Swedish steel industry has formulated a of total global steel production, making the the possibilities currently available, and vision for 2050 which is based on the theme region the second largest producer after states that the EU is running the risk of of challenging and pushing boundaries to China, which accounts for almost one half of driving the steel industry out of the region. drive development. The vision is encapsuall production. Between 2007 and 2011, 10 Eurofer cites studies carried out by Boston lated in the words “Steel shapes a better percent of jobs in the industry disappeared. Consulting Group showing a likely scenario future”. SSAB is a member of the Swedish The action plan which the EU Commisthat the steel industry will be able to reduce Steel Producers’ Association and has partici­ sion presented in June 2013 considers the CO2 emissions by 15 percent between 2010pated in the production of the vision. With need for a new political strategy for the steel 2050 through best available technology, the vision, the industry gives three undersector. The proposal involves establishing a process optimization and increased use of takings, which can be summarized as follows: high level group which will contribute to recycled iron raw material. The level of CO2 • To lead technical development – through enhancing the competitiveness of the Euroreduction that the EU is seeking is not possiresearch and innovation, as well as steel pean steel industry by promoting innovation, ble without major technological breakwhich pushes the boundaries of technology securing competence and jobs in the case of throughs in steel production methods. The • To produce creative individuals – to offer major restructurings resulting from the trials that are currently taking place are far stimulating work environments to achieve excess capacity, and creating growth. This from achieving any concrete or large-scale creative societal solutions through global involves strengthening demand for EUresults. cooperation produced steel on the domestic markets and Eurofer argues in favor of a holistic • To create environmental benefit – to outside the EU by ensuring a level playing approach and points to another study from guarantee products of benefit to society field for competition. The Commission also Boston Consulting Group which indicates the with resource-efficient production wishes to cut the industry’s costs (including potential to reduce emissions from other » Although the steel market is currently weaker than anticipated, we have a long-term belief in the future. The world needs steel and steel can contribute to a better future.« Martin Lindqvist, President and CEO of SSAB 14 Focus: The EU’s plan of action for the steel industry ssab sustainability report 2013 The environment Domex Profile 700 structural hollow profiles are developed to replace mild steel and aluminum profiles in applications where demands are imposed on high payload capacity in combination with light weight. Such applications are for example agriculture equipment and trailer body structures. SSAB’s environmental work The environmental work at SSAB involves systematic improvement work focused on energy, efficient use of resources, and climate issues. With production at less than full capacity, optimizing the operational processes represents a challenge. During the year strong focus was placed on recycling by-products and materials for use as raw materials in the production process. Continuous improvements Focusing on resource and energy efficiency FROM OIL TO NATURAL GAS During the year, SSAB’s Board of Directors decided on an investment enabling that the reheating furnace for slabs at the rolling mill in Borlänge is to be converted from fuel oil to natural gas. SSAB’s environmental target of reducing nitrogen oxide emissions will thereby be achieved. In addition, CO2 emissions will be reduced by 40,000 tonnes per year and nearly all emissions of sulfur dioxide will be eliminated. The conversion will mainly be carried out during 2014 and is estimated to be completed at the beginning of 2015. The liquid gas must be heated in order to become flammable gas and this will take place using heat from the district heating network’s return pipeline. An area of use has thus been found for this low value energy, thereby contributing to more efficient resource utilization for Borlänge Energi, a local energy company. New environmental targets As in previous years, the environmental work is focused by the Environment Council on measures which generate gains in terms of resources Parallel with the work on producing new environmental and the environment, in both the short term and long targets for the Group, the SSAB Environmental Council has term. In 2013, SSAB also worked on producing and worked on producing environmental targets for the different parts of the business. As an example, SSAB APAC has distributing new environmental targets for the Group. established targets for reducing energy use and reviewing its waste flows, primarily sewage, waste and dust emissions. New quenching FOCUS ON RECYCLING IN MOBILE The plant in Mobile has entered into a new, long-term tower in Luleå In Luleå, a new quenching agreement with a purchaser of dust separated and tower will replace the current captured from the electric arc furnace. This will result in quenching tower, which significant cost savings of up to USD 1 million per year. dates from 1974. The deciIn Mobile, bricks from the lining of ladles in the steel shop sion was taken by the Board account for the largest volumes of production waste. of Directors in 2013 and is However, thanks to recycling the waste volume is being aimed at significantly reduced by 75 percent, with cost savings of up to USD reducing dust emissions, 250,000 being achieved. to less than 25 grams of dust per tonne of coke. The REVISED ALLOCATION OF EMISSION RIGHTS tower will be equipped with During the autumn, the EU Commission revised the prelimian emissions monitoring nary allocation of CO2 emission rights for the 2013 – 2020 system which will provide trading period. Notice had earlier been received from the improved possibilities for Swedish Environmental Protection Agency in December regular monitoring. The 2011. SSAB’s allocation of free emission rights for 2013 new quenching tower is equals 71 percent of the allocation in 2012, and will be gra­d­ expected to be operational ually reduced to 62 percent by 2020. The low allo­cation is by 2015 at the latest. not unique to SSAB, but instead affects the entire European steel industry. SSAB believes that the current system distorts competition from a global perspective. SSAB has appealed the allocation decision. 16 Continuous improvements ssab sustainability report 2013 NEW HOT stoves IN OXELÖSUND AND LULEÅ In summer 2014 a new hot stove in Oxelösund will be operational. The investment will increase operating safety and, thanks to a higher temperature of the hot blast air, the energy (coal and coke) used in the blast furnace process will be reduced. In September 2013, it was decided to undertake a major renovation of one of the four hot stoves in Luleå in order to increase energy efficiency. From landfill to raw material with Merox The work of SSAB’s subsidiary, Merox, is focused on optimizing the processing of by-products, scrap and waste from steel production in Sweden. The aim of using as much material as possible led to the digging up and sifting of an old stack of deposited small pieces of scrap. In total, almost 18,000 tonnes of scrap, most of which was in pieces of less than 4 mm, was mixed into briquettes for the blast furnace. Just over 2,000 tonnes was so coarse that it could be charged directly into the blast furnace. During the year, THE SWEDISH ENERGY AGENCY trials have continued on producing pellets out of sludge from the LD AND RESEARCH PROGRAM converter’s gas purification facility. The sludge is rich in iron and the manu­ The Swedish Energy Agency, together with the Swedish Steel factured pellets can replace part of the normal iron ore pellets. During the Producers’ Association, has decided on a new research year, more than 1,000 tonnes of pellets were produced from LD sludge. program, “The iron and steel industry’s energy use research Merox has a presence at all of the Swedish production centers and has and development”, extending over the period 2013–2017. been able to contribute significantly to raw material optimization within EMEA. The program will receive a grant of up to SEK 85 million from the Swedish Energy Agency, subject to total co-financing from the industry of at least SEK 127.5 million. CHEMICAL-FREE CYANIDE PURIFICATION The program’s long-term vision is that the Swedish iron When starting up or reducing operation in the blast furnace, cyanide is and steel industry in 2050 shall be competitive, a leader in formed in the blast furnace gas. The cyanide is captured in the water which know-how on the international market, and deliver products is used to purify the blast furnace gas. Previously, large volumes of chemicals that are energy efficient, as well as climate and environmentally were used to purify the blast furnace gas from cyanide, but SSAB’s personnel friendly. The research areas include increased resource effihave developed a purification method based solely on water and sunlight. ciency, and energy efficiency in particular, as well as reductions The reduced quantity of chemicals is positive for both the environment in the use of fossil fuel and lower CO2 emissions. and financially. International cooperation projects In 2013, SSAB also actively participated in and difficult to assess, and also due to infracoke and sinter. A pilot facility has been two projects within the European cooperastructure problems and increased opposiconstructed at Tata Steels’ plant in the tion project called ULCOS, both of which are tion to CO2 storage in Europe. The EU ComNetherlands. SSAB participated in the initial aimed at achieving a 50 percent reduction in mission’s requirement for providing a grant trials, but has decided not to take an active CO2 emissions from steel production. Both from the EU, NER300, is that the demonpart in the continued development, since projects include carbon capture and storage stration project must begin CO2 storage in the technology is considered to have little in order to achieve the target. 2015. It was an excessively narrow timestrategic value for SSAB. During the year, a decision was taken to frame for carrying out the testing and The members of the ULCOS project put on hold a planned demonstration facility obtaining the permits required. have decided to produce an updated list for the ULCOS blast furnace in France. The second ULCOS project, HIsarna, of developments and ideas regarding new Among other things, this was due to the fact involves an entirely new type of process steel production technology involving low that the financing is linked to the price on which uses coal and iron ore in its natural CO2 emissions. emission rights, which at present is low state, instead of processed raw materials ssab sustainability report 2013 Continuous improvements 17 TIBNOR AND PLANNJA Water research in the steel industry ACHIEVE THEIR GOALS Plentiful access to water is crucial for steel production, particularly Tibnor has established a number of in order to rapidly introduce quenching into the processes. The environmental targets for the year, water circulates in closed systems, but a part is released into waterof which the one with the greatest courses in a purified state. In Oxelösund, for example, more than impact is the fill rate in outgoing 90 percent of the water in the processes circulates in closed transports. Transportation accounts systems. The operations are governed by environmental permits for most of Tibnor’s carbon footprint, and guidelines regarding discharged water. In Montpelier and which can be reduced through Mobile, millions of tonnes of water are recycled in a system which constant development of logistics quenches the steel and protects machinery and equipment. systems. In 2013, Tibnor increased Starting 2013, SSAB is participating in a three-year EU project the fill rate by 9 percent compared aimed at studying the use of water within the European steel industry, with the previous year and reached as an element in making the industry more efficient. Together with its fill rate target (60 percent). steel companies and steel research companies from England and In 2014, adjustments to Tibnor’s Italy, SSAB will study water flows from the steel processes and their transportation system will continue, content in order to identify a way of optimizing the processes. with the aim of achieving a 70 percent fill rate. Plannja is focused on maxi­ PERMIT MATTERS AND DIALOGUE WITH GOVERNMENT AGENCIES mizing the use of raw materials in The work relating to the Dannemora mine, where SSAB conducted operations in the past, continued production and reducing wastage, in during the year. Sample testing was carried out, which will form the basis for proposals regarding order to mitigate the impact on the cleanup measures in places where the ground is contaminated and a report based on the sample environment and improve productesting and previous studies will be completed in 2014. tion economy. Plannja has achieved In connection with start-up following the maintenance outage in July, a minor explosion occurred at further improvements through conthe coking plant in Luleå. The incident temporarily led to increased emissions of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen tinued development of work methods oxide, and also disabled the biological water purification plant. It was, however, possible to take care of the for handling coils and material in the waste water until the purification process was restored. The explosion did not cause any other damage. production lines at all plants. The An independent firm has reviewed and tested the melt shop baghouse in Montpelier to verify that result is a raw materials use rate of it complies with dust emission standards. The tests, which were monitored by the environmental agency 95.6 percent newly produced steel in Iowa, showed satisfactory results. (compared with 95.1 percent last In Oxelösund, two oil leakages into the sea occurred in 2013, corresponding to approximately year), thereby meeting the target 1 cubic meter of hydraulic oil. SSAB carried out cleanups and notified the occurrences to the County set for 2013. Administrative Board. Work and results for reducing CO2 emissions, 2010–2013 SSAB is constantly engaged in reducing 5,000 tonnes per year by releasing municipality’s CO2 emissions by 4,000 CO2 emissions from its operations through 10 million cubic meters of coke oven gas. tonnes per year. systematic analysis, upgrading of equip• In 2012, a project was completed for • Focused endeavors in 2013 to increase ment, and investment in new technology. increasing the degree of filling the torpethe percentage of scrap metal in blast Presented below is a brief summary of some does in Oxelösund. Among other things, furnace 4 in Oxelösund resulted in a of the most important measures taken in the loss of hot metal in conjunction with reduction in coal and coke. This correrecent years. sulfur purification was reduced, leading to sponds to a reduction of 50,000 tonnes • Since 2010, efficient production a reduction of 7,000 tonnes in annual in annual CO2 emissions. planning and recycling have reduced CO2 emissions. • In 2013, a decision was taken to convert CO2 emissions in Luleå by more than • In 2012, a new energy recycling plant was from oil to natural gas in one of Borlänge’s 100,000 tonnes per year. brought into operation in Finspång which two reheating furnaces for slabs at the • In 2010, hot stoves for the smaller blast uses chimney gas from the organic coating hot rolling mill. It is estimated that CO2 furnace in Oxelösund were replaced. New line and provides 1,500 individual homes emissions will be reduced by 40,000 technology reduces CO2 emissions by with district heating, thereby reducing the ­tonnes per year. 18 Continuous improvements ssab sustainability report 2013 FOCUS: THE STEEL ECO-CYCLE Environmental benefit outweighs environmental impact The environmental research program Stålkretsloppet (the Steel eco-cycle) shows that, from a lifecycle perspective, the environmental benefits of high strength steels outweigh the impact on the environment from the steel production process. The research makes a ground-breaking contribution to the debate concerning the impact on the local environment from production, on the one hand, as compared with the environmental value for society and global possibilities, on the other. » Life-cycle analysis The results show that new steels shape a safer and Steel is almost 100 percent recyclable. In order to understand the impact of steel on better future. Life-cycle calculations confirm the environsociety and the environment from an overall mental benefit of the steel for lighter steel constructions and perspective, Stålkretsloppet carried out a more efficient manufacturing processes. The new knowledge number of life-cycle analyses (LCAs). An LCA constitutes an important tool for demonstrating the import­ assesses the impact on the environment from an eco-cycle perspective of changes in ance of steel for sustainable development in society. « raw materials, steel production processes, Göran Andersson, Stålkretsloppet Program Manager recycling and transportation, as well as the manufacture and use of steel constructions. The largest benefits can be gained before reduced CO2 emissions are many times re­duction in the process time, while at the and after the steel production, through environgreater than those associated with the prosame time the material qualities of the high mental improvements in the raw material duction of the actual steel. strength steel are improved even further. stage and the user stage, as well as in conIn the case of passive or fixed construcjunction with recycling. Despite the fact that tions, such as buildings and bridges, the environ­ Providing knowledge regarding the the environmental impact actually increases mental impact is primarily connected to the environmental impact of steel somewhat when producing advanced steels production of the steel, the life of the conThe Stålkretsloppet research has resulted in (as compared with standard steels), when the struction, and the possibilities for recycling. software called EcoSteel which calculates impact is considered per unit of weight of the High strength steels have a longer useful life, the environmental and economic effects of steel, this is far outweighed by the environand are almost 100 percent recyclable. using high strength steels in constructions. mental benefit in the user stage. An important aspect of the project involves Improved production economy disseminating knowledge about the technolCars or bridges Nine projects have also been environmenogy, materials and environmental impact. The environmental benefits are greatest tally assessed based on the steel production in active constructions, usually vehicles. process technology. Stålkretsloppet has, Facts about Stålkretsloppet: Between A reduction in the weight of the vehicle leads among other things, identified ways to 2004 and 2013, the Stålkretsloppet to an immediate reduction in fuel consumpimprove the production economy by steel eco-cycle program worked on tion. The use of active constructions is concombining a number of adjustments of the promoting increased understanding sidered to account for 90 percent of their total process parameters with a reduction in the of the value of steel in society. The environmental impact, primarily resulting heating temperature. For the steel producer, research program was a cooperation from fuel consumption. Consequently the this means major energy gains and a project involving Mistra (the Swedish Foundation for Strategic Environ­ mental Research), the steel industry, 40% 5-10% 10-40% the engineering industry and the recycling industry. The results comprise several concrete instruments for calculating the environmental value High strength steels can High strength steels in active Hight strength steels in passive construcof steel from a life cycle perspective, reduce up to 40 percent constructions can reduce CO2 tions can reduce CO2 emissions by 10-40 the weight in steel emissions by 5-10 percent during percent during the life cycle of the focusing on broad societal benefit. constructions. the life cycle of the construction. con­structions. Read more on www.stalkretsloppet.se ssab sustainability report 2013 Focus: The Steel eco-cycle 19 Social responsibility Prelaq RWS is a color coated steel plate that is mainly used for products for roof drainage. The color is water proof which diverts rainand melt-water. As a result the steel plate can withstand a tougher climate. People and society Safety continues to be top priority at SSAB and the year has provided a reminder that constant focus is necessary. The work on monitoring suppliers has continued. SSAB has continued with its strategic work of strengthening the organization and securing competencies which can support the overall strategy going forward. High-performing organization Focusing on a safe and stimulating workplace STRATEGIC FOCUS During the year, work has continued on identifying future competence needs and developing the organization based on supporting the strategy. SSAB has developed a model for identifying competence needs. It shows, among other things, the importance of more specialized sales expertise in order to further increase the benefit to the customer, in line with our strategy. A new Wear Services customer offering renders possible a composite approach within a strategically important area. The unit includes staff from all of SSAB’s business areas. Parallel with the organization within Wear Services, SSAB EMEA’s sales organization has been reviewed with the aim of increasing efficiency and strengthening proximity to the local market. A High-performing organization is one of the cornerstones of SSAB’s strategy. This involves long-term work on developing and strengthening the performance culture, zero vision as regards accidents, and continuing to be an attractive knowledge company. Developing employees and creating exciting career opportunities are important priorities. During 2013, SSAB participated in the ’Battle of the Numbers’, an equal opportunities initiative, which is now continuing within the Group. Battle of the Numbers Together with nine other companies in indicators, to be monitored quarterly per • Recruitment: In order to broaden the Sweden, SSAB participated during 2013 in an business area and for the Group. re-cruitment base for vacant managerial equal opportunities initiative called Battle of • Diversity training: An important priority positions, at least one of the candidates the Numbers, which is aimed at increasing the is to increase knowledge and awareness should be female. With respect to recruitnumber of females in management positions. among all managers. In 2014, a workshop ment of vacation temporary replacement Ten future or current female managers from is to be held for the Company’s most senior staff, at least 50 percent shall be female. each of the participating companies act managers. In stage two, it is proposed that This applies also to recruitment to our as internal consultants and are included in all managers undergo mandatory diversity Business Development program, which a network. training. consists of young professionals who are to SSAB’s working group has proposed a • Female role models: Use a concept to work on strategic projects. number of initiatives as to how SSAB can work promote female role models in order to show • Career planning: Establish individual career to promote equal opportunities, and has prepossibilities and career paths within SSAB. development plans for a number of female sented the proposals to the Group Executive • Succession planning: A target for succesmanagers and managerial candidates. Committee. Six of these areas are prioritized sion planning for managerial positions and The aim is to broaden their expertise and as immediate focus areas: other key positions is that at least one experience within areas such as sales, • Diversity scorecard: Defining measurable female and one male employee shall be marketing and production. targets and implementing key performance identified as possible candidates. ssab sustainability report 2013 High-performing organization 21 COMPETENCE PLANNING IN SSAB APAC There is intense competition for qualified employees and competences. At the beginning of the year, SSAB APAC launched an in-depth program aimed at attracting, retaining and developing employees. The program includes indentifying key employees for key positions. STAFFING AND FLEXIBILITY SSAB has continued to work on reducing its savings achieved by the Company were costs and creating greater flexibility in order allocated to resolving redundancies which to adapt the operations to the prevailing followed the announcement of a curtaileconomic climate. Previously announced ment of operations in the autumn of 2012. cost reduction and flexibility improvement Within SSAB EMEA, a reduction in activities have been carried out. personnel was carried out in accordance During the period December 2012 to with the redundancy notice given in 2012. May 2013, a program was implemented 450 employees, primarily within production, involving reduced work hours and pay at were affected at the plants in Oxelösund, SSAB’s operations in Sweden. For a period Borlänge and Luleå. of six months, work hours were reduced to Administrative parts of the HR, 80 percent (plus 10 percent organized Finance and Purchasing support functions voluntary preventive health care activity), in the SSAB EMEA business area have been while wages and salaries were cut to 90 outsourced in order to increase flexibility. WOMEN WITHIN THE STEEL INDUSTRY percent. Approximately 4,000 employees During 2013/2014, SSAB holds the presiparticipated in Sweden. About half of the dency of the Association of Women in the Metal Industries (AWMI). The association has just over 1,100 members from 32 companies Business ethics via e-learning in North America (the US and Canada) and SSAB’s training in business ethics covers has the aim of supporting development and the entire Group and is focused on careers for women in the metal industries. SSAB’s Code of Business Ethics, InstrucAWMI focuses its efforts within four main tions regarding the prohibition of bribery, areas: Education, Growth, Network and and the Whistleblower reporting routine. Mentorship. Education activities can relate The training, that was initiated in 2013, is to metallurgy, green energy and female available in three languages –Swedish, leadership. The Growth area focuses on English and Chinese. leadership and communications capability, At the end of 2013, more than 87 while Network and Mentorship provide the percent of employees in the business members with the possibility to exchange areas had taken the training. experience and inspire development. 22 High-performing organization ssab sustainability report 2013 INNOVATIVE SAFETY INITIATIVES IN SSAB AMERICAS At the operations in Mobile, SSAB works with safety ambassadors –referred to as Safety Champions. A selected group of employees has particular responsibility for serving as role models on various safety issues at the plants during a specific period of time, with rotating responsibility. The members of the group receive extra support or, if needed, training in order to act as ambassadors. This elected position contributes to increased knowledge and awareness on the part of the employee and is temporarily included as part of the employee’s work duties. Serious accident in Luleå During the year, a safety initiative focusing on lifting crane During the year, two people employed by a contractor carrying work was launched covering all operations in Americas. The backout maintenance work at SSAB’s plant in Luleå lost their lives in an ground to the initiative is that a disproportionately large number of accident. The Swedish Work Environment Authority, the police and reported incidents involve lifting cranes. SSAB aims to identify the SSAB have opened investigations into the cause of the accident. The underlying causes by studying lift crane procedures in greater investigations are expected to be completed in 2014. Read more on detail. The initiative is focused on two aspects – the equipment page 24 about SSAB’s safety work regarding contractors, and more (design, maintenance, operational safety) as well as attitudes and generally about safety work in the operations on page 41. behavior (including training). SAFETY INSPECTIONS AND AUTHORITY REQUIREMENTS Continued focus on safety in ssab apac During the year, both of the plants in the US have undergone safety Within SSAB APAC, safety work has continued with several new inspections within the scope of SSAB’s insurance cover for accidents initiatives during the year. Among other things, a crisis and preparedand losses. The inspection reports pointed out a number of improveness plan has been produced, and information about it has been ment measures to be taken, including clearer fire safety equipment, distributed throughout the business area. but no adverse comments were made requiring immediate measures. SSAB regards inspections as an opportunity to verify and receive feedback regarding the preventive safety work which is aimed at protecting both employees and property. Vocational training for maintenance engineers Government authorities in North America require that SSAB In order to tackle the problem of a shortage of engineering comemployers carries out extra health checks for employees who are petence in the future, SSAB has initiated an entirely new vocational exposed to potentially harmful gases or substances. This may, training course for maintenance engineers, together with Borlänge for example, include exposure to lead. SSAB conducted biological Municipality, Dalarna University and Campus Nyköping. A quarter sample testing for comparison with established standards and of the training course involves practical training, which will be guidelines. In this way, early signs of any side effects from exposure carried out primarily at SSAB’s plants in Borlänge. There are initially can be identified and necessary measures taken. 70 participants. SSAB CHALLENGES STUDENTS As part of Swedish Steel Prize, for the second time SSAB is inviting universities to participate in the University Challenge competition. The primary aim of the competition is to increase awareness among students regarding the benefits of high strength steels. The secondary aim is to increase awareness of SSAB and its products, and also as a prospective employer. The competition criteria for University Challenge are the same as for the Swedish Steel Prize. The 2013 winner was the Brazilian contribution from Universida de Estadual de Campinas – UNICAMP. A faster, stronger and lighter racing car was the aim of the 40 engineering students from the University in Brazil. With the help of high strength steels, they succeeded in winning both Formula SAE competitions and the Swedish Steel Prize University Challenge 2013. Read more about the Swedish Steel Prize on page 11. ssab sustainability report 2013 High-performing organization 23 ­ FOCUS: SAFETY WORK FOR CONTRACTORS An important responsibility for all A safe work environment is top priority for SSAB. Since 2010, the focus and intensity of the safety work has been greater than ever before. It applies not only to SSAB’s employees, but also equally to partners and contractors. The year’s serious accident in Luleå provides a reminder of why this is a top priority. Serious accident about its internal safety guidelines. Where Cooperation with contractors In October 2013, two people lost their lives in work extends over several days, regular followSSAB EMEA has taken the initiative for a an accident in Luleå when carrying out mainup meetings are held regarding the work series of seminars to be held at the respectenance work. Both were employed by a conenvironment work. tive production centers together with mantractor retained by SSAB. The Swedish Work agement representatives from the contracEnvironment Authority, the police and SSAB Work environment forum tor companies. The seminars will be held durhave opened investigations into the cause of SSAB is working in various ways to get across ing the first quarter of 2014 with the aim of the accident. The investigations are the importance of safety. A work environachieving cooperation regarding challenges expected to be completed in 2014. The ment forum for contractors was established and risks within the work environment area. Company is assisting the Work Environment in Luleå two years ago, with the aim of jointly In accordance with governing legislation, Authority and the police in their investi­ creating a safe workplace. SSAB wishes to during the year a number of events were gations into the accident. promote a culture in which both its own reported to the Swedish Work Environment employees and contractors’ employees are Authority since they were classified as » Contractor responsibility “serious”. In those cases where contractors Contractors play an important role at SSAB. are involved, the investigation is always They often possess the expertise and We must stop and carried out in cooperation with the contracauthorization that SSAB lacks to carry out instruct employees and tor company in order to jointly pinpoint the various types of work. There may also be contractors when they take basic causes, take measures, and prevent mandatory requirements that inspections be any repeat of the occurrence. a risk or fail to comply with carried out by a third party. At the production plants in Sweden, SSAB established safety rules. All Reporting EMEA is responsible for coordinating work with work which is not carried out Contractors must report risk observations, contractors. This responsibility involves in a safe manner must be incidents and accidents directly to SSAB’s ensuring that different activities do not personnel. The aim is, of course, to increase discontinued.« expose those taking part to risks during the safety in the workplace, both for contractors SSAB EMEA’s work environment policy. course of the work. The retained contractor is, and SSAB’s employees. In Borlänge, a pilot Read more on pages 23 and 41 about in turn, responsible for conducting a risk SSAB’s preventive work regarding safety project is underway in which the ten largest assessment regarding the work. in the workplace. providers of contracting work within SSAB According to the Swedish Work EnvironEMEA report in MIA (The Metal and Steel ment Authority’s regulations, work permits safe and are able to report any safety risks. Industry’s work environment information are required for work which is characterized The work environment forum has been system). as “hazardous hot work”, namely cutting, welcomed and well attended. Participants welding and such. SSAB goes further and, in include employer representatives and Systematic safety work Luleå, Borlänge and Oxelösund, requires work employee representatives from both SSAB Compromising with safety is not accepted and permits for all temporary work. SSAB carries and the contractors. SSAB has a zero-tolerance program. A safety out a risk review together with the contractor Regular work environment meetings are and work environment management system, in order to identify possible risk aspects. Each held with contractors also at SSAB EMEA’s OHSAS 18001, is implemented in all major risk review, together with agreed measures, is other production centers. For example, there production sites. The two steelmaking plants documented in the written work permit. are safety committees for contractors aimed in the US are regarded as among the best in All contractors working at SSAB must at following up events and exchanges of the industry in terms of safety work, which also also undergo the industry’s safety training experience. In Oxelösund, work environment covers contractors. Since 2012, contractors course, SSG Entre. This includes information meetings are held with larger contractors are obliged to report their own preventive about work environment legislation, risks in (30-40 in number) at which they present safety work and must be able to present a the workplace, and preventive work. SSAB their work environment work to SSAB. documented safety program in line with SSAB provides local safety reviews and information Americas’ safety work requirements. 24 Focus: Safety work for contractors ssab sustainability report 2013 FOCUS: BUSINESS ETHICS AND INTERNAL DIALOGUE Training to support business ethics goals The year has seen continued focus on what business ethics mean within SSAB and what is expected of our employees. Several training courses have been held with the aim of strengthening and disseminating SSAB’s regulations and guidelines, and placing them in a practical context. Targets provide clarity Business ethics are an important part of SSAB’s work relating to sustainability and social corporate responsibility. As the business becomes increasingly global and more complex, the need for training in business ethics increases. This is also reflected in the tougher legislation enacted in several countries in recent years. SSAB sees great potential for steel products to emerging markets in Asia, Latin America and Eastern Europe. More than one training is available in three languages – Constant new ethical dilemmas third (35 percent) of shipments of high Swedish, English and Chinese. The meaning As a supplement to, and reminder of, business strength steels shall go to emerging markets. of SSAB’s guidelines is explained through the ethics, SSAB has continued to present examSeveral of the countries in these markets top use of graphics and clear language. Employees ples of ethical dilemmas via the intranet, in international corruption indices, a factor who have taken the course are then tested order to encourage continued internal which requires SSAB to ensure that its by being presented with a number of ethical dialogue. The examples illustrate various employees are familiar with, and work dilemmas, which they must resolve based on practical situations to which SSAB’s employees against, corruption. SSAB’s guidelines. may be exposed, and how a particular situation Two of SSAB’s new sustainability objecis to be handled in accordance with SSAB’s tives relate to the business ethics area: Training in SSAB APAC and guidelines. The examples are simple and • Ensuring compliance with the Code of SSAB Americas taken from everyday life and can involve Business Ethics and behaviour in During the year, employees in Kunshan and everything ranging from an employee being accordance with our values Beijing in China have undergone business offered concert tickets, deliveries on the side • All employees shall be trained in business ethics training. The training, which was from suppliers, or how problems involving ethics previously carried out for SSAB EMEA’s close relatives are to be handled. employees, is aimed primarily at employees E-learning reaches many who have contacts with customers in their Reporting of improprieties Shared ethical guidelines are fundamental in day-to-day work, for example sales staff – Whistleblower a global group such as SSAB. With a global and marketing personnel. The purchasing Everyone working at SSAB must feel e-learning module, it is possible to reach out func-tion is included. responsibility to react when improprieties to as many employees as possible in order to The training is based on SSAB’s values, are uncovered. Several years ago, SSAB provide basic training in business ethics and policies and guidelines. During the course of established a Whistleblower function for the implement SSAB’s anti-corruption work. The the training, clarification is provided as to entire Group to which employees can report project was launched in 2012 with a target what is meant by corruption and bribery, and serious improprieties and violations of the that 75 percent of all employees within the how SSAB’s anti-corruption rules are strucCompany’s policies. Employees can report business areas would take the course in tured. This is followed by a discussion anonymously and are protected against 2013. By the end of 2013, that target had focused on practical, real life examples. reprisals or punishment. been exceeded and 87 percent of the Within SSAB Americas, employees receive In order for all employees to be familiar employees had taken part. It has been a priregular training regarding relevant business with the Whistleblower function and how it oritized issue for the business areas that as ethics rules as a supplement to the Group’s operates, the function is included as a manmany employees as possible take the course. global training. This is due, for example, to antidatory element in the e-learning business The training focuses on SSAB’s Code of trust laws, conflict minerals regulations and ethics course. In 2013, nine complaints were Business Ethics, rules prohibiting bribery, and anti-corruption laws, including the US Foreign reported to the Whistleblower function. the Whistleblower reporting function. The Corrupt Practices Act. ssab sustainability report 2013 Focus: Business ethics and internal dialogue 25 Securing the supply chain The next stage in the work During the course of the year, SSAB continued to provide the organization with the means to ensure sustainable and responsible purchasing work. Focus continued to be placed on suppliers of raw materials, but the work also extends to suppliers of, for example, service operations and transportation. DEVELOPMENT OF MONITORING PLATFORM IDENTIFICATION OF SUPPLIER RISKS SSAB has continued the work of developing and implementing a pur­ During the year, the work was completed on a systematic chasing system for the business areas. With a joint purchasing system, identification of risks relating to the Group’s suppliers. The improved conditions will be created for the continued work on monitoring survey places suppliers in various risk categories based on the suppliers. During the year, gradual implementation of the purchasing countries in which they operate. It illustrates risks relating to, system began in SSAB EMEA and SSAB Americas. for example, human rights, labor conditions and corruption. During the year, SSAB informed and trained SSAB EMEA’s purchasing The risk survey indicates that few suppliers are in the high-risk organization about the new supplier monitoring process, which is based group; it is on that group that SSAB focuses its work. on self-assessment and visits to suppliers. Service suppliers in India and the Czech Republic SSAB has outsourced parts of the service operations to India and the Czech Republic in order to increase operational efficiency. SSAB has signed an agreement with a supplier which is a signatory to, and works in accordance with, the Global Compact’s ten principles. The agreement entitles SSAB to carry out audits and to monitor the supplier’s compliance with statutes and regulations on site. The agreement was preceded by site visits. The supplier has demonstrated that its work on human rights, labor conditions and corruption is in line with SSAB’s guidelines. In India, SSAB’s supplier is particularly active in work concerning equal opportunities issues and creating proper conditions for Indian women to participate in working life. SSAB has the possibility to monitor the operations in India and the Czech Republic to ensure that the suppliers comply with SSAB’s guidelines. The agreements stipulate that SSAB is also entitled to take measures in the event the suppliers fail to perform with their obligations. Responsible transportation suppliers SSAB purchases large volumes of transportaout inspections to ensure that freight is tion services and cooperates with large, securely loaded and that truck drivers are commedium-sized and small companies within all plying with mandatory driving and rest hours. types of transportation. It is important for SSAB At the beginning of 2014, SSAB decided to that the suppliers we engage comply with laws initiate its own audits of carriers, focusing on and regulations and adhere to signed agreeheavy road transports, to further strengthen ments. This means, for example, that any truck quality requirements. As a member of Q3 – driver not using mandatory safety equipment Forum for Sustainable Transports –SSAB has will be sent away from SSAB’s plants without access to support for further clarifying requirebeing able to load. SSAB also cooperates with ments regarding the work environment, road the police’s heavy vehicles unit which, on a safety and the environment in conjunction with number of occasions during the year, carried transportation. 26 Securing the supply chain ssab sustainability report 2013 FOCUS: VISIT TO SUPPLIER IN RUSSIA Visit to a Siberian coal mine During the year, SSAB’s purchasing organization together with the Corporate Social Responsibility function visited a coal supplier in Russia. The visit provided an opportunity to test the supplier inspection assessment models that were developed during the year and provided useful experience for the future. Established cooperation Assessment On-site observations The visit was part of the regular quality Prior to the visit, the risk assessment that SSAB’s impression is that the standard was inspections that are carried out at important SSAB had made that regards all suppliers was comparable to mining operations in Australia suppliers of raw materials, but with increased checked and a self-assessment questionor North America, with conscious work being focus on social and environmental responsinaire regarding social and environmental carried out to minimize risks and conduct bility. For more than ten years, SSAB has conditions was sent to the supplier. The operations efficiently. During the visit, discuspurchased injection coal from the supplier in questionnaire must be completed before sions were held concerning labor conditions Russian Siberia, and is well acquainted with a new agreement can be signed. and wages, and the status of the labor union its operations. During the year, in addition to SSAB also had a checklist as a tool for at the workplace. visiting the mine SSAB also visited laboraobservations when touring the area. The “Generally speaking, I was able to conclude tories and the export ports in Ust-Luga in checklist includes a number of questions, the that, since the last visit in 2008, conditions Russia and in Riga, Latvia, which are part of answers indicate whether there is reason have improved for the population in the area the supply chain to SSAB. to address the question in greater detail: for in which the mine is located, as has also Agreements with suppliers of raw example, whether there are emergency exit infrastructure such as road networks and materials include social and environmental signs, whether safety instructions are clearly railways,” says Anne Lexelius, Coal Purchasing responsibility issues. Therefore, it was parti­ posted, and the type of safety equipment Manager at SSAB. cularly relevant to include issues relating to borne by the employees. those areas in conjunction with the visit. ssab sustainability report 2013 Focus: Visit to supplier in Russia 27 Systematic sustainability work SSAB in a sustainable world 30 Policies and guidelines 32 Corporate governance 33 SSAB’s offering 34 Systematic environmental work 35 More efficient processes 36 More employees and competence 40 Suppliers 43 SSAB in the community 44 Reporting and dialogue 45 GRI-table 46 Steel Talk ABC –a glossary 48 Addresses 49 Systematiskt hållbarhetsarbete 29 SSAB in a sustainable world rs 5– ea 25 00y yea 15–1 ❼ rs Recycling 0. 5– 5y ea rs ❶ Raw materials Iron ore pellets ❷ Steel plant Coal/Coke Blast Electric arc furnace furnace ❻ Usage Alloys Coal Slag ❸ By-products Distribution ❺ ❹ Continuous casting and rolling 30 SSAB in a sustainable world ssab sustainability report 2013 The steel industry plays a key role in the products made of standard steels. This Raw materials development of society, and SSAB’s high has major advantages for both the strength steels possess several advancustomers and the environment. tages from a sustainability perspective. The steel industry is energy-intensive ❶ Responsibility in the supplier stage With efficient production, SSAB is well and dependent on natural resources. Raw materials are SSAB’s most important positioned in a global market in which Increasingly stringent environmental purchases. The Swedish company LKAB focus is placed on the environment and demands experienced by SSAB’s customsupplies iron ore pellets. Scrap metal is pursustainable growth. SSAB’s focus on high ers are important drivers leading to the chased locally in the US. Metallurgical coal is strength steels contributes to attaining its use of high strength steels. The attainsecured from suppliers in Australia and the vision – A stronger, lighter and more ment of the same goals using fewer US. Injection coal is sourced from a mine in sustainable world. resources constitutes a prerequisite for Russia, while coke comes from Japan. Alloys Through the use of high strength sustainable growth. SSAB’s strategy are purchased from some 30 suppliers. steels, customers are able to produce unites economic growth with sustainable Work is underway to coordinate purchasing products which use less material, are development. processes and introduce into contracts with more durable, stronger and lighter than suppliers principles regarding labor standards and human rights. Processing ❷ Efficient and safe steelworks ❸ Market for by-products ❹ Continuous casting and rolling Two different processes are used in the The exact process control in the steel proIn the continuous casting line, large volumes production of SSAB’s steels: iron-ore based duction processes gives rise to by-products. of water are used to cool down the molten production in blast furnaces and scrapIn Sweden, SSAB Merox develops high value steel. The cooling water circulates in closed based production in electric arc furnaces. products based on by-products from the systems. The water is purified through The impact on the environment can be steel operations. The work is aimed at sedimentation and filtration before it leaves mitigated by constantly improving and returning the by-products to the processes, the plant area. The steel strands are cut into increasing the efficiency of the various internally or through external sales, and slabs and placed on cooling racks before stages in steel production. Within the steel identifying new areas of use as alternatives being transported to the rolling mill for industry, there are a number of cooperation to depositing in landfills. processing into strip or plate. The heating projects aimed at reducing the impact on the furnaces use natural gas, coke oven gas, environment and climate from the producLPG, oil and electricity. tion processes. The safety of employees and contractor employees stands high on the agenda. Distribution Usage Recycling ❺ Efficient transportation ❻ A stronger, lighter ❼ Part of the eco-cycle and intelligent logistics and more sustainable world Steel is one of the most recycled materials in Most of SSAB’s slabs and end-products are SSAB’s high strength steels have many areas the world. SSAB’s plants in the US produces shipped by railway and by boat. The logistics of use in society. High strength steels build steel which is based solely on recycled scrap departments have the objective of making stronger, lighter and more durable solutions. metal. Certain amounts of coal and natural the transportation as efficient as possible in From a life cycle perspective, the high strength gas are used in the production process, but order to save money and help save the envisteels generate lower CO2 emissions than electricity is mainly used for melting the steel ronment. The use of return freight between standard steels, while providing an improved scrap. All in all, CO2 emissions are less than plants and shipping ports is one way of total economy. Achieving the same goals 1/10 of the emissions generated when steel is achieving more efficient transportation using less materials is important, not least in produced from iron ore. systems. Increasing load capacity on the conjunction with infrastructure development railways represents another alternative. in emerging economies. ssab sustainability report 2013 SSAB in a sustainable world 31 Policies and guidelines SSAB has adopted an Environmental and SSAB’s Code of Business Ethics provides standard and via local energy management Sustainability Policy. The Policy estabguidance within: systems. The OHSAS 18001 standard for lishes the most important ambitions for • Employee health and safety systematic health and safety work has been SSAB’s sustainability work and covers the • Diversity and internationally recognized implemented at all major production plants. environmental and social aspects which labor law guidelines Environmental risks and work environplay a key role in a sustainable develop• Business ethics and integrity ment risks are covered by SSAB’s internal risk ment of SSAB’s business. SSAB’s Code of • Human rights controls and internal audits. Insurable risks Business Ethics provides guidelines on • Stakeholder and community relations within the scope of SSAB’s property and how SSAB is to act vis-à-vis stakeholders • The environment liability insurance are analyzed annually and in the market. • Communication together with the insurance companies. Sound management of risks associated Environmental and Sustainability Diversity and equal opportunities issues with injury to individuals and damage to the Policy are addressed in a separate policy. SSAB environment and plants is a sine qua non for SSAB has adopted an Environmental and has issued special Instructions regarding being able to take out insurance cover. Sustainability Policy in order to support the the prohibition of bribery. day-to-day work in the organization. The On a limited number of occasions in Whistleblower Policy essentially entails the following: recent years, SSAB has discovered that A Whistleblower function for the entire • SSAB shall continue to develop products personnel have abused their position or Group allows all employees to report serious and services in cooperation with customacted in a disloyal or criminal fashion. SSAB irregularities and violations of SSAB’s various ers, so as to actively contribute to environhas thereupon acted to investigate the policies. mentally sound and profitable business events and concluded that ignorance or • SSAB attaches importance to the efficient deliberate criminality have been involved. use of raw materials and energy, while The consequences have been, for example, minimizing the generation of waste dismissals and prosecutions. • SSAB shows respect for employees and provides a safe and fulfilling work Risk awareness and systematic risk environment Management systems and action plans • Transparency and openness are ensure that the Group systematically carries sought after out its work on critical sustainability issues. Several different management systems and Code of Business Ethics tools are used to effectively control the SSAB’s Code of Business Ethics lays down operations in accordance with SSAB’s objecguidelines for SSAB’s behavior vis-à-vis tives, the Environmental and Sustainability stakeholders and in the market. The pro­ Policy, and the Code of Business Ethics. visions of the Code take precedence over Systems developed in-house as well as third all other policies on a business area or party certified systems are in place. subsidiary level and, in certain cases, may The environmental and climate work be more farreaching than national laws takes place primarily within the scope of the and regulations. ISO 14001 environmental management SSAB is a signatory to the UN’s Global Compact and supports its ten principles within the areas of human rights, labor standards, the environment and anti-corruption. Read more about SSAB’s new sustainability strategy and objectives on page 6-7. 32 Policies and guidelines ssab sustainability report 2013 Corporate governance More information regarding corporate governance in SSAB is available on www.ssab.com SSAB’s organization is characterized by allocation of work between the Board and the Board is quorate when more than half of the a decentralized work method in which President. The rules of procedure also regulate total number of directors is present. Taking into responsibilities and powers are, to a large the manner in which Board work is allocated consideration the Company’s operations, degree, delegated to the respective busiamong the directors, the frequency of Board phase of development and the circumstances ness areas and subsidiaries. SSAB is listed meetings,and the allocation of work among in general, the Board must have an appropriate on Nasdaq OMX Stockholm and complies Board committees. The rules of procedure composition which is characterized by diversity with its Rule Book for Issuers and applies state that there shall be a compensation comand breadth as regards the expertise, experithe Swedish Code on Corporate Governmittee and an audit committee. Prior to each ence and background of its members. New ance (the “Corporate Code”). Board meeting, the directors receive a written directors undergo an introduction course to agenda and full documentation to serve as a rapidly acquire the knowledge which is The Board’s responsibilities basis for decisions. At each Board meeting, a expected in order to best promote the interests The overall task of the Board of Directors is review is conducted regarding the current state of the Company and its shareholders. to manage the Company’s affairs on behalf of business, the Group’s results and financial of the shareholders in the best possible position, and prospects. Other issues addressed General meeting manner. The Board of Directors shall reguinclude competition and the market situation. The General Meeting is the Company’s highest larly assess the Group’s financial position and The Board also regularly monitors health and decision-making body; it is where share­ evaluate the operational management. The safety work, including the Group’s accident holder influence in the Company is exercised. Board of Directors decides, among other statistics. At the Annual General Meeting (Ordinary things, on questions concerning the Group’s General Meeting), the shareholders decide, strategic focus and organization, and Chairman of the Board among other things, on the following: decides on important capital expenditures The Chairman of the Board of Directors • Adoption of the annual report and (exceeding SEK 50 million). presides over the Board’s work, represents con­solidated financial statements Each year, the Board shall prepare the company on ownership issues, and is • Allocation of the Company’s profit/loss proposals for guidelines regarding determire­spon­sible for the evaluation of the work • Discharge from liability for the Board of nation of pay and other compensation for of the Board. In addition, the Chairman is Directors and the President the President and other members of the responsible for regular contacts with the • Election of the Board, its Chairman and Company’s senior management, to be President and for ensuring that the Board auditors decided upon at the Annual General Meeting. of Directors performs its duties. • Method of appointment of the Nomination Committee The Board’s Rules of Procedure Composition of the Board • Compensation to the Board and the auditors Each year, the Board adopts rules of proceAccording to the by-laws, the Board shall con• Guidelines for compensation to the dure, including instructions to the President, sist of no fewer than five and no more than ten President and other senior executives which among other things govern the members elected by the general meeting. The Important external and internal rules and Shareholders/ policies which affect corporate governance: Nomination Committee General Meeting External auditors Important internal rules and policies • By-laws • The Boards rules of procedure incl. Board Compensation Committee Audit Committee instructions to the President and of Directors instructions to board committees • Accounting manual (Financial Guidelines) and finance policy President and Other • Code of Business Ethics Group Executive Internal audit Committee Important external rules • Swedish Companies Act • Swedish Accounts Act Business areas Distribution operations • Swedish Annual Reports Act • Rule Book for Issuers Nasdaq OMX Stockholm, www.nasdaqomx.com SSAB SSAB SSAB Tibnor • Swedish Corporate Governance Code, EMEA Americas APAC • www.bolagsstyrning.se ssab sustainability report 2013 Corporate governance 33 SSAB’s offering SSAB’s high strength steels provide North and Latin America and Asia through advantages in the form of stronger, lighter generated VALUE advanced offerings based on SSAB’s cutting and more durable solutions. This leads to edge expertise. The Center makes it possible improved total economy, a reduced impact Wages and Wages58% salaries and for numerous customers to develop producsalaries 58% on the environment, and products with a Social security Social security expenses 21% tion efficiency and product design in close expenses to 21% longer lifespan. The by-products from the Dividends shareholders Dividends to 5% cooperation with SSAB. steel production processes are used in Interest payments shareholders to lenders 9% 5% Local process development within the Interest payments Reinvested in new, innovative solutions. This contributes to lenders 9% the company 7% various production units is also carried out at Reinvested in to closing the eco-cycle and creates new the company 7% SSAB’s major production centers. markets for SSAB. DIRECT AND INDIRECT VALUE The market Beneficial for the economy SSAB’s operations and business create In 2013, SSAB delivered 1, 619 (1, 585) thouand the environment both direct and indirect economic value. sand tonnes of high strength steel products, SSAB’s high strength steels provide an In addition to the direct value generated representing 37 (38) percent of the total improved economy and environment in all in the form of profits to the shareholders number of shipments. SSAB’s strategy is stages. From a life cycle perspective, the high and wages and salaries to employees, to increase shipments of high strenght steel strength steels generate lower CO2 emissions SSAB is part of the community’s ecoto 50 percent of total shipments. than standard steels. Light and durable steel nomic cycle. SSAB contributes to the designs save material and energy, both in the local economies in those places where No conflict minerals in SSAB’s steel production and user stages. High strength it operates through taxes and charges. Conflict minerals is a term used for minerals steels are stronger than standard steels. The Company also contributes to the from areas characterized by large-scale Consequently, less steel is used when manulocal economy by purchasing and internal strife, where mining of minerals risks facturing a product, which also reduces contracting locally. contributing to, or financing, continued conemissions. flict and violation of human rights. Minerals SSAB’s high strength steels applications from the Congo (including gold, tin, tungsten have a direct role to play in the transition Research and development and tantalum) are examples of conflict towards a more sustainable society. Rapid SSAB has a Research and Development minerals. In the US, the Securities and infrastructure development is taking place in Council tasked with leading the development Exchange Commission (SEC) requires that emerging markets. At the same time, natural and realizing the potential of high strength public companies disclose whether they use resources are limited and increased imporsteels. The Council coordinates work within conflict minerals in their products or productance is being attached to achieving the same the area and is entrusted with ensuring a tion. SSAB does not use conflict minerals goal using less material. The automotive continuous transfer of technology between and, upon request, provides customers with industry is developing lighter cars, and cars the business areas. certification affirming this. with greater load capacity in order to reduce SSAB’s Knowledge Service Center is fuel consumption. Steel is also included in represented in the different business areas. constructions for renewable energy plants, The aim is to strengthen SSAB’s position as a such as wind towers, solar power plants, and leading producer of high strength steels, while various types of hydro-electric power plants. at the same time developing the markets in Sales per business area Shipments Thousand tonnes 5,000 4,000 3,000 2,000 SSAB EMEA 38% SSAB EMEA 38% SSAB Americas 41% 1,000 SSAB Americas 41% SSAB APAC 6% Standard steel SSAB APAC 6% Tibnor 15% 0 09 10 11 12 13 High strength steel Tibnor 15% 34 SSAB’s offering ssab sustainability report 2013 Systematic environmental work Steel production involves large-scale use of New Group environmental targets Each business area and subsidiary has a energy and resources and has a significant In order to focus on these issues in the comseparate environmental department which is impact on the environment, both globally ing years, SSAB has produced three environresponsible for monitoring compliance with and locally. SSAB’s environmental strategy mental targets for the entire Group. By the laws and agreements and for handling permit is long-term and based on efficiency end of 2018 at the latest, individual activities matters. It is also responsible for taking measimprovements and innovation in order shall together have achieved the following ures and the reporting of environmental data. to mitigate the environmental impact. results on an annual basis: All manufacturing units are certified in Industry-wide cooperation is important • CO2 emissions derived from fossil fuels shall accordance with ISO 14001 and each producfor identifying the solutions of tomorrow. have been reduced by 100,000 t­ onnes tion center has identified its most important • Use of purchased energy shall have been environmental issues. Targeted activities Most important environmental aspects reduced by 20 GWh are carried out within these areas in order to Steel production is energy intensive and • The quantity of material sent for deposit in achieve improvements. Special self-inspeccauses CO2 emission. In Sweden, SSAB’s blast landfills or external destruction shall have tion programs ensure monitoring of the local furnaces are among the largest sources of CO2 been reduced by 10,000 tonnes environment at all of SSAB’s production emissions in the country. SSAB’s blast furnaces plants, e.g. by collecting water, air and noise are among the most efficient in the world in Environmental organization samples. The results are reported to the terms of minimizing emissions, but there is still The Company has a joint group body, the relevant supervisory authority. some room for further improvement. The Environmental Council, for coordinating impact on the local environment in the vicinity issues concerning the external environment. Research cooperation projects of SSAB’s plants has decreased significantly in The Environmental Council focuses on the Some of the most important cooperation recent decades. Technical developments and overarching and strategic environmental partners include: increasingly stringent external demands dictate work, and monitoring of that work. The Environ• The industry cooperation project ULCOS constant improvements in the operations. mental Council, which meets each quarter, (Ultra-Low CO2 Steelmaking) The most important environmental includes representatives from the three • The Swedish Energy Agency and the aspects for SSAB are: business areas (SSAB EMEA, SSAB Americas Swedish Environmental Protection Agency • Reduced emissions into the air of CO2, and SSAB APAC), as well as the subsidiaries • The institutions Swerea MEFOS, Swerea nitrogen ­oxides, sulfur oxides and dust Tibnor, Plannja and Merox. The Council is KIMAB, and IVL Swedish Environmental • Reduced emissions into water of nitrogen chaired by SSAB’s Environmental Director. Research Institute and suspended substances • The PRISMA skills center • Efficient use of raw materials and energy Environmental management system • Mistra (the Swedish Foundation for • A reduction in the volume of process and local environmental work Strategic Environmental Research) waste sent for landfill The objective is that the business areas shall • The Swedish Steel Producers’ Association handle the day-to-day environmental work. • Eurofer and Euroslag • The US Department of Energy and the US Permitted production at the Swedish plants 1) Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Thousand tonnes Locality Permitted production Production 2013 • The American Iron and Steel Institute (AISI) Coke Luleå 1,100 641 • Worldsteel Oxelösund 530 368 Hot metal Luleå – 2) 2,025 Environmental permits and legislation Oxelösund 2,000 873 SSAB’s operations are subject to environmenSteel slabs Luleå 3,000 1,910 Oxelösund 1,900 884 tal permits containing hundreds of environHot-rolled steel Borlänge 3,200 1,948 mental conditions governing production levels, Oxelösund 820 471 emissions into the air and water, noise levels, Pickled steel Borlänge 2,500 1,241 and rules regarding landfill sites. All production Cold-rolled steel Borlänge 1,400 752 units comply with relevant local environmental Annealed steel Borlänge 650 463 requirements and the Group holds mandatory Metal-coated steel Borlänge 400 277 Organic-coated products Borlänge 140 70 environmental damage as well as liability Köping 30 12 insurance covering damage to third parties. Finspång 3) 40 18 1) In North America, production levels are determined in the form of maximum permitted hourly production volumes. 2) Not regulated. 3) Unit million m2. ssab sustainability report 2013 Systematic environmental work 35 More efficient processes reduce environmental impact 1. From iron ore to steel Coal/Coke Iron ore pellets Blast furnace LD converter Raw materials Hot metal Crude steel Coal undergoes dry distillation in the coking plant to In the blast furnace, the iron pellets are mixed with In the LD converter, the carbon content of the hot produce coal. Energy-rich gas is formed which can be coke, lime and additives. Liquid hot metal and slag metal is reduced for conversion into steel through the used as fuel in furnaces and combined heat and are poured off from the lower part of the furnace. addition of oxygen which binds the carbon and is repower plants. Other usable by-products includes tar, The slag is separated and constitutes an important leased as gas. Contaminants are reduced through the ammonium sulfate, benzene, sulfur and sulfuric acid. by-product. The energy-rich gas which exits from use of lime. The process creates surplus heat, and The dust content in the emissions from the coking the top of the blast furnace, and also the coke oven scrap metal is added to achieve cooling. From the LD plant is measured and reduced to a minimum. Iron ore gas, is purified and used as a source of energy in the converter, the steel is poured into steel ladles, where pellets from LKAB are transported by rail to Luleå and steel production, as are the coke oven gas and LD alloys are added. The temperature and composition from there by ship to Oxelösund. The iron ore in the gas in Luleå. This meets approximately 50 percent of the steel are fine tuned. Half the slag from the conpellets is magnetite, which emits heat during producof the electrical power needs in the Swedish operaverter is returned to the blast furnaces. The slag contion; consequently, less energy is used than in the tions. In addition, district heating is delivered to tains 15–20 percent iron and 40 percent lime, which case of hematite-based pellet production. external parties. reduces the need to purchase iron ore and lime. 2. From scrap metal to steel Scrap steel Electric arc furnace Raw material Crude steel In the US, scrap steel is purchased on the open Scrap metal is smelted in electric arc furnaces connected. Certain amounts of coal and natural market. SSAB’s two electrical steel plants in where the smelted scrap becomes new crude steel. gas are used in the electric arc furnace, which Montpelier and Mobile have been located based on Both Mobile and Montpelier have twin furnaces in generates CO2, but by no means to the same extent the potential market and access to scrap metal as which the scrap in one of the vessels is pre-heated as when steel is produced from iron ore. A large raw material. This strategy minimizes the environusing natural gas, while the scrap in the second percentage of the coal required is derived from mental impact of transportation since all plants have vessel is smelted using electricity through an recycled coal residue, which has thereby reduced access to railways. In North America, the inland electric arc being formed with an extremely high the quantity of deposited waste and replaced up to waterway system is also used. temperature when the high tension voltage is 60 percent of purchased coal. 36 More efficient processes ssab sustainability report 2013 Ladle metallurgy Processing In ladle metallurgy, the crude steel is finely adjusted in accordance to specific Coal recipes and, among other things, through the addition of alloying materials. Alloys Furthermore the carbon content is adjusted. Whether the steel is to be hard or Temperature soft is determined in the ladle metallurgy process. The SSAB recipe books contain almost 500 different steel grades. In the continuous casting line, the steel is converted from liquid to solid form. The steel strands are cooled in order Continuous casting line to solidify and be cut into slabs. The water used for cooling circulates in closed systems. The slabs are rolled into strip or plate. The heating furnaces for slabs and steel use natural gas, coke oven gas, LPG, oil and electrical power. In North America, natural gas is primarily used as a source of energy. The combustion generates certain emissions of CO2 and nitrogen oxides. Rolling http://www.ssab.com/Steel-making-process Steel processes extremely efficient, with waste energy being quality coke and efficient production Two different processes are used in the utilized in the form of district heating and for processes in which the blast furnaces production of SSAB’s steels: ore-based in the production of electricity. International produce without disruption. In order to utilize blast furnaces and scrap-based in electric arc comparisons show that SSAB’s blast furnaces the raw materials as much as possible, a furnaces. The processes have different condiare at the forefront as regards low CO2 large number of usable by-products are also tions from a carbon footprint perspective. The emissions per tonne of hot metal. The blast produced, including slag. In addition, use is impact on the environment can be mitigated furnace in Luleå is state-of-the-art from an made of the excess heat and gases formed in by constantly improving and increasing the international perspective. There are several the processes. efficiency of the various stages of the steel reasons for this: the use of high-grade raw Certain waste products which contain carproduction process. SSAB’s work is also aimed materials in the form of iron pellets, high bon, lime and/or iron can be returned directly at reducing waste by recycling by-products in the processes or by identifying new areas of CO2 emissions per tonne crude steel in blast furnace production 2012 use as an alternative to depositing. Koldioxidutsläpp CO2 per tonne crude steel The blast furnace process generates CO2 emissions SSAB EMEA’s steel production is blast furnace-based. Hot metal is produced by the reduction of iron ore, through coal and Oxelösund coke being added to the blast furnaces. Luleå The process gives rise to CO2. With current technology, it is not possible to produce steel without CO2 being formed. The process has been continuously 12 Source: worldsteel 2012 developed and improved to become ssab sustainability report 2013 More efficient processes 37 Electricity Oil+LPG+NG District heating Electricity 640 kWh 725 kWh 187 kWh 107 kWh Others 99 kg Materials and energy balance Carbon dioxide emissions 1,173 kg as well as CO2 emissions from Cool and Coke 364 kg “To gas” 475 kg the production of one tonne of steel in the SSAB Group in By-products 302 kg 2013. The flows also include Purchased Scrap 517 kg the heat and power plants in Blast Furnaces and Electric Processes and Luleå and Oxelösund, which Arc Furnaces furnaces 685 kg primarily use residual gases Steel plates 1,000 kg from SSAB’s operations. Iron ore 795 kg Heat and power plant 488 kg Oxygen 99 m3 Argon Air Water Waste heat to the processes, and in this way SSAB tion with iron ore-based steel production. Ongoing research areas are aimed at identireduces waste from the production process SSAB uses approximately 20 percent fying new areas of use and conditions for and the need for new coal, iron ore pellets scrap metal in conjunction with steel producconverting additional material into relevant and lime. The energy-rich coke oven and tion in Sweden, and 100 percent in the US. offerings to the market. One example blast furnace gases which cannot be used in The Swedish operations have little scope is the zinc-rich dust from the electric arc the steel production are used in combined to increase the percentage of recycled scrap furnaces in the US, which now goes to a heat and power plants, among other things metal. However, it is possible to recycle the recycling plant instead of being deposited to supply SSAB with approximately 50 perscrap generated in the steel production proin landfills. cent of the electricity needs of the Swedish cess to a greater degree. This reduces raw There are waste products from the prooperations. In addition, district heating is material costs and CO2 emissions, since less duction processes for which at present there supplied to over 70 percent of the househot metal need be produced. Within SSAB, is no environmentally or economically justiholds in Oxelösund and Luleå and to 15 a number of substitution projects are underfied area of use, or which should be removed percent of the households in Borlänge. way aimed at increasing the percentage from the use cycle for environmental reaof finished steel relative to the percentage sons. At SSAB, this waste largely consists of Less CO2 with recycled steel of hot metal. flue gas dust and steel slag which cannot be Steel is one of the most recycled materials in used due to its physical or chemical characthe world. SSAB’s plants in the US produce Waste and useful by-products teristics. The waste is either destructed or steel based exclusively on recycled scrap Thanks to the exact processes involved, steel deposited in landfills. The management and metal. Small amounts of coal and natural gas production gives rise to a number of valuable, monitoring of the Company’s landfills sites are used in the production process, but mainly high quality by-products. Among other are strictly regulated by governmental electricity is used for smelting the scrap metal. things through its subsidiary Merox, SSAB agencies. Deposited waste must be handled All in all, CO2 emissions are less than onedevelops and sells in the market by-products in such a way that these resources, too, tenth of the emissions generated in conjuncfrom the Swedish operations. might be utilized in the future. Absolute emissions 1) Country 2) Volume 2013 1) 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Dust Sweden Tonne 522 575 583 748 551 888 919 942 Nitrogen oxide Sweden Tonne 1,206 1,230 1,315 1,392 1,118 1,657 1,709 1,801 CO2 Sweden3) Thousand tonne 4,889 4,807 5,806 5,974 3,711 6,187 6,410 6,229 CO2 USA4) Thousand tonne 680 666 675 688 – – – – 1) The information for 2013 is preliminary. 2) The reporting with respect to Sweden covers operations at the plants in Oxelösund, Borlänge and Luleå. With respect to Luleå, emissions are also included from LuleKraft AB (which is 50-percent owned by SSAB), the operations of which are based on SSAB’s process gases. 3) CO2 emissions from the Swedish operations correspond to those reported to the EU trading system; this does not include transportation. 4) 2010 was the first year in which the US authorities requested information regarding CO2 emissions from SSAB’s plants in Mobile and Montpelier. 38 More efficient processes ssab sustainability report 2013 Merox in SSAB’s value chain The sales organization possesses a breadth Railways, an important means Thanks to expertise and long experience of skills within widely differing areas and marof transport regarding the properties of the by-products kets. Through cooperation with external parTransportation takes place primarily by and how they can be utilized to the best effect, ties, Merox creates conditions for being able railway and ship, but also by truck. All of SSAB’s Merox creates added value for SSAB. Merox, a to jointly deliver high-quality products. business areas have their own logistics departwholly owned subsidiary of SSAB, is a resource One of SSAB strategic aims is to achieve ments with the objective of making transporcompany in Sweden whose main task is to increased flexibility. In times of high tempo tation efficient and economical. The main manage and develop SSAB’s eco-cycle. This production, a large flow of by-products is parameters when evaluating logistics solutions is done primarily by reusing the Company’s obtained which can be sold externally or are cost, environment and level of service. waste products such as scrap, iron-rich dust returned to the production process. When In Sweden, raw materials are transported and slag in SSAB’s own processes, where production is slower, SSAB saves on costs to Luleå and Oxelösund mainly by train or they replace iron ore, coal and coke and, to through greater use in the production process ship. Transportation of slabs between the a certain extent, also alloying agents and lime. of raw materials derived from by-products. production plants takes place by rail. The Approximately 45 percent of the total volume locations for SSAB’s electric arc furnace steel of by-products and waste is used in this way. CHALLENGES AND OPPORTUNITIES plants in Mobile and Montpelier were chosen, Where this is not possible, needs are identified Steel production generates large volumes in part, based upon access to rail services on other markets, such as agriculture, steel of slag which are sometimes difficult to sell. which are used both to ship raw materials, and chemical industries, road construction, as Factors such as research, social changes, legissuch as scrap metals, into each facility, as well well as the cement and concrete industry, lation, the price of CO2, and political decisions as ship products from the plant to customers where the material can be sold as separate determine the value derived from the use of and other SSAB processing facilities. This products. This applies to approximately 35 such slag. With an increased focus on CO2, the strategy minimizes the impact on the environpercent of the total volume. slag can be attractive for the cement industry ment since all plants have access to railways. Merox is a flexible company with a small since it then represents a CO2-neutral alternaIn North America, the inland waterway system business organization. Most of the sales organtive due to the fact that, technically speaking, is also used. ization is located in Oxelösund, where producthe CO2 emissions occur during the steel SSAB is working strategically on transtion, marketing, research and development production process. Focus on reduced use of portation issues through, among other have been brought together under one roof. natural gravel and crushed rock also results in things, the Swedish Shippers’ Council, in order Merox’s operations in Luleå have been strucgreater demand for the material. to influence long-term political investment tured in the same manner, and Merox is also A general increase in interest in closing strategy within the infrastructure area. established in Borlänge, but on a smaller scale. the eco-cycle creates great opportunities for Merox. This is the focus of a number of For more information about the research projects into the way in which byenvironmental work and special products from the steel industry might be events in 2013, see pages 15–19. used in other operations. Carbon dioxide 1) 2) Nitrogen oxide 1) Dust 1) Thousand tonnes Tonnes Tonnes 8,000 2,000 1,000 7,000 800 6,000 1,500 5,000 600 4,000 1,000 3,000 400 2,000 500 200 1,000 0 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 0 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 0 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 Process Heat and power plant 1) The report covers the Swedish operations at the plants in Oxelösund, Borlänge and Luleå. With respect to Luleå, emissions are also included from the half-owned LuleKraft, which bases its operations on SSAB’s process gases. Transportation is not included. The information for 2013 is preliminary. 2) With respect to the Swedish plants, the emissions correspond to those reported within the EU’s trading system. ssab sustainability report 2013 More efficient processes 39 Employees and competence Sourcing competence for the future employees had at least one performance of the management review is to ensure that represents a challenge for the steel indusdialogue. During the year, work has been there are suitable internal candidates for try and SSAB, while at the same time being carried out on ensuring the quality of perforevery vacant managerial position, thereby a prerequisite for a High-performing mance dialogues. Action plans have been facilitating exchanges of experience and organization. SSAB strives to be considered drawn up in all business areas. Examples of skills development within the Group. The an attractive employer and to promote the activities are seminars for the management results from the management review are availability of the right competence on the team in setting targets, peer review in used actively during the year to plan labor market. Opportunities to develop the target-setting process, and training development activities and as a support in an exciting global and safe work environ­ man­agers in how to conduct performance in organization development activity and ment are critical factors. dialogues with employees. succession planning. Employee satisfaction (measured as ESI) High-performing organization shows a positive trend and has increased for Sourcing of competence The following overall targets dictate the syseach year in which Voice has been carried SSAB is a knowledge-based company whose tematic work within the strategically defined out. In 2012, the ESI was 89. success depends on the competence of area, High-performing organization: current and future employees. Various • SSAB shall achieve an annual reduction in Prioritized areas activities are carried out to promote access lost time injuries per million work hours by In SSAB’s systematic work relating to to competence: at least 5 percent employees and organization, priority is given • SSAB works actively vis-à-vis schools, • All employees shall have annual perforto the following areas: colleagues and universities in Sweden mance dialogues • Leadership through the University & College Group, • An Employee Satisfaction Index (ESI) of at • Long-term sourcing of competence a cross-functional team comprising least 90 (measured every second year in • Equal opportunities and diversity employees from different functions. SSAB’s global employee climate survey, • Safety in the work environment • SSAB’s participation in the Tekniksprånget Voice) • Preventive health care project, which was initiated by IndustriClarity concerning goals, anticipated perforvärden and Nordstjernan and includes mance and feedback are central to being a Leadership approximately ten industrial companies. High-performing organization. It is in the SSAB conducts an annual management During the year, six students graduating annual dialogue between employee and review. All managers and candidates for from high school natural science and manager that performance is measured, managerial positions in the Group are evaluengineering programs were offered fourfeedback given, new goals set, and individual ated based on SSAB’s manager criteria and month internships at SSAB through the development is planned. individual performance relative to the Tekniksprånget project. In 2013, more than 93 percent of SSAB’s demands of the position. One important aim • Cooperation with other Swedish companies Average number of employees, gender breakdown Number of employees at year-end Number of employees Women, % 2013 2012 Change, % 2013 2012 2013 2012 SSAB EMEA 6,054 6,504 –7 Parent Company SSAB Americas 1,488 1,394 7 Sweden 57 57 49 51 SSAB APAC 200 220 –9 Subsidiaries Tibnor 782 797 –2 Sweden 5,789 6,402 21 20 Other 188 63 198 USA 1,325 1,273 12 12 Total 8,712 8,978 –3 Other 1,023 963 30 29 Total 8,194 8,695 21 20 40 Employees and competence ssab sustainability report 2013 in order to meet Chinese university taking part in external management develplants within SSAB APAC. Within the Group, students in Beijing and Shanghai. opment programs conducted by IFL at the Tibnor is certified in accordance with OHSAS • Since 1998, SSAB Americas has been Stockholm School of EconomicsFEM – 18001. cooperating with various universities Executive Management Program and IMP The operations within SSAB Americas through the ”The Cooperative Education International Management Program. In continue to show low accident statistics, and Program” (Co-op Program), whereby addition to level-enhancement manageSSAB Americas is an industry leader as students can gain practical experience ment and leadership development programs, regards safety work. from the industry and at the same time SSAB works with mentor programs and Sick leave was largely at the same level SSAB has a chance to position itself as female networks, such as Ruter Dam and the in 2013 as in 2012. Preventive healthcare an employer of first choice. Association of Women in the Metals Industry activities within the scope of the reduced (AWMI) among other things. work time program in the Swedish operations Equal opportunities and diversity were an example of preventive and healthSSAB operates in a traditionally maleSafety and work environment promoting activities. SSAB makes preventive dominated industry. An important starting SSAB shall be one of the world’s leading steel health care programs available to employees point for SSAB is that the percentage of female companies as regards health and safety. within all parts of the business. employees in the Group shall be reflected in the Within the Group, work is carried out systempercentage of female managers. atically to eliminate harmful work situations Contractor reporting of near accidents The percentage of female managers is and comply with strict routines and rules and accidents currently somewhat lower than the percentregarding risk-prone aspects. At the same In SSAB Americas, every contractor engaged age of female employees. Within SSAB, a time, work is taking place to improve safety for business or who wishes to be considered number of employees have been identified by influencing attitudes and behavior and by for business must register in the certification as potential managers of the future; since strengthening the safety culture. system. In conjunction with registration, the almost one quarter of them are women, this All major production plants within SSAB contractors must provide information represents a favorable basis for increasing are certified in accordance with OHSAS regarding their own preventive safety work the percentage of female managers. 18001, an international safety management and present a documented safety program Two out of the nine members of the system. The work has contributed to further in line with SSAB Americas’ safety work. In Group Executive Committee are women. strengthening routines for ensuring safer addition, the contractors must provide a Women account for almost 20 percent of working methods, creating clearer instruchistoric safety track record. the management teams answerable to the tions and safer workplaces. The plant in The contractors must report risk obserGroup Executive Committee. Johannesburg, South Africa, is also certified vations, incidents and accidents directly to Since 2006, women have accounted for in accordance with OHSAS 18001. In the longSSAB’s personnel. The aim is to increase 32 percent of the participants from SSAB term, plans are also in place for certifying safety at the workplace for both contractor Percentage of female managers 1) Equal opportunity 2013, % SSAB EMEA 20.3 % 20 SSAB Americas 11.8 SSAB APAC 20.0 15 Tibnor 12.9 SSAB Group 17.5 10 1) The data is from the first quarter of 2013. 5 0 10 11 12 13 Percent of female employees Percent of female managers ssab sustainability report 2013 Employees and competence 41 employees and SSAB’s employees. In BorDialogue and reporting serious irregularities and violations of the länge, a pilot project is underway in which the It is important for SSAB that employees are Company’s policies. Since 2012, an e-learnten largest suppliers of contracting work able to speak their mind and contribute their ing course regarding business ethics and the within SSAB EMEA report in MIA (the Metal views on the business and how it should be Whistleblower function is available to all and Steel Industry’s work environment infordeveloped. The surveys are an important employees. mation system). tool in the implementation of improvement In 2013, 9 (10) complaints were reported In Luleå, Borlänge and Oxelösund, SSAB work within the organization. Based on to the Whistleblower function, of which to EMEA requires a so-called work permit for results from the employee surveys, each date four matters have resulted in SSAB each contractor engagement, whereby SSAB supervisor devises improvement areas which taking measures. Following an investigation, conducts a risk review together with the address areas for development. Every secthree matters were considered not to justify contractor in order to document any risks. ond year, an employee survey is carried out any measures being taken by the Company, SSAB APAC provides safety training for covering the entire Group. and two matters are still under investigation. APAC’s most important contractors. All SSAB employees should feel a responsicontractors are provided with instructions bility to act in the event irregularities are For more information regarding and instructors. As an aid, a manual has been uncovered. Since 2010, a whistleblower employee activities and special produced providing information about system has been in place for the entire Group, events in 2013, see pages 20–27. SSAB’s principles. to which employees can anonymously report Personnel expenses Personalkostnader Age structure SEK m % Age 6,000 30 60– 5,000 25 50–59 4,000 20 40–49 3,000 15 30–39 2,000 10 20–29 –19 1,000 5 0 09 10 11 12 13 0 2,000 1,200 400 400 1,200 2,000 Personnel expenses White-collar employees Share of sales Blue-collar employees Sick leave Number of accidents % of worked time Per million work hours 4.0 10 3.5 3.0 8 2.5 6 2.0 1.5 4 1.0 2 0.5 0.0 09 10 11 12 13 0 09 10 11 12 13 42 Employees and competence ssab sustainability report 2013 Suppliers SSAB has a large number of suppliers of, prohibition of bribery. The Instructions proThe assessment of suppliers takes place priamong other things, raw materials from vide employees with clear information on marily through a self-assessment questiondifferent parts of the world. Thus, SSAB how SSAB defines bribery and improper bennaire applicable throughout the Group which has an interest in ensuring that the Comefits, and how employees are expected to act contains questions about, for example, social pany’s suppliers comply with international in relation to suppliers, customers and other conditions and environmental conditions at guidelines and SSAB’s own policies with business partners. the suppliers. Suppliers who are placed in the respect to social conditions and environmedium or high risk category will be required mental conditions. Identification of supplier risks to complete the self-assessment questionDuring the year, the work was concluded on a naire. Unsatisfactory answers will be investiResponsibility for the supply chain systematic identification of risks relating to the gated. SSAB’s business areas and the Tibnor With a global supply chain, it is important to Group’s suppliers. The survey places suppliers and Plannja subsidiaries are responsible be able to survey risks at the suppliers and in various risk categories based on the counfor carrying out their respective supplier their ability to address social and environtries in which they operate. It illustrates risks assessments. mental issues. Sustainability issues are an relating to, for example, human rights, labor The process also includes SSAB conintegral aspect of the purchasing operations conditions and corruption. The risk survey indiducting regular visits to major suppliers of and management of the supply chain. During cates that few suppliers are in the high-risk raw materials around the world, including the year, SSAB’s CSR function, together with group. SSAB endeavors to carry out more high risk suppliers. During the visits, purchasers CSR Ambassadors appointed from each intense monitoring of suppliers located in and quality managers get to visit production business area as well as Tibnor and Plannja, countries considered to be high risk countries. plants and conduct quality inspections. have worked on strategic development of Issues such as the suppliers’ social and the sustainability work in the supply chain. System and assessment environ­mental conditions are important The work has resulted in joint guidelines Work is taking place on developing a purchasand will be given greater scope in conjuncand more efficient processes in order to ing system for the business areas. With a joint tion with future visits to suppliers. It takes survey the risks in the supply chain. The raw purchasing system, improved conditions will time and resources to visit suppliers and materials industry, which is often associated be created for the continued work on monithis constitutes long-term work. with a risk-prone work environment, is an toring suppliers. During the year, implementaDuring the year, SSAB informed and industry in which rigorous demands must be tion of the purchasing system began in SSAB trained SSAB EMEA’s purchasing organizaimposed for safe working conditions. SSAB EMEA and SSAB Americas. tion about the new process for supplier has, therefore, focused its supply chain work SSAB has developed guidelines for control. on raw materials, raising social and environsupplier control involving a uniform risk mental issues with relevant suppliers. assessment and risk survey of its suppliers. Guidelines and governance SSAB has a procurement policy which govSources of SSAB’s raw materials erns all of the Group’s purchases. SSAB Iron ore pellets is a signatory to the UN’s Global Compact SWEDEN and its principles are applied in the work with Injection coal RUSSIA suppliers. SSAB’s Code of Business Ethics Scrap metal USA Metallurgical coal reflects Global Compact principles and Coke JAPAN represents the most important control document as regards work with suppliers. The Code of Business Ethics places particular emphasis on the abolition of forced labor and child labor. In its contracts with suppliers, SSAB communicates the Code of Business Ethics Metallurgical coal AUSTRALIA and encourages suppliers to respect the SSAB purchases iron ore pellets from a Swedish supplier, LKAB. Metallurgical coal is purchased from principles in the Code, and also SSAB’s a small number of major suppliers in Australia and the US, while injection coal is sourced from a specific Environmental and Sustainability Policy. mine in Russia. Scrap metal is purchased locally in the US. Coke is purchased in Japan. Alloying agents SSAB has Instructions regarding the are purchased from some 30 different suppliers. ssab sustainability report 2013 Suppliers 43 SSAB in the community SSAB is actively engaged in the commuSchool supported by APAC nity in the localities where it operates and In connection with the start of school in the contributes to, and supports, projects of autumn, an initiative was carried out in which importance to its employees and its local SSAB donated schoolbags, books and presence. SSAB maintains an open recreational material such as jump ropes dialogue with politicians, governmental and footballs to pupils at the Jiangbian agencies, the media and the public with Elementary School in Jinghong City in Yunnan the aim of contributing to knowledge province in south-western China. The school about steel and steel production. has 53 pupils and is located in the mountains approximately 300 km outside the city, near SSAB EMEA’s local activities the border to Laos. At the localities where it operates in Sweden, The initiative is a way for SSAB to express SSAB contributes to creating a wide range of its social responsibility and support the recreational activities which can be enjoyed by local community by improving conditions SSAB’s employees and their families. Examples at the school. include sponsorship of local sports organizations and an exchange of knowledge with Roofing sheet to Haiti schools. SSAB also has the possibility of supcountry. SSAB chose to give this Christmas and the Philippines porting associations in which employees are present to its employees, and they will be In the event of crisis situations which severely involved, primarily within sports and culture. able to monitor its progress through regular hit communities and their inhabitants, SSAB SSAB EMEA contributed to the Harbor information on the Company’s intranet. is able to lend a hand and provide support in Festival in Luleå and the large spring market in ways other than through purely financial Oxelösund organized by the local Lions club. Strong employee involvement contributions. in SSAB Americas In November 2013, the Philippines were TIBNOR SUPPORTS TOTALSKIDSKOLAN SSAB Americas has a long tradition of badly hit by Typhoon Haiyan, which caused In Sweden, Tibnor cooperates with Totalskidinvolvement in the community. great devastation. As a contribution to the skolan in Åre. This is a non-profit organization One of the largest organizations suplarge-scale aid work which is now taking which has the aim of providing disabled peoported by SSAB is United Way, a charitable place in the country, SSAB and Plannja have ple of all ages with a chance to ski or learn to organization which supports the needy contributed 10,000 square meters of roofing ski based on their own circumstances. In addithrough donations, education and volunteer sheet. The sheet was transported by the tion to a financial contribution, cooperation work. Employees’ contributions are matched Human Bridge organization and taken care takes place through various customer and by the Company. of in the Philippines by the humanitarian supplier activities at which Totalskidskolan In Mobile, car tires are recycled for use organization Hoppets Stjärna (Star of Hope). often holds inspiration presentations. as a raw material in steel production. The SSAB and Plannja have previously contribfinancial savings generated have been uted roofing sheet and cooperated with both CHRISTMAS PRESENT DONATED invested in an educational foundation which organizations in connection with the earthTO CHILDREN IN NEED each year donates money to local school quakes that hit Haiti in 2010. Just as in Haiti, SSAB EMEA and the head office have jointly partners. Employees also participate as the sheet is primarily intended to be used for entered into a cooperation project with the volunteers in the annual Fill the Bus camhousing, schools and hospitals. SOS Children’s Villages organization to suppaign, which SSAB initiated in 2005 in order port a children’s village in the Central African to provide children from disadvantaged Republic, one of the poorest countries in the homes with textbooks and school material. world. Specifically, SSAB is contributing to The employees in Montpelier sponsor building a family house for ten to twelve and support The Make-A-Wish Foundation, orphaned or abandoned children in a village an organization which aims to realize the called Bullerbyn. This is the third children’s dreams of very sick children. Support from village in that country being constructed by the Company in Montpelier also goes to The SOS Children’s Villages, and SSAB’s building Community Foundation of Greater MuscaSWEDEN will be one of twelve buildings. The constructine, which supports smaller organizations tion has been delayed due to turmoil in the and charitable projects in the region. SSAB is a partner company to SOS Children’s Villages. 44 SSAB in the community ssab sustainability report 2013 Reporting and dialogue SSAB’s operations affect people and the SSAB engages in the production of relevant, Questionnaires and surveys environment, and SSAB is constantly joint key performance indicators for the SSAB’s Sustainability Report is aimed at proendeavoring to mitigate negative effects entire Group. Clarification as to which busividing a transparent basis for those who wish and contribute to positive development ness areas and subsidiaries are covered is to review and trace the development of through products and services. Internal provided regularly and in connection with the SSAB’s sustainability work. It is the basis for and external stakeholders play an imporreporting of data. As a general principle, inclusion in various sustainability indices or tant role in the work and SSAB wishes to acquired companies are included in the funds, such as the OMX GES Sustainability facilitate external assessments through reporting commencing the date on which a Sweden Ethical Index in which SSAB is transparent and relevant reporting. In controlling influence is obtained. The reportincluded. the sustainability work, it is particularly ing for 2013 is in accordance with the same In addition to the reporting, every year important to obtain comments in order principles as in previous years. SSAB is presented with a large number of to take proactive measures and foster The table on the next page states where questionnaires and forms from various confidence in SSAB. information sought in GRI is available in the 2013 stakeholders, particularly various analysis Sustainability Report. Since the Report is a supcompanies or investors. SSAB responds to Reporting in accordance with GRI plement to the 2013 Annual Report, the table them to the extent time and resources allow, Since 2008, SSAB self-declares the report also includes references to that information, as and refers to the Sustainability Report as the to be Application Level C in accordance with indicated by the initials ‘AR’. The GRI table conprimary source for sustainability information. the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative), G3, tains all core indicators, as well as such addiguidelines for reporting on sustainability tional indicators as SSAB considers relevant for Many different areas of contact activity. This is the most established interits operations. This is based on the Company’s Different stakeholders have shown interest in national reporting regime for sustainability most important sustainability issues. different types of issues in their dialogue with work, a factor which facilitates comparisons Since SSAB is a signatory to the UN the Company. SSAB welcomes dialogue and with other companies and industries. SSAB Global Compact, the way in which the ten prinsometimes actively seeks comments from will apply G4 as from the 2014 reporting year, ciples of the Global Compact are reported is different stakeholders by inviting them to open and has begun making preparations for the presented by means of cross-references to forums or presentations. Examples of these are transition to the updated framework. relevant indicators in the GRI table. summarized in brief in the table below. Dialogue with SSAB’s stakeholders Stakeholder Forum Issues Read more on page Shareholders Investor meetings for shareholders • Sustainability strategy 6–7 and analysts • Economic development Edge • Safety issues 23–24, 41–42 • Risks relating to suppliers 26–27, 43 • Climate issues 4–5, 16–19 Employees Performance dialogues, employee • F eedback from performance dialogues 40 surveys, information meetings • Planning of development opportunities 21–22, 40 • Work environment and safety 23–24, 41–42 • Strategic issues 6–7 Customers Knowledge Service Center, • P rofitability and environmental benefits with 11–13, 19, 34 customers seminars and trade fairs, high-strength steels Swedish Steel Prize • E xchange of know-how 11–13, 14, 19 • D elivery certainty and quality 21, 34 The community Local consultation with residents, • Permit matters 18, 35 the media, environmental groups • Impact on the local community 9, 18, 45 and politicians • Impact on the environment 16–18, 30–31 • Exchanges of information 45 Authorities and Industry organizations, research • T rading in emission rights and competition conditions 14, 16 organizations cooperation projects, consultation • Technological development 4–5, 11–13 and negotiations on permit matters • Reporting of environmental matters 18, 35 Suppliers Purchasing meetings, conferences • C ontract issues regarding human rights 26–27, 43 and visits to suppliers and the environment • D elivery certainty and quality 34, 43 ssab sustainability report 2013 Reporting and dialogue 45 GRI-table Global Page Degree of Global Page Degree of GRI Compact reference reporting GRI Compact reference reporting 1. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS 4.12 Endorsement of external voluntary codes, principles or other initiatives 6, 14, 32 nnn 1.1 CEO statement 2–3 nnn 4.13 Memberships in associations 6, 32, 35 nnn 1.2 Description of key impacts, 4–5, 8–9, 11–14, 19 risks and opportunities 1, 7–9 AR 43-44 nnn 4.14 List of stakeholder groups 45 nnn 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 8–9, 45 nnn 2. ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 45 nnn 2.1 Name of the organization Cover page nnn 4.17 Key topics of concerns that have been raised 2.2 Primary brands, products and services Edge, cover page nnn through stakeholder engagement 8–9, 45 nnn 2.3 Operational structure of the organization 33 nnn 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters 49 nnn 5. ECONOMIC INDICATORS 2.5 Countries where the organization operates 49 nnn EC1. Direct economic value generated 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 33 nnn and distributed 34 nnn 2.7 Markets Edge, back page nnn EC2. Risks and opportunities for the organization due to climate changes 7 4–5, 14, 16, 19 nnn 2.8 Scale of the organization Edge, cover page nnn EC3. Coverage of the organization’s defined 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period 2–3 nnn benefit plan obligations AR 92 nnn 2.10 Awards received during the reporting period 9 nnn EC4. Financial assistance received from government AR 77–78 nnn 3. REPORT PARAMETERS EC6. Policy, practices and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers nnn 3.1 Reporting period Edge, cover page nnn EC7. Local hiring and proportion of senior 3.2 Date of most recent previous report Edge, cover page nnn management hired from the local community nnn 3.3 Reporting cycle Edge, cover page nnn EC8. Infrastructure investments and 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding services provided for public purposes 44 nnn the report Edge, cover page nnn 3.5 Process for defining report content 6–9, 45 nnn 6. ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Edge, cover page, EN1. Materials used by weight or volume 8 38 nnn 3.6 Boundary of the report 45 nnn EN2. Percentage of recycled input materials 8–9 38 nnn 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or boundary of Edge, cover page, the report 45 nnn EN3. Direct energy consumption by primary source 8 38 nnn 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiarEdge, cover page, EN4. Indirect energy consumption by ies, etc. 45 nnn primary source 8 38 nnn 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any restatements Edge, cover page, EN5. Energy saved due to conservation and effiof information provided in earlier reports 45 nnn ciency improvement 8–9 17, 18, 36–38 nnn 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting Edge, cover page, EN6. Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or principles regarding scope, boundaries, etc. 45 nnn renewable energy-based products/services 8–9 17, 37–38 nnn 3.12 GRI-table 46–47 nnn EN8. Total water withdrawal by source 18 nnn EN10. Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 8–9 18 nnn 4. GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENT EN11. Location/scope of land owned near 4.1 Governance structure of the organization 33 nnn protected areas/areas of biodiversity value nnn 4.2 The Chairman of the Board’s role in EN12. Impacts of products and organizations on the organization 33 nnn biodiversity nnn 4.3 Independent and/or non-executive board EN16. Direct and indirect greenhouse members 33, AR 51 nnn gas emissions 8 38–39 nnn 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees EN17. Other relevant indirect greenhouse to provide recommendations to the board 33, AR 47, 49, 57 nnn gas emissions nnn 4.5 Principles for compensation to EN18. Initiatives to reduce greenhouse senior executives AR 42 nnn gas emissions 7–9 13, 16–18, 19 nnn 4.6 Processes for avoiding conflicts of interest in EN19. Emissions of ozone-depleting substances nnn the board 33, AR 47, 51 nnn EN20. NO, SO and other significant air emissions 8 38–39 nnn 4.7 Processes for determining the qualifications of board members AR 47, 50 nnn EN21. Total water discharge 8 18 nnn 4.8 Mission, values, Code of Conduct, etc., 1–10 6, 7, 32 nnn EN22. Waste by type and disposal method 8 38–39 nnn 4.9 The board’s monitoring of the sustainability EN23. Number and volume of significant spills 8 18 nnn work 33, AR 55 nnn EN26.Initiatives to mitigate environmental 4.10 Processes for evaluating the board’s own perimpacts of services and products 7–9 11–13, 19 nnn formance 33, AR 47, 50 nnn 46 GRI-table ssab sustainability report 2013 Global Page Degree of Global Page Degree of GRI Compact reference reporting GRI Compact reference reporting EN27. Products sold and their packaging materials SO1. Programs for evaluating the operation’s that are reclaimed nnn impacts on communities 45 nnn EN28. Fines and/or non-monetary sanctions for SO2. Business units analyzed for risks related to non-compliance with environmental laws nnn corruption 10 25, 26, 32, 43 nnn EN29. Environmental impact of transports 8 18, 26, 39 nnn SO3. Employees trained in the organization’s anticorruption policies and procedures 10 7, 22, 25 nnn 7. SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS SO4. Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 10 42 nnn LA1. Total workforce by employment type, contract and region 40 nnn SO5. Participation in public policy development and lobbying 7–9 9, 14, 35, 45 nnn LA2. Rate of employee turnover by age group, gender and region 6 40 nnn SO8. Monetary value of fines for non-compliance with applicable laws AR 100 nnn LA4. Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements nnn PR1. Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed 1 30–31, 36–39 nnn LA5. Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes nnn PR3. Type of products and service information required by procedures, and percentage of LA7. Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost products subject to such information requiredays, work-related fatalities per region 1 23, 24, 40, 42 nnn ments nnn LA8. Education, training, prevention and PR6. Programs for adherence to laws, standards risk-control programs in place 1 23–24, 41–42 nnn and voluntary codes for marketing communiLA10. Average hours of training per year per cations nnn employee 10 22, 25, 40 nnn PR9. Monetary value of fines for non-compliance LA13. Composition of governance bodies and 33, 40–42, with regulations concerning the use of prodemployees according to diversity indicators 6 AR 49, 98 nnn ucts and services nnn LA 14. Ratio of basic pay of men to women nnn HR1. Investment agreements that include human rights clauses 1–6 26, 43 nnn HR2. Suppliers that have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken 1–6 26–27, 43 nnn HR4. Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken nnn HR5. Operations where freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at significant Explanation of degree of reporting: risk and actions taken 1–3 26–27, 43 nnn n n n Fully reported HR6. Operations identified as having significant n n n Partially reported risks for incidents of child labor and actions taken 1–2, 5 26–27, 43 nnn n n n Not reported AR = Annual Report 2013 HR7. Operations identified as having significant risks for incidents of forced or compulsory labor and actions taken 1–2, 4 26–27, 43 nnn SSAB has been a signatory to the UN Global Compact’s principles Environment Global Compact (GC) since 2010 and Human rights 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach supports its ten principles. Activities 1.  Businesses should support and respect the protection of to environmental challenges; and internationally proclaimed human rights; and 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental and results related to Global Compact 2.  Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights responsibilities; and. 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environprinciples are reported above through abuses. mentally friendly technologies. Labor standards cross-reference to a selection of GRI Anti-corruption 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association indicators. and the effective recognition of the right to collective 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its bargaining; and forms, including extortion and bribery. 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; and 5. The effective abolition of child labor; and 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ssab sustainability report 2013 GRI-table 47 Steel Talk ABC – a glossary A Advanced high strength steels – Multi-phase steels which contain the steel. The opposite to zinc-plating, an electrochemical method of Roll pass – Number of times a billet or slab passes through a pair of martensite, bainite and/or retained austenite to achieve an improved applying a coat of molten zinc to the surface of steel for the purpose rollers balance of strength and formability as compared to conventional high of enhancing corrosion resistance Rougher – Two rough cylindrical rollers which press the steel to strength steels Hot metal – The name for the molten iron produced in a blast furthinner dimensions prior to hot rolling After-treatment – Heat treatment, cooling, etc., in order to endow nace. It proceeds to the basic oxygen furnace in molten form or is cast Runner – Ceramic-lined spout for controlling molten, hot metal the steel with certain qualities; also galvanizing, organic coating, and as pig iron ­cutting to size Hot strip rolling mill –A mill for rolling heated slabs through a series S Scrap – Ferrous (iron-containing) material that generally is re-melted Alloy – A substance composed of two or more metals of rolling stands to produce sheet steel in coil form and re-cast into new steel Alloy Steel – An iron-based mixture is considered to be an alloy when Hot rolling – A metalworking process in which slabs are heated to SEN – Submerged entry nozzle, a ceramic pipe which protects the minimum quantities of alloying elements are present, e.g. silicon, manhigh temperatures and then deformed between rollers to form thinner steel from exposure to air, in conjunction with casting ganese, chromium, nickel and molybdenum. ­cross-sections Sheet pile – Long structural sections with a vertical interlocking Alloying material – Material that is added to the molten metal during ­system that creates a continuous wall. The walls are most often used I Injection coal – Coal powder which is injected into the blast furnace the steelmaking process and which combines with iron or other metals to retain either soil or water under high pressure without being converted to coke and changes the metal’s qualities Shot blasting – Cleaning and descaling metal by means of a stream Iron ore pellets – Iron ore particles rolled into small balls and Annealing – A thermal cycle involving heating to, and holding at a of abrasive powder or shot. The shot can be sand, small steel balls of ­compacted by heating ­suitable temperature and then cooling at a suitable rate, for such ­various diameters, granules of silicon carbide, etc ­purposes as reducing hardness, improving machinability, facilitating L Ladle – A “bucket” lined with refractory (heat resistant) bricks, used to Sintering – A process that combines iron-bearing particles, once cold working, producing a desired microstructure, or obtaining desired transport molten steel from process to process in a steel plant recovered from environmental control filters, into small pellets. mechanical or other properties Ladle change – Switch from an empty to a full container of steel Skirt – Pipe around the blast furnace for the supply and allocation of Application – Area of use; a product which uses a certain grade Ladle Metallurgy Furnace (LMF) – An intermediate steel processing hot blast air, also known as a bustle pipe of steel unit that further refines the chemistry and temperature of molten steel Slab furnace – Furnace for heating steel slabs to rolling temperatures Applications engineer – Trained specialists in the qualities of the while it is still in the ladle. The ladle metallurgy step comes after the Slabs – The most common type of semi-finished steel, used for material and its areas of use; problem solvers and developers steel is melted and refined in the electric arc or basic oxygen furnace, production of flat steel products but before the steel is sent to the continuous caster B Blast Furnace – Continuously operating shaft furnace for the Slag – Solution of mainly liquid oxides. Flux such as limestone may be Ladle treatment method – Different methods for ladle metallurgy reduction of iron ore. The end product in the blast furnace is called pig added to foster the congregation of undesired elements into a slag. iron or hot metal LD converter (Lina Donawitz) – Oxygen steelmaking process Because slag is lighter than iron, it will float on top of the pool, where it employing a converter (vessel) and top blowing oxygen lance to refine can be skimmed Blast air – Heated air which is blown into the blast furnace under the blast furnace hot metal into crude steel high pressure Slitting – A metalworking process involving shearing which is typically Low alloyed steel grades – A steel, other than a carbon steel, that employed to cut a wider steel coil into one or more narrower coils C CO2 – CO2, colorless gas, soluble in water to form ­carbonic acid; inclurequires the minimum content for each specified alloying element to ded in carbonated drinks and comprises 0.04% Smelting reduction process – Reduction of iron ore which takes be lower than the applicable limit for the definition for alloy steel of the a­ tmo­sphere and is identified as a greenhouse gas place in a smelting phase M Magnetite – Fe3O4, magnetic iron ore, black iron oxide Special steel – Alloyed steel Carbon monoxide – CO, colorless and odorless energy-rich gas which burns with a blue flame; noxious. Upon combustion, CO2 is formed Martensitic steel – Steel with a very hard form of steel crystalline Standard steels – Steels with lower strength (yield strength structure called martensite that is formed by displacive transforma235–275 N/mm2). Used within more conventional applications within Carbon steel – Unalloyed steel tion. The martensite is formed by rapid cooling (quenching) of austethe ­engineering industry and building sector Charging – The act of loading material into a vessel. For example, iron nite which traps carbon atoms that do not have time to diffuse out of ore, coke, and limestone are charged into a blast furnace; a basic Steckel mill – A four-high reversing rolling mill, the Steckel mill the crystal structure ­oxygen furnace is charged with scrap and hot metal, and an electric allows the rolling of a large slab by providing heated coil furnaces or Material design – Control of the steel chemical composition and boxes on both sides of the mill to store the increased length produced arc furnace is charged with steel scrap and fluxes ­processing to achieve a microstructure that offers a combination of during ­rolling Coilbox – Rolling machinery; box for coiled steel employed to properties desirable for an intended product or application promote temperature uniformity during the hot rolling process Steel – Alloy of iron and carbon with a carbon content of less Metallurgy – The science and technology of metals than 1.7 percent Coiler – Mechanical part which captures plate, sheet or strip from Microalloying – In the case of advanced fine grain steels with Steel bath – The hot, molten steel in a container the rolling mill and coils it ­particularly stringent yield strength and tensile strength requirements, Coke – Dry distilled coal, the basic fuel consumed in blast furnaces in Steel shuttle – Train system for transportation of steel slabs between small quantities of alloying elements such as niobium, vanadium, or the smelting of iron ore Luleå, Borlänge and Oxelösund production facilities ­titanium are added Cold rolling – Metalworking process in which the thickness of a sheet, Strand – The continuous cast slab within the continuous casting Mold – Casting mold strip or plate is reduced by rolling at ambient temperature machine prior to cutting into individual slabs N Niche products – In SSAB’s case advanced high strength steels and Strength – Properties related to the ability of steel to oppose Continuous casting – A process by which molten metal is solidified quenched steels applied forces. Forms of strength include withstanding imposed loads into a semi-finished billet, bloom, or slab for subsequent rolling O Ore car – Railcar for transportation of lump ore, iron ore concentrate without a permanent change in shape or structure and resistance to Construction steel – See structural steel stretching or pellets Corrosion protection – The minimization of corrosion by coating Structure – The steel’s molecular form following different treatment with a protective metal Oxide scale – An oxide of iron which forms on the surface of hot rolled steel methods; crystalline structure. May also refer to the size, shape, and Cowper stoves – Heating apparatus; ceramic towers used for arrangement of phases within the steel ­pre-heating blast air, also called hot stoves Oxygen lance – Pipe-shaped lance for treatment using oxygen Structural steel – Steel intended for, e.g. load-bearing structures, Crude steel – Steel in its solidified state directly after casting. This is P Pair of rollers – A pair of cylindrical rollers for rolling steel to thinner e.g. crane girders. Important qualities include strength, weldability, then further processed by rolling or other treatments, which can dimensions under high pressure ­bendability and toughness change its properties Particulates filter – Purification plant for gas or air in which Strip – Thin, flat steel that resembles hot-rolled sheet, but it is Cutting station – Place for cutting the steel strand into slabs ­particulates are separated and condensed for recycling normally narrower (up to 300 mm, or 12” wide) and produced to D Dry distillation process – Combustion without entry of oxygen Phases – Steel has different crystal structures at various temperatumore closely controlled thicknesses res and the phase(s) present depend on heat treatment, alloy Sulfur purification – In oxygen-blown steelmaking processes, the Dual-phase steel (DP) – High-strength steel that has a one soft quantity, hardening, quenching, etc. Best known are the martensite ­reduction of the hot metal’s carbon content during refining by the use ­(ferrite) and one hard (martensite) microstructure which allows for (quick h ­ ardening) phase, ferrite phase (pure iron) austenite (nonof gaseous oxygen desired combination of good formability with high strength magnetic) phase and bainite phase Sulfur purification – Method for removing sulfur from the hot metal E Electric arc furnace (EAF) – Steel-making furnace where scrap is Pickling line – A processing line which chemically removes oxide or or the steel, e.g. through the addition of caustic lime ­ enerally 100 percent of the charge. Heat is supplied from electricity g scale from the steel surface to obtain a clean surface for subsequent that arcs from the graphite electrodes to the metal bath Surface treatment – Cleaning, polishing or coating of surfaces; processing for example, through galvanization or organic coating F Fatigue – The progressive and localized structural damage that Plate – Flat rolled steel product which is typically classified as over occurs when a material is subjected to cyclic loading at stresses 1,200 mm (48”) in width and 4.5 mm (0.180”) in thickness T Temper Mill – A type of cold-rolling mill, usually a four-high, single considerably below the ultimate tensile strength stand mill, used to provide a relatively light cold rolling reduction Process gas – Gas from metallurgical processes; often energy rich to hot rolled, cold rolled, or coated flat steel products to improve Formatting – Marking, wrapping or cutting the steel into desired Process methods – Methods for extracting raw materials and flatness, minimize surface disturbances such as coil breaks, and to dimensions ­manufacturing products in a continuous cycle without disruption alter ­mechanical properties Four-high rolling mill – Mechanical equipment; comprises four Process water – Water from cooling or treatment in the processes. Tempering – Heating to 200–500°C degrees in order to make steel ­cylindrical rollers with extremely high pressure which press slabs into Always undergoes purification and can often be re-circulated tougher and less brittle plate by repeatedly rolling backwards and forwards Profiled – Profiled (or corrugated) steel which is pressed in order to Tensile strength – Ability to withstand tensile stress. (See Strength) G Galvanization – The process of applying a protective zinc coating to corrugate the steel Thermo-mechanical treatment – Heat treatment/quenching of the steel or iron, in order to prevent rusting or corrosion Protection steel – Structural steel with ballistic qualities steel in order to achieve special material qualities H Hardening – Process that increases the hardness of steel, i.e. the Q Quenched steels – Hardened or toughened steel. SSAB’s quenched Torpedo – Cylinder-shaped brick-lined railway car used for degree to which steel will resist cutting, abrasion, penetration, bending, steels are also high strength ­transporting hot, molten metal and stretching Tundish – An intermediate container in the casting process to R Recycling – Return of used products or by-products to enter a new Hearth – Lower part of the blast furnace; area for collection of molten facilitate ladle change without disruption in the process cycle of production and use hot metal Reduction agents – Carbon or hydrogen used to remove oxygen V Vacuum Degassing – An advanced steel refining facility that removes Heat treatment – Heating and cooling a steel product in such a oxygen, hydrogen and nitrogen under low pressures (in a vacuum) to from iron ore to produce iron ­manner as to obtain desired conditions or properties produce high quality steel for demanding applications Rolling mill – Any of the mills in which metal undergoes a rolling Hematite – Fe2O3, non-magnetic iron ore or blood ore ­process. For plate, sheet and strip, these include the slabbing mill, hot W Wear resistance – Ability to resist the erosion of material from the High strength steels – Strong steel with high resistance to tensile rolling mills, cold rolling mills, and temper mills. Any operating unit that s­ urface as a result of mechanical action, e.g. abrasion and friction stress before fatigue and breaking may occur reduces gauge by application of loads through revolving cylindrical Wear steel – Steel with qualities adapted to withstand wear, e.g. Hot dip galvanization – Method for adding a rust protection surface rolls; operation can be hot or cold. The elevated temperature rolling abrasion layer. For example, adding zinc and aluminum in hot molten form on mill is the Hot Mill and is capable of reducing the gauge of a slab 92–99 percent 48 Steel Talk ABC – a glossary ssab sustainability report 2013 Addresses Group offices Business Areas/Subsidiaries SSAB AB SSAB EMEA P.O Box 70 SSAB AB 101 21 Stockholm, Sweden P.O Box 70 Phone +46 8 45 45 700 101 21 Stockholm, Sweden Fax +46 8 45 45 725 Phone +46 8 45 45 700 Visiting address: Fax +46 8 45 45 725 SSAB Klarabergsviadukten 70, D6 www.ssab.com SSAB Americas SSAB Enterprises, LLC 801 Warrenville Rd., Suite 800 Lisle, Illinois 60532, USA Phone +1 630 810 4800 Toll free +1 877 594 7726 Fax +1 630 810 4600 SSAB APAC SSAB Swedish Steel (China) Co. Ltd. Tibnor No. 123 Yuanfeng Rd. Kunshan 215300, China Phone +86 512 5012 8100 Fax +86 512 5012 8200 Tibnor AB P.O Box 600 169 26 Solna, Sweden Phone +46 10 484 00 00 Fax +46 10 484 00 75 Plannja www.tibnor.se Plannja AB 570 81 Järnforsen, Sweden Phone +46 10 516 10 00 www.plannja.se Greenhouse gases emitted though the production of this printed matter, including paper, other materials and transport, were offset through investments in the equivalent amount of certified reduction units in the Kikonda Forest Reserve Forestation project in Uganda. 1121en Sustainability Report 2014 With our customers all the way V1-2014-Hallvarsson & Halvarsson. Photo: Stefan Ek (cover), Magnus Fond etc. Print: Elanders. Paper: Arctic Matt. SSAB is a global leader in value added, high strength steel. SSAB offers products developed in close cooperation with its customers to create a stronger, lighter and more sustainable world. SSAB has employees in over 45 countries and operates production facilities in Sweden and the US. SSAB is listed on the NASDAQ OMX Nordic Exchange, Stockholm. www.ssab.com SSAB Group AB P.0 Box 70 Klarabergsviadukten 70, D6 101 21 Stockholm Sweden T +46 8 45 45 700 F +46 8 45 45 725 info@ssab.com www.ssab.com
