We take care of the environment on your behalf… Communication on Progress (COP) Report DECEMBER 2014 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT FOR THE GLOBAL COMPACT Message from the President I am proud to announce once again on behalf of Polyeco the continuation of the United Nations Global Compact initiative and the Ten Principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Our relation with the Global Compact (UNGC) and the adoption of its principles is a conscious action since as a company we are an active and responsible member of the society. Corporate social responsibility is a fundamental element of our company and acts on the pressing needs of the society and our valuable partners. Generally and on constant basis, our aims, our efforts and our achievements derive from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development and the United Nations Convention Against Corruption. Our company is ready to face any challenges that may arise in the future, in the economic sector and in other fields as well, strengthening our business internationally. Supply and responsible attitude towards society is an integral part of the culture and strategy of Polyeco, ideas that were designed on the principles of respect, solidarity, support, equality and quality of life. This international global compact has the originality to constitute a unique opportunity that ensures the continuous communication and open dialogue with stakeholders and the exchange of best practices in the framework of sustainable development. We attach our Communication on Progress (COP) setting out our specific actions during the annual period (December 2013 to December 2014) in the seamless implementation of GC principles, continuing uninterruptedly and with special interest to support the principles of the Global Compact the years that will follow. Ioannis Polychronopoulos President Polyeco S.A. 2 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT FOR THE GLOBAL COMPACT Message from our Vice President During the long course of Polyeco’s development our vision had always been consistent with our culture, aiming at the promotion and the implementation of a management approach coherent with the UN Global Compact principles. Every year, our priorities are based on the same philosophy. In this regard, we remain focused on development in compliance with the due process and the principles of the UNGC, which we strongly support. Furthermore, we implement faithfully our company’s strategy, which consists of: Geographical diversification, Continuous improvement of competitiveness, Vertical Integration, Focus on human resources and Corporate Social Responsibility. Our new approach, Polyeco’s Contemporary Art Initiative (PCAI), initiated on 2014 aiming to raise environmental awareness throughout the world. Polyeco’s Contemporary Art Initiative (PCAI), which has environmental and social dimensions, supports emerging or established artists in order to create their artwork in countries that the Company is active, globalizing art and enhancing local communities. The artists are influenced by local culture and hazardous waste, experiencing life in new locations and creating artworks that encourage the dialogue regarding the environmental crisis and the urgent need for collective action. We attach herewith our Communication on Progress (COP) which describes practical actions taken during the annual period (December 2013 to December 2014) to implement the GC principles. Our COP is made available to all stakeholders through the corporate website (www.polyeco.gr) and the Global Compact website. Athanasios Polychronopoulos Vice President Global Development 3 [Table of Contents] Statements of continued support From our President 2 From our Vice-President 3 Human Rights 6 Labour 11 Environment 18 Against Corruption 28 4 Welcome to our World The present report is created as a continuity of our previous COP, covering the time period from the end of 2013 to the end of 2014 and confirming Polyeco’s constant commitment and respect to the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. Polyeco is the first and sole integrated and fully licensed waste management and recovery industry in Greece. Polyeco is a major player amongst the most prominent waste management companies in SE Europe and beyond with presence in the Balkans, Middle East, Africa, Central Asia and countries of the Indian Ocean. We are implementing efficiently some of the most technically challenging and time critical waste management projects of any size across the globe. Regardless of the scale of the challenge we work closely with you to tailor solutions to perfectly meet your business requirement and organization’s goals in compliance with health, safety and environmental regulations. Polyeco constantly strives on improving environmental management performance and competitiveness for its clients. Through continuous training, research & development in the fields of recovery, decontamination, reclamation and rehabilitation, we provide integrated waste management solutions for the industrial sector. Polyeco’s diverse field of expertise encompasses treatment, management, recovery, decontamination, licensing, transport and disposal of all types of hazardous and non-hazardous industrial waste. Sustainability is at the heart of our business 5 Human Rights [Principle 1] Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. [Principle 2] Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights risk assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. Polyeco Human Rights Policy To respect the human rights of our employees, our contractors and community as established by the UN A/RES/3/217 Universal Declaration on Human Rights and in the ILO’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, including non-discrimination, prohibition of child and enforced labor, and freedom of association and the right to engage in collective bargaining. No discrimination based on race, national or social origin, caste, birth, religion, disability, gender, sexual orientation, union membership, political opinions and age. No discrimination in hiring, remuneration, access to training, promotion, termination, and retirement. No use or support for forced or compulsory labor; no required ‘deposits’ financial or otherwise; no withholding salary, benefits, property or documents to force personnel to continue work; personnel right to leave premises after workday; personnel free to terminate their employment; and no use nor support for human trafficking. No interference with exercise of personnel tenets or practices; prohibition of threatening, abusive, exploitative, coercive behavior at workplace or company facilities; no pregnancy or virginity tests under any circumstances. Treat all personnel with dignity and respect; zero tolerance of corporal punishment, mental or physical abuse of personnel; no harsh or inhumane treatment. We respect privacy and properly manage and use the Personally Identifiable Information (PII) that our fellow in Polyeco, as well as our prospective or former employees, entrust to us. PII is defined as any information that directly identifies an individual such as name, physical address, email address, employee ID, government ID, photograph, or any combination of information that might identify an individual. We do not share this information with anyone, either inside or outside our Company, who does not have a legitimate business need to know. In addition, we should take steps to properly secure such data at all times from unauthorized access by third parties. 6 Goals and Commitments Further Commitments and Actions to be taken 1. In the short-term we plan to promote specific measures to favor the protection of our staff facing complex family situation, particularly in the cases of serious sickness among the members of their families. We believe this is an important initiative, particularly in a moment of economic recession and crises of the Greek State Social Welfare where families are more vulnerable and exposed to the lack of protection by the state. 2. Obtain a SA 8000:2008 accreditation. Although efforts to establish measurements, standards and certifications related to social responsibility are ongoing, we have set a goal to go beyond simple compliance by voluntarily obtaining the Social Accountability International Standard (SAI8000) certification based on international human rights and labor conventions up to the end of 2018, to credibly demonstrate to all of our stakeholders and interested parties that existing company policies, procedures, and practices conform to the requirements of this standard. To integrate the SAI8000 standard into our management systems and practices through an evidenced-based process means that direct-hires, suppliers, subcontractors, sub-suppliers and home workers will all be covered under this standard. This will result in more stringent clauses in the contracts with contractors and the supply chain, requiring the acceptance of specific obligation to be compliant with SA8000 standard. Social Contribution Our commitment to corporate responsibility reflects our values and the strong company culture we have been building since the first day of Polyeco’s foundation. In Polyeco we believe that Corporate Social Responsibility is not only resolved to simple compliance with legal and regulatory obligations but must pursue long-term prosperity, meeting society’s needs without destroying natural or social capital, promoting social development. In this context we strive to demonstrate good corporate citizenship satisfying social needs, improving the quality of life and adopting transparent and ethical behavior that is consistent with sustainable development and the welfare of the society. Acknowledging that the enhancement of positive contributions to society should be one of the company’s main priorities, in 2014, Polyeco S.A. provided numerous donations and grants, supporting athletic unions, the local society, students, children and fellow citizens that undergo hardships, victims of extreme weather events, non profit organizations e.t.c. More precisely, considering the promotion of sports as one of its main duties towards the society and the new generations, in 2014 Polyeco S.A. supported athletic unions and sports clubs and donated funds for the development of sports infrastructure. 7 Additionally, the last twelve months Polyeco SA supported numerous actions for the protection of the environment, charity races, community causes and fundraising initiatives in Greece and abroad. Also, the company supported a summer camp that hosts young children and granted scholarships to young students in order to attend international conferences on waste management, environmental protection and cultural heritage. For Polyeco though, CSR is not limited to donations. We address important social issues by implementing initiatives that have an immediate impact and help us achieve sustainability over time. Furthermore, Polyeco is equally interested in internal CSR, constantly striving to improve the well being of its employees, creating a healthy and engaging working environment, increasing their motivation and productivity, encouraging them to promote healthy lifestyle choices and ensuring their continuous education and training. Also, we work closely with suppliers to communicate our requirements, monitor compliance, improve performance, and build capacity, considering that a reliable CSR policy places supply chain processes and practices at its heart. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. Our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct executes these basic principles. It is the main tool to which a greater visibility and knowledge is given in order to make our position towards human rights clear to each of our stakeholders, both internal and external. A copy of our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct is made available to all our employees, contractors, supply chain, and other stakeholders in our headquarters and on our Corporate website. Our harassment policy, which is part of our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, contains multiple reporting means by which a person can report harassment or any other abuse of our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct or human rights protection policy and protect the anonymity of the senders of reports. We track all such reports and investigate as the case warrants. Our company operates in full compliance with the Greek Law regarding human rights and the Labor legislation on all of its activities, as well as the local laws and legislations of all other countries in which we operate. 8 These, among other regulations, forbid all forms of forced and compulsory labor, give to employees the freedom and the right to resign from their work voluntarily and reward extra hours of work with additional payment. We are against any form of child labor in all of our operation in Greece and abroad, and the same we require from our contractors and supply chain. Polyeco is fully committed to the concept and practice of equal opportunity in all aspects of employment. We hire the best and encourage them to achieve their best in a manner consistent with our core values and ideology. 9 Measurements of Outcome Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. Polyeco’s Group of Companies has no track record with incidents of human rights violations. Success in this field is generally measured by the lack of reports of violations of policy or law regarding the human rights, and, to date, there have been no reported violations in Polyeco, nor within the group of our parent and sister companies nor from our contractors. Should a violation be reported, we intend to undertake a thorough investigation. 10 Labour [ Principle 3 ] Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining [ Principle 4 ] The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour [ Principle 5 ] The effective abolition of child labour [ Principle 6 ] The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment Policy and Goals Description of labor rights, related risks and opportunities, written policies, commitments and company goals on labor rights. Our company complies with the Greek Labor Legislation on all of its activities, as well as the local laws and legislations of all the countries in which we operate. Among other regulations, these forbid all forms of forced and compulsory labor, give to employees the freedom and the right to resign from their work voluntarily and reward extra hours of work with additional payment. We are against any form of child labor in all of our operation in Greece and abroad, and the same we require from our contractors and supply chain. Having the sustainability at the heart of our business and servicing blue chip clients, NGO’s, UNIDO, UNEP, UNPD, UNDP and the World Bank our main focus is in leveraging the dynamics and structured synergies between the sister companies of our group to persevere the promotion and implementation of a management approach coherent with all the UN Global Compact principles. We value the relationship we have with our employees. The success of our business depends on every employee in our global enterprise. We are committed to fostering open and inclusive workplaces that respect human and workplace rights, where all employees are valued and inspired to be the best they can be. 11 The foundation of our approach lies in two key documents: our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct and our Workplace Policy Handbook. Both are influenced by the United Nations (UN) and International Labor Organization (ILO) declarations. Together, they describe our high standards and expectations, addressing such subjects as child labor, forced labor, freedom of association, discrimination, health and safety, hours of work and Human Rights. Our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct and our Workplace Policy Handbook, apply to all entities in which Polyeco S.A. owns a majority of interests. Implementing the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business, labor and human rights in our corporate context we use three primary components: a. Our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct a key document used as a framework for respecting human rights in our business context influenced by UN A/RES/3/217 Universal Declaration. b. Our Workplace Policy Handbook influenced by the Greek Labor legislation, the UN A/ RES/3/217 Universal Declaration of Human Rights and International Labor Organization (ILO) declarations. A due diligence process to identify, prevent, mitigate and be accountable for labor and human rights abuses. The selection, recruitment and remuneration of our personnel are based on their qualifications, skills, work experience, and on personal interview without gender, age, family status or other discriminations. Wages offered by the company are equal or greater than the minimum rates applicable for each job position. It is our policy, in accordance with all applicable laws, to recruit, hire, train and promote person in all job titles without regard to race, sex, religion age, disability, nation origin, or any other characteristic protected by applicable law. 12 Occupational Health and Safety Management We are measured by our ability to safeguard the health, safety and welfare of our people. Polyeco S.A. is committed to achieving excellence in providing a healthy and safe working environment, and to supporting environmentally sound practices in the conduct of its activities. Recognizing the social and economic dimension of the occupational accidents Polyeco S.A. has developed and applied a comprehensive and effective Safety & Health Management System according to OHSAS 18001 standard and The Health and Safety at Work etc Act 1 974 requirements. To achieve its Occupational Health and Safety goals, Polyeco S.A. is committed to the following: • Its compliance with each legislation requirements and the relevant standards. • The development, settlement and application of a complete Safety Management System according to the OHSAS 18001 standard. • The appropriate and sufficient training / update on its personnel safety through special seminars and appropriate working instructions/procedures. • Constant monitoring, documenting and evaluating safety and also the review of the present Safety Policy in order the constant improvement of the safety level. • Ensure that our employees and contractors maintain a professional attitude towards alcohol consumption and do not use, possess or sell illicit drugs that are not prescribed. • The disposal of necessary resources for the above goals accomplishment. • Recording on a continuous basis, of the dangerous incidents and near accidents. • Continuous effort for increasing / improving the facility’s safety levels by implementing specific projects (strengthening the fire fighting network, equipment) • Improvement / constant monitoring of the staff’s sanitary level (conduction of measurements at workplace, purchase of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), medical exams e.t.c) • Constant monitoring for the implementation of Health and Safety directions. 13 Implementation Description of concrete actions taken by your company to implement labor policies, reduce labor risks and respond to labor violations. To prevent any potential human and labor rights violation we have made available complain boxes in our headquarters and depending on the violation corrective action, the company may take the reassignment of duties and in severe cases separation from the company the person committed such violation. Failure to respect the letter or the spirit of Polyeco’s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct or the law of the country, may lead to disciplinary measures commensurate with the violation, including termination of employment and other criminal penalties such as fines and jail sentences. Day to day responsibility is delegated to all senior management of the regions, categories, functions, and operating companies of the Group. They are responsible for implementing these principles, if necessary through more detailed guidance tailored to local needs, and are supported in this by the Board of Directors. Compliance with the Code is subject to review by the Board supported by the Corporate Responsibility and for financial and accounting issues by external Audits. Through our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct it has been made clear to our employees and contractors and any other people involved in our supply chain that any breach of the code must be reported in good faith to our senior management and/or the Chief Legal Officer, by regular post, complaint box or email, having the right to remain anonymous, although we do not recommend it, and that all inquiries will be handled promptly and discreetly. Working Hours: Compliance with laws & industry standards; normal 5 days weekly work, not including overtime, and maxim work week not exceed 48 hours; and at least 1 day off fol lowing every 6 consecutive work days, with some exceptions; overtime is voluntary, not regular, not more than 12 hours per week; required overtime. Remuneration: Our primary responsibility is the protection of all our employees, their corresponding salaries and fringe benefits in a time that most of our competitors are laying-off staff and decreasing salaries. We ensure that our employees are paid well, at least legal minimum wage; sufficient to meet basic needs, have access to affordable benefits, and work in a safe environment. Wages and benefits are clearly communicated to workers; paid in convenient mannercash or bank deposit; overtime paid at premium rate; all employees receive a wage receipt with an analysis of their payment that include, any overtime payment, tax and social security deductions. We do not make use of false apprenticeship schemes to avoid legal obligations to personnel. 14 Employee wellbeing The wellbeing of our employees is a key component of our corporate values and sustainability. We have strengthened and expanded support initiatives for employees offering them benefits beyond the statutory minimum, to help them cope with balancing work and family commitments. We also actively protect motherhood and parenthood in our company through flexible labor regime, without any loss of benefits, for up to 12 months. We also protect our employees caring for elderly family members or family members with serious sickness. We have also established a leave/short working hour system for employees caring for family members with special needs rated over 80%. Occupational Health and Safety Management Implementation Polyeco has as a priority to respect human life by giving due consideration to safety and health concerns. To prevent accidents and disasters such as explosions, fires, and leaks/spills of hazardous substances, we adhere strictly to disaster prevention management standards, and we are committed to preventative action/recurrence prevention including earthquake countermeasures. • We focus our attention on the Health and Safety of our employees. • We Implement safety leadership programs including regularly undertaking audits and workplace site inspections of our operations; and empowering all employees and contractor to cease work when there is a threat of safety; • Prior to employment, a prospective employee may submit to a D&A test. During employment, each employee may be randomly tested for alcohol and/or drug abuse. Contractors are also obliged to conform the D&A Policies of Polyeco prior to undertaking work on behalf of Polyeco. In the event of an incident, each key person may be automatically tested for D&A, if required. This duty extends to matters including the maintenance of plant; assessing the potential risks to employees’ health and safety; hazard identification; systems of work; the arrangements for the use, handling, work equipment and workplace environment, storage and transport of articles and substances; information and training. The Chief Technical Officer oversees all our operations, engineering, research and development, and Environment, Health and Safety functions. The global EHS team develops standards, provides expertise and facilitates best-practice sharing across Polyeco, while on-site Technical Officers and EHS staff throughout our worksites globally are accountable for their EHS performance. 15 All employees and contractors are required to: • Carry out their work in accordance with Polyeco’s safety policies, processes and procedures; • Not use, posses, distribute or sell, alcoholic beverages, illicit or controlled drugs not prescribed by their doctor, drug paraphernalia in the workplace and whilst performing duties for, or on behalf of, Polyeco SA; • Stop work where there is a threat to their or others’ safety; • Be accountable for their own safety, and that of others; “SLAM” Stop, Look, Assess and Manage the hazards and risks inherent to the activities they undertake; • Report any hazards or identified risks and all incidents that cause actual or potential injury or damage; Polyeco S.A. assumes that every employee will make every reasonable effort to fulfill his responsibilities and obligations, responding to the company’s commitment contributing to the implementation of this Policy. With the satisfaction of the above conditions Polyeco S.A. aims to eliminate as far as is reasonably practicable, each potential hazard or/and hazardous situation that might damage the human health. Medical Follow Up of Employees In our headquarter facilities at Aspropirgos, we have an occupational physician and first aid facilities to provide medical support participating in our Health Safety & Health Management System, and periodically distributing health-related information. Preventive checks and vaccines Moreover, we provide employees with assistance for flu vaccinations, and try to prevent transmission by offering all employees the opportunity to get vaccinated at work. For our employees working overseas, in addition to services in health consultation by an occupational nurse, we provide all necessary support and physical examinations by partner medical institutions versed in health management for persons from other countries and preventive vaccinations for the particular host country or region. 16 Training and inspection We offer a wide range of relevant vocational, technical and waste management training programs to our staff. From ADR certificates as standard for all our drivers, systematic training forms are an essential part of Polyeco technical approach to allow them to perform their roles competently and safely. The Chief Technical Officer oversees all our operations, engineering, research and development, and Environment, Health and Safety functions. The global EHS team develops standards, provides expertise and facilitates best-practice sharing across Polyeco, while on-site Technical Officers and EHS staff throughout our worksites globally and together are accountable for their EHS performance. Measurements of Outcome Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance Polyeco’s Group of Companies has no track record with incidents of human rights violations. Our certified with ISO 9001:2008 quality management system incorporates two processes (one internal and one external) that provide all information required to measure the outcomes. On the internal front, the Human Resources process provides information on our compliance with the requirements of the ISO 9001 standard, which are fully on-line with the human rights principles, manpower planning, selection process and recruitment. On the external front, the procedure of the selection of suppliers and contractors makes sure that our partners also comply with the same principles we follow. Greek Labor authorities are monitoring and audit Polyeco with regular procedures according to the Greek legislation. Polyeco has no track record with incidents of violations of labor principles or legal cases, rulings fines or other relevant violations of labor principles. Also, Polyeco SA is implementing all required measures for the prevention of work accidents. No human and workplace rights complaints regarding harassment, discrimination, child or forced labor were received by Polyeco’s senior management during 2014 and we found no issue where freedom of association had been denied. 17 Environment [ Principle 7 ] Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. [ Principle 8 ] Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and [ Principle 9 ] Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection. Polyeco S.A. is a modern and dynamic enterprise providing integrated sound waste management, with products and services that relate to the environment’s protection address to various business sectors and industries. The overall activity of the company is to identify and understand the hazards inherent to the activities we undertake and effectively assess, control and manage those risks. Polyeco also provides on site hazardous and non hazardous integrated waste management solutions, decontamination, site remediation and building capacity, to its client’s facilities and by conducting client’s personnel training and assessments. 18 Through its operations Polyeco helps environmental protection, conserves natural resources, fauna and flora, public health and public interests. We take reasonable steps to preserve the environment through responsible practices to minimize the environmental impact of our operations by complying with all appli¬cable laws, guidelines and waste management industry standards. We keep our processes and services as clean as possible, in real terms this means that all our facilities are already certified under the EMAS environmental management standard. The continuous improvement of our services is translated into direct benefits for the environment. We have developed an Environmental Management System in full compliance with the requirements of the international standard 1221/2009/EC (EMAS) through which it is documented that products and services provided by Polyeco contribute to the protection of the environment. The scope of the system is the sound management of hazardous and non hazardous waste. Our certified with ISO 17025:2005 Laboratory is responsible for waste sample analysis and classification. Our Quality Control department produces treatment recommendations control forms and other legislative documentation. Additionally, the department can advise our customers on all hazardous waste regulatory is¬sues, providing specialist industry knowledge and guidance. 19 Our Environmental policy is achieved through the implementation of our Environmental Management System, which consists of: • Commitment to collaborate where possible with companies that have developed an environmental management system; • Savings on non-renewable natural resources and energy in all its business; • Continuous education of employees; • Continuous updating of clients and partners; • Continuous monitoring of legal and other regulations and requirements related to environmental issues. All matters relating to the protection of the environment are encountered by the Environmental and Quality Control Officer, who holds responsibility and independence. Environmental Targets The company has evaluated the environmental aspects in which the company’s activity has possible environmental consequences. Τhose are: 1) Electricity consumption 2) Suspended Particulate Matter 3) Noise 4) Liquid waste from rainwater in circulation and storage areas 5) Hazardous and non hazardous waste leakage risk 6) Risk of explosion or fire 7) Water Consumption 8) Paper consumption 9) Hazardous materials storage 10) Emissions of air pollutants (Volatile Organic Compounds – VOCs) 20 Environmental Policy Polyeco conducts Particulate Matter and Volatile Organic Compounds Measurements at emission points, as well as Liquid Waste Measurements, which are carried out by our accredited laboratory. Polyeco also monitors the levels of Environmental Noise within its facilities. Additionally to the above evaluation procedure, Polyeco S.A. has developed environmental programs, setting specific goals, invests in environmental projects and implements the best available environmental techniques and practices for achieving continuous improvement. Indicatively, Polyeco monitors the Consumption of Resources within its facilities and takes appropriate measures in an effort to reduce the effects that arise from the use of electrical and electronic equipment, toners/inks, lamps, batteries, lubricants and packaging materials. Adopting efficient strategy in this field, Polyeco contributes to the conservation of natural resources, reducing operating expenses and raising employee environmental awareness. «Reduce, Reuse and Recycle» is one of Polyeco’s fundamental principles, implementing longstanding and active waste reduction and recycling programs. More precisely, our top priority is to reduce waste generation in the first place and the second priority is the reuse and recycling of materials, whenever this is possible. In the last years Polyeco has significantly reduced paper consumption in an effort to preserve natural resources, decreasing simultaneously its environmental footprint. In cases that it is not possible to avoid the paper consumption, we use recycled or FSC certified paper. Furthermore, Polyeco is implementing measures and actions in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, the main cause of climate change. Except for the use of energy efficient products, Polyeco has established a solar power station at its facilities in Aspropirgos. We are also conducting efforts in order to reduce water usage by establishing monitoring and targeting system. It should be mentioned that for the achievement of the targets set in the field of environmental protection the company strongly encourages the participation of the employees and ensures their constant education on the practices that can be applied for the conservation of resources. The training programs are conducted by external partners or by the company’s executives. The educational themes cover all the aspects of the existing Quality and Environmental Management System. Furthermore, the employees are informed about the environmental policy applied by the company, the environmental goals and targets the applied environmental programs as well as the environmental effects of the company’s operation. Polyeco’s Environmental Indicators In full compliance with EMAS Regulation, Polyeco S.A. constantly monitors the basic environmental indicators measuring: water consumption, electricity consumption, greenhouse gas emissions and total annual emissions of air pollutants (NOx, SO2, and particulate matter) that arise from the company’s activity 21 Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks and re¬spond to environmental incidents. We implement our Environmental Management System aimed at achieving long-term goals and protecting the environment from hazardous materials. Within its activities, Polyeco SA bounds and guarantees the implementation of the agreed actions with its cu¬stomers, applying the National and International Legislation, with view the environment’s protection from any form of its burden. One of our prime duties is to control and mitigate risk at all of our operating sites. Our safety performance is a key part of the relationship with our customers, who rely on us to maintain the highest levels of operatio¬nal integrity at all times. Each site is subject to routine inspections by Polyeco’s safety professionals and we work closely with our con¬tractors to ensure that they are always meeting our own high standards. The choice of the most appropriate method of waste management is carried out in such a way as to ensure that the human health will not be endangered, directly or indirectly, and without using processes or methods that could harm the environment. For that reason measures are taken and proposed in order to: prevent or reduce production risk and waste, in accordance with the EU overarching principles. We help our clients primarily to prevent the generation of waste and to reduce its harmfulness. Where this is not possible, we aim in the reuse, recycling or recovery of the waste materials or their use as a source of energy. The main objective of our policy is to prevent accidents or the creation of environmental problems, to the extent possible, by reducing any potential risk that could lead to environment pollution, through our Environmental Management System, continuous improvements, and the active participation of all our employees. We intend to stabilize carbon emissions and environmental footprint from our operations, to the lowest possible level through renewable energy investments. Making More from Waste: Recovery/Recycling/Reuse At our main hazardous waste treatment facility we treat hazardous waste preventing their release into the environment and provide environmentally friendly methods of managing hazardous materials 22 Measurements of Outcome Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance Polyeco monitors its environmental performance with environmental measurements, and sets environmental goals, according to Environmental Management Procedures EMP.ΑΕ40 and EMP.ΑΕ-20 EMAS. Finally the company conducts systematically environmental internal and external inspections. The primary responsibility lies to the General Manager of Polyeco and the Environmental and Quality Control Officer for the implementation of EMAS environmental management system. External audits take place regularly by the (a) Greek state public authorities, (b) TUV Hellas and (c) by external inspectors from private companies on behalf of our customers. No environmental incidents from our operations were reported at any Polyeco’s worksites during 2014. Renewable Green Energy Photovoltaic Station To achieve our commitment to UN GC Principles and stabilize carbon emissions and environmental footprint to the lowest possible level, Polyeco funded a significant investment to create a solar power station consisting of 1000 photovoltaic panels that have been installed, on the roof of our main industrial facilities in Aspropirgos, Greece. This Green Energy Solar Station has a total surface of 3300m2, and a generating capacity of 250 kW. The conversion of direct current to alternating current generator is carried through 12 inverters DELTA (Germany), while for the connection of the unit to the Medium Voltage Power Network a privately owned Low Medium Voltage Substation of 250kVA was built. The commercial operation of this power station started after successful completion of the connection of the unit to the medium voltage network of the Hellenic Electricity Distribution Network Operator S.A. (HEDNO) in February 2013. Almost two years later, Polyeco S.A. continues the operation of its solar power station, which produces approximately 320.000kWh « green » electricity annually, amount enough to supply about 80 households midsize and reduce greenhouse gas emissions by about 270 tons of CO2 and a total of nearly 6 tons of SO2, CO, NOx and PM10 emissions. 23 EBEA 2006 Eco Awards The award was granted to Polyeco, for its sensitivity and best practices to the protection of the Environment. Accreditations 1221/2009 EC (EMAS) Environmental Management Standard, which documents that the product and services provided contribute to the protection of the environment. The OHSAS 18001:2007 Occupational Health and Safety Specification, which serves as the foundation of our management approach to employee health and safety. The ISO 9001:2008 or ISO/TS16949 quality management system standards, which provide a framework to improve system and process quality to increase efficiencies, reduce risks and avoid errors. ELOT EN ISO / IEC 17025:2005 Accreditation of the Quality Control of our Laboratory ISO 28000:2007 Specification for the Security Management Systems for establishing, implementing, operating, monitoring, reviewing, maintaining and improving a documented Supply Chain Security Management System (SCSMS), using continual improvement approach. 24 POLYECO ‘S CONTEMPORARY ART INITIATIVE One of the greatest visions and the biggest challenge for Polyeco S.A. is to aid and benefit the local communities, within which it operates. Since its foundation Polyeco has constantly been trying to achieve this goal and has been praised and honored for its effort by recognized institutions. In 2014 this dream started taking flesh and bones with Polyeco’s Contemporary Art Initiative (PCAI), which aims to raise environmental awareness throughout the world. Polyeco’s Contemporary Art Initiative is the spearhead of the Company’s Corporate Social Responsibility. With the initiative, Polyeco provides recognized or emerging artists with the means and the resources to visit the countries where Polyeco operates, inspire by hazardous waste treatment process and create an artwork which will encourage the dialogue regarding the environmental crisis and the compelling need for collective action. The aim of Polyeco’s Contemporary Art Initiative is to explore globalization and sustainability from new viewpoints and open a new path of understanding both of the theory and the practice of hazardous waste management. The pressing issue of hazardous waste has mainly been until now a technical problem, matched by technical solutions in waste disposal, waste management, and recycling. But waste is a complex phenomenon that can only be fully understood by exploring cultural perceptions and social practices alongside the technical strategies for dealing with waste. Globalizing contemporary art through hazardous waste is a unique and diverse initiative of Polyeco, built around five main pillars: • Support emerging or established professional artists, from all over the world. • Create art-in-residence programs that fuel creativity and ignite minds, with a meaningful and multi-layered cultural exchange of artists, academicians, curators and creative people. • Artworks produced within our art-in-residence program are influenced by local culture and of course by the concept of hazardous waste management. • Provide treated or untreated material and financial support to artists participating in our programs. • After the completion, all artworks of each program will be first exhibited in Greece and then in the country where they were created. 25 Central to our Contemporary Art Initiative is the encouragement of an ever-deeper understanding and enjoyment of contemporary art by the diverse local, national, and international audiences that it serves. To achieve our goals we seek to: • Create a unique Contemporary Art Collection to challenge our perception of the environment issues • Convert our Contemporary Art Collection into a unique resource to be spread over local and global community-based arts programs. • Attract an enormous number of visitors, bring together diverse communities and spread the idea of a sustainable future for our children and grandchildren worth living in. The “PCAI” initiative aims at opening a channel of new understanding both of the theory and the practice of waste. Visual artists from different genres explore where waste come from, how they travel and which external factors and ethical taboos influence our understanding of waste. Each œuvre is created in response to the conditions and configuration of a given space and/or place where hazardous waste management projects take place. Through Polyeco’s Contemporary Art Initiative, recognized and emerging artists are encouraged to experiment with any means they prefer (such as video art installations, paintings, mixed media, photography, digital art, etc.).The artists are also encouraged to create their artwork using reclaimed materials from Polyeco’s facilities at Aspropyrgos, Greece. The PCAI program will benefit local communities, artists, governments and ultimately the environment. Since the initiation of the program, three artists have completed their artworks. The first is the video art «Kepler» that was produced in Tbilisi, Georgia where Polyeco completed successfully a hazardous waste management project. Kepler 186F is a newly discovered distant planet that raises expectations for a totally different future since, according to the scientists, it’s size, atmosphere and soil is similar to earth’s and could potentially host life. 26 With the eyes of the artist it is a planet where people could migrate when the conditions on earth would be unbearable. Kepler is a science fiction political thriller. It can be happening here and now or tomorrow in a different place of the planet. Kepler made its debut with great success on September 19 at Athens International Film Festival. The projections of the movie will continue with the aim of raising environmental awareness, mostly among students and young persons. The second artwork is a sculptural installation made by fluorescent lamps which reflects the need of modern people to recover the harmonic relationship that used to have with nature. The third artwork is a photo gallery, for the creation of which the artist travelled at Benin, where Polyeco S.A. conducted a major project for the management of obsolete pesticides. For the collection the artist used super 8 film, which creates special colorings provoking intense feelings. All the artworks will be presented at art exhibitions organized by Polyeco Contemporary Art Initiative in order to raise environmental awareness. The oeuvres will also be exhibited in museums. 27 Against Corruption [ Principle 10 ] Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and briber Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anti-corruption risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti-corruption We continue to support the UN Convention Against Corruption and we strongly believe that corruption and bribery practices not only compromise the social merit of development but also undermine the efforts of the company itself for sustainable development. On the other hand, being a company with a certified quality management system we are committed and make sure that all employees, partners, business associates and contractors haven’t been involved in any corruption activities. Any suspicion of involvement in corruption or fraudulent activities must be reported to the Board. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anti-corruption risks and respond to incidents. In our Code of Ethics & Business Conduct we have set the very highest standards for the quality of service we provide and the way we run our business wherever we operate around the world. Our code serves to guide the actions of our employees and sets out our commitment on how to do business in a fair way: treating everyone customers, colleagues, investors, suppliers and sub-contractors, as well as the wider community with honesty, integrity and respect. The Board is directly responsible for the anti-corruption policy of the company. Polyeco requires that any suspicion of involvement in corruption or fraudulent activities to be reported to the Board in accordance with the procedures specified by the Chief Legal Officer. Polyeco at the Hellenic Federation of Enterprises (SEV) conference on Sustainable Development. Polyeco SA participated in 2014 at the Hellenic Federation of Enterprises (SEV) conference on Sustainable Development. The subject of the Conference was «Comments on the National Plan for Sustainable Development that is under consultation. 28 In its official statement, Polyeco SA saluted SEV’s initiatives on sustainable development and presented its proposals regarding the content and the structure of the National Plan. More precisely, Polyeco SA stated that concerning the introduction, the National Plan should be adjusted to the international standard ISO 26000:2010-Guidance on Social Responsibility, as well as aligned with the British standard SΑ 8000:2014Guidance on Social Accountability. Also, the National Plan should refer to Organizations, in order to include both public and private sector. Furthermore, in its comments on the National Plan on Sustainable Development Polyeco mentioned that Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) should be combined with art in the context of a socially and environmentally responsible development. Concerning the definition of CSR, in order to avoid bureaucracy, this should be defined as it is stated in the respective international standard ISO 26000:2010 as well as the British standard SΑ 8000:2014. Another important point is that under the international legal framework in force, the establishment of the issuance of Corporate Responsibility Reports is crucial for the proliferation of CSR. In an effort to increase the efficiency of social responsibility, it would be beneficial for the organizations of the public sector to incorporate the principles of CSR in their actions and programs aiming at responsible operation. Additionally, it would be very useful if the public services developed artistic and cultural initiatives aiming at raising the awareness of their third parties (subcontractors, suppliers, local community). Concerning the implementation of a national strategy for CSR, it is substantial to establish an evaluation process for the quality of the reports at a national level, applying the appropriate procedures and methodology. In conclusion, Polyeco SA defends that in the context of contemporary entrepreneurship, social responsibility should constitute the basis of the actions and the strategy of both private and public companies, creating a positive environment for the society. Measurement of Outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance. Success here is general l y measured by the lack of reports of violations of policy or law and, to date, there have been no reported violations in Polyeco and our parent and sister companies of the Group. Should a violation be reported, we intend to undertake a thorough investigation. 29 Polyeco SA 16th km of Athens-Korinth Ntl Road P.O.Box 24, Aspropirgos 19 300. Attica – Greece Τ. +30210 5530600 F. +30210 5574684 w w w .pol yec o.gr
