20 2014 SUSTAINABILITY report i Transnet’s reporting for 2014 consists Contents of three reports Sustainability at Transnet Volume 1 Our sustainability context 1 The Integrated Report 2014 is the Board statement and approval 2 Company’s primary report to all 2014 VOLUME 1 INTEGRATED REPORT Executive statement 3 stakeholders. 20 2014 About the Sustainability Report INTEGRATED REPORT WWW.TRANSNET.NET Reporting philosophy and approach 4 Volume 2 Reporting frameworks 4 The Annual Financial Statements Suite and interaction between reports 4 2014 including reports of the 2014 VOLUME 2 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS About Transnet independent auditor’s, directors and 2014 the corporate governance report. Who we are 5 20 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS WWW.TRANSNET.NET Where we operate and what we do 5 Our support processes 8 Volume 3 Our supply chain 8 The Sustainability Report 2014 Our business model 10 documents Transnet’s economic, 2014 VOLUME 3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Conditions under which we operate 16 20 2014 social and environmental dividends. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Governance and assurance 17 WWW.TRANSNET.NET Ethics and integrity 18 Throughout the reports, readers are referred to Material Issues places where they can find more detail on particular Material issues determination process 19 topics, using these pointers: Material issues as disclosed in the Integrated Report 2014 27 Refers to Refers to Refers to Volume 1 Volume 2 Volume 3 Sustainability Performance Review for further for further for further Economic dividends 30 information information information Social dividends 54 Environmental dividends 65 Appendix A External Assurance Statement 75 Commentary on the Market Demand Appendix B United Nations Global Compact table 78 Strategy focus areas and sustainability outcomes are indicated by these icons: Appendix C Global Reporting Initiative table 81 Appendix D capital Correlation between the Transnet Sustainability investment Framework and the Material Issues 89 volume Appendix E growth Transnet Sustainability Framework Material Aspects’ Boundaries 90 Productivity Abbreviations and Acronyms 91 and Efficiency Corporate Information IBC financial sustainability Human Forward-looking information capital All references to forward-looking information and targets in the 2014 reports are extracted from the 2014/15 Transnet ECONOMIC Corporate Plan approved by the Board of Directors. DIVIDENDS SOCIAL DIVIDENDS Transnet’s Integrated Report 2014, Annual Financial Statements 2014 and Sustainability Report 2014 are ENVIRONMENTAL available in PDF on www.transnet.net and via this QR code on mobile devices. DIVIDENDS Follow us on: Transnet’s application of the UNGC principles is flagged in the SR 2014 by the UNGC icon. Sustainability at Transnet Our sustainability context Since adopting our Sustainability Framework Transnet SOC Ltd (Transnet or the Company) in Transnet, we are systematically instituting is a State-owned Company (SOC) which has policies, measurement methods, process a strong developmental mandate to support controls, data systems, targets, reporting and assurance throughout the Company to embed economic growth and job creation in South sustainability into infrastructure planning, Africa. We have a Sustainability Framework project management, operations, supply that defines our long-term developmental chain management and risk management. focus into economic, social and We will update our Sustainability Framework environmental dividends. Our performance as this work matures. report back for the year under review is structured in terms of these dividends, Transnet is an active participant in a and for ease of navigation, we show where number of industry initiatives that advance readers can obtain the relevant information sustainability leadership in South African in the Sustainability Report 2014 (SR 2014). business practice. Transnet is a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Transnet’s sustainability maturity process and is represented on the UNGC’s Local reflects the wider business context in Network Advisory Committee. Transnet is a Refer to Appendix B for UNGC table which we operate and the dividends member of the National Business Initiative; the are evaluated to respond to changes in Integrated Reporting Committee; the Energy this context. We are alert to the global Intensive Users Group; the Energy Efficiency systemic and inter-connected risks that Leadership Network (EELN); the Industry arise from rapid economic, environmental, Task Team on Climate Change; the Network geopolitical, societal and technological for Business Sustainability-SA; and the shifts taking place around the world. National Biodiversity and Business Network. Transnet sponsors the Transnet Programme Unprecedented access to data on such in Sustainable Development at the Gordon trends is encouraging integrated thinking Institute of Business Science, and is a sponsor about the role that large companies play in to the local programme of the Cambridge shaping a sustainable future. Institute for Sustainability Leadership. SOCIAL EN VIRONMENTAL ECONOMIC DIVIDENDS DIVIDENDS DIVIDENDS Cost-effective freight Good governance, Modal shift from road-to-rail, logistics infrastructure ahead accountability and lowering South Africa’s carbon of demand. (page 31) transparency. (page 17) emissions. (page 71) Reliable and efficient rail, port  ero tolerance of fraud and Z Energy efficiency. (page 67) and pipeline services. corruption. (page 18) Climate change mitigation. (page 34) A  representative workforce. (page 67) Skilled human resources (page 55)  limate change adaptation. C aligned to infrastructure Safety. (page 59) (page 72) and services. (page 45) Staff wellness. (page 62) Water use efficiency. (page 72) Local supplier industry development. (page 49) Broad-based black Waste management economic empowerment. optimisation. (page 73) Job creation. (page 45) (page 55) Biodiversity enhancement. Rural development. Corporate social (page 74) (page 63) investment. (page 63) Regional integration. (page 5) Community benefits. A financially stable business, (page 63) able to raise and service debt, reinvest revenues and pursue Proactive stakeholder agreements with private engagement. (page 21) parties to optimise investment and services. (page 31) Transnet Sustainability Framework 1 BOARD STATEMENT AND APPROVAL The Remuneration, Social and Ethics • Measuring economic, social and Committee (REMSEC) reviewed the SR 2014 environmental dividends (outcomes) and the external assurance statement as for the Shareholder’s Compact from a reflection of Transnet’s sustainability 2015/16. performance and initiatives, and the • Incorporating sustainability Board has duly approved this report for value‑drivers into long-term publication. infrastructure planning, capital investment decisions, the supply chain As the Board Committee charged with, and enterprise risk management. amongst other matters, oversight of the Company’s moral obligations • Driving specific Company-wide for its economic, social and natural sustainability initiatives, continuing environment, REMSEC is satisfied that the focus on energy management and Transnet is making progress in embedding innovation while increasing visibility sustainability into business practice. on water management. We continue to uphold the UNGC’s 10 We trust that the past year’s sustainability universal principles on human rights, performance reflected in the SR 2014 will labour, the environment and antifurther encourage our valued stakeholders corruption. to continue working with Transnet as we Sustainability is a maturing process in the progress on our sustainability journey. Company and over the last three years of reporting, the emphasis has shifted from environmental compliance to sustainability at the core of our business strategy. For this we are proud and we remain committed to promoting sustainable growth Nunu Njeke through long-term economic, social and Chairperson: Remuneration, Social and environmental value creation. Ethics Committee Looking ahead, our strategic focus areas for 2014/15 include: • Maturing sustainability management across Transnet through policies, measurement methodologies, target‑setting, process controls, data systems intelligence, reporting and assurance. 2 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Executive statement As we look back on the second year into the Board’s mandate; adopted a of implementing our Market Demand Sustainability Framework; established Strategy (MDS), we are acutely aware of a Company-wide Sustainability Forum; the profound responsibility we carry to assigned sustainability responsibilities be stewards of economic growth, social to a Group Executive member and to development and the natural environment. General Managers across the business; Notable sustainability achievements have set up a research and development team; been made by Transnet in the last year, drove new Company-wide initiatives in particularly in long-term network capacity energy and carbon management, social expansion, acquisitions of new locomotives impact measurement, and stakeholder and port equipment, procurement from engagement; signed up to the UNGC; and local suppliers, skills development, safety adopted Integrated Reporting (IR), Global and energy management. Reporting Initiative (GRI), AccountAbility (AA) 1000 and Carbon Disclosure Project Transnet’s mandate to its stakeholders (CDP) reporting standards. runs deeper than sound financial and operational performance. We are required Transnet’s SR 2014 provides our to build a stronger economy and a more stakeholders with information on the equitable society while protecting our material sustainability initiatives that natural environment. The Company are underway in Transnet and reflects our therefore holds itself accountable, not sustainability performance of the past only to Government as Shareholder; but year. We also highlight our sustainability to lenders who help finance our business; commitments ahead. Importantly, the to customers who depend on our services SR 2014 includes assurance by external every day; and to society at large. assurance providers on key sustainability indicators. ‘Promoting sustainable growth’ is one of the strategic focus areas of Transnet continues to embed sustainability our Shareholder’s Compact with the into the culture and day-to-day Shareholder Minister represented by decision‑making of all aspects of business the Minister of Public Enterprises, and practice. This is being pursued throughout forms the cornerstone of the MDS. Our our Corporate Centre functions, Operating Sustainability Framework enables us to Divisions and Specialist Units. drive and monitor outcomes, which are our focus for long-term value creation. By I am grateful to the Board of Directors, integrating sustainability value drivers into under the Chairpersonship of Mafika our strategy, operations and performance Mkwanazi, for the steadfast sustainability measures, we are confident that Transnet leadership which is provided to the Group will not only deliver long-term benefits Executive Committee. As a SOC, explicitly for South Africa and the region, but will be committed to the developmental needs more resilient as a company to global and of South Africa, we continue to drive local risks. execution of the MDS in a way that builds lasting economic, social and environmental I am proud to report that since 2011, value. Transnet has made progress in embedding sustainability into core business. We included ‘sustainability in all we do’ in the Company’s vision statement; incorporated Brian Molefe Social and Ethics oversight functions Group Chief Executive 3 About the Sustainability R eport Reporting philosophy and approach Our sustainability reporting is also The SR 2014 provides our stakeholders responsive to a number of other globally with a view of Transnet’s sustainability accepted frameworks, including the UNGC performance for the financial year (read more at Appendix A) to which we have 1 April 2013 to 31 March 2014. The SR 2014 been a signatory for the last two years; the describes how we deliver sustainable CDP which informs our reporting on carbon outcomes through our five Operating emissions; and the AA 1000 Stakeholder Divisions: Transnet Freight Rail (Freight Engagement Standard. Rail), Transnet Engineering (Engineering), Suite and interaction between Transnet National Ports Authority reports (National Ports Authority), Transnet Port Terminals (Port Terminals) and Transnet Transnet undertakes its annual reporting Pipelines (Pipelines); as well as in the across three reports: the Integrated Transnet Corporate Centre and three Report (IR 2014), the Annual Financial Specialist Units: Transnet Foundation, Statements (AFS 2014) and the SR 2014. Transnet Capital Projects and Transnet The SR 2014 and the IR 2014 were prepared Property. using the GRI G4 and International The SR 2014 builds on Transnet’s report Integrated Reporting Council’s (IIRC’s) of 31 March 2013. There have been no Integrated Reporting Framework v1.0 significant changes in scope or aspect respectively. Both reporting standards boundaries during the reporting period. use the principle of ‘materiality’ to inform Where any restatements or changes report content. We note that GRI G4 and in measurement methods have taken the Integrated Reporting Framework are place, these are described in the relevant not fully aligned with regard to materiality. report section. Developments in reporting standards will be monitored to enhance our reporting The boundary of this report is largely the over time. Transnet legal entity. There are instances where reporting extends to other entities The SR 2014 complements the IR 2014 or groups of entities outside of Transnet. by providing more detail disclosures on This is disclosed for the relevant material Transnet’s sustainability performance. aspects in the report. For more detail Certain topics, such as the approach and refer to the aspect boundary matrix at outcomes from stakeholder engagement, Appendix E. are disclosed in more detail in the SR 2014. Throughout the suite of reports, we As part of our maturing sustainability provide reference to where further detail pathway, Transnet has engaged an external can be obtained. sustainability assurance provider to provide assurance on specific indicators The SR 2014, including the GRI Content (read more at Appendix A). Index, is available on Transnet’s website as a downloadable document on Reporting frameworks www.transnet.net To date, Transnet’s sustainability Transnet welcomes feedback on the reporting has been informed by the SR 2014 to ensure that we continue to GRI G3 guidelines. GRI G4 was published in disclose information that is pertinent. For May 2013. This year, Transnet has decided queries or suggestions contact the General to apply the new GRI G4 guidelines for Manager: Public Policy and Sustainability: Core reporting as far as possible in order Sue.Lund@transnet.net. to begin to align our future reporting standards to global best practice. The SR 2014 contains Standard Disclosures from the GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (refer Appendix C for a list of standard disclosures and their location in the report). 4 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 About Transnet Who we are of supply through providing appropriate Transnet is a SOC of the Government of the port, rail and pipeline infrastructure in a Republic of South Africa and the custodian cost-effective and efficient manner, within of the country’s freight railway, ports and acceptable benchmarks. pipelines. Transnet’s primary business is Vision freight logistics services. To meet customer demand for reliable In line with Government’s New Growth Path freight transport and handling through: (NGP) and the National Development Plan • Fully integrating and maximising the use (NDP), SOCs are required to contribute to of its unique set of assets; economic growth through the provision • Continuously driving cost efficiency; and of world-class infrastructure and • Demonstrating a concern for technologies; expansion of economic sustainability in all we do. infrastructure; job creation and skills development; as well as industrial capacity Mission building through a strategic approach to To enable the competitiveness, growth and procurement and operations. development of the South African economy by delivering reliable freight transport and Transnet has a responsibility to unlock handling services that satisfy customer economic, social and environmental value demand. through executing its mandate whilst building a commercially viable business Where we operate and what we do enterprise. Transnet has a coordinating Corporate Transnet’s mandate, vision and mission Centre located in Johannesburg, South reflect the Minister of Public Enterprises’ Africa and five Operating Divisions with objectives: operations spread across the Republic of South Africa. In future, Transnet plans to Mandate expand operations further into the African To assist in lowering the cost of doing continent. Currently, Transnet has four business in South Africa, enabling satellite offices in the region. economic growth and ensuring security Beitbridge LIMPOPO M apu to MPUMALANGA NORTH WEST GAUTENG Sishen FREE STATE KWAZULUNATAL R ich ards Bay NORTHERN CAPE Dur ba n Transnet Corporate Centre (Johannesburg) Rail Sa lda nh a EASTERN CAPE Engineering East London (Koedoespoort, Germiston, Bloemfontein, Durban, WESTERN CAPE Ngqura Uitenhage, Salt River) Ports and Terminals Cape Tow n Port Eliza beth Pipelines Mossel Bay Geographic location of the Transnet Corporate Centre and Operating Divisions 5 About Transnet (continued) Freight Rail, the largest of the five Operating Divisions, operates 20 500km of rail network across South Africa which transports bulk, break-bulk and containerised freight. The Freight Rail network and rail services provide strategic links between mines, production hubs, distribution centres and ports; and connects with the cross-border railways of the region. Shifting rail-friendly freight off roads and onto rail reduces logistics costs, impacts positively on the road network and has many indirect benefits for the country including a reduction in transport sector carbon emissions. Engineering provides maintenance and refurbishment services of rolling stock and specialised equipment to Freight Rail, National Ports Authority, Port Terminals and Pipelines and is integral to Transnet achieving optimal use of equipment in conducting its core business. South African ports owned by the National Ports Authority facilitate 98% of South Africa’s global trade and service the shipping feeder network connecting the west and east coasts of Africa. Approximately 31% of South Africa’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) is derived from exports and around 33% of GDP is derived from imports1. Port Terminals operates all of South Africa’s container and automotive port terminals and some bulk and break-bulk terminals. Pipelines transports fuel from coastal refineries and crude oil imports to the inland market. Transnet has installed a New Multi-Product Pipeline (NMPP) enabling an increase in volume throughput to meet forecast market demand. 1 South African Reserve Bank national income and production accounts of South Africa: Summary of GDP, expenditure and national disposable income, Quarterly Bulletin, March 2014. 6 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Transnet employs a total of 54 671 • Automotive; employees. • Industrial and agri-chemicals; Transnet’s customers are principally • Wood and wood products; large mining, shipping, manufacturing, • Petrochemicals; agricultural, industrial, retail and energy • Shipping; contributors to the South African economy. • Retail; and Transnet’s services are both outbound • Intermediaries. (South African businesses moving The way in which Transnet sources and products to markets) and inbound (bringing utilises assets, people and skills, finances products to South African markets). and natural resources, carries significant The commodities transported in the most responsibility. This is because the significant volumes are: mining exports, quality and sustainability of Transnet’s General freight 2 and petroleum products3. infrastructure and services impacts the The sectors that Transnet provides services short-, mediumand long-term prospects to include: of thousands of companies, tens of • Mining; thousands of employees, investors, all • Iron and steel; spheres of Government, and communities • Cement; across the country. • Agriculture; Rev enue per Commodit y HEA DCOUNT (EMPLOYEES) R ail Volumes (mt) (R billion) Freight Rail – 29 225 General Freight Business – 87,9 210,4mt General freight – 19 619 Engineering – 12 428 Export Coal – 68,2 Export coal – 8 909 Port Terminals – 6 624 Export Iron Ore – 54,3 Total rail volumes Bulk – 4 171 National Ports Authority – 3 823 Export iron ore – 4 961 Pipelines – 621 Piped products – 2 862 Capital Projects – 720 4,6M TEUs Break-bulk – 1 141 Property – 555 Maritime containers – 7 924 Group services – 675 Other – 7 019 Total container volumes R56,6bn 54 671 16,6bl Total headcount Total revenue Total petroleum volumes 2 General freight includes: containerised cargo, local manganese, minerals, local coal, local iron ore, chrome and ferrochrome, agricultural products, iron and steel, fertilisers, cement, fast-moving consumer goods, bulk liquids, wood and wood products, industrial chemicals, intermediate products and automotive products. 3 Petroleum products includes: crude oil, refined petroleum products, aviation turbine fuel and methane-rich gas products. 7 About Transnet (continued) Our support processes Our supply chain Transnet’s core business of freight Transnet’s supply chain has an extensive logistics services (performed by the reach into the manufacturing and services Freight Rail, National Ports Authority, sectors of South Africa and draws on Port Terminals and Pipelines Operating international sources where required. Divisions) is underpinned by the support Our service to customers is linked to process provided by Engineering, Transnet the quality of these suppliers and their Corporate Centre and the Specialist Units. products, and our product choices in These support processes respond to risks and opportunities and focus on achieving turn affect the environment in which we the Company’s targeted outcomes. (Refer operate. Furthermore, we recognise the to Transnet’s business model on page 10). important role that Transnet’s purchasing power plays in the local economy. Engineering provides a pivotal support process in maintenance, repair, upgrade In line with the material issues identified and manufacturing services; the greatest for our 2014 sustainability performance focus being support to Freight Rail, but review, we highlight here two key features support is also provided to the other of our supply chain: Procurement practice Operating Divisions. Engineering also and Energy suppliers. houses the Company’s Research and Procurement practice Development (R&D) unit to capture To effect our strategic objectives and opportunities for technology innovation. achieve wider economic, social and Transnet’s Corporate Centre provides the environmental value, Transnet recognises following support processes: that procurement practice must go beyond • Office of the Group Chief Executive; sourcing inventory and logistics. It must be • Treasury, financial management and supported by an outcomes strategy, with control; internal policy and governance measures to drive success. To this end, Transnet’s • Strategy, planning and sustainability; Supplier Development Plan (SDP) 2012 – • Commercial, economic regulation and 2015 is being executed. As procurement private sector participation; systems have matured, increasing focus • Human resources; has been placed on holistic and integrated • Risk management; Supply Chain Management (iSCM), with • Legal and compliance; our sphere of influence extending through • Planning and sustainability; the upstream supply chain to Enterprise • Results monitoring; Development (ED). Our Enterprise and Supplier Development is thus • Enterprise information management; increasingly supporting small, medium and • Security; and micro‑enterprises (SMMEs) with a focus on • Internal audit. education and awareness, innovation and Transnet’s Specialist Units are tasked with technology advancement, the roll-out of the following supporting roles: ED Hubs, and support for industrialisation and entrepreneurship. • Transnet Capital Projects executes large infrastructure capacity expansion The adoption of the Platinum Standard in projects on behalf of, and with input the Supply Chain model aims to transform from, the Operating Divisions. Transnet’s procurement to an end-to-end • Transnet Property manages Transnet’s management function, encompassing non-core property portfolio comprising demand management, sourcing, supplier commercial and residential properties development, inventory, logistics, contract (approximately 13% of the total Transnet development and management as well as property portfolio). disposal. Transnet also recognises that • Transnet Foundation implements the Company’s corporate social investment projects. 8 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 its procurement strategy is integral to the In South Africa, the SOC Eskom is the growth of a green economy in South Africa, primary supplier of electricity. Eskom in which the adoption and development is however, operating under severely of efficient and resilient technologies, constrained generating capacity while along with increasing use of rail for freight new plants are being built. It generates transport, will lower business costs and approximately 82% of its supply at stimulate economic activity. emissions-intensive coal-fired power stations and relies on diesel turbines for Transnet’s manufactured capital inputs, power-generation back-up. Regulated specifically infrastructure and equipment electricity prices have risen approximately requirements, are large-scale and 60,9% over the last three years, and technologically and intellectually intensive. Government is set to introduce carbon Our approach to sourcing in this context pricing in the form of a carbon tax from is to pursue suppliers both locally and 2016, which will further raise energy globally, complementary to our in-house prices. Although Transnet consumes manufacturing capabilities. approximately 1,3% of Eskom’s total Guided by the SDP and managed through annual electricity sales, Transnet is one of rigorous procurement procedures, Eskom’s top 20 largest single electricity we enter into contracts with Original users. At the same time, Eskom is a key Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) Transnet customer, receiving some of its with specific targets for local skills coal deliveries to power stations by rail. development, local job creation, local Diesel is a critical input to Transnet content purchasing and localisation of operations, due to the use of diesel assembly and fabrication. These are locomotives in the fleet and, to a lesser achieved in collaboration between the extent, diesel fuelled mobile and stationary OEMs and Engineering, whose factories handling equipment in the ports and other and depots are strategically located across operational sites. Transnet is sensitive South Africa to service the critical freight to volatile diesel prices, the associated rail and ports sites. foreign exchange risk and carbon pricing, Transnet’s objective is to increase but fuel supply is not currently identified South African industrialisation and as a critical constraint. To ensure sufficient entrepreneurship through localisation, fuel supplies to the approximately technology transfer, skills development, 53 traction diesel fuel depots across job creation and local supplier the rail networks, diesel is managed as a development. As we implement our SDP, critical input and contracts are in place to procurement lead-times are improving and ensure supply. market interaction is benefiting. In time, In 2013, Transnet adopted an Energy Transnet aims to become an OEM. Security and Carbon Mitigation strategy Energy suppliers to address its energy risks over the short, Energy is a strategic risk to our business medium and long term. This is further in respect of supply, pricing and carbon elaborated on under ‘Sustainability emissions. Our railway, ports and pipelines Performance Review: Energy’ (read more operations are particularly vulnerable about this on page 67). to business interruption caused by power outages, rising energy costs and uncertainty about electricity supply to meet demand. We are also mindful of the environmental costs of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from our energy use. 9 About Tr ansnet (continued) How transnet creates value Infrastructure investment Volume growth Outcomes To build sustainable value Inputs Productivity Value deployed in 2014 and efficiency coal Economic dividends methane-rich gas Volume growth Freight Rail NATIONAL PORTS 20 500km railway including AUTHORITY Capital investment R312,2 billion by 2021. 1 500km heavy haul Financial Capital Owns and manages Financial stability Volumes by 2021 – Share Capital R12,7 billion 1 888 locomotives, 8 commercial ports Rail: 343,9mt per annum. 71 075 wagons in service Ports: 6,1m TEUs per annum. – Longand short-term borrowings R90,4 billion Regulatory Fr SA UTHORITY R72,5bn total assets Pipelines: 18,5Ml per annum. iron ore R99,7bn total assets ei RT – Cash generated from operations Safety, health, environment and gh P O 3 823 employees Financial stability 29 225 employees R24,0 billion quality (SHEQ) t al Gearing <50%. n Cash interest cover >3,0 times. io R a Investment grade credit ratings. il t Human capital development Na Regulatory certainty. Manufactured Capital Productivity and efficiency – Property, plant and equipment Rail reliability – 10% improvement. aviation turbine fuel R207,3 billion Port efficiency – 8,5% improvement. Pipeline delivery to order – 95%. – Investment property R8,6 billion – South Africa’s National Development Plan manganese Human capital by 2021 – Global and domestic economic conditions CONTEXT Permanent employees 65 785. – Volatile commodity markets Skills investment 4% of payroll per annum. – Unemployment and inequality Economy-wide jobs 494 891. Human Capital – Skills shortages Local supplier industry development. – 54 671 permanent headcount – Technology advances Private sector participation. – Training spend R621 million – Regulation Rural development support. Regional logistics integration. Intellectual Capital – Regulatory uncertainty PORT Social dividends chrome – Custodian of the country’s freight ENGINEERING TERMINALS – Capital projects on time, on budget railway, ports and pipelines, 132 depots and 6 factories G PO 5 container terminals refined petroleum products infrastructure and technologies – Volumes and revenue growth IN RTTE Mature governance. E R – R100 million invested in R&D – Business interruption and incident Manufacture and maintenance of E 3 auto terminals management locomotives, wagons, coaches and IN RM Zero tolerance for fraud and corruption. Risks provision of engineering services G IN 3 bulk terminals – Funding and liquidity to ports and harbours EN AL Zero harm: safety and security vigilance to protect S 5 break-bulk terminals employees, customers, communities and assets. Social and Relationship – Energy security R11,2bn assets Employment equity, with focus on women and people with Capital – Human resource capability R19,0bn total assets disabilities. 12 428 employees – Customers – ICT utilisation 6 624 employees B-BBEE Level 1 by 2017/18. ferrochrome – Government and regulators – Suppliers and customers Corporate social investment. – Employees – Environmental and social sustainability PIPELINES Proactive stakeholder engagement to build common value. – Funders – Suppliers – Organised labour environmental dividends – Collaboration with customers and Pipelines – Communities logistics service providers 3 800km pipelines transporting – Pensioners Modal shift from road to rail (35% market share), lowering – Small business advancement refined petroleum, crude oil, jet OPPORTUNITIES transport sector carbon emissions. fuel, and gas – Supplier development Energy efficiency. – Skills development R32,3bn total assets Climate change mitigation. crude oil – Regional integration steel 621 employees Climate change adaptation. Natural Capital – African markets Consumed: Water use efficiency. – Technology applications – 3,6TWh coal-fired electricity Waste management optimisation. – Diversification of electricity suppliers – 256 million litres diesel Biodiversity enhancement. – Private sector partnerships – Water, air, ecosystems ce me o nt agricultural products fertilisers forestry products chemicals aggregate automotives fast-moving consumer goods containerised carg 10 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 11 12 About Tr ansnet 2014 (continued) – Revenue increased Capital investment – Rail: R621 million invested –  R40,9 billion DIFR performance of –  – Total electricity by 12,8% to increased by 15,6% to Freight volumes in skills development gross value added 0,69 – better than the consumption R56,6 billion. R31,8 billion. increased by 1,3% to (3% of payroll). – R44,0% reinvested. target of 0,75. reduced 0,2%. Group – EBITDA increased by 210,4mt. – R13,3 billion 3 340 apprentices and –  – 14,4% to lenders. R174 million spent –  – Electricity regenerated highlights 12,3% to R23,6 billion. invested in expanding by new locomotives: – Ports: TEU volumes 483 engineering –  41,6% to employees. on Corporate social infrastructure and increased by 5,4% to bursars in the talent pool. investment across 176 185MWh – Cash generated from equipment. 4,64 million TEUs. Recognised B-BBEE spend of South Africa. for the year. Transnet has persisted in the execution of operations after working its counter-cyclical investment strategy of capital changes increased by R38,8 billion or 94,4% of R312,2 billion over seven years. Despite continued – R18,5 billion invested – Pipelines: Petroleum – Traction energy 11,6% to R25,3 billion. to maintain capacity. total measured procurement efficiency economic volatility and regulatory uncertainty product volumes in 2014, the Company reports strong financial spend. improved 2,4%. performance, purchase of new equipment, rail – Gearing at 45,9% and cash – R50 billion, 1 064 increased by 4,4% to market share growth in general freight, skills interest cover at 3,7 times, locomotive contract 16,6 billion litres. R10,9 billion supplier – Road-to-rail gains investment, an improved safety record, blackwell within targets. development contracted. reduced transport economic empowerment and local supplier signed, R4,9 billion development through procurement spend, and invested in current period. sector carbon energy efficiency gains. emissions by 835 670tCO2e. Operating divisions PORT highlights TERMINALS Transnet Operating divisions’ steady results R8,5bn – Revenue indicate resilience in the face of economic slowdown, labour unrest, inclement weather R1,7bn – Capital investment conditions, customer and own operational challenges, regulatory uncertainty, ENGINEERING 4 503 (000 TEUs) – Total electricity outages and depressed commodity container volumes prices. Opportunities were seized by Freight Rail for volume growth in the container R13,4bn – Revenue 5,4% – ROTA and automotive sectors, while Engineering NATIONAL PORTS Pipelines increased revenue by pursuing new overFreight Rail R1,0bn – Capital investment 0,53 – DIFR border markets. Sluggish Port and Pipeline 6,4% – ROTA AUTHORITY volumes reflect the slow pace of economic R3,1bn – Revenue activity. R34,4bn – Revenue 0,61 – DIFR R9,9bn – Revenue R3,4bn – Capital investment R25,1bn – Capital investment R1,2bn – Capital investment 4 641 (000 TEUs) – Total container 16,6bl – Total volume of petroleum 1,3% – Volume growth to 210,4mt products volumes 9,7% – ROTA 8,6% – ROTA 8,0% – ROTA 0,82 – DIFR 0,39 – DIFR 0,17 – DIFR 13 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 15 About Transnet (continued) Conditions under which we operate There is clear recognition by the Transnet’s mandate to balance commercial Shareholder, Board and management that and developmental objectives requires logistics productivity and reliability are both prudent planning and bold action, determining factors shaping South Africa’s particularly in volatile global and ability to compete in global trade. Transnet local economic conditions. Transnet’s must therefore find ways to invest infrastructure and services are intended to counter-cyclically – through the peaks benefit South Africa as a whole, facilitating and troughs of economic cycles – in order economic activity. to both stimulate and support periods of higher growth. While the Company is State-owned, we receive no financial transfers from the Advancing the strategic objective of South African Government’s revenue further integrating South Africa into the funds. We raise debt on the capital markets region and the rest of the continent and without Government guarantees. Transnet improving country competitiveness, many pays corporate tax under the same laws initiatives are underway to build Transnet’s applicable to private and listed companies organisational capability and to embed a in South Africa. This year saw no significant high-performance culture. Transnet has changes in the way Transnet is owned, a robust business model and business structured or functions. practices and harnesses its capitals to realise value for stakeholders. (Read more Tariffs charged by Transnet’s National about this on page 10). Ports Authority and Pipelines Operating Divisions are determined by independent Critical challenges are recognised and economic regulators, the Ports Regulator are being addressed. External challenges and the National Energy Regulator of South include: regulatory uncertainty, Africa (Nersa). The Company operates particularly in respect of regulated tariff in compliance with over 400 regulations determination; sluggish economic growth, established through statute. both global and domestic, which impacts freight volumes and revenues; volatile The MDS provides the strategic direction commodity markets; skills constraints; and for the Company and entails deploying energy vulnerability. Internal challenges significant planned capital, in the shortinclude: operational efficiencies and and medium-term, to expand the country’s customer satisfaction; skills constraints; freight railway, ports and pipeline efficiency of capital execution; and infrastructure and improve operational information systems enablement. (Read effectiveness of the freight logistics more about this on page 10). system. New ship-to-shore cranes at Cape Town Container Terminal 16 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Governance and assurance The Audit Committee is constituted as a Governance in the context of statutory committee and is charged with sustainability at Transnet reviewing and assessing the integrity and effectiveness of the accounting, financial, With the adoption of the Sustainability compliance and other control systems. The Framework in 2011/12, a Company-wide committee reviews financial information to Sustainability Forum was established ensure that it provides a balanced view and comprising representatives from the engages with external assurance providers Operating Divisions, Corporate Centre to provide assurance on the information, functions and Specialist Units. The including sustainability. The committee Sustainability Forum meets quarterly and also reviews the expertise, resources is tasked with developing sustainability and experience of the Company’s finance Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) for the function and discloses the results in the Corporate Plan; analysing sustainability Integrated Report (IR). It recommends performance; structuring and providing the Company Fraud Risk Management inputs to the Sustainability Report (SR); Plan (FRMP) to the Board of Directors for recommending the SR to the Group approval after consultation with the Board Executive Committee for REMSEC review Risk Committee. and approval; facilitating sustainability learning and training; and driving The Board Risk Committee reviews Company-wide sustainability initiatives. the adequacy and effectiveness of The Sustainability Forum is underpinned the Company’s risk management by Sustainability Committees in the function. It considers the Enterprise Operating Divisions, adding impetus to the Risk Management (ERM) Framework and sustainability maturity processes which ensures that market risk, operational risk, are currently underway within Transnet. environmental, health and safety risks amongst others are formally reviewed on an The Sustainability Forum reports to annual basis. It recommends the Company’s the Group Executive Committee, which Risk Appetite Statement to the Board of reports in turn to REMSEC. REMSEC Directors. advises the Board of Directors, as the highest governance body, on those issues The Corporate Governance and Nominations pertaining to responsible corporate Committee ensures that all the committees citizenship and sustainability. It oversees of the Board are properly resourced to the Company’s legal and moral obligations enable them to fulfil their mandates. The for its economic, social and natural committee nominates potential committee environment, including the objectives members for consideration by the Board of and standards of the Company’s conduct Directors and appointment by the Minister and activities. of Public Enterprises. Other committees within the Transnet The Board Acquisitions and Disposals governance structure, whose Committee ensures that procurement responsibilities impact upon economic, and provisioning policies are fair, social and environmental matters include: equitable, transparent and cost-effective. Board Remuneration Board Acquisitions social and Audit Board Risk Corporate Governance and and Disposals ethics committee Committee Nominations Committee Committee committee Group Executive committee Sustainability Forum Operating divisions’ Executive committees Sustainability committees Sustainability governance 17 About Transnet (continued) The committee approves tenders and practices that are anti-competitive in contracts up to the maximum of the nature, negotiations made in bad faith investment decision. It monitors trends and under-pricing by following a system in supplier development spend and that is fair, transparent and free from any progress on plans including support of influence/unprejudiced dealings prior to, during and subsequent to the currency of the Government’s economic policies, the contract to be entered into. The aim Competitive Supplier Development is to: Programme (CSDP), local supplier • Enable Transnet to obtain the development, preferential procurement desired contract at a reasonable and and ED. competitive price in conformity to the defined specifications of the works, Assurance for sustainability indicators goods and services; and 2014 marks the first year that Transnet • Stop bidders and suppliers from bribing has included an external assurance or participating in any corrupt practice statement on certain information reported in order to secure a contract. in the SR. SizweNtsalubaGobodo (SNG) was appointed on 20 February 2012 as There is a Tip-Offs Anonymous Hotline Transnet’s external assurance providers for reporting concerns about unethical or through an open tender process. The unlawful behaviour. The hotline is managed assurance statement by SNG (refer to by Internal Audit and all reported cases Appendix A) provides assurance over are investigated through an established specified key performance indicators. forensics investigation process. Cases Financial information included in this reported are managed through an report has been extracted from the automated case management tool and Refers to allocated to the relevant Operating page 4 AFS audited by SNG, which includes an unmodified audit opinion on page 4 of Division for investigation. Operating the AFS. Divisions’ Fraud Working Groups are mandated to monitor the investigation Ethics and integrity of allegations reported. The hotline is Transnet’s Code of Ethics (the Code) available 24 hours a day, seven days allows for a culture of entrenched values, a week and the call centre agents are principles, standards and norms that guide able to converse in all 11, official South the behaviour of Transnet employees. African languages. Details of the hotline The Code aims to instil a culture of are communicated to all employees honesty, respect and integrity and overall through various awareness and education ethical behaviour in employees in their mechanisms such as annual fraud and engagements with both internal and awareness education, information cards, external stakeholders. The Code commits tender documents, invoices and other the executive directors and employees marketing material. Transnet employees to the highest standards of ethical are protected from victimisation by the 725 behaviour and all Transnet employment Transnet Whistle Blowing Policy in so far contracts make reference to the Code. as reporting is undertaken in line with the 628 Transnet’s service providers, suppliers Protected Disclosures Act. 494 and trade partners are also subject to the 471 Code. The Group Company Secretary is Looking ahead to 2014/15, the responsible for the development, review development of an Ethics Compliance and implementation of the Code. The Code Programme is prioritised. An Ethics 231 was reviewed in 2013 to extend the scope Climate Survey is currently underway in 157 to independent non-executive directors. the Company, of which phase one and two 1 April 2012 to 31 March 2013 1 April 2013 to 31 March 2014 It is due for review again in 2015. Aspects have been completed and results are being of the Code are included in fraud and reported to the relevant management Tip-offs a non ymous hotline statistics corruption awareness training; and the and Board Committees. The results 2013/14 Code is available and accessible to all of this survey will be instrumental in Transnet employees on the Company’s developing the programme. In addition, Total allegations Total unfounded intranet. an Anti‑Corruption Policy is currently Total founded In addition to the Code, Transnet concludes being taken through the Labour Forum for Integrity Pacts with all bidders and consultation, thereafter it will go through suppliers. Integrity Pacts have replaced the Transnet approval process. In excess of Transnet’s Supplier Code of Conduct. 4 500 employees were trained during the Each party agrees to avoid all forms of rollout of the Anti-Fraud, Corruption and dishonesty, fraud and corruption including Ethics Awareness training during 2013/14. 18 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Material issues Material issues determination Minister of Public Enterprises outlines five process objectives for Transnet: Transnet defines materiality for its reporting • Reduce the cost of logistics as a as: issues4 that substantively affect percentage of transportable GDP; Transnet’s ability to create and sustain value • Effect and accelerate modal shift by over the short, medium and long term. maximising the role of rail in the national transport task; Transnet’s material issues were • Leverage the private sector in the determined through a structured process provision of both infrastructure and of identifying relevant issues and operations where required; prioritising those that are material, using a • Integrate South Africa with the region number of sources, including: and the rest of the continent; and • The Statement of Strategic Intent issued • Optimise the social and economic impact to Transnet by the Minister of Public of all interventions undertaken by the Enterprises and the annual Compact that Company in the achievement of these Transnet signs with the Minister; objectives. • Transnet’s Sustainability Framework; • Transnet’s ERM process and top 10 The annual Compact that Transnet signs strategic risks; with the Shareholder sets out specific annual targets to achieve the strategic • The business environment within which outcomes required. These targets are set Transnet operates; and every year to inform Transnet’s annual • Transnet’s stakeholder engagements. Corporate Plan. This was complemented by a review of Transnet Sustainability Framework Transnet’s coverage in the external media. Transnet’s Sustainability Framework is The material issues were reviewed in a aligned to the Minister’s Statement of materiality workshop of senior management. Strategic Intent and the Shareholder’s This process has informed both the SR and Compact to ensure that Transnet accounts IR content as well as reporting boundaries for long-term economic, social and (refer Appendix E for the boundary matrix). environmental outcomes. It should be noted that GRI G4 requires that sustainability reporters define Enterprise Risk Management the ‘material aspects’ influencing their The issues that affect Transnet’s ability to organisation. As far as possible, we have create value in the short, medium and long therefore matched the dividends in term can be grouped into three categories: our Sustainability Framework with GRI • Operational risks or opportunities which G4 ‘material aspects’. We also used our are managed daily through implementing Sustainability Framework as part of the policies and process controls; process to determine ‘material issues’ • Strategic risks or opportunities which as required for Integrated Reporting. could significantly affect Transnet’s Appendix D illustrates the correlation ability to implement its strategy, but between Transnet’s Sustainability could be mitigated if they are understood Framework, ‘material aspects’ and ‘material and proactively addressed; and issues’. Some issues not determined as • Systemic or global risks or opportunities ‘material’ are reported for completeness which affect nations and companies against the Transnet Sustainability globally; some of which could be Framework. mitigated by localised efforts or through collective or multilateral actions. Statement of Strategic Intent and Shareholder’s Compact Transnet’s strategic risk profile is The Statement of Strategic Intent issued generated from the Transnet ERM Strategy by the Shareholder, represented by the Framework, based on ISO 31000:2009. 4 With the multitude of terms used in the IR Framework and GRI G4 guidelines guiding Transnet’s reporting, Transnet uses the word ‘issue’ to refer to matters, topics, and aspects. Not all ‘issues’ will necessarily be ‘material issues’. Transnet’s material issues, as disclosed in the IR 2014, are included in the SR 2014 on page 27 and reflected in the performance review (page 29). See also Appendix D. 19 Material issues (continued) A strategic risk profile is generated for each involves relevant stakeholders and is Operating Division, and updated regularly collaborative. for emerging risks. The output from risk assessments is held in risk registers and Priority I risks requires management to risk treatment plans that are stored in the take action to reduce residual risk or to risk information management system. Risks tolerate the exposure at current residual are allocated to specific risk owners for levels, with authorisation by the Group monitoring and review. The risk treatment Chief Executive and the Board of Directors. actions are allocated to task owners to track Priority II risks requires management and monitor completion thereof. to take action to reduce residual risk or manage risk reduction through the The results of the risk assessment reviews business plan. are presented to Operating Divisions or Specialist Unit’s Risk Management The Board of Directors has delegated the Committees and to the Transnet Risk quality, integrity and reliability of the Management Committee. Group’s risk management to the Board Risk Key Risk Indicators are developed for Committee. all significant and strategic risks. The The key medium-term issues derived potential exposure is determined in Rand from the ERM analysis, which support value for all significant risks. The process the material issues disclosed in the next section, are as follows: 1 Changes in regulatory environment (ie economic, technical E and compliance) – spending on capex based on assumptions 99% that may be negatively impacted by subsequent changes in 4 regulation Likelihood rating 3 D 2 >50% 1 2 Inability to deliver on the capex plan due to the ineffective application of current capital and procurement operating C methodology >20% 10 9 7 3 Inability to attract additional volumes as new capacity is 8 5 6 created and to protect current volumes against new entrants B >1% 4 Operational and business interruption due to derailments, safety incidents, cable theft, lack of effective application of A information technology (ICT) and natural disasters <1% 5 Credit rating downgrade leading to funding and liquidity risks – loans being recalled 6 Security of energy supply – inability to ensure sustainable supply 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 7 People management, talent attraction and skills development to operate the newly acquired assets Consequence rating 8 ICT infrastructure and technological risks to broader business enablement Priority I risk – Transnet Group CE and Board level 9 Counterparty risk certainty of delivery by suppliers/ Priority II risk – Operating Divisions’ CEO’s level customers. Commodity and Concentration Risks (Third-Party Priority III risk – General Managers’ level Supplier Risks) Priority IV risk – Managers’ level Environmental activism increased pressure to be a sustainable 10 Priority V risk – Employees’ level organisation Strategic residual risks heat map Business environment business sustainability. The MDS Slow rates of global and local economic recognises this, positioning the Company growth, volatile commodity markets, to meet demand, pursue developmental widening social inequality, structural outcomes, and build a sustainable unemployment, technology advances, skills enterprise. shortages, and the demand for natural South Africa’s NDP, endorsed by resources characterise the business Government in 2012, aims to eliminate environment within which Transnet poverty and reduce inequality by 2030. operates. These factors have a direct The long-term structural reforms impact on Transnet’s customers, funders, outlined in the NDP are complemented employees and suppliers. The freight by the nearer-term goals set out in the systems’ ability to effectively respond NGP; regular updates to the Industrial to these trends is integral to Transnet’s Development Plan; and the work of the 20 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Presidential Infrastructure Coordinating directly affected by Transnet’s operations; Commission (PICC). The NDP’s focus and those who are likely to directly areas are: the economy and employment; influence Transnet’s performance. economic infrastructure; transition to a Transnet is streamlining business low-carbon economy; South Africa in the processes to improve shared value creation region and the world; human settlements; through stakeholder engagement. In 2013, education, training and innovation; we concluded a stakeholder engagement healthcare; social protection; safe analysis to determine the quality of communities; a capable state; fighting engagements and to identify ways to corruption and enhancing accountability; improve. A number of improvement areas and transforming society and unifying were identified in respect of our policy, the country. process controls and reporting, and the These NDP focus areas constitute following steps were taken in 2013/14 to Government’s framework of policy and institute a more systematic management planning priorities. They are all relevant approach to stakeholder engagement: to the scope of Transnet’s mandate, • A maturity assessment of stakeholder highlighting the complex socio-economic engagements has been concluded, challenges within which the Company identifying the need to standardise operates. systems. Public sector investment in economic • A stakeholder engagement policy has infrastructure is a key component of been developed to guide, streamline and embed the Company’s stakeholder South Africa’s economic growth path. engagement approach based on values The share of the public sector in overall of reciprocity, dignity and respect. fixed investment rose from under 30% of GDP in 1994 to 38% in 2013, while • A process control framework is in SOCs, especially Transnet and Eskom, development to facilitate policy accounted for approximately half of all implementation through auditable public investment in 20135. South Africa’s processes. economic infrastructure nevertheless still • A stakeholder engagement module is lags demand and much more is required to being established within a sustainability stimulate the levels of growth which are data system to record and monitor needed to create and sustain employment engagements. and to reduce poverty and inequality. • Quality assessments of stakeholder relationships have been conducted in The key issues derived from this business pilot areas of the business. environment, which support Transnet’s material issues outlined later in this The Board of Directors has overall section, are as follows: responsibility for stakeholder engagement and day-to-day engagements are largely • Infrastructure provision ahead of demand; decentralised in the Operating Divisions. • Asset utilisation; The Board of Directors has delegated • Skills in project management and authority to the Group Chief Executive operations; who reports to the Board of Directors on • Operations service reliability and all material stakeholder issues, and take performance, including safety; responsibility for incorporating these into • Supply chain exposures; and business strategy and risk management. • Revenues required to support Transnet identifies, prioritises and maps investment. its material stakeholders based on: • The effect each stakeholder has on Stakeholder engagements Transnet’s ability to successfully Our stakeholders are those individuals implement strategies and achieve its or groups of individuals or organisations objectives; and where we have a legal, financial or • The effect of Transnet’s activities, operational responsibility; those who are products and services on stakeholders. 5 The Presidency, Republic of South Africa, 2014: Twenty Year Review South Africa. <http://www.thepresidency-dpme.gov.za/news/ Pages/20-Year-Review.aspx>. 21 Material issues (continued) We have summarised below the way in which we engage with each identified stakeholder group, their expectations, key concerns and our response. These stakeholder concerns have been identified through the Operating Divisions and Corporate functions day-to-day interactions with their key stakeholders. Customers Our customers expect a reliable, efficient and price competitive service which keeps up with their demand. We engage with our customers through regular business meetings; annual customer conferences; monthly service level agreements; and through our social and networking platforms as and when required. Our customers’ key concerns and how we have responded to these are described below: Customer concerns Our response Shortage of skills and execution We share long-term plans and formulate mutually beneficial capacity required to meet customer strategies with customers. This enables us to build execution demand. capacity. We have extensive skills development programmes for our staff. Inefficient services. We closely monitor service level agreements, and our productivity ratios to improve management and efficiency. Poor customer service. We engage with our customers on a regular basis to obtain performance feedback. We conduct customer satisfaction surveys, and are implementing many of the recommendations. Property maintenance and onerous We have improved the commercialisation of leases and the historic leases. maintenance of our properties. Potential customers (emerging We are finding mechanisms to ensure that emerging miners have miners) are concerned that access to our infrastructure. they cannot easily access our infrastructure for their business activities. Employees Our employees expect that they will be fairly remunerated, provided opportunities to develop and improve their skills, be treated with dignity and respect and have access to safe working conditions. We engage with our employees through regular meetings, roadshows and team-building sessions; as well as through annual management conferences and strategic planning sessions. Employees’ key concerns and how we have responded to them are described below: Employee concerns Our response Being treated with dignity We have developed a Dignity and Respect Programme, and are in and respect, irrespective of level the process of developing an Anti-Bullying Policy. of occupation. We have aligned our Operating Division Recognition Awards with the Group Chief Executive Performance Excellence Recognition Programme. These reward virtuous behaviours and instil a culture of high performance. Access to a safe working We rolled out our Safety Culture Programme in all Operating environment, which doesn’t Divisions through our safety leagues. Safety awareness was also impose on the health of heightened through our Safety Culture Programme. employees. The availability of the wellness We improved awareness about employee health and wellness programmes. through a communication campaign. Employees want to know more We implemented a change management strategy which outlines about their expected role and employees’ expected role and contribution in the implementation contribution to the MDS. of the MDS. 22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Shareholder Representative – Ministry of Public Enterprises Our Shareholder Representative expects Transnet to stimulate economic growth and job creation, align infrastructure capital investment plans with Government plans, perform in line with the Shareholder’s Compact, lower the cost of doing business and optimise economic, social and environmental impacts. We engage with our Shareholder through scheduled meetings between the Minister and the Board Chairman, quarterly bilateral meetings between the Department of Public Enterprises (DPE) and Transnet’s Executive Management, through quarterly reports to the DPE; and through our annual Corporate Plan. The Shareholder’s key concerns and our responses are described below: Shareholder concerns Our response Possible negative impact of some policies We have developed joint policy positions with the which affect Transnet’s operating environment Shareholder to address policy and regulatory risks. (eg National Ports Act, Integrated Coastal Management Act Amendment Bill, Preferential We are working with the Shareholder to engage Procurement Policy Framework Act (PPPFA), with the relevant departments. Rail Reform, Infrastructure Development Bill and Safety Permit Fees). Transnet’s productivity and ability to deliver We have established and enhanced the Group on the capital investment plan on target. Capital Integration (GCI) function within Group Finance as well as the Group Results Management Office (RMO) function which are aimed at better management of the Capital Investment Plan and Transnet’s ability to implement and achieve the MDS. Lack of information about business We opened a SMME Hub for ED in the Carlton opportunities for SMMEs. Centre and additional hubs will be rolled out in all the provinces in the future. We report on the SDP on a quarterly basis, and proactively participate in the Shareholder’s visits to the communities sharing business opportunities for SMMEs. The impact of global economic conditions on We provide quarterly briefings to the DPE business performance. highlighting our performance and broader economic outlook and the actions we consider taking in case of any negative impact on our performance. Misalignment between Government We proactively participate in the PICC Strategic infrastructure plans and Transnet’s planning. Infrastructure Programmes (SIPs) and convene SIP 2. Transnet adopted an approach of engaging DPE early in its project planning to ensure more alignment. 23 Material issues (continued) Investors Our investors, bond-holders and rating agencies, expect improved business performance and competitive returns. We engage our investors through quarterly investor briefings, bi-annual reporting, and a report is provided to the National Treasury on a monthly basis. Investors’ key concerns and our responses are described below: Investor concerns Our response Policy and regulatory uncertainties We provide our investors with updates on our ongoing and the impact on Transnet’s operating policy and regulatory engagements with the relevant environment especially Integrated policy making authorities. Coastal Management Act, National Ports Act, impending Rail Reform and tariffs approval by economic regulators. Overall business performance (corporate We provide our investors with regular updates on financial ratios) and efficiency, and our business performance (financial and operational security of their investment. performance). We implement prudent financial risk and funding policy. Transnet’s ability to fund and execute its The robust funding plans are approved by the relevant capital expansion programme. authorities (Shareholder and National Treasury). We implement a flexible capital expenditure execution plan that responds to a challenging environment. We established the GCI and RMO (see elaboration under Shareholder Representative). Liquidity constraints associated with We have sufficient back-up committed facilities, large capital expenditure programme nurture good relationships with the banks and have increasing debt burden. strong credit standing in financial markets. Our debt is mostly in Rand currency and foreign risk exposure is hedged. Economic outlook that might negatively We have developed and implemented plans to address: impact commodity demand, potential • Commodity demand volatility, social unrest and strikes and security • Potential labour unrest and strikes, and of energy supply. • Energy security and carbon mitigation. National, Provincial and Local Government and Regulators The three spheres of Government and regulatory bodies including Nersa, the Rail Safety Regulator (RSR) and the Ports Regulator, expect alignment of freight investments with local plans and priorities, the creation of local jobs and skills, lowering of the cost of doing business and compliance with regulations. We engage with Government and Regulators through regular applications processes, meetings, monthly and quarterly joint planning sessions, scheduled strategic planning sessions, and when required through written comments and workshops. The Government and Regulators’ key concerns, and how we have responded to them, are described below: Government and Regulators concerns Our response Containment of costs and tariff We engage regulators to try to reach consensus on tariff increases, although rail safety permit methodologies and pricing (Ports Regulator including fees are being raised exponentially Nersa) and permit fees (RSR). by RSR. Misalignment between Government We proactively participate in the PICC SIPs and convene infrastructure plans and Transnet’s SIP 2. We also proactively participate in Strategic Planning planning. Forums with provincial and local Government to share our long-term plans. 24 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Government and Regulators concerns Our response The National and Provincial We collaborate with policy-makers to proactively Department of Environmental Affairs address waste management. We actively participate in raised concerns about waste and policy‑making through comments on draft policies and biodiversity management. regulations. We comply with relevant legislation through Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs), the development of Safety, Health, Environment and Quality (SHEQ) and air quality management plans to address both historical, current and future waste and biodiversity concerns. Suppliers Our suppliers expect fair and efficient procurement practices, localisation of procurement, local skills development, black economic empowerment as well as empowerment through the CSDP. We engage with our suppliers through monthly and quarterly meetings as well as scheduled supplier summits. Our suppliers’ key concerns, and how we have responded to them, are described below: Supplier concerns Our response Implications of the PPPFA on We engaged with the National Treasury and our Shareholder CSDP, particularly for small to develop a PPPFA framework that will allow for case-by-case suppliers. exemptions from the negative impact of this legislation to small suppliers. Operational inefficiencies within We have introduced short payment turnaround times for SMMEs supply chain management, and enforced adherence to the contractual obligations to particularly for procurement and improve efficiencies. payment turnaround times. Transformation requirements for We have introduced localisation thresholds into major contracts international suppliers. to increase localisation and empowerment of the South African supply base. We engage with our OEMs on the development of downstream suppliers, and introduced a Broad-based Black Economic Empowerment (B-BBEE) improvement plan for suppliers, which we are monitoring closely. Lack of information about We opened a SMME Hub for ED in Carlton Centre and additional business opportunities for hubs will be rolled out in all the provinces in the future. We have SMMEs. also conducted supplier development education campaigns aimed at SMMEs, and established enterprise development funds, eg Godisa – an agreement between Transnet, Anglo American and Government which will focus on the development of black-owned SMMEs in Transnet’s procurement value chain. Organised Labour Organised labour expects transparency and trust, fair remuneration, skills development of employees and safe working conditions. We engage with organised labour through regular meetings with union representatives at local, regional and national levels. Transnet’s recognition agreement provides for each Operating Division to engage with organised labour on a monthly or quarterly basis. We also have a bargaining council where collective bargaining with recognised trade unions is held on a regular basis. Organised labour’s key concerns and our responses are described below: Organised labour concerns Our response Emerging trade unions seeking We engage with trade unions in accordance with the respective recognition within Transnet. legislative requirements for recognising trade unions. There should be a balance between We have undertaken tailored skills identification processes to improving Transnet employees’ assess what skills are required to implement the MDS and to skills and broader societal skills set. identify training needs. Transnet might have too many We engage with organised labour in collective bargaining policies that constrain employees’ processes to reach agreement on organisational policies. daily activities. 25 Material issues (continued) Public This stakeholder group expects social and economic benefits from Transnet, skills development and improved environmental and safety management at Transnet’s operations. We engage with communities, civil society and media through regular meetings and workshops, communication and engagement campaigns, roadshows, career expos and through the implementation of our Corporate Social Investment (CSI) projects. The public’s key concerns and our responses are described below: Public (communities, civil society concerns and media) concerns Our response Negative impacts of Transnet’s operations We have implemented various community safety eg environmental impacts and safety awareness campaigns across our Operating Divisions. concerns. We also implement various projects to mitigate environmental impacts. Land and/or property owned by Transnet We are engaging with relevant authorities to share which appears to be unused. plans around our assets because some of them are held for long-term strategic programmes. Inadequate public engagement of We have created an integrated development framework communities in the planning phases of that will allow public engagement at early phases of infrastructure development. projects. Local job creation, skills development and All our projects, including capital projects are geared rural development. towards creation of decent jobs, skills development in the communities and enablement of rural development. In addition, the Transnet Foundation has invested in five priority community social development areas: • Health eg Phelophepa provides health facilities to rural communities; • Rural schools and sports; • Education eg teacher development and orphans support programme; • Container Assistance Programme (CAP) to South African Police Services (SAPS) and communities; and • Employee Volunteer Programme (Diepsloot, Inanda, De Aar and Langa). The key issues derived from the stakeholder engagement analysis, which support the material issues disclosed later in this section, are as follows: • Provide infrastructure capacity ahead of demand in support of economic growth; • Be responsive to customers, improve efficiencies and reliability; • Create opportunities for local suppliers, develop skills and create jobs; • Recognise and reward employees; • Be financially stable; and • Be socially and environmentally responsible. 26 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Material Issues as disclosed in the Integrated Report 2014 The material issues, context of the issues and strategic response, identified through the materiality determination process are as follows (in order or prioritisation): Material issue Why is this material to Transnet Potential impact on Transnet Strategic response 1. Regulatory • Methodology uncertainty in economic • Revenue uncertainty affects Ongoing uncertainty regulation by the Ports Regulator for the funding and capital engagements with annual approval of National Ports investment planning. the Shareholder, Authority tariffs. • Changes to Transnet’s balance Government policy • Uncertainty on Nersa’s annual sheet will affect loan departments and determination of Pipelines revenue. covenants and future funding. regulators. • National Ports Act’s provision for • Large-scale capital plans and corporatisation of National Ports funding for investment are Authority. based on regulatory, revenue • Uncertainty of terminal licence duration and costs assumptions that for Port Terminals at Port of Ngqura. • Competitive process required in terms of can change significantly National Ports Act for provision of new though administrative action. port services. • Uncertainty on port terminal • Transnet’s ownership of present and licences affects deployment future port infrastructure affixed to the of resources and investment. seabed arising from provisions of the • Uncertainty on ownership of Integrated Coastal Management Act. port infrastructure affects • Sharp escalations in safety permit fees investment. charged by the Rail Safety Regulator. 2. Capital • Project management, engineering and • Capital cost over-runs and Enhance and further projects on technical skills and experience needed delays affect revenues, embed project time and to deliver capital projects to plan. reputation, funding and lifecycle process within budget • Prioritisation complexities for capital investment sequencing. methodology, projects based on demand projections, • Impact on customers and the rigorous feasibility business cases and expected growth economy. gate reviews and opportunities. project risk management. Capital approvals optimisation. 3. Volume and • Ability to meet future demand for • Lower-than-projected volumes Focus on customer revenue freight logistics services is dependent and revenues affects capital responsiveness and growth on volume and revenue growth to allocations and timing. satisfaction. finance investments. • Competitors attract some Rigorous capital • Volatility in customers’ industries and customers where Transnet planning and import/export markets affects volumes capacity falls short. execution. and revenues. • Opportunities to be innovative and attract new customers. Implement Marketing strategy. Ensure take-or-pay agreements are implemented for all export channels. 4. Business Adverse impacts of: • Business interruptions Risk management. interruption • Electricity disruptions negatively impact on Operational and incident • Adverse weather conditions operational systems, resource efficiency and management • Labour unrest allocations, volumes, productivity. • Cable theft revenues, reputation. • Understaffing • Impact on customers and the Safety systems. • Derailments economy. Security systems. • Equipment failure Maintenance. • Supplier disruptions/failures Energy management. • Customer demand fluctuations Contract management. 27 Material issues (continued) Material issue Why is this material to Transnet Potential impact on Transnet Strategic response 5. Funding and • Ability to manage liquidity and generate • Inadequate liquidity can Finance and funding liquidity cash in the short, medium and long term negatively impact the strategy. and attract cost effective funding. Company’s going concern Engagements with status and impact on its credit providers of rating, cost of funds and financial capital. investment plans. • High cost of funds impacts the cash interest cover. • Credit rating downgrades for the country influence Transnet’s ability to attract investors. 6. Energy • Transnet requires guaranteed • Business interruptions. Energy security electricity supply at a reasonable price • Opportunities to build management, in order to operate the railways, ports resilience by improving energy energy efficiency and pipelines. management and efficiency, measures, and adopting alternative investigation of energy solutions alternative supplies. Engagement with Eskom. 7. Human • Need for specific skills, experience and • Skills, experience and Human capital resources mature management to deliver on MDS. management constraints limit strategy for capability • Ageing workforce concern. Transnet’s ability to performance and • Transformation requirements. effectively deliver on talent management • Talent retention. infrastructure plans and and skills operating efficiency development. improvements. 8 ICT utilisation • Third-party supplier dependency. • Efficient utilisation of ICT will ICT strategy. • Legacy software not being supported. reduce asset losses and Investment in • Technology enablement to prevent business disruptions. research and asset losses and disruptions. • Opportunities for deployment development and • Ageing and inefficient ICT of new technologies to adoption of infrastructure. improve efficiencies. appropriate • Research and Development capability. technology. 9. Suppliers and • Exposure to customers’ and suppliers’ • Exposures through supply Contract customers disruptions. chains and the nature of management. • Diversifying the customer portfolio to customer’s operations impact Customer relations. wider base of companies, including new on capital projects, entrants. operational systems, volumes, Capital planning • Volatility of export commodities. revenues and reputation. and execution. 10. Environmental • Water scarcity in areas where • Promoting sustainable growth Sustainability and social customers are developing new mines. is part of Transnet’s mandate. strategies and risk sustainability • Long-term coal demand forecast • Potential of investing in analysis. Feasibility uncertainty. infrastructure for industries gate reviews and • Infrastructure requires climate change which may not be sustainable. project risk mitigation and adaptation in design. • Regulatory and reputational management. • Environmental impact mitigation risk. measures factored into project plans. • Communities in which • Social and relationship capital. Transnet invests and operates are integral to lasting business solutions. 28 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Sustainability PER FOR MANCE R EVIEW ECONOMIC DIVIDENDS SOCIAL DIVIDENDS ENVIRONMENTAL DIVIDENDS 29 ECONOMIC DIVIDENDS T ransnet is intently focused on being a primary catalyst for economic growth and job creation in South Africa. Our railways, ports and pipelines carry the productivity and consumption activities of the nation from origin to destination, connecting the country to local and international trade. It is Transnet’s single-minded determination to deliver exceptional economic dividends to society through appropriate infrastructure investment, operational efficiencies, skills development, localisation, job creation, and sound business discipline. Transnet’s material economic dividends highlighted in this 2014 sustainability performance review are: • Cost-effective freight logistics infrastructure ahead of demand and a financially stable business, able to service debt, reinvest revenues and purse agreements with private parties; • Reliable and efficient rail, port and pipeline services; • Skilled human resources aligned to infrastructure and services; and • Local supplier industry development. Value added is defined as the financial Refer to Value added 2012/13 Value added 2013/14 Value Added value created by the activities of a Statement business and its employees. (Annexure A) To unlock sustainable value for all stakeholders, the execution of strategy results in value created by the activities R36,2 billion R40,9 billion of the business and its employees. Employees 40,0% Employees 41,6% Capital providers 15,3% Capital providers 14,0% Government 0,1% Government 0,0% Reinvested 44,6% Reinvested 44,0% Gross value-add resulting from Transnet capital and operating expenditure 2013/14 30 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Cost-effective freight logistics that Transnet’s future development plans infrastructure ahead of are integrated with the socio-economic demand and a financially stable development plans of the Government. business, able to raise and Capital Investment Plan service debt, reinvest revenues The substantial increase in capacity that and pursue agreements with the MDS targets, will be achieved through a private parties to optimise combination of efficiency improvements and investment and services capital expenditure. The Capital Investment Plan targets expenditure of R312,2 billion Where Transnet’s infrastructure meets over the next seven years to create the demand and our operations are reliable, capacity required to deliver 343,9mt of business output is mobile, on time, and at railable freight per annum by 2020/21. scale – and our economy grows. Consideration has been given to strategic, Why it is important to Transnet financial, operational and engineering requirements. The plan takes into account As the custodian of ports, rail and affordability and funding. pipelines, Transnet has a responsibility to ensure optimal development of the One-third of the capital investment needs national freight logistics system. One of to be funded externally and two-thirds the key performance areas for Transnet as through cash flows generated by operations. Transnet’s borrowings do defined by the Shareholder is to ‘ensure the not carry Government guarantees, but provision of critical logistics infrastructure are based on the strength of Transnet’s and capacity in the short term that is balance sheet. Investors provide funding aligned to a long-term national plan geared based on a financially stable business and towards meeting the growing demands of prospects for growth. Cash interest cover the total national economy’. and gearing ratios are key indicators of stability monitored by investors. The MDS aims to meet unsatisfied demand and to create capacity ahead of demand. The Capital Excellence Programme was developed to: Our management approach • Provide an integrated view of the capital Key enablers of the implementation of the portfolio with transparency and visibility MDS specifically relating to cost-effective of projects and programmes in the freight logistics ahead of demand and capital pipeline; a financially stable business are the Long-term Planning Framework; Capital • Efficiently allocate Transnet’s limited Investment Plan and the Private Sector resources to programmes that have Participation Strategy. the greatest alignment to Transnet’s strategic objectives; Long-term Planning Framework • Drive project optimisation through The Long-term Planning Framework (LTPF) scrubbing teams, whose purpose is to is updated annually. It provides a 30-year guarantee Platinum Standard business planning framework within which the cases by collaborating with the project long-term development of South Africa’s teams in a Project Factory setting; freight transportation network and the • Improve delivery rigour and agility, expansion of Transnet’s operational ensuring projects achieve cost, schedule footprint can be executed. and quality targets; Driven by 30-year freight demand • Ensure early identification and projections, the LTPF provides the capacity mitigation of key project risks; and development and investment plans • Generate buy-in and alignment across that are needed to ensure rail, port and the organisation to execute programmes pipeline capacity is provided ahead of in a coordinated manner. unconstrained demand. The following risks have been identified, The ongoing development of the LTPF accompanied by mitigation actions: in consultation with key planning • Returns and volumes not materialising: authorities at National, Provincial and – Continuous capital scrubbing and Local Government level aims to ensure prioritisation; 31 ECONOMIC DIVIDENDS (continued) – Entering into ‘take-or-pay’ contracts Policy approved by the Board of Directors to secure revenue streams; in 2013, the PSP Strategy applies to – Demand validation exercises; and Transnet as a whole and is driven by a – Flexibility of the capital budget to dedicated PSP unit within the Corporate defer, cancel or reprioritise projects Centre. if necessary. The strategy outlines the requirement • Lower than planned cash flows: for future capacity to be offered to the open market in order to broaden the base – Diversification of revenue base; of participation in South Africa’s freight – Cost optimisation in all Operating system and leverage private sector funding Divisions; in its development. – Focus on operational efficiencies; and – Implementation of the Platinum The PSP portfolio’s six focus areas are: Standard. • Bulk sector (export coal, iron ore and • Cost increases: manganese); – Front-end loading (FEL) studies and • Intermodal (container capacity and roadgate reviews; to-rail migration); – Flexibility of the capital budget to • General rail; defer, cancel or reprioritise projects • General port (including transactions when required; offered under the National Ports Act); and – Detailed execution strategies for the • Regional integration. roll-out of capital projects; and Project selection is predicted either – Fixed price capital construction through the National Ports Act, or the contracts for certain projects to limit Transnet PSP Policy, which identifies unplanned cost increases. infrastructure and capacity required to Private Sector Participation Strategy support national logistics development imperatives, but not already included Formalised in 2012 and accompanied by within Transnet’s core strategies and the Private Sector Participation (PSP) corporate funding capability. NATIONAL – COUNTRYWIDE INVESTMENTS Expansion – R7 503 million Sustaining – R13 188 million Beitbridge LIMPOPO Maputo MPUMALANGA NORTH WEST GAUTENG Sishen FREE STATE KWAZULUNATAL Richards Bay corridor Expansion – R1 749 million Sustaining – R1 476 million NORTHERN CAPE Durban corridor Expansion – R3 305 million Sustaining – R1 157 million Saldanha corridor Expansion – R629 million Sustaining – R1 429 million EASTERN CAPE East London South corridor WESTERN CAPE Ngqura Expansion – R1 071 million Sustaining – R714 million Port Elizabeth Cape corridor Mossel Bay Rail Expansion – R30 million Sustaining – R264 million Ports and Terminals Pipelines Capital investment 2013/14 32 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Our performance • The cash interest cover ratio remains Despite depressed global and local strong at 3,7 times (2012/13: 3,7 times r31,8bn economic conditions, a challenging and 2011/12: 4,2 times). operating environment characterised by • Total funding raised for 2013/14 amounted Total capital mining strikes, the downgrading of South to R22,4 billion (2012/13: R14,6 billion investment in 2013/14 Africa’s credit rating and increased input and 2011/12: R11,1 billion) despite the costs, the Company continued with the uncertain global financial market and the implementation of the MDS during 2013/14 economic growth outlook both locally and in line with its commitment to invest internationally. Funding for the year was through economic cycles. primarily made up of the following: – GMTN Bond issue of R5,0 billion; r9,5bn Capital investment 2013/14 – R2,7 billion of commercial paper was invested in The year under review saw Transnet’s issuance; the expansion of capital investment increase to – Domestic bond issue of R5,8 billion; infrastructure R31,8 billion, a 15,6% increase from and equipment R27,5 billion in 2012/13, and R22,3 billion – R1,1 billion of US Exim; in 2011/12. R13,3 billion was invested in – R4,0 billion of call loans; the expansion of current infrastructure – R2,1 billion of KfW; and and equipment, while R18,5 billion was – R1,7 billion from African invested in maintaining existing capacity. Development Bank. Financial performance 2013/14 • The gearing ratio deteriorated to 45,9% r22,3bn Transnet’s financial performance over as at 31 March 2014. This level remains the past year reflects resilience despite below the target range of 50% reflecting was invested in maintaining macro-economic challenges, enabling the the significant capacity available to fund existing capacity Company to maintain a strong financial future capital expenditure. The gearing position. ratio is not expected to exceed the • Total assets as at 31 March 2014 target ratio going forward. amounted to R240,1 billion. • The funding requirement for 2014/15 • Cash generated from operations amounts to R15,1 billion and the Company amounted to R24,0 billion (2012/13: is confident that it will be able to access R22,6 billion and 2011/12: R20,6 billion) the capital markets for the year ahead. an increase of 6,1%, evidence of the ability to generate sustainable cash flows. Fitch upgrades Transnet’s cr edit rating by t wo notches to BBB On 30 October 2013, Fitch Ratings upgraded Transnet’s credit rating to ‘BBB’ from ‘BB+’ endorsing the Company’s efforts in strengthening its business and financial position. The upgrade confirmed that Transnet’s MDS reflects a robust execution plan and appropriate mitigation strategies for its investment plan. It also affirmed Transnet’s ability to raise funds in the market on the strength of its balance sheet without Government guarantees. Announcing the upgrade, Fitch Ratings said “the stable outlook incorporates our expectations that Transnet’s operations will remain strong, despite possible weakening in improving export markets, and that management would scale back its capex in case of weaker demand expectations to maintain the Company’s financial profile in line with stated targets.” 33 ECONOMIC DIVIDENDS (continued) Reliable and efficient rail, port Engineering and pipeline services • Implement Lean Six Sigma Principles. Key to ensuring long-term business • Strengthening partnerships with OEMs growth is the ability to provide reliable with the aim of enhancing skills and and efficient services to our customers. know how. Achieving operational efficiencies enables • Maintenance depots to focus on Transnet to reduce the cost of logistics improving operational efficiencies for domestic and external companies that by concentrating on availability and rely on freight services and improve the reliability of rolling stock. competitiveness of South Africa. • Continue to increase training of engineers, technicians and artisans. Why it is important to Transnet National Ports Authority Improving performance, productivity and operational efficiencies is a strategic • Implement marine operations focus area for Transnet. By improving the performance standards. competitiveness of the freight logistics • Implement integrated port system, specifically through increased management system. reliability and efficiency, Transnet’s • Implement terminal operator customers and suppliers will be positively performance. impacted , supporting South Africa’s • Install automatic mooring system. economic growth. Port Terminals Transnet’s strategic risks include: inability • Maximise crane deployment to attract and retain additional volumes as across vessels. new capacity is created; and operational • Optimise twin lift and tandem and business interruption due to safety lift capacity. and security incidents. • Rollout prime routing initiative by Our management approach dropping containers at the nearest In order for Transnet to deliver reliable available crane. and efficient rail, port and pipeline • Continuous improvement team to services, numerous initiatives have been identify and close efficiency gaps. implemented in the Operating Divisions; Pipelines the iSCM strategy has been enhanced; • Increase refractionator utilisation safety is prioritised; and security has been at Tarlton. improved. • Pursue intermodal integration on the Operating Divisions’ initiatives three routes with Freight Rail. Freight Rail • Implement value chain enhancement • Operate as a scheduled railway. with clients. • Integrate all train and production • Optimise transportation of niche grades planning into an Integrated Train Plan. fuel • Migrate train control supervision to the • Ensuring security of supply by National Command Centre. maintaining the Durban-Johannesburg • Implement General Freight Turnaround Pipeline (DJP) while the NMPP nears programme. completion and successfully operate the • Utilise technology to improve NMPP as full multi-product pipeline. efficiencies and reduce human error. Integrated supply chain management • Deployment of the Navis System in Supply chain management aims to Kings Rest and Kazerne Container increase efficiency and effectiveness with Terminals. seamless delivery to internal customers. • Implement Empty Wagon This involves demand management, Distribution Model. optimisation of warehouse capacity and inventory levels, integrated strategic 34 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 sourcing and supplier development, while • Operational efficiencies and observing good governance. productivity – enhancing the reliability of the Transnet supply chain will enable The iSCM Policy was approved by the more efficient and effective outbound Transnet Board in order to carry out services. procurement in a cost-effective manner, while meeting commercial, regulatory Safety management and socio-economic goals, and ensuring Safety incidents have the potential good governance. to severely impact operations. There are numerous strategies, policies and In order to enhance key areas within the initiatives to effectively manage safety. strategy, the iSCM Platinum Standard These are detailed on page 59. development and benchmarking exercise has been initiated. This focuses on an Integrated security management in-depth review of each of the iSCM Theft of copper, overhead cable and goods functional areas relative to best practice in transit, as well as vandalism of the tracks with a view to identifying key initiatives impact our ability to deliver freight reliably that can be implemented to improve the and efficiently. Delayed trains, and late integration and functioning of the iSCM. or non-delivery of goods not only means Of the six iSCM strategic initiatives, the increased costs for Transnet, but also following three are the most relevant impacts on jobs, the families that rely on to reliable and efficient rail, port and those jobs and the ability to create jobs. pipeline services: It also results in poor customer service and negative reputation. • Capital planning and execution – robust capital procurement planning will Transnet has an Integrated Security support effective and efficient sourcing Management Strategy which aims to and will ensure timely delivery of the protect Transnet’s customers, employees, planned capital acquisitions; assets, income and infrastructure. • Volumes and customer satisfaction – Implementation takes place through an optimised inbound logistics function centralised command and control and will enable faster and more efficient decentralised execution and reporting. outbound revenue generating services; The Transnet School of Security trains and security officials for the protection of Transnet’s assets. Transnet security officers patrolling railway lines 35 ECONOMIC DIVIDENDS (continued) Our performance During the year under review, R20 865 million We highlight here, the key achievements, was invested in assets to support the challenges and targets in operational planned growth in GFB traffic. New performance for each major commodity locomotives assisted in the drive for business sector in Transnet. improved efficiencies, while the increased fleet size coupled with lower than expected General Freight Business volume throughput, led to improvements Freight Rail transported 87,9mt in in locomotive efficiency. On-time train 2013/14 in the General Freight Business departures improved significantly to Refer to (GFB) compared to 82,6mt in 2012/13 212,7 minutes while on-time arrivals Operating Divisions’ (2011/12: 81,0mt) reflecting a positive improved to 340,0 minutes. On route system Performance Reports growth rate of 6%. failures remain a challenge. General Freight Business Unit of Actual Actual Actual Key performance area measure 2012 2013 2014 Freight Rail Volumes Million tons 81,0 82,6 87,9 Capital investment R million 9 966 12 962 20 865 Locomotive efficiency Gtkm/Ntkm nm nm 1,54 On-time departures Minutes from 284,0 280,0 212,7 schedule On-time arrivals Minutes from 357,0 356,0 340,0 schedule Engineering Train cancellations due to % nm nm 4,0 traction Traction delays % nm nm 6,0 nm not measured Electric locomotive 36 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Export coal contributed to efficiency improvements Volumes of export coal declined from on the coal line. Export coal on-time 69,2mt in 2012/13 to 68,2mt in 2013/14. departures improved impressively from Stronger growth was curtailed by labour 206,0 minutes in 2012/13 to 42,9 minutes unrest within the coal mining industry and in 2013/14, while on-time arrivals improved depressed coal prices which led some coal from 332,0 minutes in 2012/13 to 133,6 customers to decrease export volumes. minutes in 2013/14. These improvements The fourth quarter saw a loss of 2,2mt of are attributed to the Train Execution coal due to an unexpected municipal cable Monitoring System that continues to failure that resulted in a prolonged power monitor deviations from scheduled outage at Richards Bay Coal Terminal departures and arrivals. (RBCT). Ship turnaround time at RBCT was introduced to monitor export coal Refer to Capital investment for the coal line Operating amounted to R3 235 million. The efficiencies in 2012/13 and positive Divisions’ Performance introduction of the Shongololo train benefits have been realised in 2013/14. Reports Export coal Unit of Actual Actual Actual Key performance area measure 2012 2013 2014 Freight Rail Volumes Million tons 67,7 69,2 68,2 Capital investments R million 2 914 3 303 3 235 Locomotive efficiency Gtkm/Ntkm nm nm 1,57 On-time departures Minutes from 209,0 206,0 42,9 schedule On-time arrivals Minutes from 375,0 332,0 133,6 schedule Engineering Train cancellations due % nm 6,0 4,0 to traction Traction delays % nm 40,0 6,0 National Ports Authority Ship turnaround time (RBCT) Hours nm 47,0 45,0 nm not measured Coal destined for Richards Bay Coal Terminal 37 ECONOMIC DIVIDENDS (continued) Export iron ore On‑time arrivals improved from 140,0 Export iron ore volumes declined minutes in 2012/13 to 128,7 minutes in from 55,9mt in 2012/13 to 54,3mt in 2013/14. 2013/14. The low performance was due Engineering continued to support rail to production constraints and other operations through the supply of timely supply factors. and reliable locomotives and wagons. Refer to Operating Export iron ore on-time departures Targeted port efficiency, measured Divisions’ Performance improved substantially from 73,0 minutes through ship turnaround time at Saldanha Reports in 2012/13 to 8,9 minutes in 2013/14. was achieved. Export iron ore Unit of Actual Actual Actual Key performance area measure 2012 2013 2014 Freight Rail Volumes Million tons 52,3 55,9 54,3 Capital investments R million 1 913 2 011 1 015 Locomotive efficiency Gtkm/Ntkm nm nm 1,39 Minutes from On-time departures schedule 67,0 73,0 8,9 Minutes from On-time arrivals schedule 133,0 140,0 128,7 Engineering Train cancellations due to traction % nm nm 4,0 Traction delays % nm nm 6,0 National Ports Authority Ship turnaround time (Saldanha) Hours nm 55,0 47,0 nm not measured Iron ore stockpiles at Saldanha 38 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Maritime containers (Ports) Port Elizabeth improved but declined at The year-on-year growth in container Durban and Richards Bay. volumes grew substantially from Durban Container Terminal (DCT) Pier 1, 4,403 million Twenty-foot Equivalent Units Cape Town and Richards Bay improved (TEUs) in 2012/13 to 4,641, million TEUs truck turnaround time while DCT Pier 2 and in 2013/14 indicates an increase of 5,4%. Ngqura declined. Overall performance was supported by the operational efficiencies that ensued from Transnet Port Terminals gross crane moves the resolution of the Navis system. per hour (GCH) improved at Durban’s Pier 1 and 2 as well as Cape Town, achieving GCH The ports of Durban, Cape Town and of 24, 28 and 32 respectively. Ngqura’s Port Elizabeth performed significantly GCH declined from 32 to 28. The terminal above target in terms of anchorage waiting did not have the landside equipment time while the Port of Ngqura declined to support additional cranes that were Refer to compared to prior year levels mainly due brought to the terminal in expectation of Operating to severe inclement weather. Average Divisions’ increased volumes. performance ship turnaround times at Cape Town and Reports Maritime containers (Ports) Unit of Actual Key performance area measure 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 Transnet National Port Authority Volumes Containers ‘000 TEUs 4 352 4 403 4 641 Productivity Anchorage waiting time Durban Hours nm 61 57 Cape Town Hours nm 53 35 Port Elizabeth Hours nm 56 25 Richards Bay Hours nm 71 70 Ngqura Hours nm 44 57 Average ship turnaround time Durban Hours nm 53 58 Cape Town Hours nm 44 30 Port Elizabeth Hours nm 31 26 Richards Bay Hours nm 51 70 Ngqura Hours nm nm 44 Transnet Port Terminals Productivity Moves per gross crane hour DCT Pier 1 Moves/GCH 27 23 24 DCT Pier 2 Moves/GCH 21 28 25 CTCT Moves/GCH 28 31 34 Ngqura Moves/GCH 30 32 26 Service delivery Truck turnaround time DCT Pier 1 Minutes 45 47 44 DCT Pier 2 Minutes 46 32 38 CTCT Minutes nm 21 20 Ngqura Minutes nm 33 35 Richards Bay Minutes nm 26 21 nm not measured 39 ECONOMIC DIVIDENDS (continued) Petroleum (Pipelines) The total volume of petroleum products increased by 4,4% from 15,7 billion litres in Refer to Operating 2012/13 to 16,6 billion litres in 2013/14. Divisions’ Performance Reports Pipelines Unit of Actual Actual Actual Key performance area measure 2012 2013 2014 Pipelines Volumes Billion litres 17,3 15,7 16,6 Ordered versus delivered volumes % 95 100 99 Planned versus actual delivery time % 80 77 82 Operating cost per mℓ.km Rand 78 89 99 NMPP actual usage (mℓ/week) Ratio 40% 51:84 51:84 nm not measured Pipelines – Tarlton 40 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Highlighted here are examples of how Transnet has invested in freight logistics infrastructure in 2013/14 to build capacity and improve efficiencies in services. Locomotives boost capacit y In order to boost capacity and increase operational efficiencies, Transnet’s locomotive renewal programme is aimed at introducing new locomotives for coal, iron ore, and GFB over a five-year period (2010-2015) as follows: Locomotive classes Year 110x19E 44x15E 32x15E 100xD43 43xD43 95x20E 2010 6 2011 42 28 2012 46 16 2013 16 14 62 20 2014 18 23 10 2015 85 Total 110 44 32 100 43 95 The introduction of new, more powerful and energy efficient 15E and 19E locomotives to the export lines, and the deployment of designated 7E and 10E locomotives to General Freight flows contributed to improvements in locomotive efficiency on the heavy haul lines during 2013/14. At the same time, General Freight took delivery of the Class 43 diesel locomotives, which are being deployed to specific corridors as part of the philosophy of standardising locomotives to corridors. The process is expected to yield positive results in terms of efficiency gains and ultimately an increase in volumes, as evidenced by improved adherence to the Scheduled Railway philosophy in the corridors where these locomotives have been deployed. Class 19E Coal line locomotive Class 15E Ore line locomotive Class 43 Diesel locomotive 41 ECONOMIC DIVIDENDS (continued) Global recognition for Cape Town Container Terminal During 2013/14, CTCT was named one of the world’s top 120 container ports by the 2013 Container Management Report. The report rates international container ports according to terminal volumes and competitiveness. This global recognition attests to the fact that the terminal is reaping the benefits of its R4,2 billion expansion, upgrade and construction programme. Key to the expansion programme is the increasing of capacity of both the Port of Cape Town and CTCT to improve productivity and efficiency. The first of two phases of the upgrade are complete. The first phase included the 10 metre extension of the quay wall at a depth of 15,5 metres over the full 1 137 metre length of the quay, enabling the terminal to receive and service 8 000 TEU vessels. Further investment into CTCT includes the acquisition of six new super post Panamax ship-to-shore gantry cranes and the construction of 2 700 reefer plug points resulting in a total of 3 752 points. Major dredging, deepening and refurbishment work has been completed. Port of Cape Town 42 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 new state-of-the-art automotive rail wagons On 5 November 2013, President Jacob Zuma launched Transnet’s new generation automotive rail wagons at Engineering’s Uitenhage plant. The wagons were designed, engineered and manufactured at Engineering’s wagons facility in Uitenhage and are a direct response to customer demands, changing requirements and Freight Rail’s plans to move 170mt of freight to rail by 2018/19 in line with the MDS. The new wagons feature an enclosed interior, ensuring protection of cars in transit against environmental damage, vandalism and theft. The new car carrier has the ability to carry conventional vehicles as well as SUVs and mini buses in a more secure and safer environment. Another significant improvement is internal lighting that has made it possible to load the wagons during the day and night. This has enabled Freight Rail to implement 24 hour shifts to meet customer’s needs. A total of 350 wagons have been completed and are operational primarily on the route between Kaalfontein, Johannesburg, Port Elizabeth and Durban. The additional wagons have enabled Transnet to not only run longer trains, with the average train length being increased to 45 wagons from 25, but also to realise the Government’s goal to move rail-friendly cargo off the roads. These wagons are testament to Transnet’s improving turnaround and efficiency of the Company’s manufacturing processes, thereby cutting costs and improving service to customers. At the launch event: President Jacob Zuma and Minister of Public Enterprises Malusi Gigaba Transnet’s new generation automotive rail wagons 43 ECONOMIC DIVIDENDS (continued) New tandem lift ship-to-shore cranes for Durban On 13 May 2013, Public Enterprises The new equipment could simultaneously Minister Malusi Gigaba unveiled handle two 12 metre containers or four seven new state‑of-the-art ship-tosix metre containers and lift up to a shore cranes at the Durban Container maximum of 80 tons. The cranes are the Terminal’s Pier 2. The cranes are part of biggest in Africa and can handle new Port Terminal’s accelerated crane fleet generation vessels with 24 containers acquisition programme targeted at stowed across the deck. Through further replacing its ageing fleet and aimed at innovation and optimum planning, increasing efficiency and productivity, the terminal will be able to stretch especially at Pier 2 which has in the past the cranes’ capability to carry four 12 experienced significant productivity metre empty containers simultaneously challenges due to ageing equipment. through vertical twin lift. “These capabilities will see a massive jump in productivity with GCH – a key measure of terminal efficiency and how well equipment is used – jumping from the current 26 to 33 GCH over the next three years. This is a 27% improvement.” – Malusi Gigaba, Minister of Public Enterprises, 13 May 2013 New ship-to-shore cranes at Durban Container Terminal 44 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Skilled human resources • The large proportion of the skills profile aligned to infrastructure and of the workforce is semi-skilled and services unskilled, indicative of low skills density levels and limited literacy. One of the biggest challenges Transnet faces is the availability of skilled Our management approach human capital. Transnet’s Human Capital Strategy sets out plans to ensure recruitment, development Why it is important to Transnet and retention of the best quality Transnet requires skilled human resources employees in all employment groups. to deliver MDS infrastructure and services. It has been formulated after careful Aligned to this, is the developmental consideration of the organisation’s vision imperative to create both direct and and mission, MDS objectives, pertinent indirect jobs through the MDS. Growing legislation and best practice in human unemployment and skills shortages are resources. persistent challenges. Unemployment, particularly of the youth, is both a global The following key initiatives are utilised: and national crisis. Structurally high Strategic workforce planning unemployment is ranked by the World Transnet is currently using strategic Economic Forum as the second highest workforce planning supply and demand global risk for 2014. In South Africa, the tools to provide a detailed analysis of unemployment rate is approximately 24%. business needs, skills requirements and A coordinated effort between industry and to identify skills gaps, which allows for Government is thus required to achieve the responses to be designed to mitigate skills national targets for employment. gaps/shortages. This entails: Key skills shortages exist within Transnet • Skills clustering – establishing clusters for project management, engineering or groupings of similar skills and (sector-specific) and technical skills, and experience and determining how long it the following risks have been identified: will take, if possible, for an employee to • Limited human capital planning move from one skill level to another; capability to provide the right skills at • Supply simulation – projections are the right time for the business. calculated based on fluctuation • Inability to attract and retain critical parameters such as retirement skills, especially amongst women and age, normal attrition rate and early People with Disabilities. retirement; Training at Transnet Engineering – Koedoespoort 45 ECONOMIC DIVIDENDS (continued) • Demand simulation – future human • Functional training – operations-related resource needs in response to training; fluctuations in operating model; • Technical training – engineering-related • Gap analysis – identifying gaps and risks; training; • Human resource initiatives – an action • Other training – safety/legislative, plan to derive strategies to correct administration training, part time shortages or surpluses as highlighted in bursaries, short skills programmes the heat map; and and security; and • Anchoring – embedding the process • Managerial training – managerial training within the corporate planning and refers to supervisory, managerial and budgeting cycle to ensure that human Operating Division specific leadership resource needs are met. training. The Transnet Youth Development The aforementioned training conducted by Strategy: Transnet Academy through its five schools • The Youth Development Strategy of excellence (School of Rail, School of sets out specific plans to ensure the Engineering, Maritime School, Pipeline development of young people across School and School of Security). Transnet to fulfil skills development We engage with employees and organised objectives aligned to the MDS. labour through forums, meetings Capacity development and feeder and reports to ensure our strategy, pipeline approach: implementation, monitoring and reporting • A number of policies have been is adequately informed. developed to support the Human The feeder pipeline is integrated into the Capital Strategy, Youth Development following initiatives: Strategy and other skills development • Student financial assistance – bursaries initiatives, as well as ensure governance provided; and a standardised approach to skills • Internships/work integrated learning development. Examples include: experience – assisting student the Capacity Building Policy, On-thegraduates, and to be admitted, and/ Job Training Policy, Performance or registered in various professions in Management Policy, and Recruitment prioritised areas; and Selection Policy. • Learnerships; Initiatives • Apprenticeships; Transnet provides training across • Sponsorships – providing assistance the business to up-skill employees at to school learners up to Grade 12 in the different levels: areas of Mathematics and Science; and • Sector-specific training – critical • Learner support programmes. skills training in the rail and marine environments to obtain Transnet Transnet also conducts career guidance specific qualifications; and exhibitions, provides study aids to • Sector specific refresher/relicensing employees to assist with the further training – to ensure compliance with development of their knowledge and skills, regulatory requirements; and through technology (SAP Learning Solution) ensures sound and credible data • Leadership training – to develop internal management of training and development leadership capabilities within Transnet; data. Coaching and mentoring programmes includes programmes focusing on also exist. women managers; 46 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Our performance feeder pipeline intake of new recruits Transnet invested 3,0% of the wage from 132 to 220, and the technician feeder bill (R621 million) in skills development pipeline intake of new recruits from 330 to during 2013/14 in comparison to 4,4% 363 in 2014/15. (R846 million) in 2012/13 and 3,9% Transnet aims to have 3 000 apprentices (R652 million) in 2011/12. A total of undergoing training at any given time. 40 435 employees participated in training initiatives against the target 1 500 new recruits were targeted in R621m 2013/14, with a total of 1 552 entering of 33 800. the programme. Sector-specific skills Total spend on development will continue to focus on skills development 2013/14 saw Transnet achieve most of marine, rail and cargo handling with 40 435 its targets for the feeder pipeline and sector‑specific skills targets. Transnet 1 569 learners taken on in 2013/14. achieved its engineering (138) and Increased targets are projected at 10% in technicians (339) targets with a total of alignment with employment growth. Employees trained 483 engineer bursars in the system. The Training of 46 protection officers in 1 552 intention is to increase the engineering 2013/14 as part of the School of Security. Training achievements in 2013/14 Apprentices intake Actual Actual Target Actual Projection 138 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2013/14 2014/15 Apprentices new intake 854 866 1 550 1 552 605 Engineers intake Technicians learners new intake 120 315 330 339 363 Engineer bursars new intake 60 122 132 138 232 New entries sector-specific 2 340 2 160 1 980 1 569 2 178 339 Protection officers new intake n/a 815 880 46 968 Technicians intake % training spend 4,1 4,4 4,6 3,0 4,0 Leadership development 1 372 4 660 1 013 3 862 2 249 89 All training 62 701 43 582 36 960 40 435 38 763 Graduates n/a not applicable. acquiring workplace Transnet continues to afford opportunities for workplace experience through its experience Graduate-in-Training (GIT) programme. During 2013/14, 89 new GITs participated and an increase of 10% is anticipated for 2014/15. On average, 60% of GITs are placed within Transnet per annum. Transnet’s ageing workforce poses a challenge to the Company’s skill base. The current average age of a Transnet employee is 38 years. There has, however, been a steady increase from 2012/13 in younger employees (25 to 35 age bracket) in order to address this skills challenge. With respect to job creation, in 2013/14 Transnet’s total headcount decreased to 64 122 from 64 910 in 2012/13. This comprises 54 671 permanent employees and 8 893 fixed term employees. Transnet’s macro-economic Impact Model, 2013 calculates that Transnet has created 10 503 indirect jobs in 2013/14. 47 ECONOMIC DIVIDENDS (continued) SOCs’ National Student Funding Project In collaboration with the DPE, the Department of Higher Education and Training, the National Skills Fund (NSF) and other SOCs, Transnet is playing its part in the training of 1 000 artisans over a period of three years. This initiative, proposed in 2011, is aimed at optimising SOC training facilities to cater for additional artisans in support of the country’s NGP. Learners will have a wide range of options to choose from to qualify: amateur welders, blacksmiths, diesel electrical fitters, electricians, millwrights, platers, vehicle builders, wagon fitters. The programme commenced in October 2013 with the enrolment of learners from primarily disadvantaged areas. Engineering’s Koedoespoort and Durban facilities will accommodate 250 learners; Uitenhage, Germiston and Salt River will house 100 learners respectively; while Bloemfontein will train the remaining 200 learners. People with Black White Disabilities Site Male Female Male Female Male Female Total Germiston 58 17 19 6 1 1 100 Koedoespoort 147 41 48 14 2 1 250 Durban 147 41 48 14 2 1 250 Bloemfontein 116 34 38 12 1 1 200 Salt River 58 17 17 6 1 1 100 Uitenhage 58 17 17 6 1 1 100 Grand total 584 167 167 58 8 6 1 000 Currently, Transnet has invested in funding 2 000 training apprentices together with the 1 000 additional learners being funded by the NSF – providing capital of R175 million. “Given the colossal skills crises and high unemployment rate in South Africa, skills development is a critical vehicle for economic growth and human social progress. SOCs should play a pivotal role and serve as a platform and catalyst for advancing the skills development initiatives and sustaining human capital.” – Malusi Gigaba, Minister of Public Enterprises, Budget Speech, 2013 Transnet Engineering – Koedoespoort 48 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Local supplier industry While there are risks in local supplier development development, it also offers the opportunity for Transnet to collaborate with fellow SOCs Transnet aims to transform its supplier and private business to identify shared base by engaging in targeted supplier demands and ensure the development and development initiatives to support sustainability of local industries. localisation and industrialisation. This will be achieved through applying Our management approach creative approaches to procurement and In 2010, Transnet developed a influencing strategic partners to enhance comprehensive SDP. This plan is guided the capability, capacity and efficiency of by the DPE’s CSDP, which involves local suppliers. ‘procuring in such a way as to increase the competitiveness, capacity and capability Why it is important to Transnet of the local supply base, where there are Local supplier development is a national comparative advantages and potential focus, and is important to Transnet from competitive advantages of local supply’. a business perspective. The aim is to The CSDP focuses on OEMs through contractually binding SD Plans. address the historical lack of investment in infrastructure, decline in local industry In managing local supplier development we and a large proportion of the population take into account the perspectives of our being unable to participate meaningfully in key stakeholders: the DTI, the Shareholder, the economy. By leveraging procurement National Treasury and black-owned suppliers. spend, we aim to increase local content Additional management tools include a through the development of skills, job Procurement Policy which provides clear creation and technology transfer. Through direction on how SD must be incorporated investing in local supplier development, into procurement practices. During the year Transnet complies with the Department under review, a monitoring and evaluation of Trade and Industry (DTI) Codes of Good unit was created to monitor the progress of Practice and benefits by: SD obligations, manage the SD contracts • Increasing its security of supply; and detect any possible corruption in the • Reducing the costs of goods and implementation of SD. Importantly, all services through increased supplier SD contracts include penalty clauses for competitiveness and/or reduced default and fraud. An ED Procedure Manual logistics costs; and has also been developed detailing the • Realising potential benefits of local procedure for implementing ED for Transnet supply versus imports such as: practitioners and how enterprises can be developed. – Reduced exposure to foreign currency fluctuations; We also ensure local supplier development – Lower stock level requirements; is embedded across the organisation – Greater responsiveness; through training. In 2013, training on – Ease of communication; and ED, SD, preferential procurement and amendments to the B-BBEE codes, was – Shorter delivery times. done across all Operating Divisions. However, being less reliant on international Other initiatives undertaken during organisations and securing demand for 2013/14 included: goods and services from local supplier • Hosting a Supplier Development Summit industry poses some risks, including: together with DPE and Eskom; • Sustainability of the local supplier • Supporting the launch of the industry – where domestic demand is not Industrialisation Supplier Development sufficient to warrant the development of (ISD), which aims to provide local such an industry; and industrial manufacturing suppliers • Compliance with the PPPFA – supplier access to information, tools, services development objectives and goals are and stakeholders that will enhance difficult to meet as the PPPFA does their performance and enable them to not allow for preferential treatment compete so that they can access national of local markets. and global procurement opportunities; 49 ECONOMIC DIVIDENDS (continued) • Hosting supplier workshops with the Group Chief Executive, the Minister and Deputy Minister of Public Enterprises; and • Port Terminals began engaging with the DTI to investigate sustainable localisation opportunities for port equipment. Transformation and Supplier Economic growth empowerment Development objectives Ownership Promote economic Industrialisation Development of industries empowerment through the through machinery, active participation of black equipment and buildings people in management. spend resulting in globally leading capabilities. Management Promote economic Localisation and Capability building through control empowerment through the export potential the procurement of local active participation of black goods and services will people in management. increase South Africa’s exports. Employment The redressing of previous equity disparities in employment Technology Skills and knowledge by taking into account transfer transfer to the local industry historical social inequalities. through manufacturing related technologies. Preferential The procurement of procurement Job creation/ The preservation and goods and services from preservation creation of jobs to achieve historically disadvantaged labour absorption. individuals (HDIs) and companies with compliant Develop industry Development of industry B-BBEE levels. specific skills specific skill sets for sector development. Enterprise Provision of financial and development non-financial support to develop small enterprises. Enterprise Provision of financial and development non-financial support to Social-economic Recognise companies’ develop small enterprises. development contributions to initiatives Rural integration The use of rural labour that give HDIs sustainable and businesses in order to access to the economy. achieve rural development/ Skills development Development of industry local economic specific skill sets for sector development. development. Transnet’s Supplier Development Plan incorporates both growth and transformation objectives Our performance R41,0 billion (2012/13: 37,9 billion and Since the inception of Transnet’s SD 2011/12: R32,2 billion). In terms of the DTI programme, total contract value has been Codes of Good Practice, Transnet’s B-BBEE R29,4 billion with SD obligations concluded spend in 2013/14 is as follows: with suppliers of R10,9 billion or 37% of • Black-owned enterprises – R8,1 billion contract value. To date, R5,9 billion or 54% (2012/13: R5,5 billion and 2011/12: (2012/13: R4,0 billion or 55,5% and 2011/12: R4,0 billion); R38,8bn R3,0 billion or 55%) of these supplier • Black women-owned enterprises – development obligations have been met. R1,5 billion (2012/13: R2,0 billion and B-BBEE spend 2011/12: R2,2 billion); Transnet has progressed significantly in • Exempted micro-enterprises – transforming its supplier base towards R1,9 billion (2012/13: R2,2 billion and 94,4% a B-BBEE supplier base. Actual B-BBEE 2011/12: R2,2 billion); and of total measurable spend for 2013/14 amounts to R38,8 billion • Qualifying small enterprises – procurement spend or 94,4% (2012/13: R33,4 billion or 88% R3,6 billion (2012/13: R3,2 billion and on B-BBEE and 2011/12: R2,8 billion or 80%) of 2011/12: R2,9 billion). total measurable procurement spend of 50 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 one-stop-shop for small business On 6 August 2013, Transnet launched its first ED Hub (the Hub) in Johannesburg. “Our aim is to increase the participation The Hub provides a one-stop shop for of small businesses in the mainstream economy, as they have been identified as entrepreneurs and potential suppliers being key to unlocking economic growth. to Transnet offering the following More than 12 million South Africans rely directly on small businesses for their services: business development, livelihood. Small enterprises in South business registration, procurement Africa employ between 60% and 70% of the advisory services, tax registration employable population. I therefore believe that it is our responsibility as Government to and compliance, financial support harness this opportunity.” and guidance on black economic – Malusi Gigaba, Minister of Public Enterprises, empowerment requirements. 6 August 2013 Although the Hub is aimed at potential suppliers to Transnet, entrepreneurs receive advice on a broad range of issues for their business ventures. The Hub is in partnership with the South African Revenue Service, Gauteng Enterprise Propeller, National Youth Development Agency, Small Enterprise Development Agency, the BEE Verification Agency and the DTI’s Companies Intellectual Property Commission. Transnet provides the majority of funding, while the partners The Hub – Carlton Centre, Johannesburg provide advice and expertise in their respective areas. The partnership is expected to create strategic relationships between Transnet, provincial and national economic development institutions, and provide small businesses access to financial and non-financial support. Transnet is in the process of launching four more hubs, in Mdantsane (Eastern Cape), Saldanha Bay (Western Cape) is already operational, De Aar (Northern Cape) and Tubatse At the launch event: Transnet Chairperson Mafika Mkwanazi, (Limpopo). Transnet GCE Brian Molefe, Minister of Public Enterprises Malusi Gigaba and iSCM Executive Manager Mmadiboka Chokoe “We have identified the need to create an enabling environment for small players to take full advantage of the economic opportunities presented by our investment programme. Additionally, our intention is to assist black-owned entities that struggle to build their businesses into sustainable and profitable entities.” – Brian Molefe, GCE, 6 August 2013 51 ECONOMIC DIVIDENDS (continued) R15,5 billion fuel contract for bl ack and women-owned fuel suppliers On 5 December 2013, the Minister of Public “When the President announced Enterprises, Malusi Gigaba announced the Transnet’s MDS in his State of the awarding of a R15,5 billion contract for the Nation address in 2012, he said it was intended to revitalise South supply of fuel to nine black women-owned Africa’s transport and logistics companies. The contract was awarded for a infrastructure which Transnet has period of five years. Eight of the nine suppliers custody of. Further, he challenged us to use programmes like these to are 100% black-owned and five of them are create employment, develop skills more than 80% women-owned. The companies and pioneer the creation of a new class of industrialists – especially are: Afric Oil, Borutho Gas Supply, Gulfstream among black people. Transnet has Energy, KZN Oils, Mzumbe Oil, NRW Trading and successfully met the challenge”. Logistics, Tlhokaina 21, Women of Africa Fuels – Malusi Gigaba, Minister of Public and Oils, and Yem Yem Petroleum. Enterprises, 5 December 2013 The companies will supply Transnet with homebase fuel in tanks installed in Transnet facilities across the country for vehicles and road equipment, diesel traction for all diesel locomotives for fuelling at Transnet sites nationally, and marine diesel for port equipment including dredgers and tugboats. The successful bidders were assessed on price, supplier development, B-BBEE and technical ability. In addition, Transnet conducted a thorough assessment of short-listed bidders to ensure that they all had the required capability and capacity to service Transnet’s operational requirements. The award contributes significantly to Transnet’s supplier and enterprise development goals, targets and ambitions especially in relation to skills development, job creation and technology transfer. Minister of Public Enterprises Malusi Gigaba, Transnet GCE Brian Molefe and Transnet Chief Financial Officer Anoj Singh with the successful fuel suppliers 52 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Largest ever locomotive supply contract in South Africa’s history On 17 March 2014, Transnet announced The award has stringent local content, that it had awarded a R50 billion skills development and training contract for the building of 1 064 commitments as dictated by the SD locomotives to four global OEMs. Programme. All the locomotives except China South Rail (CSR) Zhuzhou 70 will be built at Engineering’s plants Electric Locomotive and Bombardier in Koedoespoort, Pretoria and Durban. Transportation South Africa had been Engineering’s role in the agreement awarded contracts for the supply of has been defined to ensure that it 599 electric locomotives, while General transforms into an OEM over time. Electric South Africa Technologies and It will share approximately 16% of China North Rail (CNR) Rolling Stock the total build programme – about South Africa (Pty) Ltd would build and one third of which will be outsourced supply 465 diesel locomotives. to local emerging engineering and manufacturing firms. This will enable Engineering to create export capability “This marks a significant milestone in the Company’s history together with substantial for locomotives and related products. socio-economic benefits for South Africa. In total, the localisation elements are This drive to modernise our fleet is intended to improve reliability and availability of expected to contribute over R90 billion locomotives. This will improve customer to the economy. The suppliers have satisfaction, ultimately leading to our complied with and exceeded the crucial goal of road-to-rail migration of cargo in line with Government’s objectives.” minimum local content criteria for rolling – Brian Molefe, GCE, 17 March 2014 stock of 60% for electric locomotives and 55% for diesel locomotives. “This transaction is intended to transform the South African rail industry by growing existing small businesses and creating new ones. We are going to create and preserve approximately 30 000 jobs.” – Brian Molefe, GCE, 17 March 2014 At the signing ceremony: General Manager of CNR Rolling Stock South Africa, Wang Gang and Transnet’s GCE Brian Molofe 53 SOCIAL DIVIDENDS S outh Africa is a resilient, resourceful and culturally rich society where human potential for excellence is evident every day and where civil society’s voice is never silent. However, its society is profoundly inequitable, borne of a past where access to economic resources and social services were determined by race. In 2014 the country celebrates 20 years of its robust democracy but still faces challenges of equality, unemployment, inadequate healthcare and poverty. This is the society in which Transnet exists, invests and operates. Our railways, ports and pipelines are located in communities, towns and cities. Our people and our customers have families and live in neighbourhoods and villages across the land. Transnet’s long-term social value creation lies in being committed to the transformation of our society through employment equity and black economic empowerment; enabling our employees to achieve their full potential and providing them with safe working conditions; and responding with compassion to the needs of communities within which we operate. Transnet’s material social dividends highlighted in this 2014 sustainability performance review are: • A representative workforce; and • Safety of all people who come into contact with our operations. We also report highlights of our performance and prospects with respect to: • Staff wellness; and • Support to the communities in which we operate. 54 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 A representative workforce Through B-BBEE practices, we have the opportunity to shape the future of We view employment equity as an the multitude of sectors we operate in. important part of our business strategy. Transnet has a B-BBEE rating of Level 3. A fair working environment contributes to a motivated workforce, ultimately adding to Currently our biggest internal risk the success of our business in a competitive is employee disputes related to the global economy. We are also committed to interpretation of the company’s equity upholding the principles of the UNGC on principles and objectives. This is being labour practice and human rights. addressed through improved consultation, engagement and training of employees. Why it is important to Transnet Our management approach Transnet is committed to the principles of equity and anti-discrimination. We seek Policies and regulations to create an organisation that reflects the Representation in the workforce is diversity of South African society and that guided by Transnet’s internal Employment contributes to maximising the potential of Equity (EE) Policy which is aligned to the our employees. Being one of South Africa’s Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act No 55 largest single employers with a workforce of 1998). The policy became effective of 54 671 permanent employees, Transnet in January 2008. It outlines Transnet’s has a responsibility to align to the country’s commitment to EE principles and sets out national goals and support Government principles that govern the development initiatives aimed at addressing the of EE plans within Transnet. We adhere to: socio-economic legacy of the past. The Promotion of Equality and Prevention Transnet has dedicated itself to providing of Unfair Discrimination Act, 2000 employment for all demographics, not (Act No 4 of 2000), The Labour Relations just for the sake of diversity, but to better Act, 1995 (Act No 65 of 1995), and The empower designated groups. Skills Development Act, 1998 (Act No 97 of 1998). Operating Division/ Specialist Charter Unit B-BBEE contributor status level applied Issue date June 2011 July 2012 May 2013 December 2013 Verified Total Total Total Total period 2009/10 points 2010/11 points 2011/12 points 2012/13 points Transnet 5 60,41 4 70,62 3 76,75 3 84,34 Generic SOC Ltd transport public Pipelines 6 53,44 5 62,75 4 65,11 4 72,94 sector Capital 5 60,64 5 62,35 4 66,76 3 82,27 Projects Freight Rail 4 68,58 3 80,04 3 78,89 2 87,64 Rail Charter Engineering 5 62,00 4 66,65 3 81,61 3 84,53 Port 4 65,69 4 64,94 4 67,06 3 84,88 Maritime Terminals Charter National 6 54,25 6 51,01 5 57,30 4 66,01 Ports Authority Property 8 32,38 6 47,12 6 52,02 5 56,78 Property Charter Transnet B-BBEE rating* * Denotes B-BBEE rating for calendar year ended December 2013. 55 social DIVIDENDS (continued) Transnet has both a B-BBEE Policy and • Continuous accessibility audits linked to Strategy. These are indicative of the reasonable accommodation are aimed at Board and management’s commitment to People with Disabilities. transformation and ensures that a uniform message is communicated and understood Training throughout the Company. Further, it • We run a number of programmes, ensures consistency in how B-BBEE is campaigns and training to educate managed and defines initiatives that employees and encourage a positive and will be implemented. These are regularly conducive work environment for women reported to the respective Governance and People with Disabilities. Examples Committees. include: The Dignity and Respect Programme; Safety League Programme; Initiatives and Zero Tolerance Campaign on Transnet implements multiple measures Sexual Harassment. Sensitivity training to ensure equitable representation for all addressing the integration of People designated groups across all occupational with Disabilities into the workplace. levels. The People with Disabilities Ambassador Network, in particular, assists with Transnet aims to increase representation employee engagement, sensitisation and of the following designated groups: disclosure. African (as per the DTI Codes of Good • Regular B-BBEE training sessions and Practice definition), women and People awareness campaigns are conducted, with Disabilities. As a highly operational covering all elements of the scorecard, environment, the attraction of women into regulatory requirements, and skilled technical jobs continues to pose a identification and implementation of significant challenge. control measures to ensure compliance. The following initiatives have been The training and awareness targets Exco undertaken to create and maintain diversity: members, B-BBEE Steering Committee, • Ongoing revision of the EE Policy to Operating Divisions’ B-BBEE Forum include ‘preference for designated members and all employees. groups’ is expected to increase the Internal stakeholders impacted/influenced representation of women and People by employment equity are represented at with Disabilities. Additional policies Group and EE forums which meet quarterly. that have an impact on EE such as our B-BBEE stakeholders in Government are Recruitment Policy or Performance engaged through the Shareholder and Management Policy are being revised to other industry forums, through reports, align with the EE Act. correspondence, meetings and media. • A new talent management methodology, which includes succession planning is Our performance effective from 31 March 2014. With respect to black employees, • Transnet utilises specialised recruitment representation is below that of the agencies and offers internship National Employment Action Plan (NEAP) programmes to provide People with with black employees representing 81,4% Disabilities with a minimum of Matric, of the workforce compared to the NEAP exposure to the business environment target of 87,7%. Despite not meeting the and permanent placement when NEAP targets, Transnet exceeded its positions become available. targets for black employees across all • Positions that do not have a high occupational levels in 2013/14. However, safety risk are ringfenced to ensure there is a significant over representation employment of People with Disabilities. of black male employees at semi-skilled • Part of our capital expenditure is and unskilled levels. This is primarily due dedicated to ongoing improvement of to the operational environment of the our work environment and facilities for business. women and People with Disabilities. 56 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Actual 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 Targets Occupational level (Male) (Male) (Male) (Women) (Women) (Women) 2014/15 Top management 24 32 57 22 26 43 123 Senior management 155 235 404 81 104 192 980 Professional 1 115 1 364 2 171 712 940 1 307 5 978 Skilled 7 540 8 635 11 027 3 646 4 496 5 555 26 218 Semi-skilled 10 817 12 887 14 639 2 619 3 636 4 180 23 371 Unskilled 4 918 3 890 4 260 1 061 657 701 5 656 Total 24 569 27 043 32 558 8 141 9 859 11 978 62 326 Black employees 2013/14 With respect to women employees, representation is below that of the NEAP with women employees representing 24,4% of the workforce compared to the NEAP target of 47,0%. Women representation, although substantially below the NEAP, has shown a steady and incremental improvement. The challenge remains the attraction and retention of women in a highly operational environment. Women representation is growing steadily with top, senior, professional and skilled technical representation above 28,0%. Areas for improvement include the semi-skilled and unskilled levels where representation is currently 21,0% and 14,0% respectively. African Coloured Indian White Occupational level 2011/12 2012/132013/14 2011/12 2012/132013/14 2011/12 2012/132013/14 2011/12 2012/132013/14 Top management 22 26 33 2 2 3 6 7 7 8 7 6 Senior management 81 104 135 21 23 23 26 32 34 31 33 30 Professional 712 940 1 026 117 127 137 118 138 144 191 190 192 Skilled technical 3 646 4 496 4 723 522 587 630 183 202 202 884 900 912 Semi-skilled 2 619 3 636 3 699 340 398 409 66 76 72 224 245 208 Unskilled 1 061 657 637 91 69 62 12 2 2 22 22 16 Total 8 141 9 859 10 253 1 093 1 216 1 216 411 457 461 1 360 1 397 1 364 Women employees 2013/14 As a signatory to the UNGC, Transnet is committed to upholding the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Although representation of People with Disabilities has improved substantially to 1,6% (877 employees), achieving the target of 2,0% has been a challenge, and improving the representation of People with Disabilities will continue to form a key focus area for Transnet’s transformation agenda. 57 social DIVIDENDS (continued) The EE plan for 2014/15 will continue to focus on Transnet’s commitment to EE principles namely, the elimination of unfair discrimination and implementation of affirmative action measures to achieve a workforce that reflects the national economically active population of South Africa across all occupational levels. Targets for 2014/15 for black employees, women and People with Disabilities are: Target Actual Target Actual Target 2012/13 2012/13 2013/14 2013/14 2014/15 Category (%) (%) (%) (%) (%) African 75,0 80,5 76,0 81,5 80,0 Women at Group executive committee 50,0 41,7 50,0 50,0 50,0 Women at 50,0 37,3 50,0 40,0 50,0 extended executive committee Women below 30,0 23,8 35,0 24,4 35,0 extended executive committee People with Disabilities 1,3 1,4 2,0 1,6 2,0 Looking ahead to 2014/15, EE objectives include: • Increasing the representation of black people at management level; • Increasing the representation of women (black women in particular) at all levels; • Increasing the representation of People with Disabilities at all levels; and • Aligning to NEAP demographics at all levels with significant over representation (semiand unskilled levels). Freight R ail champions People with Disabilities 551 As part of human capital transformation, Freight Rail has continued on its targeted recruitment of People with Disabilities over the past year. This resulted in a total of 551 People with Disabilities employed in comparison to the 337 prior year total of 337, and 194 in 2011/12. 194 Certain positions have been ringfenced to ensure the employment of People with Disabilities. Through Freight Rail’s Disability Forum, employees are engaged, sensitised and voluntary declaration is increasing. Initiatives to 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 improve access to Freight Rail buildings over the past year Year-on-year tota ls include: ramps for wheelchair access to buildings, entrance of people with disa bilities doors modified to open automatically once access card is swiped, restrooms customised for wheelchair access, and parking bays. 58 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Safety of all people who come Other management approaches include: into contact with our operations • Entrenching a culture of safety. This is The health and safety of our employees, undertaken through the Golden Safety contractors, business partners, customers League programme and the Transnet and the general public is a social Culture Charter. responsibility we consider vital to uphold. • Engaging with our stakeholders to understand their safety concerns, Why it is important to Transnet and develop solutions based on best The nature of our business means we practice. Stakeholders include: the RSR, operate across inherently high risk the Department of Labour, organised environments that have the potential labour, employees and the Shareholder. to negatively impact our employees, Transnet has entered into recognition contractors, business partners, customers agreements with its two recognised trade and the general public. While Transnet unions. The recognition agreements has a legal responsibility to ensure the ensure enforcement of the Labour health and safety of its employees and Relations Act, but do not specifically those affected by its business operations, address health and safety issues. However, Transnet considers safety a core value and the agreement is backed by policies, a business imperative, and therefore will standards, procedures and rules that seek not settle for basic compliance. We strive to ensure a safe working environment. to maintain the highest safety standards Topics such as working hours, conducting and a zero harm environment. risk assessments, lock outs, substance Our management approach abuse testing, exposures (both health and Transnet’s safety management is guided safety), training, and Personal Protective by our SHEQ Management Policy, which Equipment, are discussed at various applies to all employees (permanent structures where trade unions are key and non-permanent), stakeholders and stakeholders. contractors in Transnet. This policy • Transnet Occurrence Management outlines our philosophy that safety is System (TOMS) everyone’s responsibility and defines TOMS hosts all information regarding the strategic intent and principles incidents, which includes safety, across that provide a framework for action. Transnet. Group Risk Management is responsible for the development, facilitation of implementation, maintenance and review of the policy. Annual Safety Competition Day 59 social DIVIDENDS (continued) • Development and implementation of • Board of Enquiry policies, standards, procedures and The Board of Enquiry is an independent guidelines body managed through the incidents We have developed and implemented investigation processes. All safety policies, standards, procedures and incidents deemed significant (level one guidelines that will improve safety and two incidents) are investigated management and performance across by the Board, resulting in findings and the business, such as: recommendations. – The Transnet Occupational Health Each Operating Division operates in a Management Policy; unique environment, and thus safety – An Integrated Emergency challenges and appropriate responses Management Service; and differ, accordingly. The Operating – An Integrated Clinic Strategy. Divisions’ Chief Executive Officers are • Safety audits responsible and accountable for their Safety audits offer an opportunity SHEQ performance however, ultimate to evaluate the effectiveness of our accountability for safety performance policies, procedures, and guidelines. lies with the Group Chief Executive. Internal and external audits are The following processes and initiatives conducted annually. Risk management assist in more effective safety has an integrated internal assurance management in the Operating Divisions: plan, and external audits are conducted • Health and Safety Committees by accredited auditors and the RSR. Health and safety risks associated with operational activities are identified, The Seven Golden Safety Actions assessed, addressed and monitored by the Health and Safety Committees. They are a platform through which our employees can actively engage in the implementation of occupational health and safety. Approximately I will not perform unsafe I take responsibility work and put myself and myself and my team 247 formal joint management-worker others in danger I don’t blame other health and safety committees have been established within Transnet based on the geographical layout and work area of every business unit. 1 611 SHE Representatives (3% of the total workforce) ensure all employees If I don’t understand and No matter what my are represented across our Health and if I have a problem, I level, I contribute to speak up and say so improving safety Safety committees. • Training Training is conducted through the School of Rail, whereby safety training is built into functional training. It I always prepare, check I rest well and work is also conducted through external and report unsafe acts safely service providers contracted to provide and conditions specific safety training such as first aid training, SHE Representative training, incident management training and risk management training. Awareness campaigns are conducted I know the standard operating procedures and on specific safety issues, for example safety rules, follow them and don’t take shortcut the ‘5 S Programme’, which focuses on supervision. 60 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 • Business unit operational risk Our performance assessments Safety performance is measured against 0,69 Every Operating Division has its own industry recognised indicators such as risk management methodology which the disabling injury frequency rate (DIFR), On average, DIFR below 0,75 for past informs the type and frequency of risk fatalities, loss incidents and derailments. five years assessments. Transnet has experienced a general • Other structures where health and decrease in the DIFR over the past year safety is on the agenda from 0,74 in 2012/13 to 0,69 in 2013/14. These include daily safety tasks and On average, the ratio has been below 0,75 instructions; toolbox meetings; SHE for the past five years. Forums; symposiums and local and national business committees. Tragically, the Company reported seven We Safety challenges and responses employee fatalities. This compares to nine fatalities in 2012/13. Most of the 2013/14 remember Safety challenges exist across the fatalities were as a result of non-adherence Ms Ayanda organisation at different levels. Freight to Standard Operating Procedures. Dlamini Rail has the highest health and safety Fatalities occurring in road accidents 29 April 2013 risk as it accounts for the majority of outside Transnet operations are no longer Mr Musawenkosi occupational injuries and illnesses. Across recorded as fatalities. Dlamini the organisation, the following significant 10 May 2013 challenges have been identified: Public fatalities are lower than 2012/13 with 106 public fatalities reported for Mr Daniel Motshabi • New employees are unfamiliar with 2013/14 compared to 125 reported in Matshidiso the standard operating procedures 2012/13. 14 May 2013 and are not fully integrated into the In collaboration with local municipalities, Ms Promise Fikile safety culture of Transnet. This is Cele addressed through targeted training schools, the SAPS and other relevant 20 July 2013 and development, and engagement on stakeholders, Freight Rail continued with safety culture. its Level Crossing Awareness Campaign Mr Mzukisi Nanto in 2013/14 educating communities, the 23 July 2012 • Motor vehicle accidents caused by public and children about the dangers of third parties significantly affects Mr Philemon Mudau living close to or next to the railway lines. 17 September 2013 Transnet drivers. While Transnet Level-crossing accidents for 2013/14 total has very limited control over these 82, down from 87 in 2012/13. Trespassers Mr Cecil Wentzel incidents, we send our drivers on 3 November 2013 into the rail reserve account for 83% of advanced driving courses. public fatalities – a challenge that Freight • Vandalism and theft of tracks, signalling Rail has with the encroachment of informal equipment and copper cable leads to settlements in the railway reserve. Other derailments and resulting injuries. challenges include fencing and access • Level-crossing incidents pose the control. greatest challenge to public safety in our operations. There has been a notable increase in the number of loss incidents for 2013/14, Freight Rail accounts for 83% of all with a total of 1 622 compared to 1 737 in occupational illnesses, the majority of 2012/13 indicating a drop of 6,6%. The which are noise-induced hearing loss total estimated cost of these incidents is caused by continuous exposure to train R618 million compared to R572 million in operations and heavy machinery. This is 2012/13. The severity per incident has thus closely monitored and managed through increased by 7,4% compared to the levels annual medicals. All exposed employees of the comparative period. are required to wear Peltor ear muffs, which allow for effective communication Running line derailments have increased whilst providing hearing protection. from 85 in 2012/13 to 116 in 2013/14. Specific training and awareness is Shunting derailments declined year-onimplemented throughout Freight Rail. year from 267 to 242. 61 Social DIVIDENDS (continued) R aising Level-Crossing Awareness Level-crossing accidents pose a major challenge to Freight Rail operations. In collaboration with local municipalities, schools, the SAPS and other relevant stakeholders, Freight Rail continued with its Level-Crossing Awareness Campaign in 2013/14 educating communities, the public and children about the dangers of living close to or next to railway lines. As part of the campaign, Freight Rail’s Container and Automotive Business Unit (CAB) Corporate Affairs and Safety Office organised the Natcor Line safety inspection in January 2014. The purpose of this exercise was to identify safety threats along the line and develop a proactive plan of action. Findings included: • Housing, both formal and informal, encroaching on the railway line; • Pedestrians crossing the railway line at dangerous areas and/ or even walking the line; • Community facilities (schools, shops, bus stops, taxi ranks) across the railway line; • Dangerous car level crossings; • Livestock crossing the railway line to a grazing area; • Livestock grazing next to the unfenced railway line; • Old branding signs: and • Overgrown vegetation obscuring visibility. A programme of action has been developed to address these challenges. Some require immediate action as part of the campaign such as the schools close to the line and old signage while others will require a longer-term programme of action for example, provision of overhead bridges for pedestrians; structural modifications of some level crossings; negotiations with farmers and local stock owners; and negotiations with local government authorities for the relocation of informal settlements next to the line. Staff wellness Staff wellness days are conducted on Staff wellness forms an integral part a regular basis and form the basis for of Transnet’s overall human resources awareness and training amongst employees. strategy ensuring that employees are The Employee Assistance Programme productive, engaged in their jobs and is focused on providing psycho-social present at work. If not managed, this could counselling services; education and impact the Company’s overall efficiency awareness on various wellness-related and performance, pose a safety risk, as topics; health risk assessments and well as a cost to the Company as a result of HIV screening; executive wellness absenteeism. assessments; and safety risk assessments. There has been a general decline in Team health issues are becoming more absenteeism for the period under review, prominent with the need to assist in from 413 191 days lost in 2012/13 to resolving team conflict, leadership 377 632 days lost in 2013/14. This can coaching, and process re-engineering be attributed to the integration with of structures and systems. the Safety Culture Programme which Projects supporting the business have has assisted in raising awareness and also become a feature of the wellness providing managers and supervisors with programme. The Marine Cadet Life Skills the necessary skills to proactively manage project equips individuals to be away from absenteeism. home for extended periods. The ‘Leave a Legacy’ project aims to prepare first time job seekers, to adjust to the world of work. 62 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Value for communities in which programmes are focused primarily on we operate health interventions, promoting education, Transnet’s commitment to social and enabling effective asset utilisation transformation finds expression in its to provide much needed infrastructure solutions. Flagship programmes include: community development programmes • Health: providing primary healthcare that aim to empower and uplift those who through Transnet’s Phelophepa I and II R174 million are most vulnerable in society, focusing on areas of greatest need. Rural areas in trains to rural communities in the Total CSI spend South Africa are particularly vulnerable in Eastern Cape, Northern Cape, North 3,4% net profit after tax West, Limpopo, Free State and terms of access to services, infrastructure KwaZulu-Natal provinces. and economic opportunities. In support of Government’s socio-economic development On average, Phelophepa treats objectives, Transnet’s total spend on CSI for 1 500 patients per week, offering Interesting 2013/14 was R174 million which contributed medical services and medication FACTS to the achievement of an overall B-BBEE at a very low price. This affordable score of Level 3. healthcare is managed by health professionals and supported by student Phelophepa is The Transnet Foundation is Transnet’s doctors who live on the train; as well affectionately Specialist Unit responsible for managing known as the ‘train as volunteers. Four out of five South the Company’s CSI programme. Its mandate of hope’ in the rural Africans depend on public healthcare but is aligned to the MDS, with a strong focus communities in access to hospitals and clinics remains which we operate. on touching rural communities along difficult for many people living outside the rail network, and investing in those of city centres. Phelophepa helps to Phelophepa II projects with a strong community impact. bridge this gap in rural communities. was engineered Transnet’s flagship community investment and built by Engineering in 2012 at a cost of R82 million. The Gift of Sight Phelophepa is the Transnet Foundation’s most recent Phelophepa project was the ‘cataract camp’ first South African held in the Northern Cape from 29 April 2013 to 3 May 2013. In partnership with the CSI initiative to KwaZulu-Natal Eye Care Coalition and the Northern Cape Department of Health, the receive the United Foundation performed life-changing cataract operations for the underprivileged. Nations Public The camp secured the services of three highly acclaimed Indian ophthalmologists to Service Award perform the surgeries. Cataracts are one of the most common causes of avoidable (June 2011). blindness and are a particular cause for concern in the Northern Cape as the province has only three eye surgeons for a population of over one million people. Phelophepa health train visiting Northern Cape Phelophepa’s ‘cataract camp’ 63 social DIVIDENDS (continued) Phelophepa services include: dental, • Container Assistance Programme (CAP): optometry, pharmacy, oral and converts old freight containers into vision screening, HIV counselling, infrastructure for rural communities. health education and psychological counselling. In addition, the train offers The Foundation’s collaboration with South African and international final SAPS and the Provincial Departments year professional health students of Social Development to address practical experience in nursing, infrastructure backlogs using old dentistry, optometry, psychology and recycled containers has resulted in the pharmaceuticals. reduction of crime and increased access to social services in a number of rural Transnet’s partner sponsors are Roche towns and villages. and Colgate-Palmolive South Africa. Since the programme’s inception in Since its inception in 1994, the 2001, the Foundation (together with programme has reached over 5,5 million Freight Rail and Engineering who are people. responsible for the conversion of the • Education: focusing on basic education containers) has built 20 satellite police specifically, teacher development and stations, 10 classrooms, three community learner support. centres and 18 multi-purpose centres. Approximately R27 million has been Since its inception in 1999, 350 qualified invested in the CAP and approximately educators have received supplementary 27 000 jobs have been created by training in Maths, Science and English, erecting these structures and staffing and 50 student educators were enrolled the container centres. in tertiary institutions. The following regions are targeted: Makana (Eastern Some of the most successful CAP Cape), Motheo (Free State), Moretele projects include: (North West), Mtubatuba and Durban • Perth multi-purpose centre (Kgalagadi, South (KwaZulu-Natal). Northern Cape): This remote cluster of rural villages now has access to a range A new programme focusing on orphaned of social services as well as incomeyouth was launched in 2012/13. The generating projects. programme is aimed at giving equal • Nkomazi multi-purpose centre access to education to orphaned youth. (Mpumalanga): This isolated community Transnet Foundation pays school fees, now has immediate access to an boarding, school amenities, clothes, and impressive 19 social workers. gives the learners a monthly allowance. • Dundee satellite police station (KwaZuluOnce they complete Grade 12 in 2015, Natal): 30 000 people in 14 rural villages Transnet will pay for their university now have access to a police station in a studies and eventually assist them in high crime area. finding employment opportunities. Ten youth (seven females and three males) • Galeshewe-Kagiso satellite police from KwaZulu-Natal, North West and station (Northern Cape): An impact study Mpumalanga have been enrolled in the shows that the streets in this area are programme to date. safer since the opening of this facility. • Mambuka satellite police station (near Richards Bay, KwaZulu-Natal): Approximately 24 000 people who used to have to travel 30km to report a crime, now have immediate access to police services. 64 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Container Bakeries Project Together with Umnyakazo Development Umnyakazo Development (Pty) Ltd is (Pty) Ltd, Transnet is funding and a 100% black women-owned food and supporting the establishment of beverages company that aims to provide 30 community-owned containerised a platform for development, growth and bakeries in 15 rural district sustainable programmes. The bakeries municipalities across KwaZulu-Natal will be owned and operated by black (10), Eastern Cape (10) and North West women-owned cooperatives in the (10). Each bakery will create a minimum identified rural areas, and will include of 15 jobs, while 30 bakery containers tuck shops, clinics, and school feeding will create 450 jobs. schemes. The objectives of this project include: Currently, the project is in the • Profitable and sustainable bakeries implementation phase. Funds have for rural families; been disbursed for the first phase of • A steady food source for the the project in the Eastern Cape and community; Transnet has purchased containers and commenced refurbishment. • Easy accessibility to bread and confectionary products; • Fresh bread at affordable prices; • Job creation; and • Poverty alleviation. Transnet container bakery 65 ENVIRONMENTAL DIVIDENDS W e understand Transnet’s environmental context, impact and responsibilities in five key respects: • Transnet’s business is conducted across South Africa’s rich ecosystems: in coastal waters, over mountains, rivers, wetlands, semi-deserts, valleys, forests, fynbos and veld. Through these systems, we build infrastructure, operate equipment, and handle large volumes of cargo. Every day, our employees, contractors, suppliers and customers have an impact on the natural environment and depend on it for their livelihoods. Our responsibility is to mitigate this impact and protect our invaluable natural heritage. • To run our Company, we use electricity, diesel and water, and we generate waste. Electricity, Transnet’s primary source of energy, is supplied by South Africa’s coalfired power stations which emit large quantities of GHG into the earth’s atmosphere, contributing to global warming. Diesel, imported from oil-extracting countries and manufactured by emissions-intensive processing locally, emits GHG at a high cost to the environment, both in climate change and localised air quality. We use water, but have not yet quantified how much we can save. We comply with waste management regulations, but have not yet pursued deliberate recycling strategies. • As a bulk freight transporter in a coal-producing country, Transnet moves millions of tons of coal every year to power stations and export facilities, and continues to invest in new railway capacity to meet the relentless demand for coal from growing economies both locally and abroad. We are mindful that this is both a value proposition and a long-term risk as the world seeks renewable forms of energy to sustainably support burgeoning populations. • As the owner and operator of ports, railways and pipelines, Transnet’s infrastructure is vulnerable to erratic and violent weather events, particularly coastal storms and floods. Our infrastructure planning is being adapted accordingly. Water scarcity adaptation measures are also needed. Transnet’s material environmental dividends highlighted in this 2014 sustainability performance review are: • Access to secure and affordable energy which allows for reduction in our GHG emissions and for future growth. We also report highlights of our performance and prospects with respect to: • Modal shift from road-to-rail, lowering South Africa’s carbon emissions; • Reducing our risk exposure to adverse climate change impacts; • Water in our value chain; • Waste management; and • Managing our biodiversity impacts. 66 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Access to secure and affordable energy which allows for reduction in our GHG emissions Why it is important to Transnet Transnet is an energy-intensive business, exposing the Company to significant energy security risks. Transnet’s primary energy sources are electricity (62%) and diesel (31%), with the remainder constituting distillate fuel oil, petrol and other sources. This year, energy costs constituted 18% of Transnet’s total operating costs, an increase of 2% from 2012/2013. Based on expected volume growth in rail, port and pipeline freight until 2040, Transnet forecasts that the base rate energy requirements are to increase by 3,9% per annum. Transnet is fully reliant on Eskom for the provision of base-load electricity to power its operations, and on municipal electricity Understanding our environment distribution systems in many areas. This poses a number of concerns, including: • The adequacy of electricity generation an environmentally sustainable, climate over the short to medium term; change resilient and low carbon economy • The adequacy of grid infrastructure to through reducing GHG emissions. distribute electricity to rail operations over the short to medium term; Our management approach • The adequacy of municipal distribution In 2013, Transnet developed an Energy systems to supply reliable electricity to Security and Carbon Mitigation Strategy areas where Transnet operates; and for the period up to 2040, based on an • Sharp increases in electricity prices. assessment of: • The risks associated with security These risks are particularly prevalent for of energy supply, energy costs and Freight Rail, which consumes more than environmental impact; 70% of Transnet’s total electricity usage. • The scale and scope of Transnet’s shortMineral diesel and distillate fuel oil is (2018), medium(2025) and long-term supplied by various South African oil (2040) energy requirements; and refining companies. Currently fuel price • Options to meet Transnet’s forecast volatility and exchange rate exposure is a energy demand. concern while the security of fuel supply is not high risk. The strategy is currently being implemented throughout the organisation and aims to Transnet is responsible for enabling the minimise security of energy supply risks, competitiveness, growth and development energy costs and emissions from energy of the South African economy through use. An Energy Policy has been developed delivering reliable freight transport and and is due for adoption in 2014. handling services that satisfy customer demand. In terms of the NDP and the Our participation in the CDP ensures DPE Climate Change Policy Framework our approach to managing emissions for SOCs, Transnet is also required to year-on-year. A Climate Change Policy has assist South Africa in transitioning to been developed and is due for adoption in 2014. 67 ENVIRONMENTAL DIVIDENDS (continued) Initiatives The following sustainable energy While many solutions exist to enhance options for Transnet equipment use are security of energy supply, reduce energy currently being explored by the R&D costs and reduce emissions from energy use unit in Engineering which focuses on across Transnet, the following actions have the operationalisation of new, relevant been identified as the most significant. technologies: • Second generation biofuels for diesel Excellence in energy management locomotives and port equipment; Transnet’s ‘Every The ISO 50001 energy management system • Natural gas as a fuel source for Watt Counts’ is currently being implemented across all locomotives and other equipment; campaign. Operating Divisions and Transnet Property. • Fuel cells on locomotives as alternative This provides a formal structure to enable energy sources; the effective implementation of energy efficiency initiatives and alternative • Wagon covers to reduce energy loss energy supplies. through drag effects; and • Harnessing wasted energy by capturing Energy efficiency initiatives and re-using heat from exhaust systems. A number of energy efficiency initiatives are being implemented across the Operating Divisions. Engineering’s Fuel Cell Study Engineering R&D commenced a fuel cell feasibility study in October 2013 to explore the use of fuel cells in locomotives. On the mobile side, fuel cell applications are mostly focused on integrating this power source as a mover on board the locomotive, replacing the existing diesel engine on a diesel locomotive. Routes have been analysed for energy and power requirements and several preliminary design cases have been explored. Regenerative braking energy storage on board the locomotive for re-use is also being considered in order to increase the overall efficiency of the locomotive. On the stationary side, four cogeneration applications have been investigated for increased efficiency. The different application categories considered are back up power, base load power, peak power shaving, load shifting and/or an appropriate combination of these sources. Steam plants for cleaning rail vehicles and distillation plants for separation of intermixture in pipeline operations are two key cogeneration applications being considered, as they require high quality, high temperature heat which fuel cells can provide. Part of the study that overlaps the two distinct branches is the fuel type, availability and distribution. Fuel cells are fuel flexible and only one kind of fuel cell can use current hydrocarbon fuels such as diesel and petrol for operation. Fuels such as ammonia, hydrogen (compressed and liquefied), natural gas (compressed and liquefied), methanol, ethanol, reversible metal hydrides, and dimethyl ether are being investigated. Their current production and the location of distribution networks are being considered. For both mobile and stationary applications, it is important that fuel cells that are in the vicinity are used. The possibility for using fuel cells for both applications will be investigated. The study will be completed in 2014. 68 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 The largest financial and technical Our performance resources have been allocated to Transnet’s total electricity consumption developing energy efficiency in Freight Rail for 2013/14 was 3 548 522MWh, down where the largest challenge is reducing the 0,2% from 3 555 674MWh6 in 2012/13 while 3 548 522MWh traction requirements for our rail network. volumes of freight have increased by 4,0% We have multiple initiatives including: giving a net energy efficiency gain. Total electricity • Driver training to improve the consumption techniques of operating locomotives; Since 2011/12 (baseline year for reporting when energy efficiency measures were • Optimisation in the configuration of the instituted) total electricity consumption train; and has decreased by 7,0% from 3 798 908MWh. • Reducing locomotive idling. 7,0% 7,0% A significant opportunity to offset energy 3 798 908 consumption is through new locomotive 3 555 674 3 548 522 Decrease in technology specifically, regenerative electricity braking capability. The deployment of the consumption since new class 19E and 15E locomotives on the 2011/12 coal and iron ore export lines has resulted in improved energy efficiency gains. Freight Rail’s regenerated electricity is used in the locomotive themselves and 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 where possible, any excess electricity is TOTA L electricit y consump tion (MWh) transmitted back into the Eskom grid. As Transnet continues to increase the 74,0% of electricity in 2013/14 was used volumes it transports year on year, the best for Freight Rail traction, and the remainder measure of whether the energy efficiency in Transnet’s properties, ports, pipelines initiatives are effective is to measure the and engineering operations. gross ton kilometres (train weight x distance) Transnet’s total fuel consumption for travelled per unit of fuel consumed – 2013/14 was 255,9 mega litres, an increase 255,9 mega litres electricity (kWh) for the electrical lines and of 7,0% from 239,7 mega litres7 in 2012/13. Total fuel diesel (litres) for the diesel lines. Since 2011/12, which represents our base consumption Freight Rail has an Energy Efficiency Forum year, total fuel consumption has increased which meets every two months. This forum by 10,0% from 231,7 mega litres. This monitors performance and evaluates increase can be attributed to the move whether the measures adopted for energy to diesel powered freight movement on efficiency are effective. some operating sections. Of the total fuel consumption figure: 73,3% of this was used For the medium to long term, Transnet is for Freight Rail diesel traction; 11,9% on actively investigating alternative energy road vehicles; 11,1% on home-based fuel; supply opportunities, including: natural and 3,7% for marine diesel. gas, second generation biofuels, wind +10,0% and solar. We engage with Eskom, Nersa, National 231,7 239,7 255,9 Treasury, the Shareholder, the Department of Energy, industry associations, OEMs, fuel suppliers, and customers on energy issues. Training Collaborative energy training is undertaken in conjunction with the EELN. 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 Training is conducted for energy managers TOTA L fuel consump tion (LITRES) and engineers for implementation of the ISO 50001 energy management system. 6 Adjusted figure as a result of double accounting between Freight Rail and Engineering. 7 Adjusted figure as a result of year-end consolidation of data. 69 ENVIRONMENTAL DIVIDENDS (continued) 176 185MWh A total of 176 185MWh of electricity • Class 15E locomotives working on the iron regeneration was recorded in Freight Rail ore line regenerated 28,0% of energy Total regenerated in 2013/14; an improvement of 16,6% on consumed on a round trip from Sishen to electricity the previous year: Saldanha. This resulted in 99 502MWh (24,0%) energy regeneration in 2013/14. • Class 19E locomotives working on the coal line regenerated 27,0% of energy Significant energy efficiency gains consumed on a round trip between have been made across the business, Ermelo and Richards Bay. This resulted with annual targets being exceeded in in 76 682MWh (14,0%) energy most cases. Looking ahead to 2014/15, further energy efficiency targets have regeneration in 2013/14. been set for each Operating Division and Transnet Property. Electricity efficiency performance Targets 2013/14 Performance 2013/14 Energy Operating Target efficiency Division Measurement gain on PY Target Actual gain on PY 2,4% Freight Rail Gtk/ 1% 65,2 66,1 2,4% Freight Rail traction kWh Traction Energy Freight Rail real kWh 2% 229 109 403 225 762 069 3% Efficiency estate Gain (74,0% of total electricity Transnet Property kWh 5% 63 785 635 68 473 089 (2%) consumption) Pipelines Mℓkm/MWh 1% 34,8 36,0 4% Port Terminals Ton/kWh 2% 0,6 0,6 5% National Ports Employee/ 4% 1,2 1,3 14% Authority MWh Engineering Man hour/ 4% 185,3 204,5 16% MWh Fuel efficiency performance Freight Rail Gtk/ℓ 1% 206,5 175,6 (14%) Traction Port Terminals Ton/ℓ 2% 5,5 5,3 (1%) Engineering Man hour/ℓ 4% 9,2 9,5 8% We have calculated our carbon footprint 2012/13. Scope 1 emissions covers diesel using the Greenhouse Gas Protocol locomotives, vehicles, long-term leased (a Corporate Accounting and Reporting vehicles, onsite combustion of fuels and Standard) and the Intergovernmental Panel refrigerants. Freight Rail is responsible for Total: 4,24mtCO2e on Climate Change guidelines for National 82,8% of Scope 1 emissions. Greenhouse Gas Inventories, 2006. Our Scope 2 emissions decreased by 0,2% to consolidation approach for calculating our 3 531 548tCO2e due to improved electricity 3 531 548 emissions is operational control. efficiencies throughout the business. With respect to Transnet’s carbon Scope 2 emissions are generated from emissions for 2013/14, there was an purchased electricity. Freight Rail accounts 693 422 increase of 0,9% to 4,24mtCO2e in for 80,6% of Scope 2. comparison to 4,1mtCO2e in 2012/13. This 10 531 Scope 3 covers employee rental cars increase can be attributed to the following: and air travel, amounting to 10 531tCO2e • increase in production; and Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 which is down 9,2% from 11,596tCO2e in TOTA L Carbon • increase in traction diesel consumption. 2012/13. This is largely due to cost-cutting emissions (tCO 2 e) 2013/14 Transnet Scope 1 emissions amounted to transport measures and expanded use of 693 422tCO2e up from 648 660tCO2e in video conferencing. 70 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Modal shift from road-to-rail, off road’. The carbon emissions savings lowering South Africa’s carbon in the top 10 road-to-rail volume gains in emissions 2013/14 amount to 835,670tCO2e 8. It is globally known that rail transport is Top 10 road-to-rail volume gains for three to four times more efficient than road 2013/14 (April 2013 to March 2014) transport. In addition, rail offers cleaner, safer, cheaper and more reliable freight Volumes Emissions 835 670tCO2e gains avoided mobility through improved road safety, Commodities (tons) (tCO2e) Top 10 road-to-rail reduced road congestion and pollution, carbon emissions and a lower cost of doing business. Manganese savings gains (Export Durban) 16 063 198 Government’s National Climate Change Coal (Eskom) 1 323 767 36 436 Response White Paper, 2011 identifies a modal shift from road-to-rail as a Chrome and 400 flagship carbon mitigation programme for ferrochrome 618 218 70 090 Total trucks kept South Africa. As the owner and operator of Iron ore (Domestic) 566 561 134 980 off road per day the country’s rail freight network, Transnet (by Pipelines) has undertaken to increase its rail market Manganese between Durban (Domestic) 108 354 38 068 and Gauteng share to 35% by 2018/19, and to demonstrate the carbon emissions saving Mineral mining 2 006 556 250 414 achieved annually through its growing Iron and steel 107 685 26 055 market share. Fertiliser 10 338 2 485 Freight Rail is making a meaningful environmental contribution in the form of Intermodal carbon emissions reduction in the South (Container) 1 734 678 276 303 African transport sector. In 2013/14, Automotive 15 397 642 Freight Rail gained market share in a number of commodity groups where there Total 6 507 617 835 670 is strong competition with road hauliers. This rail tonnage gain amounts to ‘volumes Road-to-R ail Alliances A carbon calculator application has On 4 October 2013, Freight Rail and Imperial Logistics ratified a Memorandum been developed by Transnet to assist of Understanding (MOU) committing to moving freight from road to rail. The our customers partnership will facilitate the joint development of multimodal logistics services in to calculate the support of Transnet’s road-to-rail strategy. This initiative will combine Freight Rail’s carbon emissions long-haul transportation capacity with Imperial’s road freight logistics, distribution benefit of moving and end-to-end value chain management. The intermodal transport strategy will specific tonnages concentrate chiefly on bulk commodities, a market which would be new to Imperial. of cargo in South Freight Rail’s Chief Executive, Siyabonga Gama said at the signing of the MOU that Africa by rail this initiative was aimed at benefiting the wider economy by reducing transport instead of road. costs, improving safety and lowering carbon emissions. In turn, Imperial would The calculator applies the benefit from incorporating Freight Rail’s long haul service offering into their end-torelevant rail end logistics solution. tractive power On 22 October 2013, Freight Rail signed another MOU with Barloworld Logistics to (electric or diesel) of each route to further accelerate the implementation of shifting rail-friendly cargo from road to calculate the rail. During the signing ceremony the CEO of Barloworld Logistics stressed that it carbon footprint made sense in light of the ‘enormous’ distances that goods needed to travel in South of tonnage. Africa to reach areas of demand, and that by moving the right product onto rail, significant costs savings would be achieved. 8 In 2013/14, adjustments were made to the Transnet carbon calculation methodology using UCT’s Energy Research Centre’s report ‘Quantifying the energy needs of the transport sector for South Africa: A bottom-up model’ instead of the United Kingdom’s DEFRA road freight emission factor, used in 2012/13. 71 ENVIRONMENTAL DIVIDENDS (continued) Reducing our risk exposure to management of energy, water, adverse climate impacts biodiversity, waste and greening supply chains. Climate change is predicted to affect • Incorporating global risk analysis into South Africa in different ways, from Transnet’s risk management approach. increased frequency and severity of extreme weather events to changes As we are still in the process of developing in rainfall patterns and increased the adaptation strategy, specific temperatures. These will influence the challenges, solutions, targets and way that Transnet operates in the future. indicators are being considered. Awareness Transnet is therefore analysing where, how of climate change is resulting in Transnet and to what degree climate change will giving engineering design attention to impact its operations, and what measures climate change adaptation requirements can be taken to limit its vulnerability. in capital projects. Transnet is in the process of developing an A Climate Change Policy (including both integrated adaptation plan to include: mitigation and adaptation) has been • An assessment of risks, impacts and developed and is due for adoption in 2014. vulnerabilities to current and planned Water in our value chain operations, property and infrastructure. Transnet acknowledges that South Africa • An assessment of risks to upstream is a water scarce country and that we need and downstream markets to identify to use water efficiently and effectively possible supply chain and customer throughout our operations. impacts. • Incorporation of adaptation In 2012/13, Transnet committed to pathways into Transnet planning and conduct water audits across all Operating decision-making to ensure resilience, Divisions. This process is still underway. allow for incremental transitions and In addition, internal water assessments where necessary to initiate change. are being conducted across Transnet and these should be concluded in 2014/15. The adaptation plan will be aligned to The findings from the audits and internal and incorporated into the LTPF, risk assessments will inform the water management, capital projects, supply management strategy to be employed by chain management, human resources and the business. operational planning. A Water Policy has been developed and is Other current initiatives include: due for adoption in 2014. • Implementation of a standardised approach to mature sustainability Understanding our environment 72 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Looking ahead, the following water management and as such, is committed to efficiency initiatives are underway: developing sustainable ways to implement • Installation of low flow shower heads; waste management. • Installation of water mixers for ablution Transnet is currently focusing on ‘legacy facilities; asbestos’ and ‘hydrocarbon’ clean-ups, • Installation of remote electronic meters as follows: for consumption reading and quick leak detections; Asbestos clean-up: • Use of low flow fixtures; • The project to erect signage at asbestos high risk areas continues country-wide. • Pressure reticulation in major areas; • Asbestos air quality assessments were • Insulation of water pipes (warm water); undertaken at 11 high risk asbestos and contaminated sites. The results are • Improvement in turnaround time to used for prioritisation of clean-up and repair leaks. erection of signage. We continue to identify water-related risks • The conversion of the De Aar quarry and opportunities in our operations going into an asbestos waste landfill site is forward. at the Public Participation Stage of the Environmental Impact Assessment. Waste management • A total of 1 394 tons of asbestos has Transnet’s operations generate a variety been cleaned up since the inception of of waste materials as by-products. These the initiative in 2012. can be recovered, re-used, recycled, and • Asbestos removal waste licences for all disposed of if no other use can be found. major asbestos contaminated sites have Transnet acknowledges that disposal been obtained. of waste is the final option in waste Freight R ail’s Asbestos Clean-up Project Freight Rail is currently finalising an Environmental Impact Assessment to convert the De Aar quarry into an asbestos waste landfill site. The process is being reviewed by the public before the Environmental Impact Report is submitted to the Department of Environmental Affairs for a decision. In order to manage the potential asbestos exposure, while a suitable disposal site is explored, an ad hoc clean-up process is underway to manage resurfacing of buried asbestos fibres to prevent or minimise personnel and public exposure to the fibres. A total of 1 394 tons of asbestos had been cleaned up through this initiative since 2012. During 2013/14, an approved asbestos inspection authority was contracted to undertake asbestos air quality assessments at 11 high risk asbestos contaminated sites. A total of 96 air samples were analysed and 176 high volume static air samples were analysed. The results indicated the presence of asbestos fibres in only 9,7% (17 samples) of the total samples (176 samples). The concentration of asbestos in all 17 samples was below UK HSG 248 clearance indicator of 0,01f/mℓ and below the South African Occupational Exposure Limit of 0,2f/mℓ. Looking ahead to 2014/15, asbestos removal waste licences have been obtained for all major contaminated sites and these sites will be cleared once the De Aar quarry landfill site is approved and operational. 73 ENVIRONMENTAL DIVIDENDS (continued) Hydrocarbon clean-up: rehabilitated. 5 200 absorbent mats have Freight Rail identified various railway been deployed countrywide. tracks, staging areas and fuel handling Pipelines reported five spills for 2013/14. facilities that are contaminated with The Mooi River incident occurred near hydrocarbon pollution from aged a wetland and caused surface water locomotives, faulty fuel handling pollution. Pipelines is currently completing equipment and spillages. A Hydrocarbon the rehabilitation process to minimise Pollution Elimination Programme was negative environmental impacts of initiated during 2012/13. To date, 68 sites the spills. have been cleaned up and rehabilitated, while three are in the process of being Date Location Product Volume (ℓ) Cause 3 July 2013 Ladysmith depot Refined 30 000* Operational Mooi River – 10 September 2013 Arrochar Farm Petrol 480 000 Third party 2 October 2013 Stilfontein Diesel 260 000 Third party 22 December 2013 Alrode Diesel 80 000 Mechanical failure Heuningspruit 19 March 2014 Magdala Diesel 54 603 Pipeline integrity * Approximate – < 1% of actual flow. Details of Pipeline spills 2013/14 Managing our biodiversity impacts • Establishing the current state Transnet acknowledges our impacts on of biodiversity on site including biodiversity and the need to proactively functionality, habitat condition, degree manage and wherever possible, mitigate of alien infestation; these impacts. In Transnet’s capital • The identification of all fauna and floral infrastructure programme, particularly species on site; mega infrastructure projects, focus • Delineation of wetlands and habitat is therefore placed on addressing community mapping; and biodiversity concerns in a strategic, • Priority areas such as breeding grounds systematic manner throughout the and refuge areas for species of special Project Lifecycle Process and strict concern. controls are imposed. The detail of investigation relating to Transnet recognises the need to initiate biodiversity at such an early stage in biodiversity investigations at an early project planning is testimony to Transnet’s stage during project planning. commitment and improved understanding In its plans to develop the old Durban of the organisation’s impacts on International Airport site into a new biodiversity and acknowledgement that proposed dig-out port, the Transnet such impacts need to be assessed as team identified the need to assess the an inherent component of the project potential biodiversity implications and lifecycle process. opportunities after an environmental These principles will continue to be applied sensitivity study was conducted during in the development and roll out of our the conceptual phase of the project. infrastructure development portfolio Significant investments have been made in upholding Transnet’s vision to have into biodiversity investigations on the due consideration for sustainability in proposed site, and these will proceed as everything that we do. the project progresses through the project lifecycle process. Investigations which have already been initiated include: 74 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Appendix A: Exter nal Assurance Statement Independent assurance provider’s report Economic dividends: to the Directors of Transnet on selected • the value added statement (page 30); key performance indicators disclosed • capital investment (total capital in the Sustainability Report prepared in investment, capital amount invested accordance with the Global Reporting in the expansion of infrastructure Initiative (GRI) G4 guidelines and equipment, capital amount 1. Introduction invested in maintaining existing capacity) (page 33); We have undertaken an independent limited assurance engagement for • total spend on skills development Transnet SOC Ltd (Transnet) on selected (total spend on skills development sustainability information reported in as a percentage of the wage bill) Transnet’s Sustainability report (the (page 47); report) as described below for the year • financial performance (total assets, ended 31 March 2014. The King Code cash generated from operations, advocates that sustainability reporting cash interest cover ratio, gearing and disclosure should be independently ratio) (page 33); assured. SizweNtsalubaGobodo (SNG) • B-BBEE spend (B-BBEE spend as provided limited assurance on selected a percentage of total measurable sustainability key performance procurement spend; B-BBEE spend indicators outlined in section 3 on black-owned enterprises) of this report and this is reported (page 50). in accordance with the terms of Social dividends: engagement of the scope change letter. • tip-offs anonymous hotline 2. Independence, expertise and statistics (total allegations, total quality control unfounded, total founded) (page 18); We have complied with the Code of • employment equity (black employees Ethics for Professional Accountants as a percentage of the workforce; issued by the International Federation female employees as a percentage of Accountants (IFAC), which includes of the workforce; people with comprehensive independence and disabilities as a percentage of the other requirements founded on workforce) (page 56); fundamental principles of integrity, • safety statistics (disabling injury objectivity, professional competence frequency rate (DIFR), employee and and due care, confidentiality public fatalities; loss incidences, and professional behaviour. Our derailments) (page 61); engagement was conducted by a multi• Corporate Social Investment spend disciplinary team of health, safety, (page 63); social, environmental and assurance • B-BBEE rating (page 63). specialists with extensive experience in sustainability reporting. Environmental dividends: • electricity consumption (page 69); SNG maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including • total fuel consumption (freight rail documented policies and procedures diesel traction fuel consumption; on regarding compliance with ethical road vehicle fuel consumption; home requirements, professional standards based fuel (page 69); and applicable legal and regulatory • scope 1 and 2 CO2 emissions requirements. (page 70). 3. Subject matter and assurance 4. Directors’ responsibilities We were required to provide limited The directors are responsible for assurance that the following selected the selection, preparation and sustainability key performance presentation of the sustainability indicators were prepared in accordance information. This responsibility with the GRI G4 guidelines: includes the identification and stakeholder requirements, for 75 Appendix A: Exter nal Assurance Statement (continued) determination of material issues, analytical procedures, evaluating the for commitments with respect to appropriateness of quantification sustainability performance and for methods and reporting policies, and the design, implementation and agreeing or reconciling with underlying maintenance of internal control records. systems from which the reported information is derived, to ensure that 6. Summary of work performed the preparation of the report is free Given the circumstances of the from material misstatement, whether engagement, in performing the due to fraud or error. procedures listed above we: • Interviewed management and 5. Our responsibility senior executives to obtain an Our responsibility is to express an understanding of the internal control independent assurance conclusion environment, risk assessment on the selected key performance process and information systems indicators based on the procedures relevant to the sustainability we have performed and the evidence reporting process; we have obtained. We conducted • Inspected documentation to our limited assurance engagement corroborate the statements in accordance with the International obtained from management and Standard on Assurance Engagements senior executives in our interviews; (ISAE) 3000, Assurance Engagements • Reviewed the process that Transnet other than Audits or Reviews of has in place for determining material Historical Financial Information, selected key performance indicators issued by the International Auditing to be included in the report; and Assurance Standards Board. This • Tested the processes and systems Standard requires that we plan and to generate, collate, aggregate, perform our engagement to obtain monitor and report on the selected limited assurance about whether the key performance indicators; selected key performance indicators are free from material misstatement. • Performed a controls walkthrough; • Inspected supporting A limited assurance engagement documentation on a sample undertaken in accordance with basis and performed analytical ISAE 3000 involves assessing the procedures to evaluate the data suitability in the circumstances generation and reporting processes of Transnet’s use of the GRI G4 against the reporting criteria; guidelines as the basis of preparation • Evaluated the reasonableness and for the selected key performance appropriateness of significant indicators, assessing the risks estimates and judgments made by of material misstatement of the management in the preparation of selected key performance indicators the key performance indicators; whether due to fraud or error, • Apart from Head Office, we responding to the assessed risks as undertook visits to Transnet Freight necessary in the circumstances, and Rail, Transnet Engineering, Transnet evaluating the overall presentation Pipelines, Transnet Port Terminals, of the selected key performance Phelophepa II Healthcare Train indicators. Our procedures included Kinross, City Deep Inland Container the understanding of risk assessment Terminal; procedures, internal control, and the procedures performed in response to • Evaluated whether the selected key the assessed risks. The procedures performance indicators presented we performed were based on our in the report is consistent with our professional judgement and included overall knowledge and experience enquiries, observation of processes of sustainability management and performed, inspection of documents, performance at Transnet. 76 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 7. Conclusion 10. Restriction of liability In our opinion, based on the procedures Our work has been undertaken to we have performed and the evidence enable us to express the conclusions on we have obtained, nothing has come to the selected sustainability information our attention that causes us to believe to the directors of Transnet in that the selected key performance accordance with the terms of our indicators as set out in the subject engagement and for no other purpose. matter paragraph for the year ended We do not accept or assume liability 31 March 2014 are not prepared, in all to any party other than Transnet, for material respects, in accordance with our work, for this report, or for the GRI G4 guidelines. conclusion we have reached. 8. Comparability No assurance procedures were performed on the previous Collins Mashishi sustainability report. The information Director relating to the prior reporting periods has not been subject to assurance procedures. 9. Other matters Our report does not extend to any 15 May 2014 disclosures or assertions relating to future performance plans and/or strategies disclosed in the report. The maintenance and integrity of the Transnet’s website is the responsibility of Transnet’s management. Our procedures did not involve consideration of these matters and accordingly we accept no responsibility for any changes to either the information in the report or our independent assurance report that may have occurred since the initial date of presentation on the Transnet website. 77 Appendix B: United nations global compact table Transnet became signatory to the UNGC on 6 July 2012 committing the Company to the 10 universal principles of the UNGC and reflecting the importance that the Transnet Board and Executive place on good corporate citizenship. Transnet is committed to upholding fundamental human rights, ensuring fair labour practices, working against corruption in all its forms, and protecting the natural environment within which it operates. Further policies are being developed where necessary to confirm and enhance the application of these commitments. UNGC principle Transnet’s support of UNGC’s principles Human rights Principle 1 Transnet supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Human rights constitute Businesses should support the cornerstone of South Africa’s democracy. Transnet is bound by the Constitution of and respect the protection the Republic of South Africa which contains the Bill of Rights and all laws reflect this. of internationally Transnet as a SOC, is conscious of the importance of human rights and the need to ensure proclaimed human rights; that work practices, rules and policies support the protection of these rights. and Through Transnet’s Code of Ethics (the Code), respect for human rights is upheld both Principle 2 internally and externally with stakeholders. All employees are bound by the Code and are guided in the honesty, respect and integrity of their behaviour. Transnet’s service Make sure that they are providers, suppliers and trade partners are also bound by the Code. The Code was not complicit in human reviewed in 2013 to extend the scope to Non-executive Directors. Transnet’s Culture rights abuses. Charter further entrenches human rights in the Company through its focus on dignity and respect. Transnet is committed to the principles of equity and anti-discrimination, and is further committed to providing employment for all demographics, not just for the sake of diversity, but to better empower designated groups. Transnet is committed to improved employment equity particularly for women and People with Disabilities where the latter has shown a significant improvement from 0,8% in 2011/12 to 1,6% in 2013/14. Transnet aims to transform its supplier base through its procurement spend with 94,4% of total measurable procurement spend on B-BBEE for 2013/14. Through its CSI programme, more specifically the Phelophepa health trains, Transnet is assisting South Africa achieve the Millennium Development Goals of reducing child mortality, improving maternal health, and combatting HIV/Aids, malaria and other diseases. In addition, the Orphaned Youth Programme is aimed at giving equal access to education to orphaned youth. Labour Principle 3 Transnet practices freedom of association and recognises the right to collective Businesses should uphold bargaining as prescribed in the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa and set out the freedom of association specifically in the South African Labour Relations Act, 1995 (Act No 66 of 1995). Transnet and the effective employees’ rights to collective bargaining are regulated by the Transnet Recognition recognition of the right to Agreement which defines, amongst other issues, union rights; thresholds for union collective bargaining; recognition; dispute resolution; shop steward representation; roles and rights; and consultative structures. Transnet has well established practices of collective bargaining Principle 4 in the Transnet Bargaining Council which has its own constitution defining the procedures to be followed for collective bargaining. The elimination of all forms of forced and South Africa is a signatory to the International Labour Organisation (ILO) convention, as compulsory labour; applicable to fair labour practices, and South Africa has a plethora of labour legislation that reflects the ILO standards. Transnet human resources policies and practices reflect Principle 5 these legislative provisions. South African law prohibits forced, compulsory and child The effective abolition of labour. child labour; and The right to fair labour practice is articulated in various human rights policies, guidelines Principle 6 and workplace practices that clearly define and articulate the various aspects that enable and create a fair workplace environment. Human resources policies, the primary The elimination of management tool, are regularly reviewed and expanded to ensure that employee rights in discrimination in respect the workplace are fairly and objectively managed. Management and the unions engage on of employment and all draft policies, amendment to policies and the identification of areas where employee occupation. rights are not clearly defined or effectively protected. Various mechanisms for the identification of potential violation of employee rights are in place. 78 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 UNGC principle Transnet’s support of UNGC’s principles Labour (continued) Transnet, through its Employment Equity Plan, is committed to employment equity principles namely, the elimination of unfair discrimination and implementation of affirmative action measures to achieve a workforce that reflects the national economically active population of South Africa across all occupational levels. Transnet adheres to The Promotion of Equality and Prevention of Unfair Discrimination Act, 2000 (Act No 4 of 2000), and the Skills Development Act, 1998 (Act No 97 of 1998). Transnet has both a B-BBEE Policy and Strategy. Transnet exceeded its targets for black employees across all occupational levels in 2013/14 while women representation is growing steadily with top, senior, professional and skilled technical representation well above 28%. Transnet invested a total of 3% of the wage bill (R621 million) in the training of employees during 2013/14. Through its staff wellness programme, Transnet assists employees with health risk assessments and HIV screening; psycho-social counselling services; education and awareness; and safety risk assessments. For medically uninsured employees who test positive for HIV, anti-retroviral treatment is funded by Transnet. Environment Transnet complies with all environmental regulations prescribed in terms of the National Principle 7 Environmental Management Act, 1998 (Act No. 107 of 1998), including the diligent execution of environmental impact assessments in all capital projects, air quality control, Businesses should support pollution control, waste management and coastal environmental management. a precautionary approach to environmental During 2013/14, Transnet made progress with respect to climate change mitigation. An challenges; Energy Security and Carbon Mitigation Strategy for the period up to 2040 was developed and is currently being implemented throughout the organisation. The aim is to minimise Principle 8 security of energy supply risks, energy costs and emissions from energy use. Focus on modal shift from road-to-rail delivered carbon emissions savings of 835 670tCO2e in the Undertake initiatives to top 10 road-to-rail volume gains. A carbon calculator was developed to measure the promote greater carbon emissions benefit of moving specific tonnages of cargo from specific origins to environmental destinations in South Africa by rail instead of road. responsibility; and Since 2011/12 (baseline year indicating when energy efficiency measures were instituted) Principle 9 total electricity consumption has decreased by 7,0% from 3 798 908kWh to 3 554 529kWh Encourage the in 2013/14. The ISO 50001 energy management system is currently being implemented development of diffusion across all Operating Divisions and Transnet Property. This provides a formal structure to of environmentally friendly enable the effective implementation of energy efficiency initiatives and alternative technologies. energy supplies. Significant energy efficiency gains of 176 185MWh were achieved through regenerative braking in new locomotives. Sustainable energy options for Transnet equipment is currently being explored by the R&D unit in Engineering which focuses on the operationalisation of new, relevant technologies. Options include: second generation biofuels for diesel locomotives and port equipment; natural gas as a fuel source for locomotives and other equipment; fuel cells on locomotives; wagon covers to reduce energy loss through drag effects; and harnessing wasted energy by capturing and re-using heat from exhaust systems. 79 Appendix B: United nations global compact table (continued) UNGC principle Transnet’s support of UNGC’s principles Anti-Corruption Transnet supports the United Nations Convention against Corruption and is committed to Principle 10 the highest standards of corporate governance as espoused in King III, the Companies Act, and the Public Finance Management Act. Transnet is committed to zero tolerance of Businesses should work all forms of fraud and corruption, including extortion and bribery. This commitment is against corruption in all its reflected in the following: forms, including extortion • Transnet’s Code of Ethics aims to instil a culture of honesty and ethical behaviour in and bribery. Company representatives engaging with external parties. • The Declaration of Interests and Related-Party Disclosure Policy for employees and the Board, which requires the disclosure of personal financial interests, direct or indirect personal or private business interests on an annual basis. All employees sign confidentiality and ‘declaration of interest’ forms when adjudicating on procurement panels. • Fraud risk exposure is managed under Transnet’s Fraud Risk Management Plan that ensures that effective mechanisms are in place to prevent, detect and report instances of fraud and corruption. • Transnet’s Tip-offs Anonymous Hotline forms an integral part of Transnet’s anti-fraud and anti-corruption efforts. The hotline is managed by Internal Audit and all reported cases are investigated through an established forensics investigation process. Transnet employees are protected from victimisation by the Transnet Whistle Blowing Policy. • Transnet concludes Integrity Pacts with all bidders and suppliers. Integrity Pacts have replaced Transnet’s Supplier Code of Conduct. Each party agrees to avoid all forms of dishonesty, fraud and corruption including practices that are anti-competitive in nature, negotiations made in bad faith and under-pricing by following a system that is fair, transparent and free from any influence/unprejudiced dealings prior to, during and subsequent to the currency of the contract to be entered into. 80 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 APPENDIX C: Global r eporting initiative table General Standard Disclosures Reference Page Strategy and analysis G4-1 Sustainability at Transnet 2-3 Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of the – Executive statement and organisation (such as CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) approval about the relevance of sustainability to the organisation and the organisation’s strategy for addressing sustainability. Organisational profile G4-3 Sustainability at Transnet – 1 Report the name of the organisation. Our sustainability context G4-4 About Transnet – 5 Report the primary brands, products, and services. Who we are G4-5 About Transnet – 5 Report the location of the organisation’s headquarters. Who we are G4-6 About Transnet – 5-6 Report the number of countries where the organisation operates, Where we operate and what and names of countries where either the organisation has we do significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report. G4-7 About Transnet – 5 Report the nature of ownership and legal form. Who we are G4-8 About Transnet – 5 Report the markets served (including geographic breakdown, Where we operate and what sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries). we do About Transnet – Conditions 16 under which we operate About Transnet – 11 Our business model: Group G4-9 About Transnet – 7 Report the scale of the organisation, including: Where we operate and what • Total number of employees we do • Total number of operations • Net sales (for private sector organisations) or net revenues About Transnet – 11 (for public sector organisations) Our Business Model• Total capitalisation broken down in terms of debt and equity Operating Divisions (for private sector organisations) • Quantity of products or services provided. Integrated Report 49 AFS 12 G4-12 About Transnet – 11 Describe the organisation’s supply chain Our business model: Group About Transnet – 8 Our Supply Chain 81 APPENDIX C: Global r eporting initiative table (continued) General Standard Disclosures Reference Page G4-13 About Transnet – Conditions 16 Report any significant changes during the reporting period under which we operate regarding the organisation’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain. G4-15 About the sustainability 4 List externally developed economic, environmental and social report – Reporting charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organisation frameworks subscribes or which it endorses G4-16 Sustainability at Transnet – 1 List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) Our sustainability context and national or international advocacy organisations in which the organisation: • Holds a position on the governance body • Participates in projects or committees • Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues • Views membership as strategic. This refers primarily to memberships maintained at the organisational level. Identified material aspects and boundaries G4-17 Appendix E: Transnet 91 (a) List all entities included in the organisation’s consolidated Sustainability Framework financial statements or equivalent documents. material aspects’ boundaries (b) Report whether any entity included in the organisation’s (notes) consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report. G4-18 Material issues – Material 19-28 (a) Explain the process for defining the report content and the issues determination process aspect boundaries. About the sustainability 4 (b) Explain how the organisation has implemented the reporting report principles for defining report content. Appendix D: Correlation 90 between the Transnet Sustainability Framework and the material issues identified Appendix E: Transnet 91 Sustainability Framework material aspects’ boundaries G4-19 Material issues – Material 19-28 List all the material aspects identified in the process for defining issues determination process report content. Appendix D: Correlation 90 between the Transnet Sustainability Framework and the material issues identified Appendix E: Transnet 91 Sustainability Framework material aspects’ boundaries 82 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 General Standard Disclosures Reference Page G4-20 Appendix E: Transnet 91 For each material aspect, report the aspect boundary within the Sustainability Framework organisation, as follows: material aspects’ boundaries • Report whether the aspect is material within of the organisation • If the aspect is not material for all entities within the organisation (as described in G4-17), select one of the following two approaches and report either 1). The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the aspect is not material or 2). The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspect is material • Report any specific limitation regarding the aspect boundary outside the organisation. G4-21 Appendix E: Transnet 91 For each material aspect, report the aspect boundary outside the Sustainability Framework organisation, as follows: material aspects’ boundaries • Report whether the aspect is material outside of the organisation • If the aspect is material outside of the organisation, identify the entities, groups of entities or elements for which the aspect is material. In addition, describe the geographical location where the aspect is material for the entities identified • Report any specific limitation regarding the aspect boundary outside the organisation. G4-22 About the sustainability 4 Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in report – Reporting previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements. philosophy and approach G4-23 About the sustainability 4 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in report – Reporting the scope and aspect boundaries. philosophy and approach Stakeholder engagement G4-24 Material issues – Stakeholder 21 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation. engagement G4-25 Material issues – Stakeholder 21 Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders engagement with whom to engage. G4-26 Material issues – Stakeholder 21 Report the organisation’s approach to stakeholder engagement, engagement including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. G4-27 Material issues – Stakeholder 21-26 Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through engagement stakeholder engagement, and how the organisation has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. 83 APPENDIX C: Global r eporting initiative table (continued) General Standard Disclosures Reference Page Report profile G4-28 About the Sustainability 4 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information Report – Reporting provided. philosophy and approach G4-29 About the Sustainability 4 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Report – Reporting philosophy and approach G4-30 About the Sustainability 4 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). Report – Suite and interaction between reports G4-31 About the Sustainability 4 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or Report – Suite and its contents. interaction between reports G4-32 About the Sustainability 4 (a) Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organisation has chosen Report – Reporting Frameworks Transnet has not fulfilled all the requirements of Core ‘in accordance’ option. However this report contains standard disclosures from the GRI Reporting Guidelines (b) Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option Appendix C: Global Reporting 82 Initiative Table (c) Report the reference to the External Assurance Report Appendix A: External 76 Assurance Statement G4-33 About the Sustainability 4 (a) Report the organisation’s policy and current practice with Report – Reporting regard to seeking external assurance for the report. philosophy and approach (b) If not included in the assurance report accompanying the Scope and basis of external 76 sustainability report, report the scope and basis of any assurance provided is external assurance provided. referred to in Appendix A: External Assurance Statement (c) Report the relationship between the organisation and the The assurance provider is 76 assurance providers. an Independent external assurance provider. Refer to Appendix A: External Assurance Statement (d) Report whether the highest governance body or senior About Transnet-Governance 17 executives are involved in seeking assurance for the and assurance – Governance organisation’s sustainability report. in the context of sustainability at Transnet 84 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 General Standard Disclosures Reference Page Governance G4-34 About Transnet-Governance 17 Report the governance structure of the organisation, including and Assurance: Governance committees of the highest governance body. Identify any in the context of committees responsible for decision-making on economic, sustainability at Transnet environmental and social impacts. Integrated Report 16 AFS 138 Ethics and Integrity G4-56 About Transnet-Ethics and 18 Describe the organisation’s values, principles, standards and integrity norms of behaviour such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics. G4-58 About Transnet-Ethics and 18 Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting integrity concerns about unethical or unlawful behaviour, and matters related to organisational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines. Note: There were no omissions for general standard disclosures. There was no external assurance of general standard disclosures. 85 APPENDIX C: Global r eporting initiative table (continued) Specific Standard Disclosures External Material aspects DMA and Indicators Reference Omission assurance Section Page Assured Economic G4–EC1 Sustainability Performance 30 ü Direct economic value generated and Review – Economic Dividends distributed Integrated Report 132 Cost-effective DMA Sustainability Performance 31 freight logistics Review– Economic Dividend: infrastructure Cost-effective freight ahead of demand Transnet Specific Indicator: Total Capital logistics and infrastructure 33 ü Investment ahead of demands and a financially stable business, A financially DMA able to raise and service debt, 31 stable business, reinvest revenues and pursue able to raise and Transnet Specific Indicator: Financial agreements with private 33 ü service debt, Performance parties to optimise reinvest revenues – Total assets investment and services and pursue – Cash generated from operations agreements with – Total cash interest cover ratio private parties to optimise – Total funding raised investment and – Gearing ratio services – Funding requirement Reliable and DMA Sustainability Performance 34 efficient rail, port Review – Economic Dividend: and pipeline Transnet Specific Indicator: General Freight Reliable and efficient rail, port 36 services Business and pipeline services TFR: – Volumes – Capital Investment – Locomotive efficiency – On-time departures – On-time arrivals TE: – Train cancellations due to traction – Traction days Transnet Specific Indicator: Export Coal 37 TFR: – Volumes – Capital Investment – Locomotive efficiency – On-time departures – On-time arrivals TE: – Train cancellations due to traction – Traction days TNPA: – Ship turnaround time (RBCT) Transnet Specific Indicator: Export Iron Ore 38 TFR: – Volumes – Capital Investment – Locomotive efficiency – On-time departures – On-time arrivals TE: – Train cancellations due to traction – Traction days TNPA: – Ship turnaround time (Saldanha) 86 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 External Material aspects DMA and Indicators Reference Omission assurance Section Page Assured Transnet Specific Indicator: Maritime 39 containers TNPA: Anchorage waiting time – Durban – Cape Town – Port Elizabeth – Richards Bay – Ngqura Average ship turnaround time – Durban – Cape Town – Port Elizabeth – Richards Bay – Ngqura TPT: Moves per gross crane hour – DCT Pier 1 – DCT Pier 2 – CTCT – Ngqura Truck turnaround time – DCT Pier 1 – DCT Pier 2 – CTCT – Ngqura – Richards Bay Transnet Specific Indicator: Petroleum 40 TPL: – Volumes – Ordered vs. delivered volumes – Planned vs. actual delivery time – Operating costs per Mℓ.km – DJP and NMPP actual usage (Mℓ/week) Skilled human DMA Sustainability Performance 45 resources aligned Review – Economic Dividend: to infrastructure Transnet Specific Indicator: Training Skilled human resources 47 ¬ and services achievements aligned to infrastructure and services Support the DMA 45 national priority of creating jobs Local Supplier DMA Sustainability Performance 49 Industry Review – Economic Dividend: Development Transnet Specific Indicator: % total Local Supplier Industry 50 contract value SD obligations met Development Transnet Specific Indicator: Transnet’s ü B‑BBEE spend Social A representative DMA Sustainability Performance 55 workforce Review – Social Dividends: A Representative Workforce G4–LA12 Sustainability Performance 57 (a) Omissions include: ü Composition of governance bodies and Review – Social Dividends: Figures are not reported breakdown of employees per employee A Representative Workforce in percentages; category according to gender, age group, employees per employee minority group membership, and other category is not reported indicators of diversity by age group; people with disabilities (an indicator of diversity) is not reported per employee category. (b) The information is currently unavailable. Integrated Report 56 Transnet Specific Indicator: B– BBEE Rating Sustainability Performance 55 ü Review– Social Dividends: A Representative Workforce 87 APPENDIX C: Global r eporting initiative table (continued) External Material aspects DMA and Indicators Reference Omission assurance Section Page Assured Safety of all DMA Sustainability Performance 59 people who come Review– Social Dividend: into contact with G4–LA5 Safety of all people who come 60 our operations Percentage of total workforce represented into contact with our in formal joint management–worker health operations and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programmes G4–LA6 61 (a) Omissions include: While ¬ Type of injury and rates of injury, Injury rate and work– occupational diseases, lost days, and related fatalities are absenteeism, and total number of work– reported they are not related fatalities, by region and by gender reported by region and gender, and are not reported for contractors; Types of injury, occupational diseases rate, lost day rate and absentee rate is not reported for employees or contractors. (b) The information is currently unavailable. G4–LA7 61 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation G4–LA8 60-61 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions Transnet Specific Indicator: Public fatalities 61 ü Transnet Specific Indicator: Loss incidents 61 ü Transnet Specific Indicator: Derailments 61 ü Environmental Access to secure DMA Sustainability Performance 66 and affordable Review– Environmental: energy, which Access to secure and allows for a affordable energy, which reduction in our allows for a reduction in our GHG emissions GHG emissions and for future and for future growth growth G4–EN3 69-70 (a) Omissions include: total ¬ Energy consumption within the organisation fuel consumption from renewable fuel sources; total heating, cooling and steam consumption; total electricity, heating, cooling and steam sold; the standards, methodologies and assumptions used; and the source of the conversion factors. Fuel data is not reported in joules. (b) Parts of this indicator are not applicable to Transnet. No fuel is sourced from renewable sources. Electricity (sold), heating, cooling and steam (sold and consumed) does not apply to Transnet or their primary products and services. Parts of the indicator the require information that is currently unavailable. 88 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 External Material aspects DMA and Indicators Reference Omission assurance Section Page Assured G4–EN15 70 (a) Omissions include: gases ü Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions included in the (Scope 1) calculation; biogenic emissions; chosen base year (including rational for choosing one); standards, source of emission factors. (b) The biogenic emissions have been excluded as they do not apply to Transnet as there is no combustion of biologically based material in the production and delivery of their products and services. The other information required by this indicator is not currently available. G4–EN16 70 (a) Omissions include: gases ü Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) included in the emissions (Scope 2) calculation; chosen base year (including rational for choosing one); source of emission factors. (b) The information required by this indicator is not currently available. G4–EN17 70 (a) Omissions include: gases Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) included in the emissions (Scope 3) calculation; biogenic emissions; other indirect emissions categories; chosen base year (including rational for choosing one); source of emission factors. (b) The biogenic emissions and other indirect emissions categories have been excluded as they do not apply to Transnet. The other information required by this indicator is not currently available. Transnet Specific Indicator: Regenerated 70 electricity Transnet Specific Indicator: Electricity and 70 fuel efficiency ü indicator has been externally assured by SNG ¬ part of indicator has been externally assured by SNG 89 Appendix D: Corr elation between the Transnet Sustainability Framework and the Material Issues identified Alignment to: • GRI G4 aspects • Transnet issue (where not directly Material issues as Transnet Sustainability Framework covered by G4) disclosed in IR 2014 Economic dividends Cost-effective freight logistics G4 aspect: indirect economic impacts • Regulatory uncertainty infrastructure ahead of demand Reliable and efficient rail, port and pipeline Transnet issue: reliable and efficient rail, port • Business interruption services and pipeline services and incident management • ICT utilisation • Suppliers and customers Skilled human resources aligned to Transnet issue: skilled human resources • Capital projects on time infrastructure and services aligned to infrastructure and services and within budget Local supplier industry development G4 aspect: procurement practices • Suppliers and customers Job creation G4 aspect: economic performance and • Human resources indirect economic impacts capability Rural development G4 aspect: indirect economic impacts Regional integration Transnet issue: regional integration A financially stable business, able to raise G4 aspect: economic performance and • Regulatory uncertainty and service debt, reinvest revenues and indirect economic impacts • Capital projects on time pursue agreements with private parties to and within budget optimise investment and services • Funding and liquidity • Human resources capability Social dividends Good governance, accountability and Transnet issue: good governance, transparency accountability and transparency Zero tolerance of fraud and corruption G4 aspect: anti-corruption A representative workforce G4 aspect: diversity and equal-opportunity • Human resources capability Safety G4 aspect: occupational health and safety • Business interruption and incident management Staff wellness G4 aspect: occupational health and safety Broad-based black economic empowerment Transnet issue: broad-based black economic empowerment Corporate social investment G4 aspect: economic performance and indirect economic impacts Community benefits Transnet issue: community benefits Proactive stakeholder engagement Transnet issue: proactive stakeholder engagement Environmental dividends Modal shift from road to rail, lowering Transnet issue: modal shift from road to rail, South Africa’s carbon emissions lowering South Africa’s carbon emissions Energy efficiency G4 aspect: energy • Business interruption and incident management • Energy security Climate change mitigation G4 aspect: emissions • Business interruption and incident management • Energy security Climate change adaptation G4 aspect: economic performance Water use efficiency G4 aspect: water Waste management optimisation G4 aspect: effluents and waste Biodiversity enhancement G4 aspect: biodiversity 90 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Appendix E: Transnet Sustainability Framework Material Aspects’ Boundaries The material issues determination process (refer page 19 for detail of this process) informed the selection of material aspects and defined the following entities which can materially impact Transnet’s performance on the material aspects. Transnet Material Material to External Entities Sustainability to Framework Transnet Business material aspect Group $ Customers# Suppliers# Partners# Communities# Environment # Economic dividends Cost-effective freight logistics infrastructure ahead of demand ü ü ü ü Reliable and efficient rail, port and pipeline services ü ü ü ü Skilled human resources aligned to infrastructure and services ü ü Local supplier industry development* ü ü ü ü Job creation* ü ü ü ü ü A financially stable business, able to raise and service debt, reinvest revenues and pursue agreements with private parties to optimise investment and services ü ü ü ü Social dividends A representative workforce* ü ü Safety* ü ü ü ü ü Environmental dividends Energy efficiency* ü ü ü ü Climate change mitigation* ü ü ü ü ü Notes ü Aspect is material to entity if the entity can materially impact Transnet’s performance. * Specific limitation to reporting on aspect within external boundary due to lack of information from stakeholders. # Stakeholders may also be located internationally. $ Transnet Group denotes the five Operating Divisions and three Specialist Units. Transnet SOC Ltd also has holdings in local subsidiaries, international subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates. For a list of all entities included in the organisation’s financial statements refer to the publically available financial statements for the financial year ending 31 March 2014. 91 Abbr eviations and acronyms AA AccountAbility MDS Market Demand Strategy Broad-based Black Economic MOU Memorandum of Understanding B-BBEE Empowerment mt million tonnes Container and Automotive Business million tonnes of Carbon Dioxide CAB Unit mtCO2e equivalent CAP Container Assistance Programme MWh Megawatt hour CAPEX Capital Expenditure NDP National Development Plan CDP Carbon Disclosure Project National Energy Regulator of CNR China North Rail Nersa South Africa Competitive Supplier Development NGP National Growth Path CSDP Programme NMPP New Multi-product Pipeline CSI Corporate Social Investment NSF National Skills Fund CSR China South Rail OEM Original Equipment Manufacturer CTCT Cape Town Container Terminal PCM Process Control Manual DCT Durban Container Terminal Presidential Infrastructure DIFR Disabling Injury Frequency Rate PICC Coordinating Commission DJP Durban-Johannesburg Pipeline Preferential Procurement Policy DPE Department of Public Enterprises PPPFA Framework Act DTI Department of Trade and Industry PSP Private Sector Participation ED Enterprise Development RCBT Richards Bay Coal Terminal EE Employment Equity R&D Research and Development Energy Efficiency Leadership Remuneration, Social and Ethics EELN Network REMSEC Committee EIA Environmental Impact Assessment RMO Results Management Office ERM Enterprise Risk Management RSR Railway Safety Regulator FEL Front-end Loading SAPS South African Police Services FRMP Fraud Risk Management Plan SD Supplier Development GCE Group Chief Executive SDP Supplier Development Plan GCH Gross Crane Moves Per Hour Safety, Health, Environmental and SHEQ Quality GCI Group Capital Integration SIP Strategic Infrastructure Project GDP Gross Domestic Product Small, Medium and GFB General Freight Business SMME Micro-enterprises GHG Greenhouse Gas SNG SizweNtsalubaGobodo GRI Global Reporting Initiative SOC State-owned Company HDI Historically Disadvantaged Individual SR Sustainability Report IR Integrated Report Tonnes of Carbon Dioxide iSCM Integrated Supply Chain Management tCO2e equivalent Industrialisation Supplier TEU Twenty-foot Equivalent Unit ISD Development Transnet Occurrence Management KPI Key Performance Indicator TOMS System KWh Kilowatt hour TTT Truck Turnaround Time LTPF Long-term Planning Framework UNGC United Nations Global Compact 92 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Corporate information Executive directors With effect from 1 August 2013, the B Molefe (Group Chief Executive), Company’s internal audit function has been outsourced to SekelaXabiso (Pty) Ltd, A Singh (Group Chief Financial Officer). Nkonki Inc. and KPMG Services (Pty) Ltd. Independent non-executive SekelaXabiso (Pty) Ltd has its business address at: directors 1st Floor Building 22B ME Mkwanazi (Chairperson), MA Fanucchi, The Woodlands Office Park Y Forbes, HD Gazendam, NP Mnxasana, 20 Woodlands Drive N Moola, NR Njeke, IM Sharma, IB Skosana, Woodmead ZE Tshabalala, DLJ Tshepe. Johannesburg Group Company Secretary Nkonki Inc. has its business address at: Ms ANC Ceba 3 Simba Road 47th Floor, Carlton Centre Sunninghill 150 Commissioner Street Johannesburg Johannesburg, 2001. KPMG Services (Pty) Ltd has its business PO Box 72501 address at: Parkview, 2122 85 Empire Road South Africa. Parktown Johannesburg Auditors SizweNtsalubaGobodo Inc. Transnet SOC Ltd 20 Morris Street East 47th Floor, Carlton Centre Woodmead 150 Commissioner Street Johannesburg, 2191. Johannesburg 2001 Incorporated in the Republic of South Africa. Registration number 1990/000900/30. 919 www.transnet.net
