Communication on Progress An Aqualis Offshore Company UN Global Compact Since joining the United Nations Global Compact Statement from the Managing in 2011, I feel that we have developed positively. Director We perceived the ten principles as a perfect match to our values and what we want to be recognized by. Now, three years later we realize that we probably never will get to a point where all that can be done is done, there are always areas to improve, and we also regularly face new challenges that we must handle. This shall however not hamper our dedication, nor our struggle for continuous improvement – and to make a difference. The progress depends on the small steps. Tristein's vision is to be: Tristein will continue to stay focused on the  Innovative principles and to further strengthen our  Solid commitment to the UN Global Compact. We  Honest perceive the principles as fundamental rules that all states, companies and individuals should We can only achieve this through high social and respect and support. Accordingly, we will ensure ethical standards. This means that we primarily the integration in all our planning, evaluation and have an internal driving force that energizes our conduct. We also encourage our suppliers, subdedication towards being a responsible contractors and clients to align their business with contributor in our conduct. We also recognize that the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. to be a future participant within the oil & gas industry we must provide sustainable values for our stakeholders, being employees, owners, suppliers and not the least our clients. Yours sincerely, Tristein has since the last GOP been through a process where we have been acquired by company significantly larger than ourselves. Making the change from a small, standalone Torbjørn Rogde company, to being a part of bigger entity is Managing Director challenging for the organization and also for every Tristein AS individual that forms the organization. In the acquisition process our value base counted as strong and maybe even stronger than the financial September 10th; 2014 side. For all the owners and the employees of Tristein, it was vital to continue our operations with a company that shared our values and was committed to the principles of the UN Global Compact. This we have achieved, and I am therefore comfortable and also proud to be a part of an organization that wholeheartedly stands behind the UNGC and also find the tools provided useful when developing global business. We shall continue to make a difference by our choices. Tristein Communication on Progress Page 1 of 4 Communication on Progress An Aqualis Offshore Company UN Global Compact Introduction impact on the external environment we prioritize to select solutions that minimize our influence on We have described Tristein’s corporate the environment, also to contribute in the responsibility in our HSEQA system, and in our solutions we provide for our clients to manage annual reports. This document is based on the risk, choose sustainable solutions and contribute documented information and the practical efforts positively to the environment. we make to improve internally and to make a difference externally. We care about integrity! We care about people! Even though rules and regulations are important, we believe even stronger in developing every As a company providing services to clients with individual’s way of thinking. Thereby we can high demands, we require personnel that are provide transparency, fairness and predictability dedicated to deliver high quality, consistent to our suppliers and business partners without use performance and good social behavior. We strive of bribes or other unacceptable gifts. When to develop the personnel working for and with Tristein is mentioned externally, we want to feel Tristein according to their wishes and potentials, proud of what we have done. and to foster positive creativity. The Tristeiners are the backbone of our business We care about the society! and shall respect others as well as being respected independent of nationality, gender, culture or religion. We care about the environment! As a part of the local and global society we want to play a constructive part for a positive development. Accordingly we adhere to local and international rules and regulations. Although our direct services has a relatively low Tristein Communication on Progress Page 2 of 4 Communication on Progress An Aqualis Offshore Company UN Global Compact Human Rights Tristein acknowledges our employees as our primary resource to deliver high standard PRINCIPLE 1 products; accordingly we depend on good work Business should support and respect the relations and employees being willing to and protection of internationally proclaimed human respected for expressing unsatisfactory rights. conditions, either individually or collectively. This PRINCIPLE 2 principle also apply to the companies we do Business should ensure that they are not business with. complicit in human rights abuses. We strongly believe in fair compensation for the As Tristein has activities worldwide, and as we also work performed. According to the contracts we locally interact with multi-national customers and issue, all employees have the right to terminate suppliers, human rights are and shall be an their work contracts if they are unsatisfied with integrated part of our business conduct. the work conditions or their compensation. Child labour strongly prevents the possibilities for Our activities young people to have a healthy development and Evaluation of business contracts: We evaluate all to obtain an education that subsequently can our potential contracts and liaisons with business improve their individual and their society’s future partners to ensure that we are not contributing development and living standards. directly or indirectly to abuses of human rights. If we on any later stage discover that we unwillingly Tristein strives for equal rights to employment has entered a contract with a client or subbased on qualifications and not on, gender, race, contractor that is not compliant with our age or cultural background. principles or the international law, we are prepared to cancel the contract and terminate our Our activities engagement on these reasons. Policy: Tristein has a personnel policy stating the respect for the individual’s rights and the right of Measurements of outcome mutual respect. The policy includes sections No breaches of human rights in any of our regarding equal rights. operations detected, reported or indicated. Freedom of association: Tristein has ensured that Labour our policies and our conduct secure our PRINCIPLE 3 employees the right of being members in any legal Business should uphold the freedom of trade organization. We strongly encourage association and the effective recognition of the participation in such organizations and regard right to collective bargaining. them as valuable contributors to our business development. If we have activities in countries PRINCIPLE 4 where trade unions are illegitimate we maintain Business should uphold the elimination of forced the secrecy of any information coming to our or compulsory labour. knowledge regarding members and leaders of the PRINCIPLE 5 organizations. Business should uphold the effective abolition of Forced labour: Tristein ensures that all personnel child labour. employed directly receive a clear and PRINCIPLE 6 standardized contract stating their rights, Business should uphold the elimination of obligations and terms of terminating the contract. discrimination in respect of employment and The contract is normally issued in the language of occupation the employee or alternatively in English. For subTristein Communication on Progress Page 3 of 4 Communication on Progress An Aqualis Offshore Company UN Global Compact contractors we have established systems to need to travel. We track the use of this equipment validate existence of similar systems. to estimate the reduction of travelling distance and to motivate all employees to use the Discrimination: Tristein has actively tried to equipment whenever possible. increase the number of women and foreign cultures in our organization. We will continue to We actively re-cycle office equipment and encourage female participation in a niche strongly consumables to minimize and ensure proper dominated by men. We employ based on handling of waste. qualifications and avoid any discrimination. Measurements of outcome Measurements of outcome Video conferences has reduced our travelling Tristein has welcomed personnel from other however to a less extent than our targets. Further cultures to job interviews. In 2014 we have initiatives are required in the future. In managed to increase the number of female operational activities we have assisted our clients colleagues, though we still have a way to go before to find solutions having less impact on the external having a satisfactory balance. There has not been environment. detected, reported or indicated any breaches of these principles in any of our operations. Anti-corruption PRINCIPLE 10 Environment Business should work against all forms of PRINCIPLE 7 corruption, including extortion and bribery. Business should support a precautionary Corruption is in most of the areas where we are approach to environmental challenges. operating regulated by laws, regulations and PRINCIPLE 8 policies. However we recognize that such means Business should undertake initiatives to promote make little difference if the actors involved have greater environmental responsibility. the wrong attitudes or the wrong moral. Tristein PRINCIPLE 9 cannot and will not accept any corruption. Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Our actions technologies. Gifts: No gift that is intended to influence business decisions shall be offered or received. This also Tristein acknowledges that threat to the environment is a threat to humanity. It is the joint applies for entertainment beyond normal courtesy. If an employee is offered gifts of a value responsibility to contribute as much as possible to that can represent a breach to this principle, he or reduce damages to our surroundings. she shall politely refuse the gift, or when in doubt consult his or her leader for guidance and advice. Our activities Serious threats: Our activities represent a limited Measurements of outcome threat to the environment; however being All employees register minor gifts received. We involved in operations that may have bigger have not offered any gifts or other compensation impact, we actively contribute to manage the risks and actively promote solutions, techniques and to our business associates. technologies beneficial to the environment. Daily business: To reduce emissions we have invested in conference equipment that reduce our Tristein Communication on Progress Page 4 of 4
