Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2013 Editorial Policy The Sumitomo Corporation Group aims to “Be the Best, Be the One” by implementing its Corporate Mission Statement. This means that as an organization we aim to be a corporate group that is recognized by society as meeting and exceeding the high expectations directed toward us, creating value that nobody else can match in ways befitting our distinctive identity. The universal and unchanging value and foundation for our endeavors is Sumitomo’s Business Philosophy, which teaches us to place prime importance on integrity and sound management, and not to pursue easy gains. Until fiscal 2012, we published Report on Responsibility & Sustainability both in print and on website. From fiscal 2013, however, we publish the Report on our website only, and the print edition is integrated with our Annual Report. The website report describes more comprehensively our CSR initiatives conducted through business activities, thereby illustrating the way we are practicing our Corporate Mission Statement and striving to create new value. The report also includes description on our social and environmental initiatives and related management systems as well as detailed data on our CSR achievements and their progress. The Sumitomo Corporation Group regards this report as an important communication tool to connect us with our stakeholders. We always appreciate feedback from our readers. Scope of the Report • Period covered: April 1, 2012 to March 31, 2013 (Some activities starting on or after April 1, 2013 are included.) • Organizations covered: Sumitomo Corporation and the Sumitomo Corporation Group In this report, “Sumitomo Corporation” and “the Company” refer to the non-consolidated organization of Sumitomo Corporation. “The Sumitomo Corporation Group” and “the Group” refer to the entire organization of the Sumitomo Corporation Group. • Publication schedule: Reports on environmental issues have been published annually since 1999, when the first Environmental Report was published. The title of the report was changed in 2003 to Social and Environmental Report, which started to include social issues, in 2007 to Sustainability Report, and in 2010 to Report on Responsibility & Sustainability. • The previous issue was published in October 2012. • The next issue is scheduled for publication in the fall of 2014. Referenced Guidelines Disclaimer • ISO26000 (Guidance on Social Responsibility) This report describes activities of Sumitomo Corporation and its • Charter of Corporate Behavior (September 14, 2010), Nippon subsidiaries and associated companies (i.e., the Sumitomo Keidanren (Japan Business Federation) Corporation Group) at the current time and in the past, as well • GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 2006, Global Reporting as predictions, forecasts and plans for the future. These Initiative predictions, forecasts and plans are hypotheses or decisions *Please refer to the following website for the content index. made based on the information available when the report was http://www.sumitomocorp.co.jp/english/csr/report/gri/2013/ written, and therefore may include some level of uncertainty. The • “Environmental Reporting Guidelines 2007 — Towards a results of business activities or occurrences in the future may Sustainable Society—” issued by Ministry of the Environment, differ from the predictions, forecasts and plans described in this Government of Japan report. Hence, readers should recognize that the Sumitomo • “Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005” issued by Ministry of Corporation Group is not responsible for such events. the Environment, Government of Japan CONTENTS Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2013 Message from the President and CEO 3 Environmental Initiatives 31 Message from the Chair of the Environmental Management 31 5 CSR Committee CSR Through Business Activities 33 Sumitomo’s Business Philosophy / Sumitomo Corporation 7 Initiatives to Enhance Employee Awareness 34 Group’s Corporate Mission Statement Core Competence and the Medium-term Management Plan 9 Environmental Performance Data 35 Environmental Accounting 36 Project Report CSR through Business Activities 10 Social Initiatives 37 Project Report 01 Together With Employees 37 Metal Products Business Unit 11 Social Contribution Activities 41 Tubular Business Contributes to Ensuring a Stable Energy Supply Corporate Governance 49 Project Report 02 Transportation & Construction Systems Corporate Governance System 49 Business Unit 15 Internal Control and Internal Audits 54 Delivery of 1,220 Hybrid Vehicles to the Ukraine Police Force Compliance 55 Project Report 03 Risk Management 56 Environment & Infrastructure Business Unit Osaka Hikari-no-Mori Project 19 —Contributing to Environmental Conservation Third-Party Review 59 through Collaboration among Companies Third-Party Assurance (Environmental Performance Data) 61 Project Report 04 Company Information 62 Media, Network, Lifestyle Related Goods & Services Business Unit 23 Innovative Resource-Circulation Recycling Pursued by a Food Supermarket Chain Project Report 05 Mineral Resources, Energy, Chemical & Electronics Business Unit The Ambatovy Project 27 —Contributing to Sustainable Development in Madagascar Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2013 02 Message from the President and CEO “Be the Best, Be the One” We aspire to become an organization that contributes broadly to society I am delighted to present to you with the Sumitomo Corporation Report on Responsibility & CSR at the Sumitomo Corporation Group Sustainability 2013. The Sumitomo Group has embraced and practiced Sumitomo’s Business Philosophy for more than 400 years of its history. One of the credos of this philosophy Global challenges says: “Benefit for self and others, private and public The world today is facing various social challenges, interests are one and the same.” This means that which include: climate change and other global “Sumitomo’s business activities must benefit not environmental problems; the tight supply of resources, only Sumitomo’s own business, but also society and energy, food, water, and other necessities spurred on the nation.” by the rapid growth of emerging economies; the widening gap between the haves and have-nots; and The idea behind this credo—i.e., we must always view human rights and labor practice issues. our business activities from the perspectives of society—represents the essence of corporate social These global issues should not and cannot be tackled responsibility (CSR). It also provides the foundation for by national governments or international organizations the Sumitomo Corporation Group’s Corporate Mission alone. Rather, all organizations including businesses Statement, which includes “We aim to be a global must face them as humanity’s common problems and organization that constantly stays a step ahead in play their part in finding solutions. dealing with change, creates new value, and Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2013 03 Message from the President and CEO contributes broadly to society,” and “To achieve prosperity and realize dreams through sound business Toward our centennial year activities.” Therefore, in the Sumitomo Corporation Sumitomo Corporation will celebrate the centennial of Group, CSR is embedded in our longstanding practice its foundation in fiscal 2019. With this major milestone of following our Corporate Mission Statement. In other on the horizon, we aim to lay a solid foundation for words, our social responsibilities as a corporation are steady, continuous growth for another 50 years, 100 fulfilled in the course of our sound business activities, years, and beyond under the slogan, “Be the Best, Be and our CSR activities are planned and implemented as the One.” business strategies after engaging with various stakeholders and considering what we can and should By having every employee work with spirit and pride, do as a corporation to help solve social issues. we aim to be a corporate group that is recognized by society as meeting and exceeding the high expectations Given the extensive breadth and depth of its directed toward us, creating value that nobody else can geographical and sectoral reach, the Sumitomo match in ways befitting our distinctive identity. In other Corporation Group must use its full capabilities to words, we will go to the greatest lengths to realize our create far-reaching value to make a difference in vision, “Be the Best, Be the One.” society. More specifically, we must obtain an accurate understanding of social issues to identify new social November 2013 needs in the course of our operations, and deliver solutions to those issues identified by leveraging our strengths and functions. We aim to create a virtuous cycle where we make various contributions to the economic and social development of the countries and regions in which we operate, and build and strengthen our relationships of trust with them, and achieve mutual growth. Kuniharu Nakamura President and CEO In March 2009, the Sumitomo Corporation Group signed the UN Global Compact and declared its support for the 10 principles on human rights, labour standards, the environment, and anti-corruption. In conducting our CSR activities as a global business group, we will respect these 10 principles, which share similar values with our Corporate Mission Statement. We also refer to ISO 26000, the international standard on social responsibility, in designing and implementing specific activities. Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2013 04 Message from the Chair of the CSR Committee CSR in the Sumitomo Corporation Group Progress and Achievements of Our CSR Efforts One key step we took to put CSR into practice over the past year was working to deepen employees’ understanding of our Corporate Mission Statement—the foundation of the Group’s CSR activities. We took opportunities to further entrench this statement globally. Meanwhile, since signing the UN Global Yasuyuki Abe Compact in March 2009, the Sumitomo Corporation Group has Director, Senior Managing also been an active participant in a local network—the Global Executive Officer, General Manager, Corporate Planning & Compact Japan Network. In fiscal 2012, we took part in Coordination Group workshops on supply chain CSR and human rights. We used these opportunities to exchange views with individuals from CSR in the Sumitomo Corporation Group companies in diverse industries and learn from other firms’ examples and experts, working to improve upon our promotion In the preamble to the Corporate Mission Statement, the Group of CSR. I serve as the Chair of Sumitomo Corporation’s CSR sets out its corporate vision: “We aim to be a global organization Committee, an advisory body to the President and CEO. At the that constantly stays a step ahead in dealing with change, end of fiscal 2012, the CSR Committee conducted a review of creates new value, and contributes broadly to society.” The CSR-related measures, and established a policy for fiscal 2013. statement continues to describe the corporate mission, which is, Based on this policy, we are working to further enhance the “To achieve prosperity and realize dreams through sound quality of our measures to promote CSR. We have started business activities,” and Sumitomo Corporation’s management working on a mechanism for performing self-checks of current style, which is, “To place prime importance on integrity and CSR initiatives making reference to the ISO 26000 international sound management with utmost respect for the individual.” CSR guideline, identifying priority tasks, and implementing related The Sumitomo Corporation Group regards CSR as working improvement activities. to achieve our corporate vision by staying true to the management style described in our Corporate Mission Statement, Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2013 engaging in responsible corporate management, and working to fulfill our corporate mission. In other words, CSR centers on Until fiscal 2012, we published Report on Responsibility & sound business activities. Specifically, every member of the Sustainability both in print and on website. From fiscal 2013, organization is expected to perform their daily duties with spirit however, we publish the Report on our website only, and the and a lofty sense of ethics, thereby putting into practice our print edition is integrated with our Annual Report. The website Corporate Mission Statement. report describes more comprehensively our CSR initiatives This approach is founded on gaining an understanding of conducted through business activities, thereby illustrating the social issues by engaging in dialogue with a variety of way we are practicing our Corporate Mission Statement and stakeholders, and working strategically through business striving to create new value. activities to resolve them. In doing so, we create new value and While continuing to pursue an involvement with CSR that is promote sustainable growth of society and the Group. We will appropriate for a corporate group with global operations, the celebrate the centennial anniversary of our founding in fiscal Sumitomo Corporation Group will realize its corporate vision by 2019. To ensure that we are among the first to respond to the striving to create value that nobody else can match in ways dramatically changing business environment and continue to befitting our distinctive identity. grow along with society for another 50 years, 100 years, and November 2013 beyond, we believe it is critical that we consider what we can and should do as an organization, and then follow up by devising and implementing business strategies. Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2013 05 Message from the Chair of the CSR Committee Major CSR Promotion Activities CSR Promotion Structure Since establishing the Environment & CSR Department in April as ISO 26000 references for measures to further raise the quality 2008, Sumitomo Corporation has aggressively pursued CSR in of CSR promotion. In social contribution activities, the plan cooperation with relevant internal departments, domestic and focuses on developing the next generation of human resources, overseas business bases, and Group companies. We have also setting out to bolster initiatives such as the Sumitomo established the CSR Committee as an advisory body to the Corporation Scholarship (please see pages 43–44) and the President and CEO. The committee’s activities include examining Sumitomo Corporation Youth Challenge Program for the and discussing the Company’s CSR frameworks and promotion Revitalization of East Japan (please see pages 45–46). measures. In addition, we set up the Global Environment Committee within the CSR Committee to promote environmental President and CEO management activities based on the ISO 14001 standard, and to CSR Committee review and discuss relevant policies and concrete initiatives. Chairperson: General Manager, Corporate Planning & Coordination Group The CSR Committee is headed by the General Manager of Members (General Manager of each of the following Depts): Internal Auditing Dept., Corporate Planning & Coordination Dept., Global Strategy & Coordination Dept., Investor the Corporate Planning & Coordination Group, and its members Relations Dept., Corporate Communications Dept., Information Technologies Planning & are General Managers from the Corporate Group. The committee Promotion Dept., Environment & CSR Dept., Human Resources Dept., Employee Relations & Compensation Dept., Corporate Legal & General Affairs Dept., Legal Dept., meets biannually in principle. At the CSR Committee meeting in and General Accounting Dept. Secretariat: Environment & CSR Dept. March 2013, a CSR policy for fiscal 2013 was established after reviewing the steps taken in fiscal 2012. In fiscal 2013, the policy Global Environment Committee is to use international codes of conduct pertaining to CSR, such Promoting a Deeper Understanding of Our Corporate Mission Statement Throughout the Group Worldwide We believe ongoing value creation and widespread contributions of our global operations. By ensuring that every Sumitomo to society through business activities start with practicing our Corporation Group employee fully grasps the Corporate Mission Corporate Mission Statement. Accordingly, we take every Statement and puts it into practice in their daily business opportunity to deepen the understanding of this statement and activities, we will demonstrate our core competence—our expand its reach throughout the Group. We include employees of integrated corporate all ranks, locally hired employees at overseas offices, and strengths—on a employees of Group companies in our various training programs global scale. We also to enhance awareness and penetration of the Corporate Mission believe that sharing Statement. We also utilize tools like e-learning and training these values with our materials developed in-house to foster greater understanding of business partners the story behind the establishment of the Corporate Mission around the world will Statement as well as Sumitomo’s Business Philosophy that is its enable us to build a underlying foundation. Our organizations overseas are also leading more solid, sustainable initiatives to raise employee awareness in step with advancement business foundation. Training for locally hired employees Initiatives for the United Nations Global Compact The Sumitomo Corporation Group has declared its support for discussion included perceptions of human the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact, as this international rights issues in international codes of CSR-related initiative and our Corporate Mission Statement share conduct, methods of establishing human similar values. With our participation in the Global Compact, we rights policies, and ways of promoting due committed ourselves to making further improvements by diligence with respect to human rights. We constantly considering enhancements to our business activities in learned from both the knowledge of experts light of the values advocated by the 10 principles. Additionally, and examples set by leading companies. we continued to participate in the activities of the Global Compact Japan Network. In the Human Rights Subcommittee, * We also support the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which the 10 principles of the we discussed CSR practices related to human rights with UN Global Compact are derived from. corporate participants from diverse industries. Topics of Initiatives for Supply Chain CSR To learn more about our supply chain CSR management, please http://www.sumitomocorp.co.jp/english/csr/policy/ refer to the following website. Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2013 06 Sumitomo’s Business Philosophy / Sumitomo Corporation Group’s Corporate Mission Statement Sumitomo Corporation Group’s Corporate Mission Statement Founded on the Sumitomo’s Business Philosophy Sumitomo has always been sincere in conducting its business, contributing to achieving prosperity and realizing the dreams of our business partners, our society and all other stakeholders. As a result, we have built up trust, and this has helped us to develop new businesses and create a cycle of positive growth. The Management Principles and Activity Guidelines of the Sumitomo Corporation Group are founded on Sumitomo’s business philosophy that has been passed on for 400 years. 1600 The Founder’s Precepts “Monjuin Shiigaki” The Founder’s Precepts “Monjuin Shiigaki” is a letter sent by Masatomo Sumitomo(1585–1652), the founder of Sumitomo and a religious man, to his family members in his old age. It succinctly describes the guiding principles of his business operations. At the beginning, it urges the reader “Not only in matters of business but in all situations, make efforts with deepest gratitude in every aspect.” The precepts also include such teachings as “When goods are offered to you below the normal market price, under no circumstances should you ever purchase such goods, for their origins are unknown and they are probably stolen property,” “Never give shelter to a stranger, no matter who it might be; also, never take a stranger’s goods into your custody, no matter how innocent they might appear” (these acts were prohibited by the government), and “No matter what someone might say to you, never lose your temper or speak harsh words; politely explain your position until an understanding can be reached.” These Monjuin Shiigaki teachings have been handed down and form the base of Sumitomo’s business philosophy. (Source: Sumitomo Historical Archives) They are still seen in today’s principles, such as “no pursuing easy gains” (i.e., only making a profit on a fairly priced transaction that can be explained with confidence), “compliance” and “integrity and sound management.” 1800 Rules Governing the House of Sumitomo The Besshi Copper Mine (opened in 1691) encountered many adverse conditions during the Meiji Restoration (in the late 1860s), when the price of copper fell, operating costs increased sharply due to rising prices of rice and other items, and loans to the feudal lords were uncollectable. At one point, it was almost forced to sell out. Saihei Hirose (1828–1914), manager of the mine who later became Sumitomo’s first DirectorGeneral, acted boldly and modernized the operation with Western style technologies. Hirose’s operational reforms saved the mine and its community. In 1882, when serving as DirectorGeneral, Hirose formulated the Rules Governing the House of Sumitomo, which consisted of 19 sections and 196 articles, to reflect the business philosophy the family had followed over its 250year history. The Rules clearly illustrate Sumitomo’s corporate philosophy in Article 3 in Section I: “We shall practice sound management in order to cope effectively with the changing times. Under no circumstances, Saihei Hirose, Sumitomo’s first Director-General however, shall we pursue easy gains or act imprudently.” (Source: Sumitomo Historical Archives) 1900 Business Principles In 1891, the Rules Governing the House of Sumitomo were separated into two parts, the family code (corporate rules) and the family constitutions (the principles of the family head), to distinguish ownership from business operations. On that occasion, the principle of “integrity” was introduced and placed at the beginning of the Rules Governing the House of Sumitomo with the principle in Article 3, which then together became the Business Principles. In 1928, while Sumitomo’s business expanded into a variety of areas, including the steel, machinery and chemical industries, Sumitomo’s Business Rules were established. The two articles of the Business Principles have been passed on for generations and still serve as the corporate rules of all group companies. Article 1. Sumitomo shall achieve strength and prosperity by placing prime importance on integrity and sound management in the conduct of its business. Article 2. Sumitomo shall manage its activities with foresight and flexibility in order to cope effectively with the changing times. Under no circumstances, however, shall it pursue Business Principles easy gains or act imprudently. Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2013 07 Sumitomo’s Business Philosophy / Sumitomo Corporation Group’s Corporate Mission Statement Sumitomo Corporation Management Charter Osaka North Harbour Co, Ltd., the predecessor of Sumitomo Corporation, was founded in 1919. Later, after World War II, the company changed its name to Nippon Kensetsu Sangyo Co, Ltd., starting a new life as a general trading firm. In 1952, when the company was incorporated with the current name, the Business Principles were chosen as the management philosophy for all corporate operations and the foundation to sustained growth. While Japan’s economy was growing rapidly after the war, environmental pollution, inflation and other public issues started to arise. Business corporations and their codes of conduct were challenged to make clear the relationship between the national government and corporations, as well as between citizens and corporations. To respond to this, in 1973, Sumitomo Corporation laid down the Sumitomo Corporation Management Charter, an original charter that consists of the Basic Principles of Management and the Operational Guidelines. Sumitomo Building Annex, where Nippon Kensetsu Sangyo’s head office was located 2000 Sumitomo Corporation Group’s Corporate Mission Statement Corporate Mission Statement In the early 1990s, the bubble burst, drastic appreciation of the yen continued, and the Japanese economy entered a long period of low growth. Sumitomo Corporation had no choice but to re-examine the Corporate Vision status quo of its business transactions and risk management We aim to be a global organization that constantly stays methods. Against this background, there was growing management a step ahead in dealing with change, creates new value, recognition that the company needed to revert to Sumitomo’s and contributes broadly to society. business philosophy, which had served as the base of Sumitomo’s business operations and the driving force in overcoming many crises through the last 400 years. This recognition further heightened in Management Principles 1996, when the copper incident occurred, leading to the 1998 <Corporate Mission> establishment of Sumitomo Corporation Group’s Corporate • To achieve prosperity and realize dreams through sound Mission Statement. business activities The Corporate Mission Statement, consisting of Management <Management Style> • To place prime importance on integrity and sound management Principles and Activity Guidelines, was compiled based on with utmost respect for the individual Sumitomo’s business philosophy, which has been nurtured <Corporate Culture> throughout the 400 years of Sumitomo’s history, and today’s global • To foster a corporate culture full of vitality and conducive perspective, in a simple and systematic way. to innovation The preamble to the Management Principles shows the corporate vision: “We aim to be a global organization that constantly Activity Guidelines stays a step ahead in dealing with change, creates new value, and · To act with honesty and sincerity on the basis of Sumitomo’s contributes broadly to society.” business philosophy and in keeping with the Management The first item in the Management Principles, “To achieve Principles prosperity and realize dreams through sound business activities” · To comply with laws and regulations while maintaining the highest describes our corporate mission, while the second item, “To place ethical standards prime importance on integrity and sound management with utmost · To set high value on transparency and openness · To attach great importance to protecting the global environment respect for the individual” shows our management style, and the · To contribute to society as a good corporate citizen third item, “To foster a corporate culture full of vitality and conducive · To achieve teamwork and integrated corporate strength through to innovation” portrays our corporate culture. active communication The Activity Guidelines were generated based on these · To set clear objectives and achieve them with enthusiasm principles to guide employees in their daily business operations. Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2013 08 Core Competence and the Medium-term Management Plan “Integrated Corporate Strength,” the core competence of the Sumitomo Corporation Group Our Integrated Corporate Strength is the source of the competitive advantage (core competence) of the Sumitomo Corporation Group as Creation and Provision of Diversified we pursue our businesses in a wide variety of fields. Our strategic and Values to Meet Social Need organic integration of the robust “business foundation” and diverse, high-level “functions” of Group companies, combined with the efforts of Strategic and Organic Integration each and every Group employee, helps us respond to the various needs of our customers. At the same time, we create new value by Logistics Solutions IT Solutions always thinking one step ahead of global change. This capacity is what Market Intelligence & Financial we call our “Integrated Corporate Strength”. Information Gathering Risk Services and Analysis Business Bringing our Integrated Corporate Strength to bear and actively Cont Development Management ns building businesses that truly contribute to the growth and progress of inual Enhancement of Functio Integrity Intellectual Capital a wide range of industries in different regions, the Sumitomo Corporation Group will continue to make even greater contributions to the stable Global Network Global Relations and continued growth of the world economy and global society. Co ntin ion ual S dat trengthe Foun ning of the Business Medium-Term Management Plan Be the Best, Be the One 2014 (FY2013-2014 Medium-term management plan) In formulating our medium-term management plan for FY2013 Under BBBO2014, the medium-term management plan for the through FY2014, “Be the Best, Be the One 2014” (hereinafter first two years to achieve our vision of “what we aim to be”, referred to as “BBBO2014”), Sumitomo Corporation Group set which is oriented to “heading for an even higher level of profit forth “What We Aim to Be in fiscal 2019, Our Centennial Year” . growth by thorough enhancement of our earning power”, we will build a solid earnings base while maintaining financial soundness. We will make the existing earnings pillars even more robust through such actions as steadily executing new investment and loans. At the same time, we will undertake efforts to foster and develop new pillars of earnings for the future that hold promise What We Aim to Be in 2019, for growth over the medium to long term. Furthermore, we will Our Centennial Year also continue to carry out reductions and divestitures of businesses that show little potential for profit or growth, in order –A Vision Based on Our Corporate Mission Statement– to stimulate the metabolism of our business portfolio. Moreover, we will pursue strengths and capabilities of Sumitomo Corporation Group, and at the same time, combine them to leverage our integrated corporate strength from both inside and outside the company. The quantitative targets and balance sheet plan for BBBO2014 We aim to be a corporate group that is recognized by are indicated below. society as meeting and exceeding the high expectations directed toward us, creating value Quantitative targets: that nobody else can match in ways befitting our Consolidated net income*: FY2013 ¥240.0 billion distinctive identity. FY2014 ¥270.0 billion Risk-adjusted return ratio: approx. 12% (each fiscal year) We aim to build a solid earnings base and aim for an ROA : 3% or more (each fiscal year) even higher level of profit growth while maintaining * “Consolidated net income” is equivalent to the “profit attributable to owners of the parent” of the financial soundness. International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Total assets: ¥9–10 trillion Balance sheet plan (Two-year totals): Consolidated net income: ¥400 billion or more New investment and loans : ¥750.0 billion Divestiture and reduction of assets: -¥770.0 billion http://www.sumitomocorp.co.jp/english/company/policy/mid_term/ Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2013 09 01 Project Report CSR through Metal Products Business Unit Tubular Business Business Activities Contributes to Ensuring a Stable Energy Supply p.11 Creating new value and contributing broadly to society—this is the aim and 02 achievement of the Sumitomo Corporation Group’s business activities. Transportation & Construction Systems For every one of our business activities, we analyze related Business Unit social issues in depth and strive to create social value Delivery of 1,220 Hybrid through an ongoing dialog with our stakeholders. This Vehicles to the Ukraine section illustrates—through reports on the specific projects Police Force of each business unit—the ideas and principles underlying our efforts, and the strengths and capabilities we possess. p.15 Social Value Creation Chart In fiscal 2011, we examined our business activities from the viewpoint of CSR to identify the direction that the efforts of each of our business units 03 Environment & Infrastructure Business Unit Osaka Hikari-no-Mori should take in creating distinctive social value and what capabilities those Project—Contributing to business units can use to create the intended value. The results of these Environmental Conservation analyses are summarized visually in a Social Value Creation Chart for each through Collaboration business unit.* among Companies The chart consists of three parts: p.19 (i) Social & Environmental Context, our in-depth analysis of social issues related to a business unit’s operational areas from a CSR 04 perspective (ii) Goals for Social Value Creation, mediumand long-term goals we aim to achieve through our business activities, taking into account Media, Network, Lifestyle Related the social and environmental context identified Goods & Services Business Unit (iii) Capabilities to Provide Solutions, a business unit’s distinctive strengths which can be drawn on in its collaborative efforts with Innovative Resourcebusiness partners to achieve its mission in society and the Circulation Recycling mediumand long-term goals set out Pursued by a Food In the report this year, each project report contains a similar Social Value Supermarket Chain Creation Chart to present in a visually understandable way how we strive p.23 to create social value through the featured project. 05 Social & Environmental Capabilities to Goals for Social Context Provide Solutions Value Creation Mineral Resources, Energy, Chemical & Electronics Business Unit The Ambatovy Project— Contributing to Sustainable Development in Madagascar p.27 * Please refer to page 26 in our Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2011. http://www.sumitomocorp.co.jp/english/society/doc/env2011e.pdf Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2013 10 Project Report 01 CSR Through Business Activities (1): Metal Products Business Unit Tubular Business Contributes to Ensuring a Stable Energy Supply Energy demand is increasing mainly due to global population growth and economic development in emerging countries. While shale gas/oil and other unconventional energy resources are attracting greater attention, there is growing demand for increased production of major energy sources such as oil and natural gas. In the U.S. market, Sumitomo Corporation is the largest supplier of oil country tubular goods (OCTG), which are indispensable for the Toshikazu Nambu exploration and drilling of those resources. In addition to a supply Executive Officer General Manager of high-quality products, we offer a wide range of solutions which Tubular Products Division help oil and gas development companies around the world solve their business issues, and ultimately contribute to a stable supply of energy worldwide. Capabilities to Social & Environmental Context Provide Solutions Goals for Social Value Creation Increasing energy demand due to global Comprehensive SCM* services population growth and economic including OCTG procurement Ensuring a stable energy supply development in emerging countries and inventory management Development of the iTIMS online Providing total solutions to system which tracks all our support customers Accelerating development of OCTG worldwide unconventional energy sources (e.g., shale gas/oil) and growing demand for Providing SCM consulting increased production of oil, natural gas and technical consultation on Stable supply of high-quality OCTG and other major energy resources drilling oil wells * SCM: Supply Chain Management Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2013 11 Project Report 01 Building an OCTG value chain ranging from manufacturing to sales in the U.S., which represents about 50% of the world’s OCTG trading Oil and natural gas are major energy sources that support today’s society. To extract and use these resources, which exist deep underground, OCTG and other tubular products are indispensable. Sumitomo Corporation started to sell high-quality Japanese OCTG to U.S.-based oil majors and other clients in the early 1950s, and that export business grew steadily. However, export of OCTG to the U.S. was regulated from the late 1970s to the early 1980s due to trade friction between the two countries. To address the changed business OCTG in stock landscape, we started to build a new business model that did not solely depend on export operations. In the late 1980s, we 2007 to beef up our service business peripheral to oil well became Japan’s first ever trading firm to establish an OCTG drilling, including OCTG customization and parts supply. distributor in the U.S. and Canada, which sources products in As a result, we have built a powerful value chain of tubular the U.S. and sell them in the U.S., which enabled us to enter products in the U.S., ranging from manufacturing to the downstream market. processing and sales. With a market share of around 20%, In 2002, acquiring U.S. seamless pipe manufacturer North Sumitomo Corporation is the industry leader in this country, Star Steel expanded our OCTG business into the upstream the world’s largest market, which consumes about 50% of area of manufacturing. In addition, we acquired Howco the OCTG distributed worldwide. As the largest OCTG-related Group, which supplies products and materials to the global company in the U.S., we make a continuous contribution to gas and oil industry mainly in Europe and North America, in ensuring a stable supply of energy. Column Rig How oil and gas drilling operates Reservoirs of oil and natural gas are usually located several kilometers underground. Some reservoirs are reached by drilling deeper through the more than 1,000 m-deep seabed, while some are reached by drilling several kilometers vertically into the ground and then horizontally Mud tank underground. To drill an oil well, the earth is excavated by using a drill bit attached to a tubular pipe called a drill pipe. Then numerous OCTG pipes, each about 12 meters long, are inserted into the drilled hole, jointed in a Cement string to give a total length of several kilometers . Given high temperatures Pump OCTG of up to 200°C and high pressures of up to 10 atmospheres underground and the combined weight of the connected tubular pipes reaching 500 to Drill bit 1,000 tons, OCTG pipes and their accessories need to be highly durable and reliable. Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2013 12 Project Report 01 millions of yen per day. It is not unusual to see, as a result of redundant inventories, a large number of pipes left exposed to the weather near a drilling site, unused and deteriorating. Those situations are to be avoided, not only because they have a negative impact on profitability, but also because they are a great hindrance to oil and gas development companies fulfilling their responsibility to ensure a stable energy supply. To support oil and gas development companies in solving these challenges, Sumitomo Corporation has established an OCTG SCM system, drawing on its value chains in Japan and the U.S., its extensive sales networks covering Europe, Asia, Pipe cutting process at a U.S. seamless steel pipe manufacturing subsidiary and the Middle East, as well as its original information management know-how. From 1993 onwards, we have been OCTG supply chain management services to reduce involved in many SCM projects for U.S. oil majors and other the total operating costs customers, offering comprehensive services which include The greatest strength of our OCTG business is our SCM appropriate inventory management, just-in-time product service. Making the most of the value chain we have built, we supply, and maintenance and repair, details of which are provide a comprehensive service for the procurement and tailored to suit customers’ drilling and operational plans. inventory management of OCTG, which represents more than 10% of the total drilling costs. Using our proprietary online system to centrally In oil well drilling operations, tubular pipes are not used manage the distribution of OCTG around the world alone. Many accessories, such as the joints that connect two Building upon its successful operations in North America, pipes, are also required. Oil and gas development companies Sumitomo Corporation introduced its proprietary online need to monitor and forecast the levels of their OCTG and system in the late 1990s to offer an even more sophisticated accessories in use and in stock, and continue to purchase SCM service on a global basis. OCTG pipes often travel along additional materials as necessary. Generally, these companies complicated routes. For instance, pipes may be first delivered tend to hold higher inventories to cope with potential to the customer’s warehouse, then loaded onto a truck to be procurement delays; a delay in or suspension of drilling sent to another factory to be processed to suit the operations can incur losses of tens of millions to hundreds of specifications of the oil well, and finally sent back to the Sumitomo Spirits Building a global HSE management system to achieve “Zero Harm” Michael J. O. Pomfret (first on left in the photo) Global HSE Advisor, Tubular Products Division Global HSE Managers In response to the transition from trading OCTG & Line Pipe to providing simultaneously SCTPD increased their oversight of the Subsidiaries’ HSE value added services to the customers in the Supply Chain Management performance so the requirement for additional HSE resources surfaced. arena, the Management of HSE in SCTPD* was formalized in 2007. At the In mid 2011 the concept of a Global HSE Network was introduced same time the ZERO HARM slogan was introduced, which was widely with the Regional HSE Managers meeting and communicating regularly to communicated with employees carrying a branded wallet card. continually improve our HSE performance by supporting our organizations, The Global HSE Management System which comprises 12 Elements sharing information, introducing best practices and leveraging our including LEADERSHIP COMMITMENT, RISK IDENTIFICATION, and SAFE experience and expertise. WORK RULES & PROCEDURES, was introduced to all the offices and Our vision for HSE is for it to be so integrated into our SCTPD culture locations where SCTPD had SCM projects from 2008 to 2010. that it is automatically just part of the way we do things, not something As the extent of value added services offered by SCTPD increased to special nor extra. include management of Pipeline Coating & Transportation projects and *SCTPD: Sumitomo Corporation Tubular Products Division Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2013 13 Project Report 01 warehouse. Due to this complexity, it was difficult to fully track state-owned oil and gas development companies in the and manage the status of OCTG with existing information Middle East, Asia, Africa, and other regions as well as privatesystems. Sumitomo Corporation developed its optimal online sector companies are raising their awareness of operational OCTG supply chain management system, iTIMS, inspired by costs, occupational safety, and environmental management. supermarket product management systems. Using iTIMS, we can centrally manage all the OCTG and their accessories that A total solutions provider who supports oil and our Group handles around the world, enabling precise gas development inventory control and demand forecasting on a global scale. In addition to the optimal management of assets (oil well resources) under SCM contracts, Sumitomo Corporation is Setting up an SCM consulting firm to use our currently focusing its efforts on technical consulting for the abundant expertise in promoting new projects and optimal drilling of oil wells and use of OCTG. training local staff The conditions surrounding oil and gas development In 2002, Sumitomo Corporation established SC Global projects, such as the reserve amount, depth, temperature, Tubular Solutions (SCGTS) in Houston in the U.S., aiming to and pressure, differ significantly depending on the location of provide advanced SCM services to its customers around the the drilling site. Therefore, the materials for and methods of globe using our proprietary system. Using our experience and processing OCTG need to be selected on a project-byexpertise in OCTG supply chain management, the new project basis, and the well needs to be designed individually company helps customers launch new SCM projects, to suit the drilling environment. To support such technical upgrade their operations for existing oil well drilling projects, elements of drilling projects, Sumitomo Corporation added to and implement other initiatives. its group a technical specialty firm that specializes in material In addition to the use of iTIMS for the remote management selection for OCTG and joints and other technical areas. By of customers’ OCTG demand and inventory statuses selecting optimal tubular materials and oil well design and worldwide, SCGTS focuses on developing local workers who offering other key services, engineers, who have abundant are engaged in processing, transporting, maintenance experience at oil companies or other related firms and who services for OCTG, and other field activities at drilling sites. are familiar with the drilling environment in the regions which SCGTS’s instructors are sent to many oil well drilling sites they are in charge of, provide strong support for the safe and around the world, providing local staff with technical training smooth development of our customers’ oil wells and as well as instruction on operational safety, environmental production operations. conservation, and other issues. Sumitomo Corporation will continue to upgrade and As a result of these efforts, Sumitomo Corporation has expand its SCM services and technical consulting functions successfully expanded its SCM service provision from the U.S. and offer one-stop solutions to the various needs of its market to West Africa, Russia, India and many other markets customers around the world. As a total solutions provider, we worldwide. Currently, the company is engaged in 23 projects will continue to supply high-quality OCTG and help oil and in 14 countries. Its SCM service contracts designed to meet gas development companies solve their business issues, thus inventory optimization and other customer needs are expected contributing to a stable energy supply around the globe. to grow in the future, especially given that in recent years, Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2013 14 Ukraine Project Report 02 CSR through Business Activities (2): Transportation & Construction Systems Business Unit Delivery of 1,220 Hybrid Vehicles to the Ukraine Police Force With the need for more aggressive action to combat global warming, the international carbon emissions trading system is attracting a lot of attention as a tool to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. Using this scheme, Sumitomo Corporation has completed a project to deliver a large number of Japan’s renowned hybrid vehicles to Ukraine. The project is contributing to reducing Japan’s greenhouse gas emissions as well as Ukraine’s emissions. Capabilities to Social & Environmental Context Provide Solutions Goals for Social Value Creation Exacerbating global warming Negotiation capabilities to offer Raising environmental awareness effective solutions to partners Developed countries have little room to make further GHG reductions and Integrated corporate strength that enables risk management Reducing environmental impact Ukraine needs the funds and technologies required to reduce emissions in global business Agreement between NEDO* and SEIA* on Capabilities to build win-win Promoting the use of hybrid vehicles a Green Investment Scheme project partnerships with various stakeholders * NEDO: New Energy and Industrial Technology Development Organization (Japan) * SEIA: State Environmental Investment Agency (Ukraine) Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2013 15 Project Report 02 Using a Green Investment Scheme project between from other countries to help achieve their targets. Japan and Ukraine as the starting point Recognizing the benefits of GIS, the Japanese Global warming is not an government commissioned the New Energy and Industrial issue which can be solved Technology Development Organization (NEDO) to explore by developed countries opportunities for GIS projects with other countries, in which a alone; it is a global issue partner country uses the funds to finance environmental which must be addressed activities. As a result, the first GIS agreement was entered by collective efforts around into with Ukraine in March 2009, involving the purchase of the world. That being said, emissions credits for 30 million tons. there is little room for In the project, Ukraine planned to use Japanese greenhouse gas (GHG) Members of Head Office and former technologies in some of its environmental activities. In expatriates in Kiev reductions in many response, several Japanese companies, most of which have developed countries, where a continuing series of efforts have local operations in the country, proposed environmental been introduced, and many other countries do not have projects. Sumitomo sufficient funds or technologies to take effective measures. Corporation (Central Against this backdrop, the Green Investment Scheme Eurasia) LLC’s office in (GIS) has been drawing growing attention in recent years. the Kiev Branch in the This is one of the emissions trading mechanisms under the capital of Ukraine was Kyoto Protocol, where two countries trade their GHG emissions quick to make a proposal credits and the funds from that transaction are used for for an environmental national emissions reduction measures and environmental project and take action to Toyota Ukraine executives and Ministry of Internal Affairs officials protection programs. Using this scheme, countries whose win the contract. emissions are lower than their credits can sell their Proposal to include hybrid vehicles in the police redundant carbon credits force’s fleet to support environmental activities and use the proceeds to in Ukraine implement environmental The population of Ukraine is 45 million, the second largest in projects efficiently. Eastern Europe and the CIS region after Russia. The country Meanwhile, countries which sits in a geopolitically important area in the region and is are unlikely to meet their expected to achieve long-term economic development in the General Manager (left) and staff in charge reduction targets can future. Although environmental measures in this country have (right) of the Kiev Branch, Sumitomo Corporation (Central Eurasia) purchase emissions permits made progress in recent years, the number of hybrid and Project scheme Ukraine Japan Ministry of Toyota Motor Corporation / Toyota Motor Europe Supervision the Environment Ministry of Ecology and New Energy and Natural Resources State Environmental Investment Industrial Technology Development Commission Agency (SEIA) GIS agreement Organization (NEDO) Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry Commission Proposals and information exchange Delivery of vehicles Ministry of Internal Affairs DERZHECOINVEST Sumitomo Corporation Group Water Infrastructure & Departments involved Environmental Solution Proposals and Proposals and Business Dept. Proposals Proposals negotiations negotiations Planning & and and negotiations negotiations Delivery of Administration Dept. Sumitomo Corporation vehicles Collaboration (Central Eurasia) LLC Legal Dept. Kiev Branch Automotive Business for Accounting Dept. Collaboration Americas and Europe Dept. Structured Finance Dept. Collaboration Treasury Services Dept. Collaboration Collaboration Order placement of Toyota Ukraine vehicles and cooperation request Technical assistance and advice Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2013 16 Project Report 02 electric vehicles in Ukraine is still limited, partly due to the fact expertise, the Accounting Dept., the Structured Finance that there are no governmental subsidies for eco-friendly Dept., and the Treasury Services Dept. vehicles and people usually drive the same car for many years. Despite their popularity in Western countries, only 100 Our abundant international business experience will to 150 hybrid vehicles sell annually. ensure that the project succeeds The Kiev Branch consulted Toyota Ukraine, authorized The Ukrainian government expressed a positive response to distributer for Toyota Lexus, and Sumitomo Corporation's our proposal to deliver the Prius, a high-performance hybrid Automotive Business for Americas and Europe Dept. that car that Toyota is internationally proud of, to the Ukraine involves in business of Toyota Ukraine, and they jointly police. However, we had to overcome many obstacles before developed a detailed project plan. Anticipating the need to finally securing the contract, mainly because the decision to replace a large number of aging police cars in the country, use the proceeds of the GIS contract required multiple they proposed the delivery of hybrid vehicles to the Ukrainian reviews and approval from various stakeholders within and police. The project aims to help the country reduce its outside Ukraine. environmental impact and raise its environmental awareness, Our project team put together the required know-how as well as contribute to mitigating global warming. from its members in Ukraine and in Japan so that they could To win the contract, the Kiev Branch and Toyota Ukraine prepare the huge amounts of documents necessary for the made a proposal to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, business plan, feasibility study, environmental assessment, which oversees the police force, and the State Environmental and so on. However, the review of the documents submitted Investment Agency (SEIA), which oversees Ukraine’s did not proceeded smoothly, given the large sum of money environmental initiatives. At the same time, Sumitomo required to introduce as many as 1,220 hybrid cars into the Corporation in Japan started to make collective and police fleet. When we discussed the details of the project, we collaborative efforts across the company under the leadership received many request to change the specifications of the of the Automotive Business for Americas and Europe Dept. vehicles, prices, and the contract terms and conditions. Every Major departments involved in the efforts include: Water time requests were made, we had to seek solutions after Infrastructure & Environmental Solution Business Dept., which discussing with the many internal and external parties has a business relationship with NEDO, the Planning & involved and take the necessary action in close collaboration Administration Dept., which has extensive risk management with Toyota Motor Corporation / Toyota Motor Europe, the Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2013 17 Project Report 02 manufacture of the Prius. After overcoming these challenges, we were able to obtain consent on all the contract terms and conditions. As a result, in August 2012, Sumitomo Corporation signed the final agreement with DERZHECOINVEST, which operates under the SEIA, on a 34 million US dollar deal. What kept us moving forward during the long, difficult journey were three unique capabilities that the Sumitomo Corporation Group have developed through its wealth of experience. The first is our negotiation capability, enabling us to take each stakeholder’s position into consideration when coordinating between them, and negotiate with them patiently and persistently. The second is our integrated corporate Vehicle delivery ceremony: Ukraine’s Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources (left) and Minister of Internal Affairs (right) strength, enabling us to manage the various risks associated with currency exposure, customs duty, trade insurance, and other elements of international business. The third is our immense importance. capability in building effective partnerships among multiple Specific environmental benefits of replacing the existing organizations, including NEDO, Toyota Motor Corporation / police car fleet with new hybrid vehicles include substantial Toyota Motor Europe and other external entities, as well as improvements in fuel efficiency and a reduction in CO2 the internal teamwork involving many departments within emissions by up to 70%. More importantly, making hybrid Sumitomo Corporation. A lack of any one of these three cars visible in the everyday life of Ukrainian people will raise capabilities would have prevented the project from succeeding. their environmental awareness. Indeed, at the project’s vehicle delivery ceremony on June For the future health of the global environment and the 12, 2013, a high government official from the Ukrainian sound development of Ukraine society government delivered a speech in which he said that he was As a country experiencing economic development, Ukraine is convinced that replacing the police car fleet with hybrid expected to play a greater and more responsible role in vehicles would promote environmental awareness in his international society. Accordingly, the implementation of more country and turn people’s interest more and more toward effective environmental measures is a pressing task for the environmental protection. Our project members who faced country. In addressing this task, the introduction of many and overcame many challenges in both Ukraine and Japan hybrid cars featuring the latest technologies will be of could not have received a better reward than this remark. Stakeholder’s Voice Stakeholder’s Voice Valuing this project as a Sumitomo Corporation “bridge” between affirms its continuing Ukraine and Japan contribution to fighting global warming Mr. Lebedev Olexander Stanislavovich Mr. Fumio Ueda DERZHECOINVEST New Energy and Industrial Technology President Development Organization Executive Director The enterprise “DERZHECOINVEST” is a company formed under the Commissioned by the Japanese government, we signed a GIS State Environmental Agency of Ukraine to implement a project aimed contract with the Ukrainian government to help Japan fulfill its at the reduction of greenhouse gases. On August 29, 2012, we international commitment to GHG reductions under the Kyoto signed a contract with SUMITOMO Corporation on joint execution of Protocol, and support environmental protection measures in the project to replace a fleet of patrol cars with the Toyota Prius, Ukraine. The project to introduce hybrid vehicles into the police car which is equipped with a hybrid engine. I not only expect this project fleet was founded on the Ukrainian government’s wish to introduce to reduce CO2 emissions, but also seeing 1220 patrol cars with Japan’s renowned environmental technology into the country. The hybrid engines on the streets will increase awareness of project has made good and steady progress and delivery of the environmental issues amongst the general public. In addition, it is a vehicles was celebrated with a lavish ceremony in Kiev in June significant pleasure to work together with a Japanese company and 2013. I am deeply honored to have been involved in this valuable the government through this GIS scheme, which will surely contribute project. I hope Sumitomo Corporation will continue to promote the to further friendship and economic cooperation between Ukraine and widespread use of Japan’s excellent environmental technologies Japan. I expect Sumitomo Corporation to continue to play an and thereby help reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. important role in the growth of Ukraine through business activities. Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2013 18 Project Report 03 CSR through Business Activities (3): Environment & Infrastructure Business Unit Osaka Hikari-no-Mori Project —Contributing to Environmental Conservation through Collaboration among Companies The Osaka Hikari-no-Mori Project (Osaka Forest of Light Project) is a mega-solar power generation project operated in a landfill site in Yumeshima, Osaka designed to contribute to a sustainable society. Sumitomo Corporation has led the project since the planning stage, and has been working for the realization of this public and private collaboration project aimed at making environmental value creation by developing a mechanism that enabled many companies to participate in the project and contribute actively to bringing environmental education to the local communities. Capabilities to Social & Environmental Context Provide Solutions Goals for Social Value Creation The City of Osaka’s declaration to build Knowledge and knowhow on Building a sustainable, low-carbon, a sustainable society implementing mega-solar projects and recycling-oriented society Extensive network that includes Companies’ active contribution to A plan to concentrate and central and local governments environmental conservation develop environment and energy and industrial circles (including environmental education) facilities in the waterfront area Ability to develop a special scheme by clarifying the role of Creation of a public and private collaboration Promotion of renewable energy and risks for each participant project that brings together the City of Osaka and in landfill sites (Ability to develop partnerships) various companies for environmental protection Osaka Station Maishima Namba Station Yumeshima Sakishima Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2013 19 Project Report 03 Promoting a mega-solar project that effectively utilizes high construction costs required to prevent land subsidence a landfill site in Yumeshima, Osaka, and that symbolizes and gas emissions in Yumeshima, the site was not the ideal Osaka as an environmentally advanced city place for a profitable power generation business. The Yumeshima is a vast reclaimed island of approximately 391 significance of this mega-solar project in Yumeshima is hectares located in the waterfront area of Osaka City. A landfill therefore not just as direct support for environmental site on the island operated by the City of Osaka, where waste conservation through the supply of clean energy, but also as combustion ash had been dumped, has limitations such as a contribution to local communities in Osaka City in various land subsidence, and methane gas, hydrogen sulfide, and ways including environmental education and improvement, other gases emanating from the ground after the landfill was and industrial vitalization. completed. Waste Management and Public Cleansing Act As a matter of fact, part of the revenues from the project prohibited the construction of buildings on landfills or the is already being utilized for environmental education in usage for general purposes, and this resulted in the site being Konohana Ward where Yumeshima is located and to support left unused for many years. the environmental activities of local residents. The success of The City of Osaka, which aspires to become an the project is expected to significantly encourage environmentally advanced city, planned to develop an environmental education and other activities, development of environment and energy industry center in the waterfront the waterfront area, and vitalization of the local economy. area, including the landfill site, and in May 2010 publicly invited companies to propose ideas for a mega-solar project Working together to create a “forest of light” just as that would utilize the site effectively. people come together to create a forest by planting Sumitomo Corporation, which has since its establishment trees one by one maintained strong ties with Osaka City, collaborated with Companies are now expected to be more proactive, Sumitomo Mitsui Finance & Leasing Co., Ltd. to propose rather than reactive, in environmental protection and in “Osaka Hikari-no-Mori Project” which would support contributing to local communities. Collaborating with other environmental protection and contribute to improving local companies achieves a greater effect than undertaking all communities in Osaka City. This idea was successfully activities alone. selected by the city. The Osaka Hikari-no-Mori Project is a new project model designed to allow multiple participating companies to share Project scheme costs and solve technical problems together under the slogan City of Osaka Participating companies of “Work together to create a ‘forest of light’ just as people come together to create a forest by planting trees one by one.” SGS This “Solar-power Group Share (SGS)” mechanism proposed by Sumitomo Corporation and Sumitomo Mitsui Owner of the assets Facility management contractor Finance & Leasing enables the mega-solar project to be (Sumitomo Mitsui Finance & (Summit Energy Corporation) implemented by a consortium of companies. Leasing Co., Ltd.) Operation & Maintenance with SGS is operated not by a single entity formed for the Ownership management electric power sales project, such as a special purpose company, but by Sumitomo Mitsui Finance & Leasing and our subsidy Summit Energy Corporation, each playing a different role in the Construction company Power companies project. Sumitomo Mitsui Finance & Leasing, the owner of the power generation facilities, divides up and leases out the facilities—each equivalent to a 500-kilowatt share, a twentieth Going beyond just a clean energy project—Contributing of the total power generating capacity of 10 megawatts—to to environmental education and improvement each participating company to reduce their financial burden The main objective of the joint Osaka Hikari-no-Mori Project is and risks. Summit Energy, a power producer and supplier for several companies to cooperate in building 10-megawatt (PPS), is responsible for selling the electricity generated and mega-solar power generation facilities on the landfill site in maintaining the mega-solar facilities. The company sells the Yumeshima first district to contribute to building a electricity and distributes the revenue among the participating sustainable society. companies, while carefully monitoring the electric power Electric power generated will be sold to an electric power regime in Japan, which is expected to continue changing. company for 20 years under the feed-in tariff system for Sumitomo Corporation has been promoting the project renewable energy, making it possible to earn a certain amount together with the following companies that have agreed to of profit from this project. On the other side, because of the the project’s aims and sign leases. They are Sumitomo Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2013 20 Project Report 03 Electric Industries, Ltd., Rengo Co., Ltd., Hitachi Zosen Overcoming land subsidence and other technical Corporation, DAIHEN Corporation, NTT FACILITIES, INC., problems at the landfill site Jupiter Telecommunications Co., Ltd., The Sumitomo Prior to completion of the mega-solar power generation plant Warehouse Co., Ltd., and Osaka Shinkin Bank. in October 2013, various technical problems at the landfill site In addition to the companies that are taking part in the were solved by the efforts of NTT FACILITIES, a company project through leasing, the project also allows other with an extensive track record in constructing photovoltaic companies and the local government to make the best use of systems and other equipment manufacturers and their own technologies and expertise in working with us. For installation companies. example, the construction company has offered their latest In the design and development stages, effective technologies and performance guarantees; financial countermeasures against land subsidence and gas buildup institutions have supported the project through lending at were introduced to ensure a safe and stable power generation low-interest for environmental initiatives; and the City of performance of the project. These countermeasures include Osaka has provided the land for the project free of charge lightweight, highly durable aluminum support structures for and a preferential tax measure. the solar panels, which are equipped with a sliding mechanism for height adjustment to correct changes in the Collaboration for the project alignment of the solar panels due to land subsidence over the years. H-type concrete foundations designed to minimize gas Construction company buildup have also been adopted. (Technologies, guarantees) Financial Participating institutions companies (Low-interest (Funds, risks) financing for environmental initiatives) Mega-solar project on the landfill site Power City of Osaka companies (Land for the project, (Long-term preferential operation and tax measure) maintenance) Lease company (Joint ownership by multiple companies) Mega-solar power generation plant Column Osaka City Sakuyakonohana Junior High School students visit the site and present their study results On June 10, 2013, nine Osaka City Sakuyakonohana Junior expressed their enthusiasm by saying, “It was fun,” and “I want High School students visited the construction site of the Osaka to visit again.” They summarized what they learned in a report Hikari-no-Mori Project. The students, who are in the first to the and gave a presentation on the report. third grades at junior high school and members of the Social The Osaka Hikari-no-Mori Project is planning to actively Studies Club, listened to an explanation of how the solar panels provide local are installed and what measures are taken to deal with land children and subsidence, gas buildup, and other technical difficulties while residents with observing the construction work of the solar panels. The opportunities to students learned about solar power generation and the scheme visit the site to that allows many companies to cooperate for environmental promote protection under the project. environmental The students seemed to have been impressed by visiting the education and facilities. One student showed amazement at the “spectacular raise sight of rows of panels” and another showed interest in “the environmental Sakuyakonohana Junior High School students at the various innovations introduced at the facilities.” Others also awareness. construction site Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2013 21 Project Report 03 ProjectReport Promoting environmental education and communication Sumitomo Spirits through the “Sundial Hill” observation zone In commemoration of this project, an observation zone was Working closely together built to the south of the mega-solar plant. The zone, named with many other Sundial Hill, offers Osaka residents and the public at large companies to help build a sustainable society opportunities to find out more about the Osaka Hikari-no-Mori Project. From the hilltop visitors can enjoy a view of Osaka Tatsuo Izuka Manager, Energy & Environmental Solution City, a look out over both the mega-solar plant and the solid Business Team Assistant General Manager, Renewable waste disposal site, Osaka Port’s dredged soil disposal site, Energy Business Dept. No. 1 and various other facilities indispensable for the development of local communities. A visitor standing on top of the hill acts The aim of the Osaka Hikari-no-Mori Project is to contribute to as the gnomon of the sundial by casting a shadow, helping environmental protection and to benefit local communities, and for this reason participating companies have agreed not to pursue visitors to be aware of the variety of roles played by sunlight. profit as a primary goal from this project. Because a single private More opportunities to visit the mega-solar facilities will be company can only offer limited funds, technologies, and human actively offered to local residents and students and educators resources, it became necessary to implement this large-scale through the City of Osaka. project in the form of a collaboration between multiple companies. The Osaka Hikari-no-Mori Project is a new form of environmental The Osaka Hikari-no-Mori Project, launched as a contribution based on this idea and its concept: work together to collaboration between many companies and the local create a “forest of light” by leveraging the strengths of each government, will act as a symbol for local communities that company, just as people come together to create a forest by are seeking to develop a sustainable, low-carbon, and planting trees one by one. In today’s world, where global environmental issues are becoming increasingly serious, companies recycling-oriented society, through activities, including need to focus their efforts on sustainability in pursuing their generating clean energy, promoting environmental education business activities. Sumitomo Corporation will continue to play a and revitalizing the waterfront area. leading role in building a sustainable society in cooperation with many other companies, making the best use of its function as an integrated trading company and its experience and knowhow it has accumulated through the Osaka Hikari-no-Mori Project. Stakeholder’s Voice Joint development of a new project scheme that leases out mega-solar facilities to multiple companies Tomonori Hamada (left), Assistant General Manager, Tokyo Corporate Business Dept. No. 4 Ichiro Konuma (center), Assistant Manager, Tokyo Corporate Business Dept. No. 4 Toru Yamazaki (right), Deputy General Manager, Environmental Business Dept. Sumitomo Mitsui Finance & Leasing Co., Ltd. Almost no one had heard of the feed-in tariff system for renewable energy Corporation, we were finally able to develop a scheme that satisfied all the when Sumitomo Corporation told us about their idea for this project. We participating companies. Although it was a challenging project, Sumitomo were responsible for developing a scheme that would make it easier for Corporation’s personal network and its personnel’s creativity and multiple companies to participate in the project. An ordinary leasing plan dynamism helped us greatly in successfully starting power generation. We normally leases out one property to one company, but in the Osaka will continue cooperating with Sumitomo Corporation and the many other Hikari-no-Mori Project, one mega-solar plant has been leased out to companies to expand our activities and make a lasting contribution to the multiple companies. It was difficult to sort out the rights and obligations of environment and communities in and outside of Japan. the participating companies, but after many discussions with Sumitomo Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2013 22 Project Report 04 CSR through Business Activities (4): Media, Network, Lifestyle Related Goods & Services Business Unit Innovative ResourceCirculation Recycling Pursued by a Food Supermarket Chain As the need to reduce waste becomes an urgent concern, waste-generating companies are more strongly expected to promote recycling of their waste as well as decreasing waste. Summit, Inc., a Sumitomo Corporation group company operating a food supermarket chain, has been working on recycling waste for many years as part of environmental activities, and has achieved a high recycling rate. Recently, the chain has been attracting significant attention for its innovative resource-circulation recycling system developed in collaboration with Wagoen, a farming union cooperative. Capabilities to Social & Environmental Context Provide Solutions Goals for Social Value Creation The chain operator’s mission and Social structure that leads to basic stance to treat foods as a valuable resource Reduction of food waste mass production, mass consumption, and mass disposal Product development and management capabilities that enable the chain to pursue and implement resource-circulation recycling Full utilization of food Increase in food waste A network with business partners resources without any waste that maintain leading-edge vision in environmental issues Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2013 23 Project Report 04 Taking the initiative in recycling diverse cardboard, and styrene foam. waste materials The chain started such activities by recycling fish guts As final disposal sites approach the limit of their disposal and bones around 1980. Around 1990, as a way to deal with capacity, reducing waste has become a major social issue. the increased used oil, which had been caused by the Central and local governments are introducing regulations for expansion of the in-store preparation of delicatessen aimed at each industry, tightening their control over waste-discharging meeting the increasing needs for ready-made meals, the companies to ensure that companies manage their waste chain launched a program in which business partners collect more strictly and promote recycling. and recycle the waste oil generated by each store. Vegetable Summit, Inc., which celebrates the 50th anniversary of its oil is recycled into livestock feed, while animal oil is recycled founding this year, has been introducing various environmental into lard. measures for many years. As part of the activities, the chain In 2002, the chain also started recycling fruit and has been striving to tackle the waste issue by establishing vegetable waste, which accounts for about 50% of all the ways to collect, sort, and recycle diverse waste materials scraps generated across the chain, into livestock feed and generated by each store, and has achieved and maintained a lightweight soil materials. As a result of these efforts, the 100% recycling rate for containers including bottles, cans, chain is currently recycling about 80% of its total waste. History of Summit Store’s recycling initiative Waste recycling rate (％) Started recycling waste oil. 80 Started recycling styrene foam boxes. 1991 Started in-store collection service for styrene foam trays, milk cartons, and aluminum cans. 78.1% Started recycling office garbage generated by the headquarters 70 1992 of Summit, Inc. 1995 Started in-store collection service for PET bottles. 2002 Started recycling food scraps. 60 2004 Started recycling waste paper and used fluorescent lamps. Obtained ISO 14001 certification. 2005 Started installing reverse vending machines for PET bottles. 2009 Started resource-circulation recycling of food scraps. 0 '05 '06 '07 '08 '09 '10 '11 '12 (year) Waste recycling rate Recycling rate Recycling rate Recycling rate 肥 料 飼 料 Fish guts and bones Livestock feed, etc. Bottles and cans New bottles and cans Cardboard New cardboard Recycling rate Recycling rate Recycling rate 肥 料 飼 料 Waste oil, meat fat Livestock feed, etc. Styrene foam Raw materials for styrene foam Waste paper Recycled paper, etc. trays and plastic products Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2013 24 Project Report 04 Launching a resource-circulation recycling scheme in Tokyo, and many other matters. partnership with Wagoen In 2009, some stores of the chain began to implement the In 2005, the year in which Summit, Inc. obtained ISO 14001 recycling scheme after they overcame these difficulties, certification, an international standard for environmental however, they still had to solve many other problems, such as management systems, the chain kicked off a new the irregular shape of vegetables delivered from Wagoen and environmental project. The objective of the project is not just inadequate separation of vegetable scraps in the stores. to entrust Wagoen, a farming union cooperative, to handle However, the situation has gradually improved to such an vegetable scraps, but to even go one step further by growing extent that all the Summit stores now carry Japanese basil vegetables using recycled fertilizer made from such vegetable leaf, sangchu Korean lettuce, and other vegetables produced scraps and selling those vegetables in the chain, thereby through the recycling scheme. establishing an innovative recycling scheme that represents a As the system and knowhow have become increasingly practical example of a resource-circulating society. established in both the stores and farms, the number of The chain, by working together with Wagoen, started stores that are recycling vegetable and fruit scraps has been the project aimed at building up resource-circulation increasing rapidly. As of June 2013, 78 out of 107 stores are agricultural scheme, but they had to face many difficulties. implementing recycling, and 42 out of those 78 stores are They spent more than three years to overcome various working with Wagoen. As a result of these efforts, the chain’s challenges, such as obtaining approval to construct a recycling rate for food waste has risen significantly compared recycling center in Katori City, Chiba Prefecture from the local to before the recycling scheme was introduced, now government, reducing transportation costs from central exceeding 50%. The mark attached to the recycled produce Wagoen’s farm 6 The produce is sold in the vegetable and fruit section of the stores. Vegetable and fruit 1 RECYCLE 5 The fertilizer is used to scraps are separated grow vegetables. and put into bags. Resource-circulation recycling of vegetable and fruit scraps implemented by Summit, Inc. and Wagoen 4 Fertilizer is made from vegetable and fruit scraps. The scraps are collected and 2 transported to Wagoen’s recycling center using a dedicated vehicle. 3 The scraps are crushed and pressed. Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2013 25 Project Report 04 A further challenge is how to reduce food waste. The number of stores implementing the recycling of vegetable and fruit scraps The implementation of resource-circulation recycling provides 78 stores (stores) a solution to the waste issue but also leads to raising 80 awareness of the importance of utilizing valuable food 70 resources without waste throughout the entire society. As 60 much as 20 million tons of food waste, incurring a cost of two trillion yen in waste treatment, is said to be generated in 50 Japan each year. In this situation, it is a food company’s 40 social mission to lead society by showing an example of 30 treating food as a valuable resource. Summit, Inc. will 20 continue its efforts to maintain and expand its resource10 circulation recycling scheme. 0 '02 '03 '04 '05 '06 '07 '08 '09 '10 '11 '12 (year) Sumitomo Spirits Stakeholder’s Voice Offering an opportunity for As a partner in the resourceevery store staff member circulation recycling and consumer to think about scheme, we are looking environmental problems forward to the further Mr. Naoki Sugimura expansion of the initiative Administrative Dept. Mr. Masao Takumi Administrative Section Senior Managing Director Summit, Inc. Wago Co., Ltd., Wagoen Group I have never imagined that such a tremendous amount of waste is Wagoen is a farming union cooperative made up of about 100 generated by our stores until I took charge of waste management. young farmers, and our company is responsible for the distribution, While carrying out my duties, I have realized the seriousness of the sales, processing, and recycling of vegetables produced by those waste issue. The waste issue cannot be solved by the staff in farmers. We have had a strong interest in environmental problems, charge alone, and the involvement of all other employees as well as and have been practicing “resource-circulation” farming by using the whole of society including consumers is essential. One way to fertilizer made from vegetable scraps generated during processing give consumers an opportunity to think about waste management in our recycling center to grow vegetables. This farming style has is to provide more information on the resource-circulation recycling led to the resource-circulation recycling scheme developed in that we are promoting. We will actively propose various plans that collaboration with Summit, Inc.. When the scheme started, will allow many more consumers to know about our efforts, vegetable scraps collected from the stores often contained foreign including tours of our recycling center. materials, making processing at the recycling center difficult. However, thanks to the steady and patient efforts of the staff of both companies, the situation has improved and the scheme is now operated without any problems. It is our fervent hope that Summit, Inc.’s initiative will be further expanded. Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2013 26 Project Report 05 CSR Through Business Activities (5): Mineral Resources, Energy, Chemical & Electronics Business Unit The Ambatovy Project —Contributing to Sustainable Development in Madagascar The Ambatovy Project in the Republic of Madagascar is one of the world’s largest mine development projects aimed at increasing the supply of nickel, cobalt, and others. Construction work on the project has been continuing since 2007. However, this colossal project is not just intended to contribute to a stable supply of rare metals. It is also attracting attention as a project that will play a crucial role in the sustainable development of the local community through active support for human resources development and the local economy as well as through the protection of biodiversity and other systematic Nobuyuki Ariyama efforts for environmental conservation. Assistant to General Manager, Nickel & New Metals Business Dept. Capabilities to Social & Environmental Context Provide Solutions Goals for Social Value Creation Know-how on mining development Contribution to sustainable Increased demand for nickel, cobalt, and operations that reflect development in Madagascar and other rare metals local characteristics Development of human resources who A need for a mechanism that is fair to Ability to build a value chain from will build the future of Madagascar’s resource-producing countries as well exploitation to marketing industries; systematic efforts toward (ability to develop partnerships) environmental conservation Poverty issue in Madagascar Ability to promote prosperous coexistence with local communities Stable supply of rare metals Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2013 27 Project Report 05 Port of Toamasina Plant Ankerana area Mine (80 km east of the capital, Antanànarìvo) Pipeline (220km) Indian Ocean Republic of Madagascar Muramanga N To Antanànarìvo N One of the world’s largest mine development projects Contributing to the growth of Madagascar’s economy aimed at securing a stable supply of rare metals through increasing exports and creating employment The Republic of Madagascar, situated to the southeast of the The Ambatovy Project is a huge project that involves the African continent and in the western part of the Indian Ocean, construction of a mine at a location approximately 80 is 1.6 times larger than Japan in land area and has a kilometers to the east of the capital, Antanànarìvo, a population of more than 22 million. The main economic processing and refinery plant located to the northeast of the activities, employing about 80% of the population, are mine site and close to the Port of Toamasina, a pipeline with agriculture, producing rice, coffee, and others. Although the a total length of 220 kilometers connecting the mine site and deregulation policy adopted in the mid-1990s has brought the plant site, and even social infrastructure including roads, some economic growth, the gross national income (GNI) per railway tracks, and port facilities. The operation of the mine capita in 2012 was still as low as 430 US dollars, less than site and the plant site is scheduled for about 30 years and one hundredth that of Japan. There is a study report that expected to produce 60,000 tons of nickel and 5,600 tons of states that 76% of the nation are living in poverty. cobalt annually—which is equivalent to 4% and 8% One industry that is currently attracting attention as a new respectively of the current global demand for these metals. driver of Madagascar’s economy is the development of the Sumitomo Corporation has been taking part in this project country’s large reserves of mineral resources. Large quantities together with Canadian and Korean companies. We have of rare metals, such as nickel and cobalt buried in the central financed and invested in local mining and refining companies, part of the country are particularly attractive because the and are undertaking in cooperation with Korea Resources demand for these rare metals has been increasing recently for Corporation (Kores) project finance arrangements and sales use in batteries, semiconductors, and other high technology support. Of the total funds procured, the amount of project products. With this as a backdrop, the world’s largest class debt financing from the Japan Bank for International mine development project was launched and construction Cooperation (JBIC) and other international financial institutions work commenced in August 2007. This is the Ambatovy reaches 2.1 billion US dollars—one of the largest financing Project, and Sumitomo Corporation is one of the participants. arrangements for a mining project. Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2013 28 Project Report 05 Job training in LRDI Technical training in ALBI Construction work commenced in 2007 and the mine site providing job training for local people who had had no and the plant site have already been completed. Operating experience of working in occupations other than agriculture permission was given by the Madagascar government in to help them acquire the skills necessary for working in the March 2012, with the first shipment of nickel delivered in the mine site and the plant site. In addition to this, an November of the same year. Efforts are currently being made unemployment allowance was paid for a certain period to to improve the operation through maintenance and repair of support demobilized workers when the project moved from the facilities so as to achieve full-scale operation at the the construction stage to the operation stage. earliest possible time. The Ambatovy Local Business Initiative (ALBI), successor The Ambatovy Project is not just intended to ensure a to the LRDI, has opened a technical training center to support stable supply of rare metals to global markets, but is also reemployment of demobilized workers. ALBI has also seen as a project that will contribute significantly to the future introduced various measures to create new employment development of the country in various ways, including opportunities, such as the establishment of an organization promoting industry, creating employment, and developing the responsible for purchasing agricultural produce for social infrastructure. When fully-fledged commercial consumption in canteens in the mine site and the plant site, production of the rare metals is started, Madagascar is support for the founding of a company that manufactures expected to become far more influential in the global market workers’ uniforms for the plant and for other corporations as a rare metals exporting country. related to the project, and support for small to medium-sized The construction of various facilities and infrastructure has local enterprises. created employment for approximately 20,000 people. Even The project has also initiated the Technical Excellence after the start of the operation stage, about 9,000 workers in Program in cooperation with the Madagascar government direct and indirect employment—of which 90% are local and local leaders aimed at training internationally competitive Madagascar people—are still employed. The Ambatovy plant operators. A total of 215 workers will be trained over a Project is thus playing an important role in reducing poverty, period of four years from 2011, and many training programs one of the country’s most serious social issues, by promoting have already been implemented. Through this program, economic growth. capable human resources who can assume managerial positions in the mine site and the plant site will be developed Job training, reemployment support, and the to promote the “localization” of the operation. It is also development of human resources who will build the expected that in the long term future leaders of Madagascar’s future of Madagascar’s industries industries may emerge from among these trainees. The impact of the Ambatovy Project goes beyond economic benefits brought about by increasing exports and creating The protection of biodiversity and other systematic employment. The project is also contributing significantly to efforts for environmental conservation to save the the growth of Madagascar through the development of precious natural habitat in Madagascar human resources and improvements in working conditions. Since the Ambatovy Project involves the construction and The Local Resource Development Initiative (LRDI) was operation of many facilities, such as the mine, the processing established at the same time as the launch of the project, and refinery plant, and pipeline, its impact on the surrounding Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2013 29 Project Report 05 environment could be huge. With its unique and as yet undisturbed natural environment, Madagascar is of international importance as a home to a thousand species of rare wild animals. For this reason, development and operation of the Ambatovy Project is being carried out giving full consideration to the natural environment. The project is being planned and implemented, not only in line with Madagascar’s laws and regulations, but also under an environmental management system that satisfies international guidelines, including the World Bank Safeguard Policies, International Finance Corporation (IFC) Performance Standards, World Health Organization (WHO) standards, and Equator Principles. In addition to complying with these standards, the The forest in the Ankerana area protection of biodiversity and other systematic efforts are being made for environmental conservation. One example of restoration or creation of another ecosystem. Specific these efforts is a buffer zone of about 4,900 hectares activities underway or planned under this program include established around the mine site of about 1,800 hectares to conservation of a forest of 6,800 hectares in the Ankerana protect the habitats of animals. Trees that have to be cut area, which has an ecosystem similar to that of the down during the process of mine development are development site of the project, protecting the areas around intentionally left to lie on the ground for a while so that the mine site, and replanting trees after the pipeline is buried organisms living in the trees can move into the buffer zone. and after the mine site is closed. The program will thus Endangered species found in the development area and protect or provide protection for more than 25,000 hectares identified as requiring protection after biological research of the natural environment, equivalent to 15 times the area of conducted jointly with international environment NGOs and the mine site, offsetting the net loss caused by the project. other organizations are protected under various programs, These protection activities continue to be conducted in including transplanting animals to a reserve and raising fish cooperation with the Business and Biodiversity Offsets using a fish farming system, to minimize the impact of the Program (BBOP), an international organization made up of project on the ecosystem. governments, companies, and biodiversity experts. After construction work started, the planned route of the Environmental conservation efforts made as part of the pipeline was changed at a total of 24 places to avoid the Ambatovy Project have been praised highly by the Madagasar habitats of rare animals. government, environmental NGOs, and the BBOP Secretariat. The Ambatovy Project is also promoting a large-scale As a company taking part in the Ambatovy Project, Sumitomo biodiversity offset program under the “no net loss, or Corporation will continue to fulfill its social responsibility by preferably a net gain” concept. The objective of this program working for environmental conservation and the welfare of the is to offset the negative impact of the project on one local community in support of the sustainable development ecosystem with the positive effects provided by the of Madagascar. Diademed Sifaka, a rare species Golden Mantella, a rare species Coquerel’s Sifaka, a rare species Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2013 30 Environmental Initiatives Environmental Management Throughout its 400-year history, the Sumitomo Group has pursued industrial development that co-exists with local communities and the natural environment. Using the experience it has built up over this long period, the Sumitomo Corporation Group is committed to contributing to the sustainable development through sound business activities that take into account global environmental issues. Environmental Policy All Group companies carry out environmentally sound system, in order to reduce our environmental impact and improve management under a common environmental policy, including environmental conditions through our business activities. those participating in the Group’s environmental management Sumitomo Corporation Group Environmental Policy The Sumitomo Corporation Group recognizes that environmental issues are global in scale and are long-term matters affecting future generations. As a global organization, the Sumitomo Corporation Group, through sound business activities, will strive to achieve sustainable development aimed at symbiosis between social and economic progress and environmental preservation. With this as its basic policy, the Sumitomo Corporation Group strives to achieve environmental management in its commercial trading, business development, and investment, etc., based on the guidelines stated below. I. Basic Policy 4. Efficient use of resources and energy: The Sumitomo Corporation Group recognizes that environmental To be mindful of the finite availability of resources and energy and issues are global in scale and that they are long-range concerns strive to use them both efficiently and effectively. affecting future generations. As a global organization, the Sumitomo Corporation Group, through sound business activities, 5. Contributing to the building of a recycling-oriented will strive to achieve sustainable development aimed at symbiosis society: between social and economic progress and environmental To endeavor to help build a recycling-oriented society by reducing preservation. waste and reusing and recycling resources. 6. Promotion of businesses that contribute to II. Basic Guidelines environmental preservation: In pursuing its diversified business activities both within Japan To utilize our integrated corporate strength to promote businesses and overseas, the Sumitomo Corporation Group shall comply with and projects, which contribute to environmental preservation and the following guidelines, and, through cooperation between its reduction of the impact of society on the natural environment. Group companies, work to achieve the aims of its basic environmental policy. 7. Establishment of environmental management: To use an environmental management system to prevent 1. Basic stance with regard to the environment: environmental pollution and set environmental objectives and To attach great importance to protecting the global environment targets which are regularly reviewed and continuously upgraded. as a good corporate citizen in keeping with its Activity Guidelines. 8. Disclosure of the Environmental Policy: 2. Compliance with environmental legislation: To communicate this Environmental Policy to all people who are To strictly observe legislation related to environmental matters not working for or on behalf of the Sumitomo Corporation Group, as only in Japan but also overseas and abide by any agreements well as disclosing it externally. undertaken by the Group companies. June 22, 2012 3. Caring for the natural environment: President and CEO, Sumitomo Corporation To protect the natural environment and preserve biodiversity. Kuniharu Nakamura Environmental Management System The Group has obtained certification for the ISO 14001 standard and companies are participating in these has been working to implement environment management activities. environmental management activities. Led by Sumitomo Corporation’s President and CEO, the Group’s multi-site system enables unified environmental For information about Group companies that management of many different offices and organizations in line have obtained ISO 14001 certification with the Sumitomo Corporation Group Environmental Policy. As of independently, please refer to our corporate June 2013, approximately 19,000 employees in total from all website. domestic locations of Sumitomo Corporation and its 30 Group http://www.sumitomocorp.co.jp/english/csr/ environment/manage/iso_management/ Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2013 31 Environmental Initiatives Environmental Objectives and Targets Environmental Objectives, Targets and Results for Fiscal 2012 (Sumitomo Corporation) Management Area Objective Fiscal 2012 Target Achievement Level (15 months from January 2012 to March 2013) Environmental Improve the Promote projects to save energy and reduce • P romoted a CO2 emissions reduction project aimed at preventing peat fires in business environment greenhouse gas emissions Indonesia through business operations Expand business utilizing renewable energy • P romoted geothermal and hydroelectric power projects in Asia and Oceania as well as and expand new wind power projects in the U.S. and South Africa environmental • Pushed forward new solar power generation projects in Southern Europe, the U.S. and business Japan • Purchased surplus electric power from solid energy-from-waste plants and purchased Renewable Energy Certificates in Japan Promote business operations that help create a • Promoted a waste home appliance recycling business in China recycling-oriented society • Promoted PET bottle recycling business in Japan Management of Reduce Monitor and reduce electricity, gas consumption, and • Implemented measures aimed at reducing total electricity consumption by 1% each environmental environmental waste emissions in all offices in Japan year impact impact of business Fiscal 2010 result: 10.744 million kWh operations Fiscal 2011 result: 8.638 million kWh (reduced by 19.6% year-on-year) Fiscal 2012 result: 8.093 million kWh (reduced by 6.3 % year-on-year) • Received third-party assurance for energy consumption and CO2 emissions Assess environmental impact caused by business • C arried out appropriate environmental impact assessment and soil pollution surveys in operations a timely manner Assess and promote the reduction of environmental • Started disclosing Scope 3 emissions impact of the supply chain involved Hazardous Comply with Increase the level of chemical substance control. • C onducted monitoring in accordance with applicable laws, including the revised substance chemical More actively encourage suppliers and consignees to Chemical Substances Control Law, the revised PRTR Law, and the Poisonous and management substance participate Deleterious Substances Control Law regulations • Confirmed issuance and receipt of SDSs Ensure safe transportation and storage of hazardous • E nsured proper management of ledgers on the transportation and storage of substances in corporation with consigned companies poisonous and hazardous materials and high-pressure gas Logistics Promote energy Establish and implement a specific energy • W orked to improve energy consumption efficiency as a “specified consigner,” defined management conservation in conservation plan for transportation as a cargo owner in the Act on the Rational Use of Energy. As a result, energy consumption efficiency logistics improved by 4% (based on annual energy consumption per ton of cargo shipped) over the past 5 years • Our total domestic cargo transportation of 1,704 thousand tons of products amounted to 160 million ton-kilometers Our energy consumption during fiscal 2012 was 2.04 kl/thousand tons (crude oil equivalent) Strengthen links with domestic carriers to achieve • Improved energy consumption efficiency by encouraging carriers in Japan to use larger efficient transportation and analyze their efficiency trucks and ships and increase load efficiency Legal Proper disposal Improve employee training on the Waste Disposal and • Held a Waste Management Procedure Seminar led by an internal logistics department compliance of waste in Public Cleaning Act in order to provide training on basic knowledge of proper treatment of industrial waste accordance generated in the logistics process with the Waste Held in February 2012 in Tokyo (Televised in 10 locations in Japan): 280 participants Disposal and Held in January–February 2013 in Tokyo and Osaka (Televised in seven locations in Public Cleaning Japan): 173 participants Act • Held an industrial waste treatment procedure seminar and an on-site treatment facility inspection seminar after providing training on trends in amendments to laws and regulations, actual examples of administrative sanctions based on ordinances and other topics (see page 34) Implement on-site inspection and improve • Improved waste management system by conducting ISO activities to raise awareness management systems within Group companies often in all departments. Shared documents and records disposing of waste materials. • Conducted on-site inspections of waste disposal companies Promote information sharing with other Group companies Environmental Raise employees’ Hold seminars on environmental conservation and • H eld an in-house seminar, inviting Toyoki Kozai, Professor Emeritus of Chiba education environmental other programs University, to lecture on “Plants: the Unshakable Leading Player” awareness Disseminate related information by the ISO Office • P roactively collected environment-related information from the media, organizations, (Environment & CSR Department) corporations, and others for dissemination to employees Environmental Objectives and Targets for Fiscal 2013 (Sumitomo Corporation) Management Category Objective Fiscal 2013 Target Environmental Improve the environment through Promote projects to save energy and reduce greenhouse gas emissions business business operations and expand environmental business Expand business utilizing renewable energy sources Promote business operations that help create a recycling-oriented society Management of Reduce environmental impact of Monitor and reduce electricity, gas consumption, and waste emissions in all offices in environmental business operations Japan impact Assess environmental impact caused by business operations Assess and promote the reduction of environmental impact of the supply chain involved Hazardous Comply with chemical substance regulations Increase the level of chemical substance control. More actively encourage suppliers and substance consignees to participate management Logistics Promote energy conservation Establish and implement a specific energy conservation plan for transportation as a management in logistics cargo owner Strengthen links with domestic carriers to achieve efficient transportation and analyze their efficiency Legal Proper disposal of waste in accordance with Improve employee training on the Waste Disposal and Public Cleaning Act compliance the Waste Disposal and Public Cleaning Act Implement on-site inspections and promote information sharing with other Group companies Environmental Raise employees’ environmental awareness Hold seminars on environmental conservation and other programs education Disseminate related information by the ISO Office (Environment & CSR Department) Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2013 32 CSR Through Business Activities The Sumitomo Corporation Group recognizes that environmental issues are global in scale, and are long-term matters that will affect future generations. As a global organization, the Group has established an environmental policy of striving to achieve sustainable development, by way of sound business activities, aimed at symbiosis between social and economic progress and environmental preservation. Environment-friendly Buildings The Group owns and manages approximately 1,100,000 m2 of and attract birds. The public square of this complex soothes the owned and managed buildings (including jointly owned and subsoul while at the same time reducing the heat island effect. leased properties) mainly in central Tokyo and Osaka, but also in We are also applying the environmental expertise and Sapporo, Nagoya, and Fukuoka as well as overseas. In building technology learned from Harumi Triton Square to building development, the Group’s buildings come standard with air development projects in Kanda, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, where we are conditioning systems that achieve both energy efficiency and focusing on urban development. Here, we are creating urban comfort, and also have greenery features that harmonize with the green zones with an emphasis on biodiversity. For example, we natural environment. In these and other ways, the Group strives to are conducting field monitoring of the flight patterns of wild birds, help preserve the environment while creating refreshing spaces for and using this study to change how we approach developing office workers. greenery for each building based on the surrounding ecosystem network. A “Green Network” has been planned for the surrounding Comfort and Energy Efficiency Through the DESICA natural environment, including the Imperial Palace, Ueno and Air-conditioning System Yushima in central Tokyo, to contribute to environmental In the field of new building development, the Group, along with conservation in those areas. Nikken Sekkei Ltd., Daikin Industries, Ltd. and various experts, Linking Greenery successfully commercialized the DESICA commercial airGreenification of each building for maximizing biodiversity conditioning system after conducting joint performance Designed to attract wild birds from the verification trials. Equipped with a dehumidifying system that can surrounding environment, wall greenification with a plant-based theme be controlled independently of air conditioning operation, the can be used in a multitude of different DESICA system provides far superior dehumidification capacity ways such as smoking areas surrounded by greenery, edible gardens, and others. than conventional air-conditioning units. As a result, even if the The Sumitomo Corporation Yaesu thermostat for air conditioning is set at a high room temperature, Building (rooftop garden) the temperature people actually feel in the room can be effectively lowered by reducing the humidity. Conversely, in winter, humidity can be increased to achieve a warming effect even at low room temperature settings. In this way, DESICA is a next-generation Review of greenification of every building technology that achieves both energy savings and comfort at the with ecosystem networks same time. While continuously upgrading the system further by Simply planting trees will not attract birds Monitoring tests and analysis of flight confirming actual operational status and performance, we plan to patterns of wild birds The Sumitomo Corporation ­Takebashi Building install this system as a standard feature in all of the buildings to be developed by the Company in the future. A new approach to air-conditioning combining energy efficiency Sumitomo Building Received the 22nd BELCA Award DESICA system: and comfort through individual control of humidity and temperature in the Long-life Category Delivers an optimum level of humidity Energy efficient and just the right The Sumitomo Building in Osaka, which is managed and operated without feeling overly cold, and without temperature, without being having to worry about temperature affected by humidity by the Group, received the 22nd BELCA Award in the Long-life Humidity Temperature category. Now in its 22nd year, this award was established in 1991 control control by the Building and Equipment Long-life Cycle Association Heat-pump air-conditioner Water pipe-free humidity controller (BELCA) to promote longer building lifecycles. Completed in 1962, Multi-unit air-conditioner for buildings DESICA with high levels of sensible heat the S­ umitomo Building celebrated its 50th anniversary last year. It received an award in the Long-life category based on high marks for proper building maintenance and management carried out over • Adjust the humidity to control wind-chill temperature. Creates a comfortable office environment while minimizing the need for excessive cooling. many years. In 2011, the • Energy efficient by limiting the temperature of rooms. Reduces annual ­Sumitomo Corporation running costs. ­Takebashi ­Building earned accolades for a greenery development project, winning Developing Greenery in Harmony With the Natural the BELCA Award in the Best Environment Renovation category. The most In Harumi Triton Square, Chuo-ku, Tokyo, which opened in April recent BELCA award is the 2001, we planted over 600 varieties of trees and flowering plants Group’s second such award. to create a relaxing and comfortable outdoor space where seasonal The Sumitomo Building flowers blooming at different times would provide year-round color Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2013 33 Environmental Initiatives Initiatives to Enhance Employee Awareness The Sumitomo Corporation Group actively conducts awareness-raising seminars related to environmental preservation for the purpose of enhancing the environmental awareness of employees. Seminars on Environmental Laws and Regulations From April to May 2013, Sumitomo Corporation jointly held five seminars (Tokyo: four seminars; Osaka: one seminar) on environmental laws and regulations with another company, which were attended by around 300 people in total. Companies must identify and comply with the specific legal requirements of the laws and regulations that apply to each of them. Trends in laws and regulations must be closely monitored at all times, because the regulatory content is constantly revised according to the times. These seminars were held in order to promote an understanding of the latest major environmental laws along with key environmental issues and trends, while reaffirming the importance of ensuring compliance at companies. A seminar on environmental laws and regulations Industrial Waste Treatment Procedure Seminar and On-site Treatment Facility Inspection Seminar In November 2012, Sumitomo Corporation held a seminar aimed at providing the necessary knowledge and skills required to fulfill the Company’s obligations to ensure proper waste disposal as a waste emitter. Led by an external guest lecturer, the seminar was intended for employees including those of Group companies. The classroom instruction held in the morning hours was attended by 260 people, including those taking part through televised broadcasts. The on-site inspection seminar held in the afternoon was attended by 65 people. The lecturer spoke clearly about such topics as basic knowledge of waste disposal operations, the relationships between various recycling laws and the Waste Disposal and Public Cleaning Act, the main points of on-site inspections of industrial waste intermediate treatment sites and specific methodologies, and industrial The waste treatment facility where on-site inspection waste disposal issues that arise in the course of daily operations. training took place Environmental Seminar on the Topic of “Plants: The Unshakeable Leading Player” An environmental seminar for employees of Sumitomo C ­ orporation and Group companies was held in June 2012, with guest lecturer Toyoki Kozai, Professor Emeritus of Chiba University, speaking on the topic of “Plants: the Unshakeable Leading Player.” The lecture provided an easily understood overview of the idea of recycling plants as a renewable resource, and trends in the development of artificial light horticulture as a new flora production system. The seminar took the viewpoint that global issues concerning the environment, as well as food and resources, had to be resolved simultaneously and in parallel by adopting common perspectives and methodologies. This seminar was attended by approximately 100 group employees at Sumitomo Corporation’s Head Office in Tokyo, and televised to approximately 30 Group officers and employees participating from seven An environmental seminar other locations in Japan, who were mainly in charge of environmental issues. Seminar participants said that the seminar offered them a rare glimpse into the technology and the economic and environmental advantages of flora production systems as a one-stop solution to the mutually related issues of conserving the environment, resources and food. Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2013 34 Environmental Performance Data To increase the reliability of its environmental performance data, Sumitomo Corporation engaged KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. to provide assurance. The procedures and results of this assurance engagement are included in this report. Please refer to page 61 “Independent Assurance Report” for further details about assurance engagement. * Data for electricity consumption, CO2 emissions (offices), waste emissions, and water consumption at head office, regional business units, offices and branch offices in fiscal 2010 and 2011 includes data from some Group companies. * Previous years’ data for electricity consumption, CO2 emissions (offices), waste emissions, water consumption, and office paper consumption have been revised to reflect a revision of the scope for data collection in line with actual management status. * Numbers of offices and companies are as of March 31, 2013. Electricity Consumption Number of offices/ * Sumitomo Corporation has set a Consumption (1,000 kWh) companies Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 target of reducing electricity consumption by 1% annually for its Head office, regional business units, offices head office, regional business units, 9 10,744 8,638 8,093 Japan and branch offices offices and branch offices. Group companies 70 494,243 457,917 459,526 Branches 12 151 163 165 Overseas Group companies 77 109,602 153,764 160,748 CO2 Emissions (Offices) Number * For the breakdown of CO2 emissions for the head office, regional business units, offices of offices/ and branch offices, Scope 1 is 225 tons and Scope 2 is 4,421 tons. Emissions (t-CO2) companies Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 * The above figures indicate total amounts of CO2 emissions stemming from use of electricity, utility gas and district heat (cooling/heating water), which are calculated using Head office, regional business 9 4,554 4,692 4,646 the following factors: units, offices and branch offices CO2 emission per floor space CO2 emission factors Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 Japan (t-CO2/thousand m2) 56.75 58.50 60.44 Electricity (kg-CO2/kWh) 0.316 0.429 0.441 (Change from previous year) (-12.6%) (3.1%) (3.3%) Utility gas adjusted based on standard 2.234 2.234 2.234 Group companies 70 162,807 201,454 208,132 heat value (t-CO2/thousand m³) Branches 12 48 70 71 Heat (head office) (t-CO2/GJ) 0.033 0.034 0.041 Overseas Heat (other than head office) (t-CO2/GJ) 0.057 0.057 0.057 Group companies 77 34,642 65,965 70,890 CO2 Emissions (Logistics, commuting and overseas business trips) Emissions (t-CO2) Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 * CO2 emissions from logistics are for cargoes in Japan where Sumitomo Corporation is the cargo owner according to the Act Concerning Rational Use of Energy. Head office, regional business * The emissions coefficients for CO2 emissions from commuting and overseas business Logistics 13,400 10,519 9,379 units, offices and branch offices trips were taken from the CO2 emissions per person-kilometer for each mode of transport when transporting travelers, as recorded in the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Japan Head office Commuting 753 740 821 Transport and Tourism publication “CO2 Emissions in the Transport Sector.” Overseas * Calculations for the CO2 emissions due to overseas business trips include only flights Head office 8,692 10,060 12,044 departing and arriving in Japan. Business trip destinations are classified into six areas business trips and a representative airport for each area is used to estimate the flight distance. * Following a revision of the method for data collection, previous years’ figures for CO2 emissions due to overseas business trips have been revised. Waste Emissions (General and industrial waste stemming from operation) Number of offices/ * Fiscal 2013 targets of Sumitomo Emissions (tons) companies Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 ­Corporation head office, regional business units, offices and branch Head office, regional business units, offices offices are set at 537 tons for general 8 1,090 1,917 1,302 and branch offices waste emissions from operations. Assuming a 92% recycling rate, 43 tons Japan Of the above, general waste emissions 8 586 559 542 of waste would be sent to landfill. stemming from operation (tons) Group companies 67 59,656 59,193 56,742 Overseas Group companies 37 10,810 14,541 14,527 Water Consumption Number of offices/ * Head office data is for the main building. Consumption (m3) companies Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 Head office, regional business units, offices 3 51,387 49,145 45,579 Japan and branch offices Group companies 31 2,228,701 2,231,708 2,386,123 Branches 9 5,976 5,405 5,507 Overseas Group companies 56 468,285 552,405 548,174 Office Paper Consumption Number of offices/ * Calculated from purchase amounts and Sheets purchased (1,000 sheets) companies Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 unit prices of A4 paper. * This item is not subject to assurance Head office, regional business units, offices engagement. Japan and branch offices 9 41,425 34,579 34,350 Group companies 54 155,016 144,955 142,494 Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2013 35 Environmental Initiatives Environmental Accounting Environmental Accounting for Fiscal 2012 (Thousands of yen) Environmental conservation costs Costs Main benefits (1) Business area cost Pollution prevention cost 3,335 Environmental conservation Global environment conservation cost 531,615 Resource circulation cost 67,030 Subtotal 601,979 (2) Upstream and Extra costs of green purchasing 203 Energy saving, resource saving, and waste downstream cost Additional cost for reducing the environmental impact of containers and packaging 217,021 reduction Costs for the collection, recycling, resale, and proper disposal of used products 0 Subtotal 217,224 (3) Administration cost Cost for the implementation and maintenance of an environmental management 399,020 ISO 14001 system Environmental communication Cost for disclosure of environmental information and environmental advertising 33,096 Environmental training Cost for environmental training of employees 20,886 Cost for environmental improvement measures 2,320 Subtotal 455,323 (4) R&D cost R&D costs to develop products that contribute to environmental conservation 622,987 Environmental business R&D costs to develop methods and technologies that can reduce environmental impact 4,550 caused during the manufacturing process Subtotal 627,537 (5) Social activity cost Cost for environmental improvement activities in areas other than Group premises and 6,704 Cooperation with NGOs and NPOs their surroundings Cost related to donation or financial support of environmental groups 22,936 Cost related to donation or financial support of local organizations 2,700 Subtotal 32,340 (6) Environmental Cost to restore the natural environment back to its original state 470 Restoring the natural environment back to its remediation cost Subtotal 470 original state Total 1,934,873 Data scope: The nine offices of Sumitomo Corporation and 28 Group companies (Thousands of yen) Total Amount 1,934,873 Sumitomo Corporation’s nine offices in Japan 28 Group companies 1,222,158 712,715 Data compilation: April 2012 to March 2013 Environmental Conservation and Economic Benefits The environmental conservation and economic benefits of the consumption of electricity, paper and water in fiscal 2012 were as follows. Environmental Environmental conservation and economic benefits are represented by a conservation benefits Economic benefits reduction from the previous year. Data scope: Items marked with * are for the nine offices of Sumitomo Electricity consumption* 545 MWh 10,355 thousand yen Corporation in Japan; the item marked with ** is for the three Paper consumption* 229 thousand sheets 181 thousand yen offices in Tokyo, Osaka and Nagoya. Water consumption** 3,566 m3 1,643 thousand yen Environmental Liabilities Identified At the Sumitomo Corporation Group, environmental risks associated with land, buildings and other tangible fixed assets of Sumitomo Corporation and Group companies are identified and monitored using the ISO 14001 multi-site management methods, focusing on asbestos, PCB and soil contamination. The Company endeavors to apply the data obtained as information useful for management in making decisions. Also, the obtained and relevant information is included in related in-house seminars and training programs, in order to facilitate the sharing of relevant information within the Group. Please refer to the following website for further details about our initiatives. http://www.sumitomocorp.co.jp/english/csr/environment/ Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2013 36 Social Initiatives Together With Employees Sumitomo Corporation is working strategically to recruit, develop and utilize people—our most valuable business resource. The Sumitomo Corporation Group is actively pursuing human resource policies for strategic and well-planned recruitment, development, and utilization of human resources who can understand and practice the Group’s Management Principles and Activity Guidelines in order to contribute broadly to society and continue creating new value over the medium and long term. Human Resource Management Policy Aiming to “Be the Best, Be the One” dissemination of Sumitomo’s Business Philosophy—the basis of Effective recruitment, development and utilization of globally the Management Principles—and developing human resources. competitive human resources are the most important issues for We use a combination of on-the-job training and off-the-job the Sumitomo Corporation Group to survive the current evertraining to promote effective development of human resources, changing business environment and achieve sustainable growth. with the former based on job rotations and the latter reflecting the Our concern is how we can ensure that each of our ­employees— characteristics of each business. our most important assets—will exercise their full potential in Under the medium-term management plan “Be the Best, Be line with the business strategy of their respective business the One 2014,” we are reinforcing human resource development units and based on the Group’s Management Principles and with an emphasis on wide-ranging frontline experience, while Activity Guidelines. promoting human resource development and utilization on a For this reason, we are making continuous efforts towards global basis. These efforts are guided by our basic policy of “What training and fostering new employees on a company-wide basis, We Aim to Be in Fiscal 2019, Our Centennial Year.” Vision of the Human Resources We Seek Human resource development will play an essential role in realizing our vision for the Company in its centennial year in 2019. SC VALUES In developing a vision of the human resources we seek to build our foundation for the next 100 years, we are promoting the 1. Integrity and Sound Management following three factors, starting with the necessary qualities, To comply with laws and regulations, while maintaining the highest action, and abilities: ethical standards. 2. Integrated Corporate Strength 1. People with spirit and a lofty sense of ethics To create no boundaries within the organization; always to act with a company-wide perspective. 2. People who accept diverse values but think for themselves and act on their own initiative 3. Vision To create a clear vision of the future, and to communicate to share it 3. People who can create new businesses themselves within the organization. without being constrained by existing frameworks 4. Change and Innovation To accept and integrate diversity in values and behavior, and to This vision of human resources has been determined on the embrace change as an opportunity for action. basis of the value standards defined by the Management 5. Commitment To initiate, own, and achieve organizational objectives. Principles and Activity Guidelines of the Sumitomo Corporation Group as well as in light of the nine core behaviors of the SC 6. Enthusiasm To act with enthusiasm and confidence, and to motivate others VALUES, which all employees are expected to share and practice. through such action. Sumitomo Corporation is seeking human resources who have 7. Speed clear vision and strong commitment, as well as demonstrate To make quick decisions and act promptly. leadership at their respective levels of the organization, through 8. Human Development the practice of the SC VALUES. We also seek professionals who To fully support the development of others’ potential. can take responsibility for what they do, display a broad spectrum 9. Professionalism of knowledge and high-level expertise in a particular area and To achieve and maintain high levels of expertise and skills. achieve superior performance. Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2013 37 Social Initiatives Recruitment: Recruitment Policy With Respect for Basic Human Rights Recruiting Diverse Human Resources Who Are Able and Eager Number of New Employees and Breakdown to Work in the Global Business Arena (Units: People) As a global business operator, we look for talented people who 300 Female Mid-career 93 51 are able and eager to work in the global business arena. To this Male Newgraduates end, we conduct fair recruitment activities with respect for basic 83 11 69 5 human rights and with no discrimination. Specifically, we apply the 200 209 195 48 7 186 same screening process to all employee candidates, irrespective 167 36 10 152 of their gender, academic background, or nationality, and our 131 122 123 selection criteria consist only of applicants’ aptitudes and abilities. 100 105 111 In addition to new graduates, we recruit mid-career employees on an ongoing basis, since attracting talented people who can deliver results from day one forms part of our human 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) resource strategy. We also welcome many employees with *Total number of new graduates and mid-career workers employees for key career track disabilities: as of April 1, 2013, employees with disabilities positions and clerical positions represented 2.03% of our workforce, a higher percentage than the statutorily required level of 2.00%. Human Resource Development: Strengthening Human Resource Development With an Emphasis on Diverse Frontline Experience Strategic and Well-planned Human Resource Development an early stage through job rotations; and to meet, work with, and At Sumitomo Corporation, human resources are developed using receive input and opinions from many people in diverse locations a combination of onand offthe job-training to achieve the in Japan and overseas. Through these experiences, employees characteristics of the “Human Resources We Seek.” These two are expected to become “people who accept diverse values but approaches are promoted by human resource systems. The first think for themselves and act on their own initiative” as well as 10 years are positioned as a period for fostering resources into “people who can create new businesses themselves without being Sumitomo Corporation professionals, with employees acquiring constrained by existing frameworks.” basic skills and general knowledge of trading company business through well-planned job rotations. Extension of the Human Resource Development Fund and Introduction of a Global Internship Program Concept Diagram of Development of “The Human Resources We Seek” At Sumitomo Corporation, the Human Resource Development Fund, established in fiscal 2010, helps promote strategic and Off-the-job training On-the-job training (formal training) well-planned human resource development at each business unit (practical) Acquisition of the and division by financially supporting a system for the overseas Skills developed through work necessary operational training of trainees (including those who engage in language or Planned, developmental knowledge and skills overseas studies) and employees participating in the overseas job rotation Opportunities to recognize them executive training program. We have also introduced a Global Internship Program in fiscal Promotion Promotion 2013. The main purpose of the program is to have employees Human resource systems develop a global Assessment and reward mindset through Growth through challenging targets and roles business Motivation for further development through fair experience abroad, rewards based on resultsjob rotation particularly in emerging markets Introduction of Company-wide Guidelines on Job Rotations that have not At Sumitomo Corporation, company-wide guidelines on job received many rotations have been introduced, calling for employees to trainees until now, participate in three different job assignments in their first 10 years and acquire of employment, including one overseas assignment. grounding in the This allows employees to experience working in a diverse local languages of A program making use of the Human Resource range of environments, including cross cultural environments, at emerging countries. Development Fund Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2013 38 300 Programs Offered Annually to Support Off-the-job We promote an active stance on growth opportunities as Training for Strategic and Well-planned HR Development “something to be taken by oneself” rather than “something to be Sumisho Business College (SBC) offers about 300 programs per given.” Based on this concept, we continue our best efforts to year that are designed to nurture the human resources we seek to improve SBC as a system that supports our prime talent who are achieve our vision, with a focus on three areas: 1) Management able to think and act on their own to deliver results, and eventually Principles, Activity Guidelines and SC VALUES, 2) Leadership, and contribute broadly to society through business. 3) Professional. In fiscal 2012, 10,619 trainees attended the programs (from Sumitomo Corporation alone). Overview of Sumisho Business College (SBC) Through a variety of training programs provided by SBC, we offer systematic leadership development, as well as instruction in Leadership Professional common basic business knowledge and skills required to work in the trading industry. Various other programs include advanced Vision Executive Management Program specific knowledge and skills necessary for investment, business Teamwork Long-term Programs Leader Development School Human resources management, and business creation/innovation. development Business Creator School One of the programs, which has been conducted since fiscal Innovative mindset, etc. Executive Program 2006, is the visit to the Besshi Copper Mine, the starting point of Logistics the Sumitomo Corporation Group. The main objective of this Accounting Level-specific Law training is to give leaders of organizations of the Group an Programs Risk opportunity to experience and assimilate Sumitomo’s Business Cognitive abilities, etc. Philosophy, the basis of the Group’s Management Principles, and to ensure that the business philosophy is passed on to younger employees. Management Principles / Activity Guidelines / SC VALUES Human Resource Development: Promoting Human Resource Development Measures Globally Stratified Program for Locally Hired Employees Overseas Enhancing Global Human Resource Strategies The Sumitomo Corporation Group is also working hard to deploy From fiscal 2013, we reorganized our overseas offices into four and develop locally hired employees in its overseas offices and broad regions. Under this new system, we are promoting Group companies in order to recruit and develop personnel who development and utilization of local human resources by can play a leading role in global business operations. organizations in each region. Specific measures include rotation of As part of these efforts, we conduct training programs for locally recruited staff within each region, and assigning staff from locally hired employees at different career levels (staff in charge, overseas offices and Group companies to important positions. In managers and senior executives). At the training programs, nearly tandem, we are promoting global human resource development 300 participants each year from all over the world come to the and utilization by providing support from Tokyo Head Office to Head Office in Tokyo to share the corporate DNA that the regional organizations with recruitment, establishing training Sumitomo Corporation Group is made up of and strengthen their systems, and other aspects. sense of unity as a member of the Group through reaffirming their understanding of Sumitomo’s Business Philosophy and Management Principles of the Group. In addition, they share Overseas Employees by Region (as of March 31, 2013) information on the Group’s management policies and strategies, (Units: People) and improve their Locally hired employees Hired by Head Office Total skills by attending China 478 71 549 various lectures. Asia 933 162 1,095 The training Middle East 232 41 273 programs also offer Europe 347 107 454 joint workshops in Africa 67 12 79 which Head Office North America 286 125 411 employees also South and Central America 215 31 246 participate. Oceania 61 20 81 Total 2,619 569 3,188 Training for locally hired employees overseas *Employees temporarily assigned to Group companies are not included in the above figures. Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2013 39 Social Initiatives Strengthening Globally Oriented Human Resource around the world, irrespective of Development: the Sumitomo Corporation Global HRD Center organization or country, meet for We opened the Sumitomo Corporation Global HRD Center in intensive discussions on the future Ginza, Chuo-ku, Tokyo, in April 2012 to serve as a training center visions and strategies of the ­Sumitomo to develop global talent and as a strategic multi-purpose facility. Corporation Group. In fiscal 2012, the The training center is fully utilized to promote our global human facility was used by a total of 9,364 resource development and diverse human resource activities, as people from throughout the Group. well as to provide a multi-purpose, versatile space used to assist Head Office functions. In this facility, global colleagues from Sumitomo Corporation Global HRD Center Utilization of Human Resources: Promoting Diverse Human Resource Activity Cultivating a Workplace Culture With Respect for Diversity both their professional and private lives find more energy and As the needs of workers have become increasingly diversified motivation, leading them to create new value. Moreover, in order across society, Sumitomo Corporation has been quick to to promote vibrant, positive working environments, we respond, addressing the issue of long overtime hours by communicate actively with the employees’ union, to which the promoting work-life balance, and striving to respond to various majority of employees belong (53.2% as of March 31, 2013), to social needs, such as encouraging more active involvement of enable us to reflect employees’ opinions as we formulate and female employees in business, extending the employment period, implement measures. and deploying non-Japanese national employees. We are Usage of Various Systems (Fiscal 2012) implementing a variety of initiatives to cultivate a culture at the workplace that respects the diversity of human resources so that System Number of users this diverse talent can capitalize on their different backgrounds to Spouse’s maternity leave 76 create new value and achievements in their respective fields, thus Leave to look after a sick child 107 contributing to the sustainable growth of the Group. Child-care leave* 25 *100% of female employees who gave birth during the fiscal year used this system Ratios of Male and Female Employees in Sumitomo Corporation (as of March 31, 2013) Providing Opportunities for Young Employees to Develop Male Female Their Careers as Well as for Senior Employees to Make the 4,046 1,167 *The numbers above Most of Their Experience include fixed-term Sumitomo Corporation has a Career Advisor Program in place to employees 0 2,000 4,000 6,000 provide opportunities for young employees to develop their (Units: People) careers and for senior employees to make the most of their experience. In this program, senior employees with abundant Average Employee Turnover Rate in Fiscal 2012 experience in their respective careers are chosen and designated as career advisors (CAs) for each division to support employee 3.29% Number of employees who left the company in fiscal 2012: 176 career development. Total number of employees as of April 1, 2012: 5,347 These CAs have three major roles to play: they provide support and advice to individuals (staff) and management in their organization (their managers), and act as a communication bridge between Promoting Work-Life Balance Programs and Measures individuals and the organization. The CAs thus support the career In April 2005, Sumitomo Corporation established the SCG development of each employee and creation of a good work Counseling Center, to promote mental health care for Group environment in Career Advisor System Overview employees. At the same time, we organized a Company-wide which employees Work-Life ­Balance (WLB) Promotion Project Team. Later, the can exercise Triton S ­ ukusuku Square in-house daycare center was established their capabilities to provide childcare services for Sumitomo Corporation Group and personalities Communication in employees. These are just some of the measures that we have to the maximum Organization the workplace Individuals introduced, along with various related systems such as spouse extent. maternity leave. The best way to achieve a good work-life balance differs for each person, depending on their values and lifestyle. Support Indirect support Support ­Sumitomo C ­ orporation believes that workers who are fulfilled in Career Advisors (CAs) Please refer to the following website for further details about our initiatives. http://www.sumitomocorp.co.jp/english/company/talent/ Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2013 40 Social Contribution Activities The Sumitomo Corporation Group, as a global organization, conducts various social contribution activities in many countries and regions around the world while working to further strengthen its relationships with local stakeholders in consideration of the unique social conditions of each community. 1 5 2 6 3 4 8 7 In Europe · CIS · Middle East and Africa In Japan • Support for the activities of Shakespeare’s Globe Theatre in contributing to the development of dramatic art and culture in local communities (UK) • Implementation of the Sumitomo Corporation Youth Challenge Program for the Revitalization of East Japan in support of young people working • Donation to Centrepoint, a group supporting young homeless people to help affected areas recover from the Great East Japan Earthquake 5 (see pages 45–46) • (UK) • Donation of operating funds and uniforms to local soccer teams (France) • Support for the Junior Philharmonic Orchestra 6 • Co-sponsor of Japan Foundation’s Nihon no Aki (Japanese Autumn) program for introducing Japanese culture (Russia) • Promotion of “barrier-free” movies 7 (see page 47) Hosting a company training and providing a homestay for university • Co-sponsor of Japanese speech contests (Russia, Ukraine, Kazakhstan) • students from China Acceptance of corporate internship by the Japan Ground Self-Defense • Support for AURORA CENTER, a local NGO developing operations supporting school attendance by children with disabilities (Romania) 1 • Force’s College Staff Cooperation with projects providing support for the employment of • Company visits by local university students (Czech Republic) 2 • individuals with disabilities • Support for the construction of an education and training facility at Qatar Participation in the Pink-ribbon Movement for the eradication of breast cancer • University (Qatar) • Support for demining activities (Angola) Organizing events for local residents hosted by commercial complexes • of the Sumitomo Corporation Group 8 Support for the operation of organizations providing IT education to • Support for TABLE FOR TWO activities • unemployed individuals with disabilities (South Africa) 3 • Support for the introduction of mobile libraries (South Africa) 4 • Cooperation with Japanese Red Cross Society blood donation campaigns • Support for infrastructure and health care improvements of local communities as part of the Ambatovy Nickel project (Madagascar) Support for environmental NPOs and NGOs through donations to the Keidanren Nature Conservation Fund and World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2013 41 Social Initiatives The Sumitomo Corporation Group’s Basic Principles on Social Contribution Activities OBJECTIVE ACTIVITIES APPROACH We, as a global organization, will work on social We will engage in social contribution activities We will perform and seek to continuously improve issues through our business activities and social aimed at developing the next generation of human our activities with modesty and high aspirations contribution activities with the aim of building a resources who will drive the sustainable and endeavor to maintain a high level of sustainable society by implementing the development of society, and contributing to local transparency while strengthening our relationships Sumitomo Corporation Group’s Management communities in areas we do business all over the with all our stakeholders. Principles and Activity Guidelines. world. We will also take part in various activities as a good corporate citizen. 9 14 10 15 16 11 13 12 17 In Asia · Oceania In Americas • Sumitomo Corporation Scholarship to help university students in Asia (various Asian countries) (see pages 43–44) • Support for the Center on Japanese Economy and Business, Columbia Business School (US) • Internship programs, work experience programs, and office tours for • Support for organizing Japan Day, an event to showcase Japanese culture (US) 14 • students (various Asian countries) • Courses bearing the Sumitomo Corporation name at Tsinghua University Support for art museums such as the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the Museum of Modern Art (MoMA) (US) • (Beijing) and Nankai University (Tianjin) in China, and National Economics University and Foreign Trade University in Hanoi, Vietnam (see page 47) Support for efforts to develop a cure for leukemia, Alzheimer’s, and other • Educational assistance for students in poverty-stricken areas in Anhui, Guangdong and Yunnan provinces (China) 9 • diseases (US) Donation of funds to support areas affected by catastrophic hurricane • Donation of uniforms and school supplies to elementary school children (Myanmar) 10 • Sandy (US) Support for The First Tee of Columbia Basin, a youth development • Support for educational and health care improvements in local program for children and teens ages 5 to 18, providing educational programs and life-enhancing values through the game of golf (US) • communities as part of the Tanjung Jati B coal fired power plant project and the Batu Hijau Mine (copper, gold) business (Indonesia) Support for the Great Mid-Columbia Duck Race held in Pasco, • Japanese language education and culture learning for junior high school students (Vietnam) (see page 47) • Washington (Model ducks are floated down a river towards a goal) (US) Donation to the University of Alaska Fairbanks’s Mining Engineering • Research Endowment Fund in connection with the Pogo Gold Mine Support for educational and infrastructure improvements in local project (US) • communities as part of overseas industrial park development projects (Vietnam, the Philippines, Indonesia) 11 Collection within a Group company for donating funds to the Children’s • Miracle Network, an organization supporting children’s hospitals in Donation of pharmaceuticals and medical equipment to local medical various regions (Canada) 15 • institutions (the Philippines) 12 • Support for redeveloping greenery surrounding local general hospitals Donation of wheelchairs, learning materials and playground equipment (Mexico) 16 • to orphanages for children with disabilities (Thailand) 13 Provision of food for underprivileged children in orphanages (India) • Support for educational and infrastructure improvements in local ­communities as part of the San Cristobal Mine (silver, zinc, lead) business (Bolivia) • Donation of Christmas cakes, school supplies and playground equipment to villages and elementary schools in close vicinity to company-owned forests, and co-sponsorship of local youth soccer teams (Chile) • Support for local cultural activities and sports events (Brazil) 17 Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2013 42 Developing the Next Generation of Human Resources: Sumitomo Corporation Scholarship Sumitomo Corporation by offering scholarships provides support in nurturing the next generation of human resources in various Asian countries that are in the process of developing. Scholarship Recipient Universities (Number of Individual Recipients) in Fiscal 2012 Jilin University (16) Peking University (20) Northeast Normal University (16) Tsinghua University (20) Changchun University (7) Renmin University of China (20) Changchun University of Technology (7) University of International Changchun Normal University (7) Business and Economics (20) Yanbian University (7) National University of Mongolia (30) Changchun Mongolian University of Science and Technology (20) Ulaanbaatar Tianjin Foreign Studies University (20) Mongolia Nankai University (20) Dalian University of Technology (20) Dalian Beijing Tianjin Qingdao University (20) University of the Punjab (20) Qingdao St. Stephen’s College (30) China Shanghai Sun Yat-sen University (20) Lahore Fudan University (20) Guangdong University of Foreign Studies (20) East China Normal University (20) Jinan University (20) Shanghai International Pakistan Studies University (20) Karachi East China University of Science Karachi University (16) New Delhi and Technology (15) Dhaka Guangzhou Shenzhen University (15) University of Dhaka (40) Shenzhen National Economics University (40) Bangladesh Hanoi Foreign Trade University (60) Jai Hind College (30) India Philippines Mumbai Manila Thailand University of the Philippines (11) Loyola College (15) Bangkok Institute of Technology of Cambodia (56) Chennai Vietnam National University of Management (40) Phnom Penh Ho Chi Minh City Cambodia Chulalongkorn University (36) Vietnam National University (60) Thammasat University (36) Universitas Negeri Jakarta (20) Politeknik Negeri Jakarta (20) Universitas Indonesia (60) Jakarta Indonesia Voices of Scholarship Students “I want to help people in need in Thailand.” “I want to devote myself to friendship I believe that great people make a country great between China and Japan.” and that the key to making great people is I believe I made a great life choice by enrolling in education. Thanks to the Sumitomo Corporation Japanese language studies. I gained my first Scholarship, I had the opportunity to further my exposure to a different culture by learning education and expand my view of society. Japanese. This enabled me to obtain a clearer However, when I participated in the volunteer view of commonalities and differences between camps of ­Chulalongkorn University in several Japanese and Chinese culture, as well as my Thitiporn remote areas of Thailand, I realized that many Zhong Yongjie own existence. Tongthipcharoen children were not receiving a proper education Northeast Normal University The scholarship that I received serves as a Chulalongkorn University (China) for economic reasons. recognition of my efforts so far, and has been a (Thailand) I want to do my best devoting myself to great encouragement to me. I will work even helping other people in need, in the hope that harder in the days to come to be indispensable they too will also have a chance to fulfill their to society and to do what I can to foster good dreams, in the same way that Sumitomo relations between China and Japan, so as to live Corporation helped to grant my wish. up to expectations. Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2013 43 Social Initiatives In 1996, we established the Sumitomo Corporation Scholarship as students. These individuals who completed their studies with the part of our 50th anniversary in the trading business. The program assistance of our scholarships are now actively engaged in a was born from our desire to offer support in nurturing the next variety of fields in each country. The Sumitomo Corporation generation of future leaders for advancement of countries in Asia. Scholarship program is operated in close cooperation with our We have expanded the program in stages to cover more regions business bases (overseas subsidiaries and offices) in the covered and universities in keeping with the needs of various countries, countries, capitalizing on our extensive global operating network. regions, and universities. In fiscal 2013, scholarships were granted We will continue these activities, striving to make program to about 1,000 students at 41 universities in 10 countries. Since advances attuned to national and regional characteristics. 1996, we have awarded scholarships to approximately 13,000 Activity Report Scholarship Awards Ceremonies Encourage Students Around the World In Mongolia, we awarded scholarships to a total of 50 students from the National University of Mongolia and the Mongolian University of Science and Technology in April 2013. At an award ceremony, a university president expressed his gratitude, saying that Japan offers an array of assistance to Mongolia and that this type of human resource development support is also extremely helpful. A student representative also delivered a powerful message in her speech, expressing appreciation for the assistance provided to students along with the support tied to national development. While scholarship award ceremonies take many forms with sponsorship by universities and Sumitomo ­Corporation, they are held every year in various regions providing opportunities for exchange with students. By introducing our global business operations, we are working to encourage a worldwide perspective and deepen understanding of Japan. Seeing how eager the students are to have the opportunity to advance their A scholarship award ceremony at the National studies also boosts the motivation of locally hired employees around the world. University of Mongolia Work Experience Programs Provide Exchange With Students In China, scholarship operations led to the implementation of a short-term work experience program inspired by a CSR person in charge at Sumitomo Corporation (China) Holding Ltd. In fiscal 2012, 32 university juniors and seniors participated in the work experience program at Sumitomo Corporation (Guangzhou) Ltd. Employees served as instructors, offering lectures on the company’s IT, logistics, tax, and human resource operations. The program also involved risk management drills and case studies of actual trading activities leveraging these skills, as well as on-site visits to Group companies. Students who attended the extensive three-day program gave it rave reviews. Students from differing fields of study inspired each other, expanding their horizons. There were also students who said their experience will be of help in contemplating their future course. We are also considering expanding the program to include sophomores in the future. A work experience program at Sumitomo Corporation (Guangzhou) Ltd. Voices of Locally Hired Employees Voice of a University Official “The scholarships are making a difference.” “We are proud to be a part of the ­Sumitomo When a Group officer met with a government Corporation’s social contribution program.” official, this individual apparently expressed his The University of Dhaka, Bangladesh, is grateful great fondness and appreciation for Sumitomo to Sumitomo Corporation for granting Corporation, having received a Sumitomo scholarships to 160 of our meritorious students Corporation Scholarship when he was in school. since 1997. The Sumitomo Corporation Knowing that this scholarship recipient is playing Scholarship is considered most prestigious Zhao Jun an active role in society really impressed upon us Mr. Jiban K Mishra among our students, and the recipients all feel General Affairs, Corporate that our scholarships are making a difference. Director of Planning and privileged and honored. The scholarship helps Communications & CSR Dept. Development students to be more attentive to their studies and Sumitomo Corporation China University of Dhaka encourages them towards achieving higher Group (Bangladesh) credentials. As an old and leading university of “I will do my best to make the ­Sumitomo Bangladesh, we are proud to be a part of the Corporation Scholarship more meaningful.” Sumitomo Corporation’s social contribution program. We sincerely hope that the program The Sumitomo Corporation Scholarship can help will help the scholarship students further their students reduce the financial burden on their understanding of Sumitomo Corporation and families and also make them proud and Japan, and lead to strengthening of the bond motivated because their efforts are recognized between our two countries. One day these by society. I was very pleased to hear that the brilliant students will become leaders of our Tran Thi Tuyet Trinh scholarship students are interested in the culture country in their respective fields and contribute Administration Department and mindset of the Japanese, and desire to greatly to the development of Asia. We hope that Sumitomo Corporation contribute to friendship between Vietnam and Vietnam LLC our relationship with Sumitomo Corporation will Japan. I will therefore do my best to make the continue forever. Sumitomo Corporation Scholarship more meaningful to the students who will shape the future of Vietnam. Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2013 44  eveloping the Next Generation of Human Resources: D Sumitomo Corporation Youth Challenge Program for the Revitalization of East Japan The Sumitomo Corporation Youth Challenge Program for the Revitalization of East Japan supports the revitalization of regions and the rebuilding of the daily lives of those affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake. The five-year program that began in fiscal 2012 is part of our policy of providing long-term assistance for recovery. Program Overview Over two years have passed since the Great East Japan In fiscal 2013, we are supporting the internship activities of 19 Earthquake. While there are concerns that people’s memories of students at 12 groups in Miyagi and ­Fukushima prefectures. The the disaster will erode with time, a large number of people are still needs of affected regions will continue to change as time passes, working to help get the affected regions back on their feet. but we will keep believing in the power of youth to take on Since right after the earthquake struck, the fundamental policy challenges and provide long-term assistance for their growth and of Sumitomo Corporation has been to provide long-term recovery of the affected areas. assistance for recovery. We began by providing donations and emergency aid supplies, and dispatching employees to offer Activity and Research Subsidy assistance in affected regions through our volunteer program for Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 earthquake disaster reconstruction. We have followed up with Subsidy Subsidy Subsidized (Thousands of Subsidized (Thousands of support matching the affected regions’ changing needs over time. Category groups yen) groups yen) In fiscal 2012, we kicked off the Sumitomo Corporation Youth Course A 22 10,570 23 10,730 Challenge Program for the Revitalization of East Japan. Through Course B (new) 12 29,490 16 41,320 this five-year independent program of ours, we are backing up Course B (continued) – – 9 26,120 regional revitalization initiatives by the young generation* so as to Total 34 40,060 48 78,170 support recovery in the affected areas and develop the next *Course A: Activity and research conducted discretionally by youth teams, circles and groups Course B: Activity and research organized primarily by NPOs and universities and initiated generation of human resources. mainly by the youth * The young generation in our program refers to youth in their late teens to twenties who are mainly university and graduate students. Internship Program Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 The program has two parts. The activity and research subsidy Prefecture Sponsor groups Interns Sponsor groups Interns supports youth-led activities and research targeting the Miyagi 6 7 8 13 revitalization of regions and the rebuilding of daily lives for those Fukushima – – 4 6 affected by the disaster. The internship program supports longTotal 6 7 12 19 term internships for youth at NPOs and other organizations active Subsidy Approx. ¥5 million ¥10–15 million (planned) in the affected regions. Through the activity and research subsidy, we have s­ upported the activities of 34 organizations in fiscal 2012 and are assisting 48 organizations in fiscal 2013. We not only simply offer financial aid, Message From the Selection Committee Chairman but also hold the Sumitomo Corporation Youth Challenge Forum in the middle of the fiscal year. At the forum, all of the Why Support Youth organizations present interim reports on their activities. This Simply put, the program is unlike others in provides the organizations with an opportunity to spread the word that it stems from the fusion of two goals: to about their work, gain new insights through information sharing help out in disaster-stricken areas and to that they can utilize in future activities, and forge networks encourage youth development in the process. While the former is key, the amongst themselves. The forum also includes a symposium program aims much higher by also focusing bringing experts in relevant fields into the mix. on fostering youth playing a role in recovery Mr. Takeshi Jitsuyoshi Turning to the internship program, seven students gained nine Director and Executive as an integral component of long-term months of experience serving at six groups in Miyagi Prefecture in Secretary human resource development. Through Kobe Empowerment Center fiscal 2012. While the interns were active in different ways and Senior Managing Director this, the program’s ambition is to revitalize places, they all successfully served out their terms, exchanging Hyogo Community Foundation affected regions, and by extension Japanese society. There are lots of information through blogs participants set up and networking corporate programs offering aid to affected areas of eastern Japan, but events, and learning through trial and error along the way. We I feel that this program excels because it offers a rare focus on received feedback from individuals completing the program such cultivating people. While funding comes from Sumitomo Corporation, as “I learned the importance of putting ideas into action” and naturally it is the Company’s officers and employees who generate “Being personally affected by the earthquake, taking part in these funds coupled with the understanding and support of activities has enabled me to move forward.” Seeing how much shareholders and business partners that make the program a reality. I these young men and women have grown through the program would like to express my gratitude to these stakeholders. Look forward to more from this program through which many youth play an active role really brought home to us its significance. and grow. Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2013 45 Social Initiatives Activity and Research Subsidy Voices of Groups Subsidized in Fiscal 2012 As I Imagine Kamaishi and Kansai 20 Keeping Watch Over Higashi Matsushima Years from Now After the Disaster People from four universities in the Kansai region In fiscal 2012, we helped farmers in the city of came together to form our group, which works to Higashi Matsushima clear debris from farmland help enliven the temporary shopping district in and relocate vinyl greenhouses, and assisted Kamaishi, Iwate Prefecture. In fiscal 2012, we with memorial services in the city’s Omagari conducted a tour of support for Iwate in which district. For the memorial services, we made Miyu Maekawa female Kansai area university students Tomoya Hirano lanterns together with local residents and A junior at the Nara Women’s participated and planned regional revitalization A sophomore at the Tohoku decorated them with inscriptions of the character University Department of events in the shopping district, and joined up University School of meaning “pray,” lotus flowers, and the like. We Language and Culture Engineering Institute for Human Diversity with people from the shopping district to hold a Mimamori-Tai heard that attendees were touched by the Japan workshop showcasing Kamaishi’s attractions. A student-organized group lanterns. Through our activities, we have come to With these and our other activities, we constantly providing local assistance feel that we must keep working to bring to light asked ourselves, “As university students from needs in the affected regions that have not yet the Kansai region, what can we do to help?” been fully uncovered. Every time I visit Kamaishi, I am captivated by the strength of the people there, and how they forge ahead with a smile on their face despite grim conditions. I want to keep working to get the word out in Kansai about all the city of Kamaishi has to offer, working with the locals to light up the once defunct shopping district with smiles. A workshop involving local shop An event for invigorating the temporary Removing stones scattered all over a field Handmade lanterns light up the memorial owners and students from Kansai and quarters of the Kamaishi A­ oba-Koen to revive it as farmland service with calligraphy and patterns Iwate Prefecture Shopping District Internship Program Voices of Sponsor Group and a Student Intern in Fiscal 2012 The Lessons We’ve Learned The Importance of Relating to Others We learned a lot by having Aya Abe as a At the NPO Switch, I assisted with transitioning student intern. people with mental disorders into the workforce. Watching her learn the value of firmly I got involved because I received support when I grasping what the other person’s heart is saying, was affected by the Great East Japan despite finding it challenging to really listen, Earthquake and I wanted strongly to give back was heartwarming. by providing assistance this time. I began by Ms. Yuka Takahashi The straightforward outlook that she Aya Abe learning about mental illness from square one Sponsor Group brought as a student intern rather than a Student Intern and supporting the operation of the Chairperson of the Board supporter taught us the importance of thinking A senior at the Ishinomaki organization’s mental health program. While I Switch Senshu University School of simply. I remain encouraged by Ms. Abe’s Business Administration also gained knowledge from reading, I learned a words: “I intend to treasure what I learned here.” tremendous amount by interacting with patients and staff in the program, and listening to what various people had to say. I will continue to cherish human relationships and want to contribute to society. Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2013 46 Contributing to Local Communities All Over the World Operating Courses Bearing the Sumitomo Corporation Name at Two Chinese Universities To support development of the next generation of human resources, we have been active since 2006 in operating courses bearing the Sumitomo Corporation name at two of China’s leading universities—Nankai University (Tianjin) and Tsinghua University (Beijing). In April 2013, Motoyuki Oka, Senior Advisor of Sumitomo Corporation, presented a lecture on the theme “What Makes a Good Organization” at Tsinghua University. About 150 university students and graduate students attended the lecture, which was followed by an in-depth discussion. Through these courses, we hope many students in China will gain a better understanding of Japan’s business world, and serve as a bridge for economic exchange with Japan in the future. Senior Advisor Oka of Sumitomo Corporation lecturing at Tsinghua University Operating Japanese Language Classes in Vietnam Since 2006, Sumitomo Corporation has been operating ­Japanese language classes for junior high school students in Da Nang, a city located in the central region of Vietnam. The program is designed to provide opportunities for children in Vietnam to learn about and develop an interest in Japan and its culture while learning the language. The lessons are taught to about one hundred junior high school students in eight classes by an employee of Sumitomo Corporation who has a national license to teach Japanese. Many program graduates have passed the Japanese-Language Proficiency Test with flying colors. But the program is not just about learning the language. It also introduces many aspects of Japanese culture, including the different seasonal celebratory rituals, and traditional Japanese pastimes such as doing origami and cat’s cradles. Among other varied activities promoting a greater understanding of Japan are field trips to factories A graduation ceremony for the Japanese language classes on the outskirts of Da Nang run by Japanese companies. Activities as a Good Corporate Citizen Cooperating in the Promotion of Barrier-Free Environments at Expo 2012 Yeosu Korea Sumitomo Corporation and Sumitomo Corporation Korea Ltd. worked together to create an audio description as part of a ­barrier-free initiative to help make the Japan Pavilion at the International Exposition in 2012, held in South Korea’s southern city of Yeosu, fully accessible to all in the spirit of hospitality. Sumitomo Corporation has been promoting barrier-free movies since 2004. Our cooperation in providing an audio description to the pavilion enabled visitors with impaired vision to also enjoy the exhibit. In addition, about 250 people, including 25 Yeosu locals with disabilities who attended the Universal Design Symposium sponsored by Saga Prefecture during the Expo, watched a barrier-free version of the popular Japanese cartoon “Doraemon.” Sumitomo Corporation Korea employees helped to run the event, serving as volunteers performing tasks including interpretation and guiding guests with disabilities. This was the first screening of The Universal Design Symposium “Doraemon” accompanied by subtitles and audio descriptions in South Korea to enable the visual and hearing impaired to also enjoy the show. Saga Prefecture Governor Yasushi Furukawa emphasized the need to promote barrier-free films. “As we get more and more movies like this, life becomes easier,” he noted. “We must therefore promote the expansion of the Sumitomo Corporation Group’s efforts.” Through ongoing promotion of barrier-free movies, we aim to make society more livable for everyone. Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2013 47 Social Initiatives Providing Long-term Assistance for Recovery From the Great East Japan Earthquake When the Great East Japan Earthquake struck on March 11, 2011, the Sumitomo Corporation Group wasted no time in coming together to collect and deliver emergency aid supplies, as well as make donations. This was only the beginning. We also made a commitment to long-term assistance for both the reconstruction of industries and humanitarian relief, asking ourselves how we can keep putting our diverse business bases in various fields and regions as an integrated trading company to work in post-disaster recovery. Assistance for Industrial Reconstruction Supporting Recovery of the Fish Processing Industry in Kesennuma The city of Kesennuma in Miyagi Prefecture sustained grave damage to its core fish processing industry from the tsunami and major fires. Getting the industry back on its feet is an urgent task, as efforts to rebuild factories have been delayed by damage to buildings and land subsidence along the coast where factories are concentrated, and this has been compounded by problems such as the loss of sales channels and employment. Sumitomo Corporation and Sumitomo Corporation Tohoku Co., Ltd. teamed up with Mitsui & Co., Ltd. to contribute to rapid, creative reconstruction of the industry in cooperation with Miyagi Prefecture, Kesennuma City, and the local chambers of commerce. This trading company coalition is helping to develop a recovery business model for the sector by assisting with the activities of the Kesennuma Shishiori Fisheries A general assembly commemorating the ­Kesennuma Shishiori Fisheries Processing Cooperative Association Processing Cooperative Association, which business operators united to form following first anniversary the earthquake. Humanitarian Assistance Sumitomo Corporation offers various humanitarian assistance programs, such as the Sumitomo Corporation Youth Challenge ­Program for the Revitalization of East Japan, using its extensive partnerships and know-how developed through its ongoing social contribution activities. Junior Philharmonic Orchestra Barrier-free Movie Screenings Event to Sell Local Products From Grief Care Program (JPO) We were spurred into action in 2011 by Disaster-Stricken Areas We offered a grief care program in a The Junior Philharmonic Orchestra, people noting that “There is a variety of In the grand lobby of Harumi Triton temporary housing complex in Natori which Sumitomo Corporation supports, support for disaster-struck regions, but Square where Sumitomo Corporation’s City, Miyagi Prefecture to help long-term held a charity concert for Great East little assistance for people with Head Office is located, we held a sales evacuees heal emotionally. (August– Japan Earthquake relief in Natori City, disabilities.” In 2012, we held a barrierevent offering products from a facility in November 2012, February 2013) Miyagi Prefecture where it performed free movie screening in Sendai City, Miyagi Prefecture supporting with the local Sendai Junior Orchestra. Miyagi Prefecture with assistance from independence for people with disabilities. Sumitomo C ­ orporation matched sales the Miyagi Welfare Division for Persons We received feedback from customers from the concert, with all proceeds going with Disabilities. Miyagi Prefecture such as, “This was a good event to the Ashinaga Tohoku Rainbow House Governor Yoshihiro Murai expressed providing shoppers easy access to good Construction Fund. (November 2012) thanks for the initiatives for ensuring that merchandise and contributing to the people with disabilities can also Tohoku region’s recovery at the same participate. (December 2012) time.” (February 2013) Sumitomo Corporation provides a running update of the Group’s social contribution activities around the world in the form of activity reports published on our corporate website to provide a broader overview including activities not mentioned in this publication. http://www.sumitomocorp.co.jp/csr/contribution/report/ (Japanese only) Social Contribution Activity Report Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2013 48 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance System We believe that the ultimate goals of corporate governance are “improving management efficiency” and “maintaining sound management” as well as “ensuring management transparency” to achieve the first two goals. Based on this belief, we are working to establish a corporate governance system that serves the interests of shareholders and all other stakeholders. Our approach to corporate governance is embodied in the “Sumitomo Corporation Corporate Governance Principles,” which can be accessed from the following web page. http://www.sumitomocorp.co.jp/english/company/governance/detail/principle/ Outside Directors help to ensure appropriate decision-making in Features of Our Corporate Governance System board meetings and further enhancement of the supervisory function. We believe that we can achieve the ultimate goals of We have adopted a corporate auditor system, believing that it is corporate governance by reinforcing management oversight by the most legitimate means of improving the effectiveness of our independent Outside Directors and Outside Corporate Auditors. corporate governance to enhance and reinforce it through auditing Based on “Sumitomo’s Business Philosophy,” we have from diversified external viewpoints. We have five Corporate established the Sumitomo Corporation Group’s Management Auditors, three of whom are Outside Corporate Auditors. Of these Principles and Activity Guidelines, and work to enforce these three, two are legal experts (a former President of the Tokyo High principles and guidelines among all officers and employees, in Court and a former Prosecutor-General) and one is an accounting order to share the basic values that must be respected by the expert – ensuring an auditing system that incorporates a diversity Sumitomo Corporation Group, including compliance with laws of perspectives. Furthermore, two Outside Directors were elected and regulations. at the 145th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on From the perspective of maintaining sound management, we June 21, 2013 so that through their diverse perspectives, the have developed a system for ensuring compliance with laws and The Company’s Corporate Governance System General Meeting of Shareholders Election/ Consent to a submission of proposition for Election/ Election/ Dismissal election of Corporate Auditors and for Dismissal Dismissal election of Accounting Auditors Deliberation/ Dismissal Reporting Directors Corporate Auditors Remuneration (Collaboration) Accounting Auditors Committee Board of Directors (Chairman of the Board of Directors) Board of Corporate Auditors Audit Report Assistance Corporate Auditors’ Election/Dismissal/ Administration Accounting Supervision (Collaboration) Audit Department Audit Important Company-wide Committees* Management Council President and CEO Internal Auditing Department Internal Audit Internal Control Committee Loan and Investment Committee Business Units Compliance Committee Domestic and Corporate Group Overseas Offices Subsidiaries and CSR Committee Associated Companies * Management Council: Exchange of opinions and information on basic policy and important matters related to management The Internal Control Committee: Overall management and timely evaluation of internal controls, and the development, implementation and promotion of basic internal control policies, among other duties Loan and Investment Committee: Deliberation of important matters, such as investment and financing Compliance Committee: Enhancement of Group compliance focused on “maintaining sound management” Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2013 49 Corporate Governance regulations by establishing a Compliance Committee and Limits on Term of Office for the Chairman of the Board of introducing a “Speak-Up System” for internal reporting, among Directors and the President and CEO other measures. Guided by the belief that management itself must In principle, the positions of Chairman of the Board of Directors conduct its duties with high ethical standards, we have clearly and the President and CEO are clearly defined and separate in stated in the “Sumitomo Corporation Corporate Governance order to ensure mutual supervision and both positions cannot be Principles” that in principle, the term of office for the Chairman of held simultaneously by one person. In principle, the term of office the Board of Directors and the President and CEO are each limited for the Chairman of the Board of Directors and the President and to six years in total. CEO are each limited to six years in total. These limitations on the tenure of top management help minimize the possibility of governance problems. Framework for “Improving Management Efficiency” and “Maintaining Sound Management” Establishment of the Advisory Body to the Board of Directors With the aim of enhancing the transparency and objectivity of Directors and the Board of Directors decision-making processes with regard to the remuneration of Optimization of Size of Board of Directors Directors and Executive Officers, we established the We halved the number of Board members from 24 in 2003. As of Remuneration Committee. Functioning as an advisory body to the November 2013, the Board has 12 members. Through this Board of Directors, no fewer than half of the Committee members optimized Board of Directors, which oversees the operations of are from outside the Company. The Remuneration Committee is in the business and serves as the Company’s decision-making body charge of studying remuneration and bonuses of Directors and concerning key management matters, we aim to facilitate Executive Officers, and reports the results of its studies to the substantial and active discussion as well as to promote greater Board of Directors. efficiency and effectiveness in the decision-making process. Election of Outside Directors Limiting Term of Office for Directors For the purpose of Sumitomo Corporation ensuring appropriate In June 2005, the term of office for Directors was reduced from decision-making in board meetings and further enhancement of two years to one year. We aim to clarify the responsibility of supervisory functions through diverse perspectives, two Outside management among members of management each fiscal year. Directors were elected at the 145th Ordinary General Meeting of This, in turn, helps ensure fast reaction times to changes in Shareholders of Sumitomo Corporation held on June 21, 2013. business conditions. They fulfill the standards related to independence set by the Tokyo Stock Exchange and other exchanges. Particulars Regarding the Remuneration of the Company’s Directors Particulars regarding the remuneration of the Company’s Directors and Corporate Auditors for fiscal 2012 are as follows: Classification Number of payees Total amount of Additional information remuneration, etc. Directors 16 persons 1,155 million yen The breakdown of the total remuneration in the column to the left is as follows: (1) Monthly remuneration 788 million yen (2) Bonuses resolved at the 145th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders 244 million yen (3) Amount recorded as expenses for granting the Eleventh New Share Acquisition Rights (issued on July 31, 2012) 15 million yen (4) Amount recorded as expenses for granting the Seventh New Share Acquisition Rights (for a stock-linked compensation plan) (issued on July 31, 2012) 91 million yen (5) Amount recorded as expenses for granting the Sixth New Share Acquisition Rights (for a stocklinked compensation plan) (issued on July 31, 2011) 17 million yen Corporate Auditors 5 persons 126 million yen The remuneration in the column to the left is the aggregate total of the Corporate Auditors’ monthly (particulars relating (3 persons) (40 million yen) remuneration. to Outside Corporate Auditors) 1. As of the end of the fiscal 2012, we had 11 Directors and 5 Corporate Auditors. 2. No Director of the Company is concurrently an employee of the Company. 3. T he maximum amount of monthly remuneration to Directors is 75 million yen per month, resolved at the 118th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 27, 1986. 4. The maximum amount of monthly remuneration to Corporate Auditors is 11 million yen per month, resolved at the 125th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 29, 1993. Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2013 50 Reason for selection and brief outline of career of the Outside Auditor’s Administration Department is assigned to assist Directors are as follows: Corporate Auditors, so that the auditing system functions effectively and without hindrance. Akio Harada Reason for selection and brief outline of career of the Outside Reason for selection Corporate Auditors are as follows: Akio Harada is deemed to be qualified for the role of Outside Director because he possesses highly specialized knowledge Tsuguoki Fujinuma accumulated over many years as a prosecutor and lawyer, and a wealth of practical experience and on the grounds of his character Reason for selection and insight, and was therefore elected to the post. Tsuguoki Fujinuma has a broad range of expertise, including on Brief outline of career matters of finance and accounting, and long years of experience as December 1999 Superintending Public Prosecutor of the Tokyo an accountant. He was selected and asked to perform audits from High Public Prosecutors Office a broad perspective on the grounds that his character and insight July 2001 Prosecutor-General are most suited for the position. October 2004 Attorney at Law (present position) Brief outline of career June 2005 Outside Corporate Auditor of Sumitomo Corporation June 1993 Representative Associate, Ota Showa Audit Corporation (now Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC) June 2013 Outside Director of Sumitomo Corporation (present position) May 2000 President, International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) July 2004 Chairman and President, The Japanese Institute Kazuo Matsunaga of Certified Public Accountants July 2007 Advisor, The Japanese Institute of Certified Public Accountants (present position) Reason for selection June 2008 Outside Corporate Auditor of Sumitomo Corporation (present position) Kazuo Matsunaga is deemed to be qualified for the role of Outside Director because he held a series of important posts over many years at the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and possesses broad knowledge and experience in fields including resources, Mutsuo Nitta energy, and industrial policy and on the grounds of his character and insight, and was therefore elected to the post. Reason for selection Brief outline of career Mutsuo Nitta has a broad range of expertise and long years of July 2008 Director-General, Economic and Industrial Policy experience as both a judge and lawyer. He was selected and asked Bureau to perform audits from a broad perspective on the grounds that his July 2010 Vice-Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry character and insight are most suited for the position. June 2013 Outside Director of Sumitomo Corporation Brief outline of career (present position) December 2004 President of the Tokyo High Court April 2007 Attorney at Law (present position) Corporate Auditors and the Board of Corporate Auditors June 2009 Outside Corporate Auditor of Sumitomo Corporation (present position) Enhancement of Corporate Auditing Framework October 2012 Chairman of Tokyo Metropolitan Public Safety To further strengthen external views within the corporate Commission auditing framework, we added one external auditor in June 2003, bringing the number of external auditors to three out of the five members on the Board of Corporate Auditors. Of these three, two Haruo Kasama are legal experts (a former President of the Tokyo High Court and a former Prosecutor-General) and one is an accounting expert— Reason for selection ensuring an auditing system that incorporates a diversity of Haruo Kasama has a broad range of expertise and long years of perspectives. The three external Corporate Auditors fulfill the experience as both a prosecutor and lawyer. He was selected and standards related to independence set by the Tokyo Stock asked to perform audits from a broad perspective on the grounds Exchange and other exchanges. that his character and insight are most suited for the position. Brief outline of career Ensuring Audit Effectiveness June 2010 Superintendent Public Prosecutor of Tokyo High Corporate Auditors attend meetings of the Board of Directors and Public Prosecutors Office all other important internal meetings, to obtain the information December 2010 Prosecutor-General necessary for proper auditing. Corporate Auditors also meet the October 2012 Attorney at Law (present position) Chairman of the Board of Directors and the President and CEO June 2013 Outside Corporate Auditor of Sumitomo every month to exchange opinions on material issues regarding Corporation (present position) management policy and auditing. Moreover, the C ­ orporate Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2013 51 Corporate Governance Message From an Outside Director I Will Do My Best Applying My Knowledge and Experience as an Outside Corporate Auditor I have gained eight years of experience since my Directors’ meetings based on diverse perspectives, appointment as an outside corporate auditor for and to further strengthen the function for supervising Sumitomo Corporation in 2005. I believe Sumitomo management. I became one of the two outside Corporation constantly strives to realize a high directors that have been appointed. It is not an easy standard of corporate governance through active task for an external person to get an accurate grasp investments of its corporate resources, such as of the situation surrounding important matters for a organizations, human resources and funds. To date, company and deliberate on them. Looking ahead, as Sumitomo Corporation has made its corporate an outside director of Sumitomo Corporation, I will governance more efficient by strengthening and make use of the knowledge I have acquired through enhancing its corporate auditors system. my many years of experience in the legal profession, I consider that the presence of outside corporate not to mention the knowledge I gained as an outside auditors ensures that Sumitomo C ­ orporation’s corporate auditor of the Company. Based on this corporate governance is sufficiently effective. There knowledge, I intend to take a wide perspective as I are plenty of systems in place to allow the outside participate in the opinion-forming process of the corporate auditors to perform their roles to maximum Board of Directors. effect; for example, they can look through the minutes Sumitomo Corporation is a global company with of all important meetings that take place in the a long history as an integrated trading company. In Company. I myself actively provided advice at Board responding to the needs of the times, Sumitomo of Directors meetings as an outside corporate auditor Corporation finds increasing opportunities to create Akio Harada to ensure no problems would arise with regard to value for society as a project facilitator, in addition to Outside Director leadership by management and risk taking by its conventional trading activities. This requires the Lawyer individual business units. However, the position had Sumitomo Corporation to bring together a variety of Appointed as limitations too: I was not responsible for participating knowledge and experience, and use them to harness outside corporate auditor in 2005 in the formation of opinions at the Board of all of its integrated strengths. My objective as an Appointed as Directors meetings. outside director is to ensure that these integrated outside director in 2013 In 2013, Sumitomo Corporation decided to strengths generate stakeholder benefits through the establish the position of outside director. The purpose Group’s business activities. is to realize appropriate decision-making at Board of Message From an Outside Corporate Auditor The Heart of Our Corporate Governance is Sumitomo’s Business Philosophy I was appointed as an outside corporate auditor of underlying 400 year-old Sumitomo’s Business Sumitomo Corporation in 2008. In this role, I have Philosophy permeate the organization. Moreover, I applied my knowledge and experience in corporate believe that this is the heart of Sumitomo accounting from a global perspective, gained from my Corporation’s corporate governance. In this context, appointments as Chairman of the International from 2013 the Company is appointing two outside Federation of Accountants and Chairman of The directors. This move will further strengthen the Japanese Institute of Certified Public Accountants, in corporate governance system, and I expect it to raise performing my duties. the effectiveness of corporate governance. I attend the meetings of the Board of Directors of In 2013, the Company disclosed a vision, “What Sumitomo Corporation and I feel that the environment We Aim to Be,” in time for the 100th ­anniversary of the of these meetings is conducive to the exchange of establishment of Sumitomo Corporation in 2019. To extremely frank and lively opinions. Even in my role as realize this vision, ­Company has positioned the an outside corporate auditor, opportunities are two-year period in the BBBO2014 medium-term provided to receive briefings in advance on matters management plan as the stage to thoroughly that will be discussed at the meetings, enabling us to enhance Group earning power and head for an even actively participate in discussions at the Board of higher level of profit growth by maintaining financial Directors meetings. In order to proactively elicit soundness and building a robust earnings foundation. opinions from outside the Company, the Company I believe this plan confirms that Sumitomo Tsuguoki Fujinuma has a unique system in which outside directors and Corporation’s identity is not only the achievement of Outside Corporate Auditor corporate auditors meet with the Chairman of the earnings growth but also the maintenance of financial Certified Public Accountant Board of Directors and the President and CEO each soundness. The Company’s business operations are Appointed as month to discuss various topics ranging from current both global and diverse. Consequently, the Company outside corporate auditor in 2008 affairs to business matters. faces not only a variety of business opportunities, but One of the characteristics of Sumitomo also a variety of risks, including in the areas of ­Corporation is that all officers and employees have a business risk and country risk. As an accounting strong awareness of the pertinent issues. This point specialist, I hope to proffer extensive advice while illustrates just how deeply Sumitomo Corporation applying my knowledge and experience to minimize Group’s Corporate Mission Statement and its these risks to the fullest extent. Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2013 52 Collaboration Between Internal Auditing Department and English-language translation of the notice on our website. We Accounting Auditors have allowed our shareholders to exercise their voting rights via To ensure audit efficiency, Corporate Auditors interact closely with the Internet using personal computers since 2004 and via the the Internal Auditing Department, receiving reports on internal Internet using mobile phones since 2005. In 2007, we introduced audit plans and their results in a timely manner. In addition, the Electronic Voting Platform operated by Investor Corporate Auditors exchange information with and monitor the Communication Japan, Inc. (ICJ), instituted by Tokyo Stock auditing activities of the Accounting Auditors through regular Exchange, Inc. and others. The new platform allows institutional meetings. By attending audit review meetings with the Accounting investors sufficient time to thoroughly examine the propositions to Auditors and observing inventory audits, the Corporate Auditors be resolved at the meeting. constantly work to improve audit efficiency and quality. Furthermore, Corporate Auditors attend meetings of the Disclosure of Various Information Internal Control Committee and request reports on the status of Our corporate website endeavors to ensure the provision of internal control systems from other departments responsible for proactive and timely disclosure of various documents and internal control, along with their cooperation on audits. materials containing information that may be useful in making investment decisions. These documents and materials include Introduction of an Executive Officer System financial results, yukashoken houkokusho (Japanese annual We have introduced an executive officer system with the aim of securities reports), and the Company’s presentation materials. clarifying the responsibilities and authority for execution and Moreover, the website provides Sumitomo Corporation’s Annual strengthening the monitoring function of the Board of Directors. Report. The website also presents features compiled to introduce We currently have 42 Executive Officers (as of November 30, Group-wide topics such as the projects the Company operates all 2013) selected by the Board of Directors. Of these, nine Executive over the world. Officers also serve concurrently as Directors, including five who are also General Managers of Business Units. In this way, we aim Investor Relations to prevent gaps between decisions made at Board of Directors In addition to working to enhance the disclosure of information on meetings and the execution of those decisions. our website, in order to ensure direct communication with shareholders and other investors, we hold quarterly meetings attended by management to provide information on our financial System for Ensuring Management Transparency results for analysts and institutional investors. For overseas investors, we periodically visit the United States, the United Basic Policy on Information Disclosure Kingdom, and other countries in Europe and Asia to hold one-onTo bring an accurate understanding of the Company’s one meetings with investors in each region. In addition, in fiscal management policies and business activities to all our stakeholders, 2004 we began regularly holding meetings with individual we shall strive to make full disclosure, not limiting ourselves to the investors in Japan. In fiscal 2012, we held five such meetings in disclosure of information required by law but also actively pursuing four cities, attended by a total of 1,200 individual investors. the voluntary disclosure of information. While working to strengthen and enhance our corporate Communicating With Shareholders and Other Investors governance structure and systems, from the perspectives of Encouraging the Execution of Voting Rights at the General “improving management efficiency” and “maintaining sound Meeting of Shareholders management,” we will continue to further strengthen internal We send out a Notice of Convocation to shareholders three weeks auditing, risk management and compliance, to further improve the prior to each regularly scheduled General Meeting of Shareholders. effectiveness of internal control. For the convenience of overseas shareholders, we also provide an Website Publications Homepage Investor Relations Annual Report http://www.sumitomocorp.co.jp/english/ http://www.sumitomocorp.co.jp/english/ir/ Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2013 53 Internal Control and Internal Audits The Sumitomo Corporation Group has strengthened its internal controls in order to retain the trust of all its stakeholders. Initiatives for Enhancing the Quality of Operations Internal Control The Sumitomo Corporation Group has actively implemented the improvement and monitoring of internal control systems required The Sumitomo Corporation Group is formed of five Business Units by law under the Japanese Company Law and the Financial as well as regional organizations in Japan and overseas. The Instruments and Exchange Law on a Company-wide level. We Business Units, organizations and Group companies collectively considered these legal obligations as a prime opportunity to work together in broad business fields. It is essential that we promote such improvement in the quality of our operation, as we provide a uniform standard in operational quality at these have implemented ahead of legislative measures around the world. businesses, irrespective of their business sector or region. This The Japanese Company Law, which came into effect in May standard must also meet the expectations of our stakeholders. 2006, calls for companies to establish “systems ensuring that the From this perspective, we have continually improved our execution of duties by directors conforms to legal regulations and general operation to further strengthen the Group’s internal their Articles of Incorporation as well as systems ensuring that control since 2005. This improvement effort is based on the result business processes are handled appropriately.” Sumitomo of evaluations that we have performed using a comprehensive Corporation fulfills the requirements of this law and the Internal checklist. The checklist covers various points pertaining to general Control Committee monitors the operation of such internal operations that should be common across the Group, including control systems. risk management, accounting and financial controls and compliance. To comply with the internal control reporting rules stipulated in Furthermore, we have defined specific internal controls, which the Financial Instruments and Exchange Law, which took effect on have been extracted through analysis of past loss scenarios, etc., April 1, 2008, we evaluate the effectiveness of our internal controls as important points that must be strengthened thoroughly on a as of the fiscal year-end with regard to the Group’s financial Company-wide level. reporting, through documentation and testing throughout the In August 2010, we launched the Internal Control Committee, year, as required by law. which is responsible for the planning, implementation, evaluation Through the aforementioned efforts and measures, the and improvement of overall internal control across the entire Sumitomo Corporation Group aims to continuously improve the Sumitomo Corporation Group. The objectives of the Internal Control quality of its operations. Committee are to secure the soundness of management and to improve the efficiency of management. The committee promotes Group-wide activities to strengthen our internal control, such as Internal Audits updating the aforementioned checklist to address recent changes in laws and other rules within and outside the company, introducing The Internal Auditing Department, which reports directly to the past cases of loss situations arising from deficiencies in internal President and CEO, was established as an independent controls, and upgrading related instructional materials. Our Business organization to monitor Company-wide operations. Internal audits Units and regional organizations in Japan and overseas continue are performed at all organizations within the Company and Group to implement internal control enhancement activities as in previous companies. All the internal audit results are reported directly to the years. Each organizational unit carries on these activities President and CEO and also to the Board of Directors. continuously on a daily basis with timely and optimal support from The Internal Auditing Department checks comprehensively its Planning & Administration Department, contributing to the organizations’ assets, the way of risk-management, status of sustainable growth and development of the Group. compliance and business processes to find their problems and risks inherent. The Internal Auditing Department helps to raise the quality of organizational management by encouraging voluntary improvements and evaluating the effectiveness and the validity of each process. Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2013 54 Compliance Positioning compliance as a basic premise for all corporate activity, Sumitomo Corporation is building a compliance structure in accordance with clearly defined policies. In maintaining strict adherence to this compliance structure, we are ensuring our existence as a going concern and securing our credibility and status. Policies and the Reporting Structure of Speak-Up System Corporate Compliance If an employee becomes aware of a possible compliance problem, It is our policy that both officers and employees should never risk he or she can pass the information along the chain of command. transgression in pursuit of profit for the Company. In order to In addition, the “Speak-Up System” was introduced to allow promote compliance, Sumitomo Corporation established the individuals to report a potential problem directly to the Compliance Compliance Committee under the direct supervision of the Committee. Outside legal counsel and our Corporate Auditors President and CEO. The Compliance Committee is responsible for have been included as additional points of contact to further preparing the Company’s Compliance Manual and distributing it augment the system. Although, in principle, reporting individuals to all officers and employees. The Compliance Manual covers the are asked to identify themselves so that they can be updated on following 19 Compliance Guiding Principles to ensure the the outcome of their cases, Company rules state that both the Company’s bottom line: “If there is even a trace of doubt, do not identity of such individuals and the nature of the information do it.” If a potential compliance problem is detected, we provided are kept confidential, and that no negative repercussions continuously encourage our employees to report it to their will redound on the reporting employees due to such reporting. supervisors or the relevant departments immediately, so that the The Compliance Committee is responsible for handling all the best countermeasures can be implemented swiftly. information it receives in an appropriate manner. Speak-Up System Diagram Compliance Training and Education Investigation and Employees have access to the latest version of the Compliance Compliance Committee appropriate response based on results Manual and other manuals detailing applicable laws and regulations on the Company’s intranet. We also offer various Legal Corporate Counsel Auditors training programs and educational activities on compliance, including: programs for specific groups, such as employees, Reporting Individual Speak-Up managers and corporate officers new to the Company; seminars Feedback provided by each Business Unit; seminars targeted at all officers and employees; and seminars for overseas offices and Group companies. We also make use of various domestic and overseas conferences for compliance education. In addition, we continuously hold e-learning compliance seminars open to all officers and employees from all levels. Guiding Principles Business Activities Corporate Citizen as a Maintenance of a Good Personal Interests Member of Society Working Environment •O  bserving Antimonopoly Laws • Prohibition on Giving Bribes • Respect for Human Rights* • Insider Trading •S  ecurity Trade Control • Prevention of Unlawful • Prohibition of Sexual • Conflict of Interest •C  ustoms/Controlled Items Payments to Foreign Harassment • Proper Use of Information • Compliance With Applicable Governmental Officials • Prohibition on Abuse of System Laws • Political Contributions Authority • Respecting and Protecting • Confrontation With Antisocial Intellectual Property Rights Forces • Prohibition of Unfair Competition • Information Management •P  reservation of the Environment * Based on the Universal Declaration of •O  verseas Business Activities Human Rights. Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2013 55 Corporate Governance Risk Management In order to cope effectively with the diversifying risk environment, we have built a risk management framework by developing our risk management approach from a micro to a macro perspective, and shifting our focus from “minimizing losses from individual transactions” to “maximizing corporate value.” This framework is strongly linked to the management plan, playing a critical role in supporting the efficient management of our corporate resources. investments falls short of required standards after a certain period The Purpose of Risk Management from their inception, we have an Exit Rule that shall designate those investments as “Investments to withdraw from.” We define “risk” as the “possibility of losses due to the occurrence of anticipated or unanticipated situations” and as the “possibility of Managing Credit Risks not achieving the expected return on business activities.” We have Our business is exposed to credit risks, as we extend credit to our set the following three items as the purpose for our risk customers in the form of accounts receivable, advances, loans, management activities. guarantees and other instruments. We have incorporated our 1. Stabilize Performance: Minimize discrepancies between original credit rating model, the Sumisho Credit Rating (SCR), to the plan and the actual results assess our customers’ credit risk. The authority level to provide credit exposure to customers depends on the assigned credit 2. Strengthen Financial Base: Maintain Risk-adjusted Assets rating. In addition, we regularly review customers’ credit limits and within the buffer (shareholders’ equity) appropriately manage the credit exposure under those limits. At 3. Maintain Corporate Reputation: Fulfill CSR requirements the same time, we continuously perform credit evaluations on the and preserve corporate reputation financial condition of customers, and based on such evaluations, take collateral to secure the receivables if necessary. Risk Management Basic Policy Managing Market Risks We set limits on contract balances as well as the loss limits for six We classify our risks into two categories: Quantifiable risk and months or a full year for commodity and financial instrument Non-quantifiable risk. Quantifiable risk is defined as “value creating transactions. At the same time, we constantly monitor the risk,” which we proactively take to generate a return. Our policy is potential amount of loss, (Value at Risk (VaR)—an estimate of to maximize the risk-adjusted return while maintaining Riskpotential risk or in case the total figures of realized and unrealized adjusted Assets within our buffer. gain/loss are negative at the time of monitoring, the total of VaR Non-quantifiable risk is defined as “value breaking risk,” which and the relevant negative figures), to ensure that the potential only generates losses when it surfaces. We are building a amount of loss falls within the loss limits. In addition, we conduct framework that prevents or minimizes the probability of this risk liquidity risk management for each product on an individual futures from materializing. market basis in order to be prepared in the event that it becomes difficult to close positions due to shrinking liquidity. The Financial Resources Management Group undertakes both the back and Risk Management Framework middle office functions in order to completely separate those functions from the Business Units, thereby enabling us to maintain Managing Quantifiable Risk the soundness of internal checks. Managing Investment Risk Once an investment is made, it is often difficult to make a Managing Concentration Risks withdrawal decision and the loss impact is usually significant in As we are operating globally and engaging in a variety of business scale. To manage the investment risk, we have in place an fields, we need to ensure that the risks are not excessively integrated framework covering the entry process to the exit concentrated in particular areas. In order to avoid overly process. For the entry process, we carefully select investments concentrated exposure in certain countries and regions, we have that exceed the hurdle rate, a threshold for the rates of return on in place a country risk management system. In addition, in order new investments relative to the cost of capital. In case of new to avoid the excessive concentration of resources in any specific investments for large-scale, important projects, cases are put field and refine our business portfolio, we thoroughly discuss the forward to the Loan and Investment Committee for thorough amount of Risk-adjusted Assets distributed to each unit and examination. According to business performance, financial business line in meetings such as the “strategy conference,” which conditions and/or business environment, the Committee discusses is held among the President and CEO and general managers of how to enhance the value of the business including expansion, each unit and the “Loan and Investment Committee,” which downsizing or disposal when necessary. When the performance of deliberates on important investment and financing. Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2013 56 Managing Non-quantifiable Risks loss-incurring events. These analyses are used as training Non-quantifiable risks are those that must be borne, but for which materials for employees as part of various educational programs. we cannot expect returns. These include litigation and other legal Through this knowledge feedback process, individual employees risks, operational risks such as clerical mistakes or fraud acts, and can upgrade their risk management capabilities, supporting the natural disaster risk. Some of these risks involve events that rarely prevention of the same kind of loss events. occur but could have a critical impact on our operations once they arise. Our basic policy is to prevent or minimize the probability of these risks to materialize. Accordingly, we periodically assess Eyeing the Future of Risk Management non-quantifiable risks on a global and consolidated basis. We do this through a range of initiatives to strengthen our internal control Over the past decade, Sumitomo Corporation has created a across the Group under the leadership of the Internal Control formidable risk management framework by studying advanced Committee as well as through independent activities by our methods and processes. Our goal is to implement the best Business Units and regional organizations in Japan and overseas. practices in risk management while maintaining the flexibility to Based on the assessment result, we continuously search for a adapt to changes in the business environment. The surrounding more efficient and effective organizational structure and environment is continually changing, however, and new business procedures to improve the quality of our business operations. models that we could never have imagined are emerging on a daily basis. Responding to changing circumstances in a timely and effective manner, we continually upgrade our risk management Embedding the Sense of Risk Management under the direction of top management. Although we have been constructing the best possible risk management framework to cope with diversified risks, we cannot Information Security Control Structure completely prevent the incurrence of loss in the course of business activities only by the framework itself. We are putting our efforts Sumitomo Corporation works to enhance its information into implementing the initiatives that enable us to quickly identify management system to maintain and improve information the occurrence of losses in order to suppress loss accumulation security. Our approach to this end includes the development of and prevent the contagion effects that lead to secondary losses. internal rules and manuals as well as the provision of employee These initiatives include devising ways to quickly identify the cause training and awareness-raising activities, with a focus on taking of losses and share such information among top management and preventive measures against risks relating to leakages of related departments. We have compiled a database of such loss confidential information and compliance with the Personal information that allows for the systematic analysis of the causes of Information Protection Act, which came into full effect in April 2005. Quantifiable Risks Non-quantifiable Risks Fraud or illegal acts IT system Investment risks Credit risks Market risks Legal risks by management management ••• or employees risks Risk Management Framework Risk Improve materialization operational quality Investment Risks Group management policy Qualitative requirements applying to Group companies Database on the incidence of loss Planning, ENTRY MONITORING EXIT implementation, evaluation and Investment entry “Focused Monitoring” system Investment exit standards standards (Hurdle Rate) (Exit Rule) improvement of Utilize internal control Loan and Investment Committee experience Credit Risks Market Risks Concentration Risks Education  Utilize the Sumisho Credit  Manage maximum losses  Implement a country risk Rating (SCR) model across based on Value at Risk (VaR) management system the Group methodology  Pursue risk-adjusted asset  Nine rules of trading risk management  Periodically conduct back  Conduct liquidity risk and portfolio management  Seven rules of investment testing management of individual business lines  Various training materials/Review  Periodically conduct back testing Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2013 57 Corporate Governance Risk-adjusted Return Management We are now facing a harsher business environment compared to resources invested in each business and for optimally allocating the past few years, during which we saw steady growth. However, limited management resources. we have been implementing management reforms on the basis of The basic aim of any business is to generate returns relative to the Risk-adjusted Return Approach for many years, building a the risks involved and in autumn 1998, ahead of its peers, business foundation able to sustain stable earnings and a firm Sumitomo Corporation introduced the Risk-adjusted Return Ratio financial condition even during severe economic environments. In as an indicator of profitability, i.e., the degree of return from a this special feature, we will introduce Risk-adjusted Return as the certain level of risk. backbone of our management approach. Specifically, we calculate Risk-adjusted Assets as the value of maximum possible losses by multiplying the value of assets by a Background to the Introduction of the Risk-adjusted risk weight that assumes the maximum possible loss ratio in Return Ratio asset values. Until the early 1980s, the main business of Sumitomo Corporation With Risk-adjusted Assets as the denominator, we use and other integrated trading companies was acting as returns, i.e., net income, as the numerator to calculate profitability, intermediaries for goods and services. From the late 1980s both in each business and for the Company as a whole. onward, integrated trading companies sharply stepped up their involvement in new businesses as well as overseas investment as Basics of Risk-adjusted Return Management they responded to a decline in demand for trading company Since its introduction as a management indicator, the Riskfinancing and the growing transfer of production overseas due to adjusted Return Ratio has played a major role as a tool for the yen’s appreciation. achieving universal Company-wide objectives. In the early 1990s, in addition to this business diversification, From the perspective of ensuring business stability, a core a series of changes came about in the operating environment. The management principle is to avoid excessive risks by keeping collapse of the bubble economy in the early 1990s triggered a Risk-adjusted Assets (maximum possible losses) within plunge in stock and real estate prices, and in 1997 the Asian shareholders’ equity (the risk buffer). This principle means that Currency Crisis caused problems for many overseas projects. In even if all potential risks were to actually occur at once, addition to the effects of these factors, we recorded substantial shareholders’ equity would be able to absorb the losses. impairment of shareholders’ equity due to an incident involving Moreover, to ensure earnings power, return on risks must be unauthorized copper trading in 1996. Thereafter, improving greater than our shareholders’ capital cost. In other words, we set profitability and our financial condition became our topmost priority. the Risk-adjusted Return Ratio at 7.5% as the minimum As our Business Units have a variety of business styles in requirement for the whole company. In every business, the basis diverse fields, it was difficult to evaluate each business’s we use for choosing to move forward is this Risk-adjusted Return performance based only on net income. We needed a CompanyRatio of 7.5%. wide, universal yardstick for measuring the return on management Shareholders’ Capital Net Income Risk-adjusted Return Ratio > Cost (7.5%) Risk-adjusted Return Ratio = Risk-adjusted Assets Risk-adjusted Assets Risk Buffer (Maximum possible losses) Maximum possible losses Shareholders’ equity Balance Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2013 58 Third-Party Review Ms. Yoko Takahashi President of Japan Philanthropic Association Profile After serving as a high school teacher, Ms. Takahashi completed a professional counselor training course at the Counseling Institute of Sophia University and earned certification as a professional counselor. From 1985 to 1991, she provided guidance to students, teachers, and parents as a psychological counselor at Kanto Gakuin Junior & Senior High School. In 1991, she joined the Japan Philanthropic Association. In 2001, she became the organization’s president after serving as a director and the secretary-general. Ms. Takahashi is devoted to promoting CSR, with a focus on corporate social contribution. She aims to encourage the private sector to be of service to the public by making proposals for collaborative work with NPOs, government organization, and the like, as well as serving as a bridge between various sectors. Ms. Takahashi is also a writer and editor. Key works include “Philanthropy Nyumon” (Introduction to Philanthropy) and “Shakai Kouken e Youkoso” (Welcome to Social Contribution). 1. CSR: Embodying the company’s management system and the network in the supply chain Corporate Mission Statement were developed, illustrated with a photograph of smiling Sumitomo Corporation will celebrate the 100th anniversary faces, effectively conveying the joy of the employees of its founding in fiscal 2019. The company has survived involved in the project. for a century, the result of its successful endeavors to The Transportation & Construction Systems Business withstand changes in the times such as globalization, as Unit Report tells the story of how they completed a project well as various hardships, including the instability of the to deliver 1,220 hybrid vehicles to the Ukraine police force. company’s environment, under the shared Corporate The story reveals that full utilization of the group’s core Mission Statement. Its survival is also attributable to right capabilities—its negotiating skills, integrated corporate decisions made by the company on different occasions, strength, and teamwork—brought success, and I was as well as to the untiring efforts of executives, employees, able to feel the determination and pride of those involved and other stakeholders. In his message in the Report, who were dedicated to contributing to environmental President Nakamura stresses that the Corporate Mission protection through their business activities. Statement—“Aim to be a global organization that The Environment & Infrastructure Business Unit’s constantly stays a step ahead in dealing with change, Osaka Hikari-no-Mori Project is, as the various people creates new value, and contributes broadly to society” concerned describe in the report, an enterprise aimed at and “Achieve prosperity and realize dreams through sound contributing to the development of a sustainable society business activities”—which was founded on the basis of which also involves the raising of citizens’ environmental Sumitomo’s Business Philosophy, represents the essence awareness and the provision of environmental education, of corporate social responsibility (CSR). I believe that this as well as the fruits of public and private collaboration. basic stance of the company lies behind the spirit and The Media, Network, Lifestyle Related Goods & pride of every employee and represents the very core of Services Business Unit Report explains vividly and in an the company’s corporate value. easy-to-understand manner for general consumers how a resource-circulation recycling system was created for a 2. CSR story of each business unit food supermarket chain through close collaboration with a The activities of the five business units reported from a business partner. CSR perspective demonstrate that CSR is an integral part The Mineral Resources, Energy, Chemical & of their business and that the single most important goal Electronics Business Unit’s Ambatovy Project, which is of these activities is to create new social value. The expected to contribute to the sustainable development of company developed its Social Value Creation Chart in Madagascar, is an outstanding model project that provides fiscal 2011 as part of its efforts to clearly identify the basic comprehensive support. The project is not only intended direction of the activities of each business unit, and the to promote the economic growth of Madagascar as a rare charts in this year’s Report reveal that the company’s CSR metals exporting country while systematic efforts are activities are being upgraded every year. made for environmental conservation, but also to stimulate The Metal Products Business Unit Report describes employment creation and human resources development. how the health, safety and environment (HSE) Each of these reports is presented as a CSR story that Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2013 59 demonstrates the spirit of each business unit and enabled diversity from a slightly broader viewpoint to enable more me to appreciate one of the best parts of the Sumitomo diverse human resources development. Corporation Group. A wide variety of social contribution activities conducted by each office are reported; this diversification 3. Environmental and social initiatives of activities is only possible for a global company like Under its Environmental Policy, Sumitomo Corporation Sumitomo Corporation and takes our attention. Actual makes clear the objectives and targets of its environmental statements and photos of participants and beneficiaries initiatives, their results, environmental management give a picture of what each activity was like and add structure, and measures to enhance employees’ interest. In the future, however, the social contributions environmental awareness. All these testify to the maturity the company conducts as a corporate citizen may need to level of the company’s environmental management system be redefined centered on human resources development and strengthened my trust in the group. and environmental conservation. They would be better Social initiatives, which are conducted under the sorted into different categories of activities, including the maxim “human resources are our most valuable business support for reconstruction after the Great East Japan resource,” are reported from various aspects, which I Earthquake, in order to make the social contributions thought was praiseworthy. However, although there are more consistent with other CSR activities. separate accounts of how the company deals with I hope that the company will continue to refine its international staff, female employees, and disabled CSR management on the basis of Sumitomo’s employees, the company’s overall policy on diversity is not Business Philosophy. clear. In the future, I hope that the company will look at Response to the Third-Party Review We would like to thank Ms. Yoko Takahashi for her work with spirit and pride. important review of the Sumitomo Corporation Report on Our social contribution activities are centered on Responsibility & Sustainability 2013. developing the next generation of human resources and At the beginning of her review, Ms. Takahashi refers contributing to local communities all over the world, and to our belief that the company’s Corporate Mission we intend to focus even more on the former. We are Statement represents the essence of CSR, and points currently in the process of enhancing the Sumitomo out that “this basic stance of the company lies behind the Corporation Scholarship and Sumitomo Corporation spirit and pride of every employee and represents the Youth Challenge Program for the Revitalization of East very core of the company’s corporate value.” This remark Japan, and the Report gives an account of how we are is greatly encouraging for us. working on improving these programs. Our Group is With regard to the CSR activities of each business engaged in an array of social contribution activities unit included in the Report, Ms. Takahashi rates our worldwide, and we will ensure that these activities will be Group—which is involved in many countries and regions classified and reported in a more easy-to-understand around the world as well as in various industries—highly manner based on Ms. Takahashi’s advice in order to clarify for our efforts to create greater value for society by the way in which those activities reflect the characteristics deploying all of our strengths and functions. This of each of our businesses and local communities. recognition has renewed our determination to continue our endeavors to create our unique value. We recognize that the diversity of our human resources, the main players in the business activities of our Group, is a very significant issue. In order to drive the creation of our unique value, we need to develop through Yasuyuki Abe Chair of the CSR Committee various measures an environment in which diversity is Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer, respected so that all of our employees in the Group can General Manager, Corporate Planning & Coordination Group Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2013 60 Third-Party Assurance (Environmental Performance Data) Independent Assurance Report To the President and CEO of Sumitomo Corporation Purpose and Scope We were engaged by Sumitomo Corporation (the “Company”) to provide assurance on its Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2013 (the “Report”) for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013. The purpose of our assurance engagement was to express our conclusion, based on our assurance procedures, on whether the environmental performance indicators listed in the table below for the period from April 1, 2012 to March 31, 2013 disclosed on page 35 in the Report (the “Indicators”) are prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Company’s reporting criteria. Indicators Boundary Level of Assurance Electricity Consumption Head office, regional business units, offices and branch offices in Japan Reasonable CO2 Emissions (Offices) Head office, regional business units, offices and branch offices in Japan Reasonable CO2 Emissions (Logistics) Head office, regional business units, offices and branch offices in Japan Limited CO2 Emissions (Commuting and overseas business trips) Head office Limited Waste Emissions (General and industrial waste stemming from operation) Head office, regional business units, offices and branch offices in Japan Reasonable Water Consumption Head office and regional business units in Japan Reasonable The content of the Report is the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to carry out an assurance engagement and to express our conclusion based on the work performed. Criteria The Company applies its own reporting criteria as described in the Report. These are derived, among others, from the Act on the Rational Use of Energy, the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures, and the General Guidelines on Supply Chain GHG Emission Accounting (2012) by Japan’s Ministry of the Environment and Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. We used these criteria to evaluate the Indicators. Procedures Performed We conducted our engagement in accordance with ‘International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000, Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information’ issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board, and the ‘Practical Guidelines for the Assurance of Sustainability Information’ of the Japanese Association of Assurance Organizations for Sustainability Information (“J-SUS”). Reasonable assurance engagement Our reasonable assurance engagement involved an assessment of assurance risks based on the internal control relevant to the Company's preparation of the Indicators, an evaluation of the application of the Company’s criteria and the evidence obtained, an examination of how data are generated and how the Indicators are presented in the Report. Limited assurance engagement The limited assurance engagement on the Report consisted of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of information presented in the Report, and applying analytical and other procedures. The level of assurance provided is thus not as high as that provided by a reasonable assurance engagement. Our limited assurance procedures included: • Interviews with the Company’s responsible personnel to obtain an understanding of its policy for the preparation of the Report. • Reviews of the Company’s reporting criteria. • Inquiries about the design of the systems and methods used to collect and process the Indicators. • Analytical reviews of the Indicators. • Examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the generation, aggregation and reporting of the Indicators in conformity with the Company’s reporting criteria, and also a recalculation of the Indicators. • Evaluating the overall statement in which the Indicators are expressed. We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion. Conclusion Reasonable assurance engagement In our opinion, the Indicators in the Report are, in all material respects, prepared in accordance with the Company’s reporting criteria as described in the Report. Limited assurance engagement Based on the procedures performed, as described above, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Indicators in the Report are not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Company’s reporting criteria as described in the Report. Independence We have no conflict of interest relationships with the Company that are specified in the Code of Ethics of J-SUS. KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. Tokyo, Japan December 16, 2013 Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2013 61 Company Information Company Profile (As of March 31, 2013) Company Name: Consolidated Shareholders’ Equity: Sumitomo Corporation 2,052.8 billion yen Establishment: Fiscal Year End: December 24, 1919 March 31 Number of Employees: Number of Consolidated Subsidiaries: 5,213 (73,953 including consolidated subsidiaries) 562 (overseas: 436, domestic: 126) Headquarters: Associated Companies (Equity Method): 1-8-11 Harumi, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 104-8610, Japan 237 (overseas: 187, domestic: 50) URL: Total: 799 companies http://www.sumitomocorp.co.jp/english/ Organization General Meeting of Shareholders Board of Corporate Auditors Board of Directors President and CEO, Company-wide Committees* Corporate Auditors Executive Officers Transportation & Construction Human Resources, Metal Products Business Unit Environment & Infrastructure Mineral Resources, Energy, Overseas Subsidiaries and Domestic Subsidiaries and Media, Network, Lifestyle Internal Auditing Dept. Financial Resources Corporate Planning & Corporate Auditor's Chemical & Electronics Related Goods & Services Offices Offices Business Unit Business Unit Systems Business Unit Management Group General Affairs & Legal Group Coordination Group Administration Dept. Business Unit Business Units Corporate Group * Company-wide Committees: CSR Committee, Internal Control Committee, Compliance Committee, IR Committee, Human Resources Committee, Work-Life Balance Promotion Project Team, Loan and Investment Committee, Medium-term Management Plan Promotion Support Committee, ICT Committee, and others. Consolidated Financial Highlights (Billions of yen) Fiscal 2008 Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 U.S. GAAP U.S. GAAP IFRS IFRS IFRS Gross Profit 935.2 779.5 864.0 918.8 827.0 Results of Net Financial Income (21.5) (12.8) (8.1) (3.9) (2.3) Operations Equity in Earnings of Associated Companies, net 90.0 76.1 95.6 110.6 107.4 Net Income 215.1 155.2 200.2 250.7 232.5 Total Assets 7,018.2 7,137.8 7,230.5 7,226.8 7,832.8 Financial Position at Shareholders’ Equity 1,353.1 1,583.7 1,570.5 1,689.1 2,052.8 Year End Interest-Bearing Liabilities (net) 3,186.8 2,781.8 3,056.3 2,786.7 2,930.3 Shareholders’ Equity Ratio (%) 19.3 22.2 21.7 23.4 26.2 ROE (%) 15.1 10.6 12.9 15.4 12.4 Ratios ROA (%) 2.9 2.2 2.8 3.5 3.1 Debt-Equity Ratio (net) (times) 2.4 1.8 1.9 1.6 1.4 Note: For more detailed information on ﬁnancial issues, please refer to our Annual Report. http://www.sumitomocorp.co.jp/english/ir/index.html Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2013 62 For any inquiries or comments regarding this report, please contact: Environment & CSR Department Sumitomo Corporation 1-8-11, Harumi, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 104-8610, Japan Phone: +81-3-5166-4025 Fax: +81-3-5166-6310 Email: environment-and-csr@sumitomocorp.co.jp URL: http://www.sumitomocorp.co.jp/english/
