SEGA SAMMY GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 Group Corporate Social Responsibility Promotion Office, SEGA SAMMY HOLDINGS INC. Shiodome Sumitomo Building, 21F 9-2, Higashi-Shimbashi 1-chome, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-0021 TEL: +81-3-6215-9055 URL: http://www.segasammy.co.jp/english/ Comparison with Annual Report The annual report is unlike the CSR report in that it essentially presents financial information. You can download a copy of the annual report from the Investor Relations page of the SEGA SAMMY HOLDINGS website at: http://www.segasammy.co.jp/english/ir/ Life is Entertainment Disclaimer This report contains past and current facts about the SEGA SAMMY Group, as well as forward-looking statements about social conditions, business plans, and forecasts based on management’s judgments in light of information available as of the publication date. ©SEGA Please note that social conditions and business results may vary ©Sammy from these forecasts. ©'08,'14 SANRIO/SEGA TOYS S ･ S/W･TX･JLPC ©TMS Contents Executive Messages Executive Messages With Stakeholders We will pursue the Hideki Okamura We introduce our basic approach and specific activities to each of the five stakeholder groups in line with the “CSR President, Representative Director (COO), SEGA Corporation 5 infinite possibilities of Charter of the SEGA SAMMY Group.” Shigeru Aoki entertainment and offer President, Representative Director (COO), Sammy Corporation P. dreams and excitement that deliver vitality to tomorrow. With Customers With Partners Group Overview We will bear in mind the current needs and We will maintain fair and impartial relationships Hajime Satomi interests of our customers in our effort to with our suppliers and work together as partners P.6 3 President and Chief Executive Officer, Group Overview 6 SEGA SAMMY HOLDINGS INC. provide entertainment filled with dreams and in providing entertainment filled with dreams P. P.7 Business Overview P. excitement. and excitement. Special Feature P.26 P.34 This feature spotlights how we are combining our employees’ desires and exacting standards with initiatives With Shareholders and Investors With Employees unique to the SEGA SAMMY Group to offer our customers dreams and excitement through our business activities. We will view our business with a global perspective in Our employees bring to us creativity and a spirit of our efforts to ensure sustained growth and to maximize challenge. They are our most cherished assets and the Special Feature 1 Sammy Special Feature 2 SEGA enterprise value. Additionally, we will enhance management fuel to our growth. Moving to Maximize Customer What We Want to Share transparency and meet the expectations of our shareholders We will cultivate a corporate culture that allows them to 38 40 with Children Through and society through fair and timely disclosure fully exploit their talents and enables us to Satisfaction —Strengthening Activities for Safety, Improvement, and “HERO BANK” and appropriate returns of profits. P. grow together with our employees. P. Social Contribution, with a Focus on Human Development— —SEGA’s Game-Building Filled with Deeply Felt Commitment— With Society P.9 P.11 ©SEGA ©SEGA/HERO BANK PROJECT, TV TOKYO With a full awareness of the fact that we are, as a corporate citizen, a member of society, we will voluntarily and proactively put forward efforts to provide a social contribution through our business activities, [Environment] P. 47 [Serving Society] P.52 etc., our support in the development of cultural activities including Special Feature 3 SEGA TOYS Special Feature 4 PHOENIX RESORT art and sport and the preservation of the global environment. Inducing More Aiming for a Resort that Exists Comfortable Sleep in Harmony with the Natural —Home Planetarium, Environment and the Local “HOMESTAR”— SEGA SAMMY Group Third-party Comment Community —PHOENIX RESORT’s CSR Activities— Overview of SEGA SAMMY Group Response to Third-party Comment Companies in Japan & Some CSR Initiatives 13 14 In order to assure the objectivity of our CSR measures We are expanding our business as a versatile P. P. entertainment company group engaged in the and information disclosure, as well as to continue fulfilling our responsibility to society, we receive useful production of toys, mobile phone content, and opinions and evaluations from third parties and present SEGA SAMMY Group Earthquake CSR in the SEGA SAMMY Group animation among other products, centered on game them in these reports. Recovery Support Activities 56 58 manufacturer SEGA and Pachislot/ P.17 CSR in the SEGA SAMMY Group Pachinko manufacturer Sammy. P. P. We are delivering “Smiles and Good Spirits” by means of entertainment to areas affected by the disaster. P.19 Our Policy on CSR Editorial Policy Reference Guidelines P.21 Fiscal 2014 Targets, Progress, and Since publishing the first of these reports in 2007, Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (Version 3.1) ISO 26000 Guidance on Social Responsibility Results, and Fiscal 2015 Targets we have aimed to create content that is readily [Report Scope] 17 understandable and readable by our various P.22 Promoting CSR P. stakeholders. In order to continue incorporating Period: April 1, 2013 to March 31, 2014 Publication: November 2014 (the next edition will be published in October 2015) the spirit of CSR into SEGA SAMMY Group * Some parts of the report may include matters from a time just before publication or management, we intend to take every step toward from fiscal 2014 or earlier. improvement as it arises and at the same time keep P.23 Organizations covered: exchanging views with our stakeholders so that we Corporate Governance can make ourselves into better corporate citizens. SEGA SAMMY HOLDINGS INC., SEGA Corporation, Sammy Corporation * Some sections refer to activities of other Group companies. [Use of Company Names in this Report] P. 15 Compliance and Risk Management P.24 In this report, “Holdings” refers to SEGA SAMMY HOLDINGS. “SEGA” refers to SEGA Corporation. “Sammy” refers to Sammy Corporation. Contents 1 SEGA SAMMY GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 Contents 2 SEGA SAMMY GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 Executive Messages We will pursue the infinite possibilities of entertainment and offer dreams and excitement that deliver vitality to tomorrow. Our role as the SEGA SAMMY Group expected to fulfill their social responsibility as a member of Public concern is tending to shift away from the disaster and and realize greater synergy within the Group. In order to The SEGA SAMMY Group strictly adheres to the Group society. At the SEGA SAMMY Group, we have taken steps fading with time, but the affected areas are still greatly in do so, we will create an environment that encourages the Management Philosophy, which states that “by providing to ensure that we consistently fulfill our social responsibility. need of assistance. Thus, we will act as one to deliver smiles acceptance of active and bold challenges by our employees, entertainment filled with dreams and excitement to people Such steps include formulating a CSR Promotion Policy and happiness through entertainment media, and provide who constitute our Group’s most important management throughout the world, we will strive to enrich our society in fiscal 2014 based on a comprehensive review of our support that can build energy for reconstruction. resource and the source of value creation, and develop and culture.” Our role is not simply to provide society previous CSR principles and activities, providing CSR a workplace environment in which they can perform to with entertainment. It is to use entertainment as a means training particularly for management-class personnel, and Our growth depends on all our employees being the best of their abilities. We will also take active steps to of delivering fun, joy, dreams and excitement to people deepening awareness of CSR. Furthermore, in April 2014, aware of advancements and undertaking active and recruit and promote employees, with no constraints on age, throughout the world. We also believe that our corporate we assented to and signed the United Nations Global bold challenges experience, gender, or race, as we aim to become a company worth lies in bringing enrichment, fulfillment, vitality for Compact (UNGC), the first company to do so in Japan’s where creative people with a challenging spirit play an active Fiscal 2015 marked the 10th anniversary of the tomorrow, and other such values to people’s daily lives. game and Pachislot and Pachinko machine industry. As a role and where they take pride in working for the SEGA founding of the SEGA SAMMY Group. In order for us participant of the compact, we will comply with and observe SAMMY Group. to achieve further growth, it is necessary for all employees We will steadily fulfill our social responsibility as a the UNGC’s ten principles in the four areas of human rights, of our Group to strive toward the goal of becoming a member of society labour, the environment and anti-corruption as we steadily global-scale, comprehensive entertainment company, while Aiming for sustainable development of society and fulfill our corporate social responsibility in all aspects of our bearing in mind social trends and being consciously aware the SEGA SAMMY Group Companies are founded on their relationships with Group’s corporate activities. stakeholders and society. They are therefore naturally of the importance of technological capabilities plus a little We will continue to venture into new spheres of business something extra. Our business environment is undergoing a and strive to achieve strong, continuous growth, not only for Ongoing support for reconstruction following the drastic global-scale transformation today, and we are seeing the sake of the Group’s further growth, but also for the sake Great East Japan Earthquake a diversification of social values. Amid such changes, the of contributing to the revitalization of Japan, as well as to Even three years after the earthquake disaster, more keys to growth for the SEGA SAMMY Group lie in always the sustainable development of the world. Toward this end, than 200 million people in disaster-affected areas still keeping our antenna up, exercising our imagination, and we must gain an accurate grasp of the needs of and changes live in temporary housing or are otherwise forced to live continually providing the best to satisfy our customers. In the in society, and establish shared values with our stakeholders. the life of evacuees. The SEGA SAMMY Group has sent entertainment industry, the past 10 years have also brought At the same time, we must also realize that any expansion employee volunteers to the affected areas since immediately a rapid diversification in people’s concepts of entertainment of our Group’s services and business will strengthen our after the earthquake, and has continued to participate in and how they seek entertainment. Thus, we cannot expect influence on stakeholders and society. By being conscious voluntary activities in the areas throughout fiscal 2015. to achieve growth by simply satisfying customer needs. of such circumstances and of our responsibility and by Furthermore, based on the awareness that mental healthcare While we have continued to deliver surprise and excitement fulfilling our CSR in a manner befitting the SEGA SAMMY is particularly necessary during the reconstruction stage, we in the spirit of “Always Proactive, Always Pioneering” and Group, we will commit ourselves to corporate growth and have implemented a variety of events designed to provide “Creation Is Our Life,” in the future we need to harness the social worth. courage and power to people living in the affected areas. strengths and advantages of each of our Group companies Overview of the United Nations Global Compact 10 Principles of the United Nations Global Compact The UN Global Compact is an initiative that Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of Human encourages companies to act as upstanding internationally proclaimed human rights; and Rights members of society by exercising responsible, Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. creative leadership, and to participate in Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; the formulation of a global framework for Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; sustainable development. It was proposed by Labour Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and then UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan at the Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and 1999 World Economic Forum (Davos Forum) occupation. and officially launched as a UN initiative in Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Hajime Satomi 2000, calling on companies to embrace and Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental President and Chief Executive Officer enact the Compact’s 10 principles in the areas Environment responsibility; and SEGA SAMMY HOLDINGS INC. of human rights, labor, the environment and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally anti-corruption (the principle concerning antifriendly technologies. corruption was added as the 10th principle in AntiPrinciple 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, 2004). Corruption including extortion and bribery. Contents 3 SEGA SAMMY GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 Executive Messages 4 SEGA SAMMY GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 Executive Messages Group Overview The SEGA SAMMY Group, centered on the SEGA SEGA SAMMY HOLDINGS INC. Corporate Profiles As of March 31, 2014 Corporation and Sammy Corporation, is a comprehensive Harnessing our comprehensive strengths to provide entertainment corporate group that encompasses business throughout the entertainment field, including home video game the values that society demands software, Pachislot and Pachinko machines, games for mobile Company name SEGA SAMMY HOLDINGS INC. PCs, toys, animation, and content for mobile phones. Companies are social institutions whose greatest social responsibility lies in Head office location Shiodome Sumitomo Building, 21F SEGA was founded as a game manufacturer in 1951, consistently providing diverse values to society through profitable growth. Particularly 9-2, Higashi-Shimbashi 1-chome, Minato-ku, and Sammy was established as a manufacturer of Pachislot Tokyo 105-0021 given today’s diversification and rapid changes in values, we are consciously aware of the and Pachinko machines in 1975. The two merged in 2004 to Established October 1, 2004 vital importance of constantly asking ourselves whether our business is indeed providing form the SEGA SAMMY Group, a world-level comprehensive Capital 29.9 billion yen values that respond to the real demands of society. entertainment corporation. We are continuing to provide highly President and Chief Hajime Satomi The motto “Creation Is Our Life” has underscored SEGA Corporation’s genetic creative entertainment to customers ranging in age from children Executive Officer code of practice since its founding, and has provided the foundation for active and to adults, and located in Japan as well as overseas. Business lines Responsible for overseeing the Group business bold challenges to provide entertainment filled with dreams and excitement to people management and other related matters as the holding company of a versatile entertainment company group throughout the world. The technologies and know-how thus accumulated give us the Number of employees 119 fundamental strength to adapt to social changes and to create and offer new values Business Information in entertainment in response to social demand. Our role as a company is to therefore Hideki Okamura President, Representative Director (COO) provide an environment in which each one of our employees can fully demonstrate this SEGA Corporation ≫ Amusement Machine fundamental strength and continue to undertake new challenges with a sense of speed Amusement M Sales Business Sales Bus achine from a global perspective. ess iness Am sin us Development, manufacture, Bu Op em Based on our motto that “Creation Is Our Life,” combined with our comprehensive es er 43.2 billion yen and sale of game machines for in 14.5 billion yen 99.8 billion yen ter 38.6 billion yen 181.8 billion yen Ma Cen amusement centers strengths, we will produce the new, sustainable values that society demands and ≫ Pachislot and Pachinko ch 3.8% 26.4% 11.4% ent ions at 10.2% 48.1% Machines Business Sammy Corporation SEGA Corporation Pachislot and P contribute to enriching our society and culture. 2 other Development, manufacture, and RODEO Co., Ltd. companies ≫ Amusement Center ach sale of Pachislot and Pachinko and 1 other company SEGA ENTERTAINMENT CO.,LTD Operations 14.5 billion yen 99.8 billion yen 43.2 billion yen 38.6 billion yen 181.8 billion yen and 1 other company ink machines 3.8% 26.4% 11.4% 10.2% 48.1% Development, operation, o 14.5 billion yenNetworks Co., SEGA 99.8 Ltd.billion yen 43.2 billion yen rental,38.6 andbillion maintenance yen of181.8 billion yen ≫Other Businesses 3.8and % 14 other companies 26.4% 11.4% amusement10.2centers % 48.1% TAIYO ELEC Hybrid resort facility business, Co., Ltd. ≫ Consumer Business To further ensure steady growth information provision business, other Development and sale of 14.5 billion yen 99.8 billion yen 43.2 billion yen companies 181.8 billion yen 38.6 billion9yen SEGA TOYS game software; development, At Sammy Corporation, we make decisive reforms in our organizational framework 3.8% 26.4% 11.4% 10.2% 48.1% CO., LTD. es s manufacture, and sale of toys, Sammy TMS 14.5 billion yen 99.8 billion yen 43.2 billion yen Networks ENTERTAINMENT s in etc.; planning and sale of 38.6 billion yen and personnel system so that we may achieve continuous growth, with the capacity Ot he Bu 3.8% 26.4% 11.4 10.2% er % Group companies: 35 companies in Japan, r Co., Ltd. Co., LTD. entertainment content through to respond flexibly to any changes in our environment. Moreover, to further ensure 29 companies outside Japan s um mobile phones, etc.; planning, C on steady growth, we endeavor to build a strong corporate culture based on a high level of (Group companies in Japan are listed on pages 56-57.) production, and sale of animated movies, etc. cooperation. By high-level cooperation, I mean that our employees cooperate with each other and proceed toward a common goal based on mutual respect and active exchanges of views, and take action not for their own benefit but for the benefit of the company, Net Sales Ordinary Income/Ordinary Income Margin Operating Income/Operating Income Margin Group and industry, with a focus on social development. I firmly believe that we can (100 million yen) (100 million yen) Ordinary Income (left axis) Ordinary Income Margin (right axis) (%) (100 million yen) Operating Income (left axis) Operating Income Margin (right axis) (%) become an even stronger group of companies if all employees think and act in the spirit 5,000 1,000 20 1,000 20 of “For the Company.” 3,955 3,780 14.7 14.8 4,000 800 800 15 15 Meanwhile, it is also important that we reflect on our principles and return to our 3,214 3,000 600 582 10.7 600 584 10.2 starting point, particularly given the rapid changes in our environment. At Sammy 405 10 10 2,000 400 6.5 400 5.9 385 Corporation, the corporate policy, “Always Proactive, Always Pioneering,” has 209 5 191 5 underlined the company’s activities since its founding. It is an unbroken tradition that 1,000 200 200 has given us strength, and the driving force that has supported our growth. In the spirit 0 0 0 0 0 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’12 ’13 ’14 of this policy, we will stand firm in our commitment to provide entertainment filled (FY) (FY) (FY) with dreams and excitement so that the Pachislot and Pachinko industry will continue to be appreciated by many people as a familiar, accessible form of amusement. At the Total Assets/Total Net Assets (Shareholders’ Equity) Net Income Number of Employees Shigeru Aoki same time, we will fulfill our social responsibility by achieving business sustainability, (100 million yen) Total Assets Total Net Assets (Shareholders’ Equity) (100 million yen) Regular employees Non-regular employees 6,000 500 8,000 President, Representative Director (COO) 5,285 5,429 7,008 7,472 7,393 and thereby contribute to revitalizing the industry and Japan as a whole. 4,975 6,700 6,851 6,694 Sammy Corporation 400 4,500 334 6,000 3,483 307 3,200 300 3,000 2,964 4,000 218 200 1,500 2,000 100 0 0 0 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’12 ’13 ’14 (FY) (FY) (FY) Executive Messages 5 SEGA SAMMY GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 Company Profile 6 SEGA SAMMY GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 Business Overview SEGA SAMMY Group Products and Services Bringing Dreams and Excitement to the World Other Businesses The Group is expanding our entertainment business to meet the needs of society and changing times, by developing and managing Amusement Center Operations Amusement Machine Sales Business hybrid resort facilities, operating golf courses and call centers, and creating and running stage productions. At our amusement centers, we configure Seizing the advantage ensured by our outstanding our selection of game machines to enhance development capabilities and taking the lead over our service to meet customer needs and others in producing innovative products, we have offer a more comfortable play environment. contributed to market expansion. We are building a We are also developing shops and tailoring full lineup of products that satisfy a wide range of amusement center operations for specific sites user needs. Among them, we are leveraging the Dining Darts Bar Bee and target customers. For example, we are particular strengths of our network-enabled games WORLD CLUB Champion Football Series expanding family-oriented centers that include and other high-value-added products. We are also ©SEGA The North Country Golf Club Phoenix Seagaia Resort edutainment elements. We are also expanding aiming to invigorate the amusement-related market ©Panini S.p.A. All Rights Reserved. The game is made by Sega in our range of facilities. Examples include with the introduction of new business models. association with Panini. “TOKYO JOYPOLIS,” Japan’s largest indoor DARTSLIVE2 CODE OF JOKER Consumer Business ©DARTSLIVE ©SEGA theme park, and “Bee,” where customers can enjoy darts along with complete food and With the “Sonic” series firmly beverage services. We are creating centers for established as one of our many communication through entertainment. IKEBUKURO GIGO heavyweight titles in the home video game software business, the SEGA brand has earned a powerful worldwide brand identity. Through the integration of marketing and development divisions and the strengthening of cooperative initiatives among Japan, the United States, and Europe, we endeavor to further build our ザ・ノースカントリークラブ The North Country Golf Club earning power. In addition, our Group OASIS PARK businesses are actively expanding such businesses as content for mobile phones and PCs, toys, and video products. TOKYO JOYPOLIS Yume Neko Celebrity Heart Energy Poochi ©2014Hasbro, All Rights Reserved. Won Outstanding Performance Award in Communicate Toy Category of 2014 Japan Toy Association Awards ©SEGA TOYS Orbi Yokohama Smiletouch Dental Pachislot and Pachinko Machines Business 777TOWN for Android ©2014 Gullane (Thomas) Limited. ©SANRIO CO.,LTD. ©Fujiko-Pro, Shogakukan, TV-Asahi, Shin-ei, and ADK Pachislot Souten No Ken 2 ©ABC, TOEI ANIMATION ©baby toi ©Buronson&Tetsuo Hara/NSP2001, ©1997 Nintendo, Creatures, GAME FREAK, TV Tokyo, ShoPro, JR Kikaku. The game machine business is made up Approved No.PEL-211 ©Sammy ©Pokémon.©1998-2011 PIKACHU PROJECT. ©TAKASHI YANASE / Froebel-kan, TMS, NTV of the Pachinko machine business and the ©Gosho Aoyama / Shogakukan / YTV / TMS1996 ©Gosho Aoyama / Shogakukan・TMS Pachislot machine business. We are pursuing a multi-brand strategy that is focused on the Sammy Corporation and in supplying Ramen Damashii products that meet the needs of a wide range of enthusiasts. By further strengthening Pachinko machine development, we aim to increase our presence in the market. We are Total War:ROME II also working to develop and offer Pachislot ©SEGA. The Creative Assembly and the Total War logo are trademarks or registered machines with novel gameplay to revitalize Pachinko CR CR Kayou Suspense Gekijou Pachislot Hokuto No Ken Pachislot Kaiji 3 “Anpanman” Feature Film Detective Conan: trademarks of The Creative Assembly Limited. Hokuto No Ken 5 Hyakuretsu ©Nippon Television Network Corporation Chapter of Resurrection ©Nobuyuki Fukumoto / Kodansha, VAP Inc., ©Takashi Yanase / Dimensional Sniper SEGA and the SEGA logo are either registered the market. ©Buronson&Tetsuo Hara/NSP1983, ©Daiei Television ©Buronson&Tetsuo Hara/NSP1983, Nippon Television Network Corporation ANPANMAN PROJECT ©2014 GOSHO AOYAMA / trademarks or registered trademarks of Puyopuyo!! Quest CHAIN CHRONICLE Approved No.YHB-107 ©HoriPro Inc. All Rights Reserved. ©NSP2007, Approved No.YGL-126 ©Nobuyuki Fukumoto / Kodansha, VAP Inc., ©Takashi Yanase / DETECTIVE CONAN COMMITTEE SEGA Corporation. All Rights Reserved. All ©SEGA ©SEGA / ©SEGA Networks ©Sammy ©TOHO ENTERTAINMENT CO., LTD. ©Sammy MADHOUSE Inc., Froebel-kan, TMS, NTV other trademarks are the property of their HERO BANK ©SEGA Networks ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Nippon Television Network Corporation, DNDP respective owners. ©SEGA ©YamamuraMisa Office All Rights Reserved. ©Sammy ©TAIYO ELEC ©RODEO Company Profile 7 SEGA SAMMY GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 Company Profile 8 SEGA SAMMY GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 Special Feature 1 Moving to Maximize Customer Satisfaction Improvement Sammy’s Growth is in Constant Workplace Improvement Improvement holds the place of greatest importance in our company in terms of contributing to increasing corporate value. We put improvement into practice —Strengthening Activities for Safety, Improvement, and Social Contribution, on an everyday basis from all perspectives, including production efficiency, with a Focus on Human Development— quality maintenance and improvement, securing a safe workplace environment, cost improvements, and so on, in our efforts to realize a factory that is both agile Sammy Kawagoe Factory entered operation in September 2012 as a new factory with production capacity at the highest level and competitive. To announce the results and outcomes of these improvement activities, we hold in the industry. We are now mobilizing all our personnel at the factory together to maximize the value of this “hard” aspect of Workplace Improvement Presentations twice a year. Since we started holding these Improvement Presentations, improvement results and outcomes have been converted into indexes so that the the business, while also taking measures to maximize customer satisfaction by strengthening the “soft” interpersonal aspect. next measures or steps to take become clearer to us. This has raised the level of our improvement activities dramatically, and has also contributed to increased employee motivation. The Role and Mission of the Factory Feedback from Site Improvement Presentations Aiming to Achieve a Factory that is Agile and Competitive Winning Team Representative In our industry, sales of Pachislot and Pachinko machines tend to be concentrated in the initial sale Improvement Activities are the Driving Force for Growth period, and responding accurately to that demand is connected with the move to maximize customer I think that the important thing in terms of doing satisfaction. At our factory, therefore, we have declared optimization of quality, cost, and delivery (QCD) our work is to keep sustaining our critical awareness. as an objective. We are aiming to achieve a factory that is agile and competitive, and all the employees Always maintaining this kind of critical awareness is are engaging in this effort together. itself an improvement activity, and the outcomes we Each team gives This factory entered operation in September 2012, and we proudly claim leading-edge equipment gain from that improvement make us feel our work presentations on the and production capacity at the highest level in the industry. This leading position in terms of hardware, is worth doing and even add enjoyment to it, which results and outcomes of however, cannot maximize our value if we don’t have the capabilities of people who operate the hardware. Tomohiro Konno is the true thrill of improvement activity. I think that their improvement activity over the half-year, and Right now we are acting to build up our strength in so-called software terms of safety, improvement, social Kazuo Nishimura Manufacturing Dept. improvement activity really is the driving force for they vote to determine contribution, and other such activities that are a foundation for QCD, with a focus on human development, in Executive Officer Manufacturing Div. growth, both of ourselves and of the company. the winning team. Deputy Group Division Manager of Sammy Corporation order to take maximum advantage of the value of our hardware. Going forward, we intend to continue uniting all our employees in the “Always Proactive, Always Pioneering” Production Group Div. spirit for the effort to maximize customer satisfaction. Division Manager of Manufacturing Div. Building Things in Manufacturing is Sammy Corporation Human Building People in Human Development Development In addition to education and training driven by the Continuing Our Uninterrupted Building a Culture of Safety Through “6S Patrols” Personnel Department, we are also taking measures in Even when the manufacturing shop floor has been automated, our various departments to conduct personnel training to Contribution to Society as Social Safety products cannot be manufactured skillfully and with certainty without enhance the kinds of capabilities demanded on the production line, such as holding Corporate Citizens Contributions work performed by many people. This is precisely why the health and study groups and leader training. In the Manufacturing Department, we have our We are working to contribute to society by our safety of employees is the most important theme for the manufacturing people learn leadership, teamwork, and other such behaviors by action learning own activities in the course of doing business, of workplace. At our Kawagoe Factory, employees carry out “6S Patrols”* to and other such methods. We are creating opportunities for people to experience course, but we are also aware that we are members of society and check for potential danger factors in their surroundings and make improvements as needed. anew the importance of cooperation and coordination in the production workplace. we are vigorously promoting activities for social contribution, as This is done under the Health and Safety Committee, which meets monthly. The root factors In the context of increasingly serious environmental problems we face on a global well. We have been continuously carrying on various programs with in occupational accidents are relaxation of vigilance and disorder in details. Employees scale, we are also carrying on environmental education and related activities so the participation of all our employees to date, including blood drives, therefore go beyond checking just the dangerous workplace locations, rather looking that our employees can lead their lives with awareness of the environment, not the Ecocap movement, seeing-eye dog fund-raising programs, and at every point of work procedure, attire, and other such areas, and take steps to make only in the production workplace but at home, as well. so on. Since 2012, for example, we have been special sponsors improvements. In fiscal 2012, we also began deploying safety patrols in every department of the Koedo Kawagoe Marathon held locally near our Kawagoe because we decided it was necessary to carry out these measures in every department and Factory, among other such activities we are putting our efforts into workplace in accordance with their unique working characteristics. in collaboration with and contribution to local communities. * 6S: Safety plus five other terms (all starting with “S” in Japanese) relating to orderliness, cleanliness, and discipline. Feedback from Health and Safety Committee Promotion Officer We conduct training for raising productivity by overall Safety as the Workplace Climate and Culture optimization, making use of blocks to go through virtual experiences of the sequence Ultimately, I think that the most important of planning, production, element of 6S is related to discipline, meaning that marketing, and delivery discipline is established as a consistent pattern of It goes without saying that processes, and learning what behavior. The ideal is that everyone is able to put we will carry on with checks kinds of issues are faced in the In fiscal 2014, our many to assure the workers’ safety, various departments involved. years of contributions to blood safety and improvement into practice as a matter of course without necessarily having to think about it. of course, and also examine drives was recognized and matters carefully from a Feedback from Instructor in Charge of Education and Training we received a letter of thanks I want to proceed with measures to establish safety variety of other perspectives, from the Japanese Red Cross as the climate and culture of the workplace by Naoki Isozaki raising the level of our 6S activities, of course, and including work efficiency, factory beautification, securing Making People Notice Things Advances Their Learning Saitama Blood Center. Administration Dept. also by devising ways to evoke the desired behavior evacuation routes, etc. Feedback from Social Contribution Activity Promotion Officer Production Group Div. Due to the particular characteristics of operations in by notices and other such means. Sammy Corporation the Manufacturing Department, people spend more time in With Social Contribution, Steady Continuation is Important contact with material objects. Importance is placed on their Feedback from Manufacturing Department “8S” Activity Promotion Officer accurately completing the work in their own assigned areas At our Kawagoe Factory, we have considered it according to schedule, so the reality is that they immerse important to carry on activities with the participation Safety Happens when Everyone Takes Measures themselves in their work. Seven years ago, therefore, the of all our employees in a steady, continuing manner, Manufacturing Department started planning and proposing its and we have been pursuing activities in this way. In the Manufacturing Department, we have added two items to There have been plans that were thought up by own study groups and other such activities. We plan the content the company-wide “6S” activities, saving electricity and security, and employees, and cooperation with activities that all have been deploying our own “8S Patrols” here. When something to cover matters that would be useful in making work improvements Kazuyoshi Shoji of Sammy engaged in, and these activities we have catches our attention, we take photographs of it on the spot, then we in people’s ordinary duties, such as the importance of preparation, the Manufacturing Dept. been carrying on have not by any means tapered People from outside have a thoroughgoing discussion with everyone about how to make necessity of improving communications for each section and each person, Manufacturing Div. off, but have penetrated the company. In the future, I are praising our line for an improvement, and we make the improvement. We never say, “This and so on. I would like to keep on contributing in whatever small way I Sammy Corporation would like to advance to activities that involve deliberate looking so good more and Katsunori Miyamoto more often since “8S” is good enough for safety.” We are all working together to continue Tatsuya Mizuno can to raising the level of our valuable human resources by devising and engagement with local communities, such as cooperation Administration Dept. making further improvements for a workplace environment that is implementing plans that will stimulate our employees to notice things. and coordination with local industry associations in activities have become an Manufacturing Dept. Production Group Div. safe and work-friendly. communities that are home to our factories. established routine. Manufacturing Div. Sammy Corporation Sammy Corporation Special Feature 9 SEGA SAMMY GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 Special Feature 10 SEGA SAMMY GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 About “HERO BANK” STORY Special Feature 2 “HERO BANK” is new content for boys that is undergoing cross-media implementation with the full resources of the SEGA Group, starting from NINTENDO3DS™ software and extending to television What We Want to Share with Children anime, arcade games, manga, toys, and UFO CATCHER prizes. It is a “money battle” RPG that is totally new in having money as the main theme, but the story develops on the typical pattern of Through “HERO BANK” battle scenes in which justice triumphs. The main character is an elementary-school fifth-grader named Kaito Gosho. Putting on hero costumes that are “data suits” patterned after actual occupations, such as race car drivers and baseball players, this character takes part in bouts of new era cyber-sports called Hero Battles, aiming to achieve his dream of becoming a billionaire. —SEGA’s Game-Building Filled with Deeply Felt Commitment— Money appears as a crucial keyword in a variety of different situations, and players can learn about the importance of earning and protecting money through their role as the main character Kaito. SEGA has released games and entertainment of a wide variety of genres throughout the world to ©SEGA ©SEGA/HERO BANK PROJECT, TV TOKYO date. These convey the essential appeal of games, including feelings of excitement, thrill, exhilaration, Manufacturing Products You Can Enjoy with a Sense of Security and accomplishment, as well as important values that are even more essential, such as connections Sometimes a game will involve close-ups just of certain particular aspects, and it may then be subject with friends and bonds with families. to criticism from society. As entertainment professionals, however, we need to address those concerns Furthermore, we are pursuing safety from a variety of perspectives in our products and thoroughly and make it possible for customers to enjoy themselves. For that purpose, SEGA carries out services so that our customers can enjoy SEGA’s content with a sense of security. We stringent measures to manage product safety according to our own voluntary standards as well as stringently implement labeling of industry ratings and we adjust expressions and other industry guidelines. The money that is a central motif of “HERO BANK” may appear on first sight to have content to the age of the intended users, carrying out development with careful some negative aspects. However, we have carried out careful research to determine what children’s consideration of what customers will have contact with that content and what influence it parents and guardians feel concerned about in terms of influence on children, and we pursue development with full care for not giving any cause for anxiety in this regard. could have on them. On the hardware side, as well, we have established systems to assure We also take care regarding violent expressions and the acceptability of language usage by the quality of our products, and we have accumulated knowhow for the development of safe characters, while on the other hand, we deliberately use terms products. that would be difficult for children, such as “contract” or “joint This feature will introduce the deeply-felt commitment that we put into game-building at and several guarantor” in order to make the children wonder in SEGA, using our efforts with the new children’s title “HERO BANK,” which SEGA launched their simple way what this or the other word means, so as to in 2014. encourage discussion and communication between parents and children. Beyond that, we have also included names that (in Japanese) are homonyms or allusions to terms used in finance, What I Want to Communicate to the Children and we will be very happy if mothers and fathers can play “HERO BANK” with their children, teaching their children as they enjoy it A scene from the television anime version together. When I took on this challenge of a new title for children, my aim was to create new value in the kids’ market. What I came up with was the story called “HERO BANK” with money as a main motif. One reason for choosing money this way was that children today have increasing opportunities to interact with money, even if indirectly, due to the popularization of mobile terminals and other such devices. In this era, it is my What Earns Children’s Long-Lasting Interest and Loyalty hope and desire to give children a feeling for how important money is. The main character in “HERO BANK” is an elementary school We hope that “HERO BANK” will provide a way for children to feel student, and he isn’t able to resolve all the things that happen to him by many things of importance, such as how precious friends are, and his own strength alone. He takes “Payment with smiles, not money” as about making a great effort for another person. This is precisely why his article of faith, however, and takes on a variety of problems in Hero we are marshaling all of the SEGA SAMMY Group resources and Battles out of the desire to help his friends and other people who are in strengths to deploy “HERO BANK” in a variety of media. It is not just trouble. There are scenes showing how the main character’s warm heart a game, but a television anime, manga, trading cards, toys, and so on. touches the feelings of the spectators and sometimes moves them to By coordinating these one with the other, we are positioning “HERO help, and scenes showing how the main character tries as hard as he BANK” so that it can be enjoyed from many different perspectives. We can to save the money needed to fight in the Hero Battles. Our purpose are slated to launch the sequel product “HERO BANK 2” as in these scenes, which arise in connection with money, is to make NINTENDO3DS™ software in November 2014. We are hoping to children aware of how important it is to have friends, to help one cultivate “HERO BANK” as a work that will go on earning children’s another, and to have ties with other people. That is the message. We will Yoichi Shimosato interest and loyalty for a long time. be happy if children naturally pick up this message by playing the game CS R&D Dept., #3, R&D Div. #3 and have fun doing it. SEGA Corporation —What We Do so that Children Can Play Safely— Inventive Design Elements in the “HERO BANK Arcade” Designing Arcade Games for Safety and Security We developed the “HERO BANK Arcade” using the essential knowhow SEGA has acquired in kids’ games and card games, and put We select the materials for cards so that Taking the effects on players into it into operation throughout Japan in July 2014. Decks are made up from three hero cards, and a set of three dice is thrown to play a there will be no ill effect even if children put consideration, we have carried out cards in their mouths or lick them, and we battle. A player makes progress in the battle by the number of dots on the dice, and there rigorous checks for photosensitivity to give the cards rounded corners. These are the light from LEDs and game screens. have been some parents who said the game helps their children’s arithmetic studies. some of the thoroughgoing steps we take We have also used eye tracking systems The game machine has a printer with the latest technology built in, and after a battle it for safe design. to analyze players’ points of attention Cabinet Design can print out a player’s favorite hero in card form. A high-quality card emerges in just 20 during play, and by designing images We give thought to the height, center of seconds. Not only that, but the card is imprinted with the player’s name and record score. and effects accordingly, we limit the gravity, and balance of cabinets in order strain on players’ eyes. The children who have obtained these cards were very happy with them. This technology to reduce the likelihood that they could tip over, and we also provide anti-tipping is also very popular with the shop operators. With the previous kid’s card machines, users clamps as standard equipment in the would purchase cards printed out for each version, and when a version was upgraded, the unlikely event that they are needed. The previous-version cards had to be discarded. That issue has been eliminated by the design also allows the point of purchase adoption of this new internal printer, which contributes both in terms of cost and in limiting The process of rounding the card corners (POP) promotional attachments over the the amount of waste. Kazuya Takahashi also contributes to the durability of the We design the shape of cabinet to be removed so that the cards. We take measures like these for our We certainly hope you will try out the “HERO BANK Arcade” game, whether parent and AM R&E Dept., R&D Div. #1 card retrieval slots so that machines can be operated in a way that customers who want to be able to play with SEGA Corporation their favorite cards for a long time. players will not get their allows parents to recognize their children child together or friends together. hands caught in them. more easily. Special Feature 11 SEGA SAMMY GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 Special Feature 12 SEGA SAMMY GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 Special Feature 3 Special Feature 4 Inducing More Comfortable Sleep Aiming for a Resort that Exists in Harmony with —Home Planetarium, “HOMESTAR”— the Natural Environment and the Local Community In the stressful society of today, sleep is considered to have a —PHOENIX RESORT’s CSR Activities— signiﬁcant impact on health and beauty. Now it has been veriﬁed One of the premier resort facilities in Japan, “Phoenix Seagaia Resort” is operated by PHOENIX RESORT, that the “HOMESTAR” is effective in improving the quality of sleep. which is carrying out a variety of measures not only to increase customer satisfaction, but also to ensure the resort exists in harmony with the natural environment and the people of the local community. The “HOMESTAR” is a planetarium for home use that was jointly developed by Total Worldwide Series Sales SEGA TOYS and Mr. Takayuki Ohira, a planetarium creator, and launched in 2005. In a time of increasingly diversified lifestyles, the product idea originated in customer needs 850,000 units! A Commitment to Aiming for Service that Exceeds Customer Expectations * As of April 2014 Our Customers and has been expanding into a fuller line-up of products that are not only for fans of In order to provide excitement to all the customers who come to We consider it our greatest mission to astronomy, but that are being well received across a wide customer demographic. have our customers experience relaxation our resort, we are implementing the Sheraton Customer Experience in mind and body so that they will go home Program (SCE). The point of this program is to provide customers with feeling energetic and healthy. Therefore an experience so exciting that they exclaim, “Wow!” at the moment we have formulated this Commitment to it happens. Our own pleasure and our satisfaction in working as staff Our Customers accordingly, that all our members here is in the smiles and words of thanks we receive from “HOMESTAR” and the Pleasant Sleep Effect staff members are united in seeking the our customers. Going forward, all our staff members together will think satisfaction of our customers, and that we up special ways of extending hospitality that exceeds our customers’ Toru Kuroki It is said that due to their diversifying are aiming to provide our customers the expectations, and we will put them into practice. Concierge, Sheraton Grande lifestyles, one out of five Japanese Results from Verification of the Pleasant Sleep Effect ultimate resort stay. Ocean Resort PHOENIX RESORT CO.,LTD. people suffer from sleep problems. In that 1 Sleeping becomes 2 Sleep becomes 3 Waking up context, when many happy “HOMESTAR” easier deeper becomes easier Supreme Service Maximizes the Advantages of Seagaia’s Location users claimed that they were sleeping Time taken to fall asleep is Time of good-quality, Degree of comfort when reduced an average of 30% non-REM stage 3 and 4 sleep waking up improved an There is one element of the “SCE Program” that we always like to much better since they started using the compared to previous sleep increased an average of 30% average of 20% introduce to our customers as one of the attractions of Seagaia. There is product when they lie down to sleep, it Changes in time taken to fall Comparison of periods of Evaluation of comfort when something we call the “Moon Road,” which is seen on a night when the was decided to verify this pleasant sleep asleep before and after slow-wave sleep (stages 3 and waking from sleep before and full moon starts to rise above the ocean horizon. The moonlight reflects effect from use of the “HOMESTAR.” continued “HOMESTAR” use 4) before and after continued after continued “HOMESTAR” use on the surface of the ocean, forming a beautiful, narrow road of light. “HOMESTAR” use This is a natural phenomenon that can only be seen on a few nights. Professor Emeritus Norinaga Shimizu of (Minutes) (Minutes) (%) 95% On the east side one can see the magnificent coastline, over which the Osaka Prefecture University, a leading 50 100 89 minutes 100 40 42 minutes 80 80 80% 154-meter-tall hotel stands, and the “Moon Road” can be seen here as lifestyle health specialist, was asked to 29 minutes 68 minutes an even more fantastically beautiful vision because this is the Seagaia 30 60 60 carry out the verification. The results of location. The staff members are coming up with ideas for various 20 40 40 this investigation showed that there are services we can provide to make the “Moon Road” more enjoyable, such Yasuro Ueda three main effects that emerge when 10 20 20 as opening the top floor to everyone, creating an original cocktail for the Corporate Communication 0 0 0 occasion, and so on. PHOENIX RESORT CO.,LTD. comparing sleep as usual by test subjects Before After Before After Before After with sleep experienced when they fall * Graphs show results of verification with the “HOMESTAR AURORA.” * There are individual variations in the pleasant sleep effect, and not everyone is guaranteed to experience these same asleep while watching the “HOMESTAR.” verification results. In Order for the Resort to Exist in Harmony with the Japanese Black Pine Forest Staff Comment Stakeholder Comment Phoenix Seagaia Resort is situated in the midst of nature, surrounded by an expansive forest of Japanese The Planetarium We Will be Suggesting for Use in Everyday Living Spaces black pine that extends about 11 kilometers north to Standing by the Side of south and covers approximately 700 hectares. This forest For a long time now, it has not been possible to enjoy easily watching the stars in of Japanese black pine is said to have been planted some the Disabled urban areas because of the light pollution. Under these circumstances, the desire to use two centuries ago by local residents to protect them and The laundry plant that handles cleaning of linens the power of entertainment to allow people to enjoy a sky filled with stars at any time, their livelihoods from blown sand, salt, and tidal damage. with anybody, and to give them the excitement and the wonder of that experience, was Norinaga Shimizu for the various Phoenix Seagaia Resort facilities The loss of pine forests throughout Japan today due is promoting employment of the disabled. Of the what led to the development of the “HOMESTAR” a decade ago. Lately there has been a Honorary Professor, to the impact of environmental change, disease, and 40 staff members, we presently have 12 who are growing need for this item by people who want to use it in the bath, too, and to soothe them University of Osaka pests is becoming increasingly serious. Under these before going to sleep, and other such uses. Prefecture disabled. Ranging from veterans with some 20 years circumstances we have formulated a “Black Pine Forest on the job to newer employees who have been with People want to use it not just for enjoying a Manager, Life Health Study Declaration” at Seagaia and are taking measures to us for a few years, they all do their very best in their starry sky, but also for producing a space for Research Institute maintain our pine forest. various jobs as essential presences in the plant. inducing sleepiness and relaxation. For the future, we would like to broaden our lineIn order to enhance the quality of up of these products as tools for delivering sleep, it is important to improve the living a period of tranquility in everyday life, not environment. In that regard, it is known just for the obvious purpose of stimulating that just changing the light environment in interest in the stars up in the sky. particular can enhance the quality of sleep. We Will Go on Protecting and Nurturing the Japanese Given the results of these tests, I can say Black Pines that are the Treasure of this Area Tetsuya Hayakawa (left) that making the “HOMESTAR” a part of The Japanese black pines that grow in this area have been protected Hiroki Goto (right) daily life could contribute to having pleasant in their beautiful green state over many long years. They stand as the Lifestyle Dept., New Product Business Div. sleep. proof of the careful individual care given to these trees by the people SEGA TOYS CO., LTD. involved with the forest over its long history. The black pine forest did more than just protect local residents and their livelihoods from salt and tidal damage. It has also brought us tranquility and a soothing presence. Akihiro Kamitomo We consider these Japanese black pines to be the precious, irreplaceable Landscape Exterior Dept. treasure of Japan, of Miyazaki, and of Seagaia, and they must be passed PHOENIX RESORT CO.,LTD. on as an inheritance to the next generation. We will go on working with the people of the community to protect and nurture these trees. Workers of the Phoenix Seagaia Resort laundry plant Special Feature 13 SEGA SAMMY GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 Special Feature 14 SEGA SAMMY GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 SEGA SAMMY Group Earthquake Recovery Support Activities Group Employee Volunteerism Since fiscal 2014, our employees have been helping with a wide variety of activities Starting immediately after the Great East Japan Earthquake of March 2011, SEGA SAMMY Group has been engaged in a variety of intended to help bring smiles to people’s faces in areas affected by the disaster. These include different support activities geared to the requests and needs of the affected areas. We hear that there are still as many as 200,000 or more planning tea parties in temporary housing meeting rooms, preparing the ground and planting people being forced to live as evacuees even today. We are committed as a Group to continuing our efforts, with programs such as “We ﬂower beds, and other such activities. (At total of 11 times from June 2013 (25th event) to July 2014 (35th event) in Will Not Let It Fade” and “Improving Communication in Temporary Housing,” until true recovery is achieved. Higashimatsushima City and Minamisanriku Town in Miyagi Prefecture) A Look Back at Our Activities to Date Feedback from Participating Employees • From March 2011 on • From September 2011 on Jun Senoue Miho Nakamura Ikko Nagasue CS R&D Dept., #2, R&D Div.#3 Art & Design Dept. Nagano Sales Office, Kita-Kanto Branch, Sales Div. Fund raising, donation of goods, donation of Coordinated with NPOs and other SEGA Corporation SEGA Networks Co., Ltd. Sammy Corporation a portion of sales, etc. started immediately organizations to implement support (Participated in the 27th event, July 2013) (Participated in the 28th event, July 2013) (Participated in the 29th event, October 2013) after the Great East Japan Earthquake for disaster-affected areas It was very meaningful for me The experience of going According to what I hear, the to have shared time working for beyond your job and position to area population has increased Continuing in the same purpose with people do something is very precious, because of the recovery work fiscal 2015 •From June 2011 on from Group companies that I and I expect that if we have more going on, the place is supposed Volunteer activities by employees started ordinarily have little contact with. and more opportunities like this, to be bustling, and things of that (Total of 35 programs implemented by total of 401 participants up to July 2014) At the same time, I also feel that then it will become even easier sort. There are also many places I came up against the fact that to pull the Group together and to where it is as though time has there is very little that can be accomplished in the period have exchanges among Group personnel. I felt that it will stopped since the day of the earthquake, however, and of several days. However, I have taken to heart what the be necessary to continue these activities as the substance what I felt is that it is crucial to spread the word about this people involved were saying, that having little power to of our volunteer work changes according to the stage of experience to as many people as possible, and let them Continuing in fiscal 2015 accomplish things is not the same as having no power, recovery. know that continuing support is necessary so that these and I would like to gradually build up the things that I can efforts will not just fade out. We may not have any more do, even if they are small things. than very little power to accomplish things, but I’m certain that we are not absolutely powerless. •From June 2011 on • From December 2011 Akihito Kobayashi Stakeholder Comment People who evacuated to Tokyo and nearby on Compliance Administration Dept. PHOENIX RESORT CO.,LTD. It has been three years since the Great East Japan Earthquake hit, and we have areas were invited to TOKYO JOYPOLIS Started special events in Continuing in (Participated in the 33rd event, June 2014) reached the stage now where it will be necessary to switch help from “hardware” (Carried out a total of 24 times up to March 2013, support of affected areas fiscal 2015 Three years or more have over to our “software” activities of psychological and spiritual care. In that context, with 643 people invited) (Total of 16 held up to August 2014) passed since the earthquake I want to express my profound gratitude for having received timely assistance such disaster, and volunteer needs are as dispatch of personnel, participation in special events, provision of equipment changing day by day. According and materials to welfare facilities, and so on. We residents here want to reciprocate Special Events in Support of Areas Affected by Disaster to what local residents there say, what makes them happier the generous support we have been given from within Japan and from other We started holding special events to support areas affected by than anything is to be provided countries starting immediately after the earthquake, and in order to be able to occasions for exchange with other people, as well as the do that, among other things, we intend to persevere with the aim of recovering Takahiro Inomata the disaster by means of entertainment on the theme of “Delivering Council of Social Welfare, creation of occasions for smiling and having fun. Under as quickly as we can through the deep bonds we have formed. Please continue Smiles and Good Spirits” from 2011. From April 2013 to August 2014, Minamisanriku-cho, these circumstances, I felt very proud of being able to supporting our recovery at Minamisanriku Town. “We smile again today and set our we held a total of 11 such events, providing Group resources such as Miyagi Prefecture make a contribution through the work we have done in sights on tomorrow with powerful human ties and gratitude in our hearts.” “UFO CATCHER,” “HERO BANK,” “THE ADVENTURE OF PANDA AND Large numbers of the SEGA SAMMY Group to date. FRIENDS,” “Kid’s Medal Game,” and “DARTS” in cooperation with people came to every local festivals and other special events. We did this for the enjoyment of event venue town and village residents at Morioka City in Iwate Prefecture, at Natori City, Shichigahama Town, Higashimatsushima City, and Minamisanriku New Employee Training for Fiscal 2015 Town in Miyagi Prefecture, and in front of Fukushima Station and As part of the training for new employees, in fiscal 2015 we again provided an occasion Iidatemura Village in Fukushima Prefecture. Going forward, we would We have received for developing human resources who aim to contribute to society as businesspeople. like to continue bringing smiles to these communities and people many messages from the children This was a continuation from fiscal 2014, and this year 109 people participated in an through the power of entertainment. who came to these observation tour of Onagawa Town in Miyagi Prefecture, followed by work clearing away Feedback from Participating Employees events rubble in Higashimatsushima City, creation of ﬂower beds, and other such activities. A thank-you card “This was a very enjoyable event that made me feel anew that I want to keep on Feedback from Participating Employees supplying energy to people’s play in the local community so that it will contribute to the revitalization of the area and give people there some cheerful energy.” Kinue Ishikawa Ryo Oishi Kohei Muta “Everything was very impressive. Having fun can give richness to a person’s life. SEGA Corporation Sammy Corporation TAIYO ELEC Co., Ltd. This made me realize all over again the true nature of the work we are doing day I was amazed to see how the I was living in Miyagi Prefecture The best recovery assistance, after day together.” rubble had become so covered when it happened. Compared with I think, is to actually go to the “Seeing the people enjoying the games right in front of me gave me the precious over by earth after all this time. the time before the earthquake, affected area. This gets exchanges opportunity to rethink what my own work is ultimately about. It was also a day Mixed in with the rubble were the streets and houses seem quiet with local residents started, that made me feel this event was possible because it was done by SEGA SAMMY Stakeholder Comment photo albums and other mementos and empty, somehow lacking in and if you visit regularly, the Group, which provides entertainment.” buried there, too. I think that what we can do, as visitors vital activity. I think it would be good if the SEGA SAMMY communication will grow more meaningful. Then, in that It has been three years since the earthquake to the scene, is to help keep the reality of what happened Group, which makes fun things and interesting things, context, you can ask what there is that you could help with “Nothing could make me happier than to know I was able to provide some support, on March 11 from fading away from people’s memories. could cooperate with local businesses to plan something right now, and with that question, I think you will be able to no matter how little, to the people there at the actual location by means of this disaster. Here, one-third of our town was hit by that would make local people and people from other feel a step forward taken in recovery assistance. special event. When the children’s message came saying they wanted us to the tsunami, and only now are we starting to hear prefectures want to come visit. come again, I realized all over again how much they look forward to this event, the sounds of reconstruction work going on. We in particular.” Staff Accompanying New Trainees received assistance from many people all over Tatsuya Yamaguchi Kosuke Kuwahara “The carefree smiling faces of the children and their vigorous high spirits made Japan immediately after the earthquake, but the Sammy Networks Co., Ltd. SEGA Networks Co., Ltd. Yuki Suzuki a great going-away gift that I would not exchange for anything. I was also moved people of SEGA SAMMY Group have been giving Personnel Dept., Corporate Div. to see the Group members working so hard, and it makes me feel proud to be an When I looked at the elementary I felt a shock when I heard the Sammy Corporation us their generous support every year in holding employee of the same Group company as these wonderful people.” school building fallen down in ruins words of a local resident, who said, the “Shichigahama Town Lifelong Learning Festival,” and helping to make These three days were an with the steel beams exposed, it “Fleeing so you survive in safety “To have this contact with the children directly, through their play, and to be able the event a popular success. Those of us who are going forward on the path extremely valuable opportunity seemed that I could feel the horror yourself is helping to save the lives to see their cheerful, smiling faces, makes me happier than I can say. It was really for new members of the toward reconstruction will be very happy for their ongoing presence. of the tsunami with my own body, of people who mobilize to come wonderful that I was able, with my poor abilities, to participate in the special event company to take their first steps as adult members of and my blood ran cold. Even three years after the event, help evacuees.” I think it is important for us to continue program with the Group as a whole.” Naoki Iino I saw wooden timbers, chinaware, and other rubble lying providing the support that we are able to provide as an society. We were able to show them many things to learn, including what a corporation can do for society, “What we at SEGA SAMMY Group are helping with is not just the material things, Management Instruction of Central Community Center here and there as I approached the ocean side of the entertainment company. and how much can be accomplished by 100 people if food, shelter, and clothing. I felt very keenly that the service we offer of play and Shichigahama-machi, Miyagi Prefecture area, and I realized that there are places where helping they combine their strengths. entertainment is also something significant to the places affected by the disaster.” hands are still needed. 15 SEGA SAMMY GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 16 SEGA SAMMY GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 Our Aim CSR in the SEGA SAMMY Group Achieve a society that the corporate Group and society sustain together The Management Philosophy of the SEGA SAMMY Group states, “By providing entertainment filled with dreams and excitement to people throughout the world, we will strive to enrich our society and culture.” On that basis, we will work from the four perspectives of (1) contributing through our business, (2) serving society, (3) addressing environmental issues, and (4) engaging in corporate governance and economic Put into practice in everyday Put into practice as a theme of responsibility. By fulfilling our responsibilities in this way, we will respond with sincerity to relations with stakeholders initiatives declared by the Group the demands and expectations of society and we will build better relationships with our stakeholders, thereby furthering our CSR initiative in a way that becomes SEGA SAMMY. (see pages 19 to 21) Customers Page 26 Contributing through Our Business Partners Management Philosophy of the SEGA SAMMY Group Page 34 By providing entertainment filled with dreams Serving Society and excitement to people throughout the world, Employees we will strive to enrich our society and culture. Page 40 Better relationships Addressing Environmental Issues with stakeholders CSR Charter of the SEGA SAMMY Group Society Corporate Governance (serving society, As a responsible corporate citizen, we will comply with all relevant laws, regulations and the environment) social norms and further deepen the relationship with our stakeholders. Page 47 Shareholders Through these efforts, we believe we can provide sound management of our group and and investors Economic Responsibility fulfill our responsibilities to society. Page 38 SEGA SAMMY Group Code of Conduct Guidelines regarding specific actions by employees based on the “Group CSR Charter” Set whole-Group CSR 2012 initiative issues Initiatives So Far and Going Forward Timeline of Major CSR Activities Following the merger in 2004, we aimed to pursue CSR activities that would be consistent and unified among employees and across the Group. Established “Group Management Philosophy,” 2012 The following year, therefore, we formulated the “Group Management 2005 Philosophy,” the “Group CSR Charter,” and the “Group Code of • Introduced joint CSR training for new employees Conduct,” and we have been taking steps to instill them and ensure their “Group CSR Charter,” and “Group Code of Conduct” • Introduced recovery support events SEGA and Sammy understanding among all Group employees. 2004 integrated to form • Invited evacuees in the Tokyo metropolitan area to TOKYO JOYPOLIS In 2009, we conducted materiality analyses to select and organize the SEGA SAMMY Group 2006 2009 issues that the Group should address, and based on the results, we set targets and have been conducting progress management on key issues. • Published CSR Handbook • Published first CSR Report for employees 2013 We conducted a materiality review in 2012, and decided on four key • Determined CSR promotion items, • Published CSR Guidance • Formulated CSR policy issues that the Group as a whole can act on. We defined objectives for formulated CSR Promotion Plan (employee handbook pamphlet) each business company along the lines of these key issues and are • Introduced disaster area volunteer activities (training) • Conducted materiality analyses conducting progress management. for new Group employees 2007 • Introduced compliance training for Group executives In 2014, we responded to the increasingly rigorous demands by • Published first CSR Report 2010 • Introduced training on individual topics society regarding corporate compliance and internal governance by formulating a “Group Management Policy” for each area of business • Published Environmental Handbook • Held dialogue with NPOs operation. We also reviewed the content of the “Group Code of Conduct” • Published Compliance Handbook • Adopted compliance training for newly appointed Group executives 2014 to adapt it to changes in society. • Signed United Nations Global Compact In order to become even more socially adaptable in the future, we will review the current status of supply chain initiatives related to Group 2011 • Formulated “Group Management Policy” and “Group Guidelines” companies, taking ISO 26000 and other such international standards as • Started employee volunteer activities points of reference. We will identify issues, activities, and other such areas • Introduced CSR training for members of Group company in disaster areas that we will need to take into consideration in the future, and we will act to management deepen the SEGA SAMMY Group’s CSR initiatives. • Held dialogue with CSR experts SEGA SAMMY’S CSR 17 SEGA SAMMY GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 SEGA SAMMY’S CSR 18 SEGA SAMMY GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 Our Policy on CSR Our Policy on CSR —Committed to corporate growth, social worth, and continuing to earn respect— Any growth of the SEGA SAMMY Group must happen within the context of society’s development and in close relationship to our stakeholders. Practicing corporate social responsibility, or CSR, is something Corporate Governance we do as a member of society. CSR in itself is not an extraordinary or difficult endeavor. It simply involves Corporate governance, including compliance and risk management, is utterly crucial. The SEGA establishing a Group Management Philosophy and practicing it day to day. SAMMY Group is ensuring corporate management soundness, transparency, and efficiency by instilling We support the sustainable development of society by following the law and social norms, generating our Management Philosophy, developing compliance awareness, and strengthening our legal compliance a stable and appropriate profit, and paying taxes and dividends. These, however, are not enough. As and internal control systems. a good corporate citizen, the SEGA SAMMY Group tackles global environmental problems and social We moreover create healthy workplace environments, respect human rights, and show no tolerance problems (such as human rights) by taking a global point of view, and at the same time we create many for discrimination. Our purpose is to build a corporate culture where each employee can engage his or her benefits for our local communities. creativity and challenge-taking spirit. Along with this, we maintain fair and impartial relationships with our suppliers and work together with them as partners. I’m proud of our many Group employees who actively volunteered after the Great East Japan Earthquake of 2011. During the reconstruction efforts, they put on a variety of events in the affected areas Economic Responsibility to give people courage and strength. Thanks to them, I rediscovered the significance of the entertainment The SEGA SAMMY Group views our business with a global perspective in our efforts to ensure business and was particularly impressed with how much these employees grew. Going forward, we will sustained growth and to maximize enterprise value. Additionally, we enhance management transparency not only take social initiatives, but also contribute to society in a range of forms through our business and and meet the expectations of our shareholders and society through fair and timely disclosure and our response to the environment. appropriate returns on profits. Contributing through Our Business The SEGA SAMMY Group can do more than grow for its own sake. We will strive to achieve strong, Humans need more than just food, clothing, and shelter to live. A dynamic life requires play and fun, continuous growth by actively exploring new fields in a way that contributes to the invigoration of the which is what entertainment is all about. Our goal and the role society expects of us is to bring enrichment, overall Japanese economy and to the sustainable development of the world. fulfillment, vitality for tomorrow, and other such values to people’s daily lives by providing entertainment At the same time, we need to realize that any expansion of our Group’s services and business that delivers smiles, joy, dreams and excitement to people throughout the world. We are conscientious will necessarily affect our stakeholders and society in a significant way. We must therefore renew our at all times in offering safe, high-quality products and services and to develop and offer products and awareness of such circumstances and our responsibility, and fulfill our CSR in a manner as befits the services that help to solve society’s problems through entertainment. We will moreover work with our SEGA SAMMY Group, to ultimately become a corporate group that is committed to corporate growth, Group companies, related industry groups, and others to encourage the sound development of young social worth, and continuing to earn respect. people and create appropriate environments for play and pastimes. Hajime Satomi President and Chief Executive Officer Social Initiatives SEGA SAMMY HOLDINGS INC. As good corporate citizens, the Group as a whole and its individual companies and workplaces maintain an active dialogue with members of the community and take initiatives to benefit society. Such CEO and Group Employees Meet for Exchange of Views initiatives also encourage each employee to grow and unify us in our aspiration for a stronger Group. Meetings are held to exchange views between President Satomi and employees in the SEGA SAMMY Group in order to share results of activities, issues, and other matters relating to individual workplaces, as well as to discuss Environmental Response future directions for CSR activities. Up to now, CSR officers of Group companies Climate change, resource depletion, and poverty are among the many problems we face on the global and employees who participated in support activities for areas affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake have sat down together in this way. This time, scale. The business activities of an enterprise inevitably have some impact on the environment. There is so representative of major projects from Group companies, personnel managers, much more we can do, as a Group and as individuals, than just comply with laws on pollution prevention, and other such members met and took part in active exchanges of views. Meetings for exchange of views are taken as valuable occasions for renewed sharing of CSR policies waste processing and the like. Our Group employees therefore will think about and act on what they can Participants: do to benefit the environment, by saving energy, recycling, or reducing consumables use. (Back row, from left) (Front row, from left) Yukitada Azuma Chikako Arai Planning & Operating Dept. Personnel Dept., Corporate Div. 777 Town Service Div. TMS ENTERTAINMENT Co., LTD. Sammy Networks Co., Ltd. Hajime Satomi Takehiro Nagase President and Chief Executive Officer Production #2, Publishing & Marketing Dept. SEGA SAMMY HOLDINGS INC. SEGA Networks Co., Ltd. Harumi Hojo Yoichi Shimosato Group Corporate Social Responsibility CS R&D Dept., #3, R&D Div. #3 Promotion Office SEGA Corporation SEGA SAMMY HOLDINGS INC. Satoshi Sawada PS Sec. 2, R& D Div. Sammy Corporation SEGA SAMMY’S CSR 19 SEGA SAMMY GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 SEGA SAMMY’S CSR 20 SEGA SAMMY GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 Our Policy on CSR Promoting CSR Fiscal 2014 Targets, Progress, and Results, and Fiscal 2015 Targets SEGA SAMMY Group Initiatives Group CSR Framework Raising Awareness, Making CSR Pervasive Main Page Items Fiscal 2014 Issues Progress and Results Fiscal 2015 Issues References The SEGA SAMMY Group considers CSR activities an At the SEGA SAMMY Group, we believe that putting the ••Set voluntary standards exceeding laws, ordinances, industry standards in target countries, ••Ensure safety and confidence important way to create value continuously for the Group and Group Management Philosophy into practice depends on in products and services quality assurance that includes information disclosure by product labeling, etc. achieve sustainable development for our stakeholders. For all employees understanding the “Group CSR Charter” and [SEGA, Sammy, SEGA TOYS, SE] and continue appropriate information disclosures that reason, the Holdings established the Group CSR Liaison acting in accordance with the “Group Code of Conduct,” ••Improve customer support system [SEGA, Sammy, SEGA TOYS] Provide safe, ••Accurate, appropriate product labeling [SEGA, Sammy, SEGA TOYS] ••Further improve support Conference as the organization to facilitate communication which is written in the spirit of the charter. The Group system confidence-inspiring, ••Safety standards conforming to industry association standards P.11-12, and coordination relevant to Group CSR activities. CSR Office of the Holdings conveys the significance and ••Promote accurate, appropriate and enjoyable products [SEGA, Sammy, SEGA TOYS, SE] 26-33 product labeling The Holdings also established a Group CSR Office to importance of CSR activities to all Group employees and and services ••Take measures to run patrols and protect youth in partnership with local police, commercial districts, etc. [SE (Amusement Center )] ••Continue compliance with supervise and manage CSR activities and make sure they plans and implements ways to instill these ideas, for example safety standards conforming to proceed steadily. Finally, the Group CSR Offices Council, offering training tailored to various levels of understanding. Contributing ••Prohibit serving of alcohol to minors [SE (Bee)] industry group standards, etc. through Our ••Promote gaming in moderation through industry group [Sammy] attended by members of CSR Offices of Group companies, ••Continue measures against Business ••Measures against illegal customer behavior [Sammy] illegal customer behavior uses the PDCA (Plan-Do-Check-Act) cycle to examine, ••Develop, popularize “Smiletouch Dental” support terminal contributing to advance of pediatric implement, and evaluate specific CSR activities. dental care [TMS] Contribute to resolution ••Open showrooms periodically to senior citizens (18 times, 111 participants) [Sammy] Group CSR Structure P.13,15, of social issues using ••Cooperate with NPO to donate toys [HD, SEGA TOYS] 32, 33, ••Promote expanding scope SEGA SAMMY Group ••Hold events to support recovery in disaster-affected area using content (eight times) 53, 55 Holdings Board of Directors Group CSR Offices Council content [HD, SEGA, Sammy, SEGA TOYS, TMS, SE, SLS, DARTSLIVE] Approve/ ••Improve quality of sleep using “HOMESTAR” [SEGA TOYS] Instruct Group CSR Liaison ••Contribute to education for prevention of traffic accidents using our “DRIVING SIMULATOR” [SLS] instruct Engage in activities ••Have Baseball Club hold baseball workshops [HD] Conference ••Engaging in action to serve serving the local ••Accept internship recipients from inside and outside the prefecture [PSR] P.53-55, society as an extension of Propose/ Report community, industry ••Donate to Pink Ribbon Campaign [Sammy, SEGA SAMMY GOLF] 57 business initiatives, etc. ••Sponsor local sports activities [HD, Sammy] report CSR posters are displayed at all CSR Guidance and the CSR workplaces Report in digest form are ••Dispatch volunteer Group employees to disaster-affected areas (11 times, total distributed to all employees Serving 105 participants) [Group] Society Engage in whole-Group ••Hold events to support recovery in disaster-affected area using content (11 times) ••Continue support for recovery activities serving [HD, SEGA, Sammy, SEGA TOYS, TMS, SE, SLS, DARTSLIVE] P.15,16 and support new stage society (support Great ••Donate for Great East Japan Earthquake relief, etc. through charity golf competition [Sammy, 53-54, Topics CSR Training Held for Members of Group Company Management ••Use Group synergy to serve East Japan Earthquake SEGA SAMMY GOLF] 56-57 society recovery, etc.) ••Support the arts, including the 13th Tokyo Jazz Festival [HD] ••Picture-book campaign (220 volumes) (prepare an environment for entertainment in The SEGA SAMMY Group held CSR training for members underdeveloped countries) [Group] of Group company management starting in October 2013 ••Develop low-power-consumption products, increase number of items provided [SEGA] ••Promote 3Rs (especially (9 companies, 10 times, 300 participants). Outside instructors Promote 3Rs and ••Develop and commercialize Eco-Pachinko [Sammy] Recycling) were invited to speak about perceiving changes in the business address environmental ••Recycle trade-in machines (achieve 96.58% rate) [Sammy] ••Promote development and issues related to ••Marketable waste recycling (waste separation program by Kawagoe Factory workers) P.47-51 marketing of environmentally environment of the entertainment industry similarly to how social our business, such friendly products changes are perceived, and the measures needed for society and [Sammy] as environmentally friendly products ••100% recycling of amusement machines by manual dismantling [SLS] ••Promote other environmental corporations to exist in harmony as well as for corporations to ••Distribute information (e.g., environmental regulations) at annual Supplier Meeting [SEGA] protection activities sustain growth and development. The participants learned by Feedback from Participants Addressing Environmental ••Purchase Green Power Certificates (1000M Wh actual/year) [SEGA] lectures and group work, and they deepened their understanding “I would like to go from internal company training to internal Group training, Issues ••Establish system for tracking figures at seven direct subsidiaries [HD] and communication. and have discussions that also include people from other companies.” ••Win praise from Nagano Prefecture for amount of CO2 absorbed through forest sponsorship At the end of training, the participants all presented a CSR “CSR tends to strongly suggest social contributions, and we were able to Engage in initiatives agreement (“SEGA Forest”) [SEGA] P.14, change that notion. concerned with the ••Reduce use of paper resources by replacing multi-function printers, etc. [HD, SEGA, Sammy] ••Address environmental issues declaration for their own departments, and they were given the 47-51, 56 earth’s resources, etc. opportunity to rethink their raison d’etre as individual members “It turned out that CSR is none other than company business.” ••Manage, protect, cultivate black pine on Seagaia property (2.5 million m2) [PSR] ••Reduce environmental burden by switching from fossil fuels to natural gas [PSR] of the SEGA SAMMY Group. We will continue this training in “The perspective of resolving social issues through the company’s core ••Selected for certified carbon offset project [OASIS PARK] the future so that every individual member will be aware of what business was very instructive.” ••Hold CSR training for members of Group management (10 times, 9 companies, they should do in order for society to have expectations of this “I think it is extremely important for this company to think about resolving 300 participants) [HD] corporation, and trust it, and respect it, and in order for their social issues and about CSR in terms of our core business.” Instill widespread ••Formulate “Group Management Policy” and “Group Guidelines” [HD] Group companies to be corporations they can take pride in. It will “It was a great opportunity to establish communication going beyond our own awareness of ••Place “Group Management Philosophy” on Group intranet, make constantly accessible for ••Instill widespread awareness “Group Management reading by Group employees, include “Group Management Philosophy,” etc. as CSR heading of “Group Management enable them to think about this question, and to act accordingly. divisions at the same time we gained an understanding of CSR.” P.22 Philosophy” through in employee handbook, make it possible for employees to carry it with them always, promote Philosophy” through sustained sustained top-down employee awareness [Group] top-down communication communication ••Distribute messages from top management about the meaning and practice of our “Group Stakeholder Comment Management Philosophy” in an easily understandable, real-world way together with messages about the state of society and business announcements (three times per year) [Group] I was privileged to act as an instructor for your Group CSR training. A distinctive feature of the training was that it asked the Corporate Governance ••Hold compliance training for newly appointed Group executives (1 time, 28 participants) members of Group company management to think deeply about the fundamental question of what CSR is for the “SEGA SAMMY ••Compliance training sessions for Group executives (5 times, 20 companies, 116 participants) Group.” Through this essential question, the participants were able to align the “vectors” of their conceptual approaches to CSR, ••Conduct training to instill CSR ••Hold seminars on individual topics for Group executives (1 time, 29 companies, and at the same time they were able to talk to each other about their diverse values. This yielded the major effect of diffusing Conduct compliance 138 participants) activities P.24 the Group Management Philosophy throughout the attendees. I expect that in the future, good use will be made of this training training, etc. ••Strengthen corporate ••Hold compliance training for new employees [HD, SEGA, Sammy] governance content to create a symbolic example, even if it is small in scope, of how social issues are resolved through the company’s ••Hold various types of rank-specific training [Group] core business. ••Build easy-to-use reporting system by establishing Corporate Ethics Hotline [Group] Sharing CSR ••Collect CSR information by means of information media (newspapers, magazines, etc.) ••Promote CSR information Mitsuo Ogawa and provide it to Group companies via Group company CSR managers for the purpose of — Information detecting social trends and heightening risk sensitivity (twice a month) [HD] sharing President Craig Consulting Co.,Ltd. * Main companies implementing activities are shown in square brackets. Company names for the below companies are abbreviated as follows. HD: SEGA SAMMY HOLDINGS, INC.; TMS: TMS ENTERTAINMENT Co., LTD.; SE: SEGA ENTERTAINMENT CO.,LTD; SEGA SAMMY GOLF: SEGA SAMMY GOLF ENTERTAINMENT INC.; SLS: SEGA LOGISTICS SERVICE CO., LTD.; PSR: PHOENIX RESORT CO.,LTD. SEGA SAMMY’S CSR 21 SEGA SAMMY GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 SEGA SAMMY’S CSR 22 SEGA SAMMY GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 Corporate Governance Compliance and Risk Management Corporate governance is central to our operations, and we continue to improve our capabilities to Applying the “Group Code of Conduct” and the “Group Management Policy,” a variety of initiatives are conducted optimize enterprise value. in the SEGA SAMMY Group to keep all employees aware of compliance issues so that we can act accordingly. We also work to identify latent risks of serious loss within and beyond our management, clarify issues to be addressed and work to reduce loss and prevent its recurrence in the execution of company business and management resources. The Board of Directors, comprising nine directors (two Basic Stance of whom are outside directors), convenes monthly and as needed for agile management. The Board of Corporate Auditors Compliance Framework Internal Reporting System Corporate governance is central to our corporate conduct, presently comprises four members (three of whom are outside and we continue to improve our capabilities to optimize auditors), and it convenes for regular monthly sessions and The SEGA SAMMY Group is working to further reinforce To help ensure fair and lawful business practices, an internal enterprise value. Our corporate governance policy is to enhance special sessions as needed to discuss and thoroughly analyze Group-wide initiatives by building in-house systems to develop reporting system consistent with the “Group CSR Charter” was efficiency, maintain sound management, and operate more specific issues. and deploy sound corporate management in accordance with created to enable anonymous reporting by employees about transparently. This policy is the basis for addressing such Other key bodies, including the Group Management Liaison laws, regulations, and social norms. This work is proceeding potential regulatory violations or lapses in judgment, which important management issues as choosing board nominees, Committee and Group Audit Liaison Committee, implement under the Group Compliance Liaison Committee. protects the identity of tipsters. Whether reported internally or to deciding compensation for directors and corporate auditors, and measures according to the system shown in the schematic In fiscal 2014, we continued the Compliance Reinforcement specified law firms, these matters are investigated and rectified, overseeing management. diagram below. effort launched in fiscal 2012. We pursued and expanded Groupand steps are taken to prevent recurrence. wide initiatives including a campaign to publicize the overhaul of Internal reporting is an increasingly important first step in ■■ Enhancing Efficiency our internal reporting system for ensuring work is done properly. detecting misconduct. Therefore, we are overhauling this system The Group will maximize corporate value by establishing speedy Strengthening Group Governance and to make it more trusted, effective, and easier for employees to use. and proper decision-making processes and by making management Developing Systems for Internal Control Awareness of Compliance Issues more efficient. Shareholders and other stakeholders will benefit from these efforts. In order to develop and strengthen the SEGA SAMMY Group Strengthening the Framework To foster compliance awareness and make this awareness ■■ Ensuring Organizational Soundness governance structure, the Group has established the Group pervasive, the SEGA SAMMY Group holds training sessions for for the Subcontract Act Compliance We will maximize corporate value under volatile business Internal Control Liaison Committee, the Group CSR Liaison Group companies as needed. The compliance handbook gives conditions by properly identifying and managing the variety of risks Committee, and the Group Compliance Liaison Committee. The SEGA SAMMY Group conducts regular internal audits the Company faces. We will also work to ensure the soundness of specific examples of issues employees may encounter routinely. Specialized units were also established to support these three and provides education and training to all departments through management by establishing compliance systems to accurately All employees can review the information on the intranet bodies. They discuss and monitor problems and progress in legal affairs units to reinforce our compliance system, particularly grasp ethical and social norms, to include laws and regulations, as whenever necessary. We also aimed to instill these ideals in our the development of internal control systems that involve Group with regard to the Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract well as the social values underlying those norms and the changes employees by running articles in manga form to make them more management, and take steps to maintain and improve those Proceeds, Etc., to Subcontractors (“the Subcontract Act”). We they undergo. approachable. systems. strengthen our framework for compliance by having internal ■■ Enhancing Transparency Going forward, we intend to generate a synergistic effect by Additionally, the Group established an assessment and auditing units require departments to assess their operations and Corporate disclosure is becoming increasingly important. To continuing to widely spread knowledge about cases of advanced monitoring framework for financial reporting under Practice report their findings to departments involved with internal audits, further expand disclosure efforts and ensure greater transparency of practices at Group companies horizontally among other Group management, we will fulfill our duty of accountability to shareholders Standards for Management Assessment and Audit concerning legal affairs, and internal management on an ongoing basis. companies. As we take steps to make Group Management Policy and other stakeholders and we will actively engage in investor Internal Control Over Financial Reporting of the Japan’s Financial permeate throughout, we will make every effort to maintain and relations activities. Instruments and Exchange Act, and deficiencies that were uncovered were rectified. As we continue to ensure the reliability improve our level of compliance. Preventing Insider Trading of financial reports, we will maintain and expand this internal Results of Fiscal 2014 Compliance Training (Group Companies) The Holding has established SEGA SAMMY Group internal Framework for Corporate Governance control system so that it remains viable and efficient. regulations, based on the “SEGA SAMMY Group IR/Public The Group has further responded to society’s increasingly Company Total No. Nature of Activity Group Frequency Relations Policy” and the “SEGA SAMMY Group Insider Trade Name People To enable prompt, optimal decisions in a rapidly changing stringent demands regarding corporate compliance and internal Preventing Policy” to prevent insider trading by officers and business environment, the SEGA SAMMY Group has adopted control by developing a “Group Management Policy” for each Hold compliance Domestic Group HD, SEGA, seminar for Group company executives, 6 144 employees. These rules describe legal restrictions on stock a corporate auditor system. The directors involved leverage area of business operation. At the same time, we also reviewed Sammy, etc. executives auditors, officers trading, and require all officers or employees to report planned expertise and experience regarding the industry, market trends, the content of the “Group Code of Conduct” to adapt it to purchases or sales of the Company’s shares. We are implementing changes in society. New Employee HD, SEGA, products, merchandise, and services. To reinforce corporate New employees 7 152 measures of all kinds, including use of our intranet for a campaign Training Sammy, etc. governance in both execution and oversight, we have appointed of education on insider trading regulations, to heighten awareness outside directors and auditors while strengthening our own All employees, Group Web •Corporate • Governance Report subsidiary employees, SEGA, SNW, among officers and employees. executive officer/internal audit systems. http://www.segasammy.co.jp/english/pr/corp/governance/ Subcontract Act Production Division SEGA TOYS, 28 504 We began registering company officer information with the Training employees, Sales TMS J-IRISS system of the Japan Securities Dealers Association in Corporate Governance System Division employees Election fiscal 2012 to prevent legal violations resulting from unexpected Dismissal (As of June 30, 2014) General Meeting of Shareholders Members of incidents or the trade of financial instruments such as unintended Reports Dismissal Election Reports Election Information Independent Auditors management unfair transactions. Dismissal Reports Dismissal Proposals Exchange (managers who are Various compliance SEGA, Sammy, division heads or 25 1,504 Instructions from Reports Election Board of Directors Board of Corporate Auditors Office of Corporate Auditors training etc. higher but excluding representative director Dismissal Instructions Reports Advance deliberations Audits directors and auditors), Prevention of Corruption, Internal Auditing Office Executive Officers Assessment instructions Reports Advice Information Exchange Reports Information Exchange Audits Information employees by rank Appropriate Processing of Donations Proposals Exchange Reports Reports Training on individual Proposals issues (legal, The “SEGA SAMMY Group Code of Conduct” states explicitly Group Management Liaison Committee Group Audit Liaison Committee contracts, intellectual Group company SEGA, Sammy, that (1) All unlawful payoffs and other corruption that can be property, information executives, all 31 695 Voluntary Committees Liaison Committee etc. considered as gifts or favors are to be prevented; and (2) the Internal Audits Holdings Audit Liaison Committee security, Act on the employees Reports CSR, Internal Control, Protection of Personal conduct of activities for social benefit, including donations, must Subcommittees and Compliance Proposals Auditors and Office of Corporate Auditors Liaison Committee Information, etc.) be fair and aboveboard and in compliance with company rules that Specific Reflect in Reports Internal reporting channels Reflect in Reports Food safety training All employees PSR 4 784 are established on the basis of relevant statutes and regulations. policy Proposals Consultation channels policy Proposals Instructions implementation Information Exchange implementation Information Exchange We have also established a “Group Overseas Bribery Prohibition * Company names for the below companies are abbreviated as follows. Divisions Group Companies HD: SEGA SAMMY HOLDINGS, INC.; SNW: Sammy Networks Co., Ltd.; Policy” that responds to the recent international movement toward TMS: TMS ENTERTAINMENT Co., LTD.; PSR: PHOENIX RESORT CO.,LTD. increasingly stringent anti-bribery regulations outside Japan. Corporate Governance 23 SEGA SAMMY GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 Compliance/Risk Management 24 SEGA SAMMY GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 With Customers Management Policy.” Under these rules, we work to minimize Security Export Control latent risks in business activities and to prevent crises, and we prepare and maintain a rapid response system against the event As SEGA expands its business overseas, we have of major crisis. established a department specifically to maintain peace and In January 2013 we instituted the “SEGA SAMMY Group safety in the international community in accordance with the Basic Policy on Measures for Stranded Persons in the Event of Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Act, and we are engaging an Earthquake Directly beneath the Tokyo Metropolitan Area.” in export control. The basic policy addresses concerns like the storing of reserve The game software, game machines, Internet distribution, and other such technology provided by SEGA is for general supplies, building and facility safety, performing safety checks, and rules on returning home. Rules are distributed and actions Extract From CSR Charter purposes. However, it also includes some advanced technology undertaken at each Group company, and all employees learn and so is subject to export controls in some cases. about these through media like the company intranet. We will bear in mind the current needs and interests of our customers in We use means such as improvement of company regulations, training for employees, and provision of information over the our effort to provide entertainment filled with dreams and excitement. Internet to promote understanding and heighten awareness in Stronger Information Security every one of our employees involved in exports. In addition to preventing violation of laws and regulations before they can occur, In the SEGA SAMMY Group, all information is viewed as a we are implementing internal audits and making improvements valuable asset, whether it pertains to customers, management, based on audit results to maintain proper export control systems. sales, or other matters. Proper management and storage of Our Stance We have also responded to the Compliance Requirements confidential corporate information and other information are for Exporters that are applied to all exporting companies. Every accordingly prescribed in our “Group Information Management Humans need more than just food, clothing, and shelter to live. A dynamic life requires play and fun, company in the SEGA Group with a record of exports is creating Policy, Group IT Security Policy,” “Group Personal Information which is what entertainment is all about. At the SEGA SAMMY Group, we find the meaning in what we and maintaining export control systems in accordance with Protection Policy,” and rules on information management. actual conditions. With the introduction of a forum for representatives of Group do, as well as the role society expects us to fulfill, in bringing enrichment, fulfillment, vitality for tomorrow, companies to discuss relevant issues and through discussions and other such values to people's daily lives by providing entertainment that delivers smiles, joy, dreams that pave the way for stronger measures throughout the Group, and excitement to people throughout the world. We seek to accomplish this not only by providing Stance Against Racketeering, we are working to build a more robust framework for information products and services that are safe, secure, and of high quality, but also by developing and providing Basic Approaches management. products and services that help contribute solutions to society’s issues by means of entertainment. We The SEGA SAMMY Group takes a firm stance against those will moreover work with our Group companies, related industry groups, and others to encourage the who threaten law, order, and public safety. Any approach from Personal Information Protection sound development of young people and create appropriate environments for play and pastimes. these elements is met with a systematic response, and outside organizations including police and legal advisors are contacted. The SEGA SAMMY Group has established a “Privacy Policy” Moreover, the Group Code of Conduct stipulates the based on the “Group Personal Information Protection Policy” following: “We will resolutely handle any undue demands arising in every Group company. In addition to developing systems from anti-social forces, organizations or individuals; and not for appropriate management of information entrusted to us by only will we not offer any payoffs but we will also eliminate any our customers, we have also devised appropriate measures to relationships with such anti-social groups or individuals.” prevent unauthorized access to customer private information as well as loss, falsification, and leakage of such information. We 1 Providing Products and Services That Are Safe, Secure, and of High Quality 2 Pursuing Customer Satisfaction will make every effort to handle private information appropriately Each company in the SEGA SAMMY Group has created its own quality The most important thing for us to do in order to heighten customer Basic Stance on Intellectual Property and safely by conducting training and education of company assurance system that is optimized for the countries and regions they serve, satisfaction is to gain a prompt and accurate grasp of our customer's employees and making improvements by means of internal as well as for the distinctive characteristics of the industries they supply with needs and market changes, and to make good use of that information to Intellectual property is treated as an important means to audits. products and service. All our companies are engaged in maintaining and improve product development and service. The SEGA SAMMY Group is enhance Group competitiveness and is positioned as a significant improving quality throughout all the processes involved from development to working to improve the framework for obtaining feedback from customers management resource. Group companies each uphold their own, production, marketing, and service. For the safety of our products, we not only and determining their wishes using methods that are matched to the individualized policies. observe the standards set by legal statutes and by industry, we also engage characteristics of the respective business and industry. At the same time, we SEGA has Intellectual Property Committee members in in thoroughgoing safety management based on the voluntary standards are also working so that information we obtain through marketing surveys and each business department to promote judicious use of IP, and established by each Group company. other such methods can be put to good we conduct activities to educate and raise awareness about Topics A More Robust Framework for Information Management In the unlikely event that a quality problem is caused by products or use in manufacturing our products and IP. To safeguard and expand business, the company strives to services, we will respond with certainty and speed and in accordance with providing our services. We are making our information management framework the scale and type of problem. We will also disclose information about it as avoid infringing on intellectual property rights of third parties, at Sammy more robust in order to implement appropriate appropriate, and will take steps to reinforce systems so as to prevent any and SEGA’s own rights are managed appropriately. We are also management of company information assets. In fiscal 2014, recurrence of the problem ever. implementing countermeasures against counterfeit goods in we established a new Information Management Committee order to maintain and enhance the SEGA brand. chaired by the president, and we redefined the information Sammy studies the technology under consideration at each assets that should be protected, formulated guidelines, stage of R&D as part of thorough risk assessment. Additionally, and decided on its method of implementation. We took our efforts to raise awareness in employees include regular IP specific measures to prevent information leaks, including training and posting of a variety of IP information on a dedicated more rigorous application of our clear desk policy, lock-up intranet site. management, and encryption of files attached to e-mail. These measures are enforced by having the Internal Control Office conduct audits of the status of implementation in every Emergency Preparedness division, and we are promoting compliance by means of the PDCA cycle. We intend to expand employee education by The SEGA SAMMY Group established the “Crisis means of e-learning and other such measures in the future. Management Rules as company rules” based on our “Group Risk HERO BANK ©SEGA Compliance/Risk Management 25 SEGA SAMMY GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 With Customers 26 SEGA SAMMY GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 With Customers —Initiatives at SEGA— Staff Comment Making SEGA Service More Enjoyable to arcade titles, and they will also be able various kinds of shared creation. We will and Convenient to participate in and apply for special continue to make good use of feedback events and campaigns that are only for from our customers as we deploy a Delivering a Truly Enjoyable RPG for Smartphones to Our We are providing a service called “SEGA ID” users. In December 2013, we variety of different services. Customers “SEGA ID,” for which people can register for no charge and that allows them to started a new community service called We want our customers to get full enjoyment of the fun of role-playing “it-tells” that uses the “SEGA ID.” This games (RPG) even on versions made for smartphones, where game sessions use an exclusive ID in a simple manner to enjoyably and conveniently receive the is for customers to tell each other about are shorter. This was what started the “CHAIN CHRONICLE” development variety of services provided by SEGA. their tastes and interests, and for SEGA project. There were three main points that we did not want to compromise on. Not only can registered customers use and customers to engage in two-way The first point was how we took the essence of the fun of an RPG, which is PC online games, they can use the Aime communication, with the aim of creating doing battle in ways that follow the story line, so that the setting for adventure service site and various services linked an arena where they can engage in grows broader and broader, and we condensed it into about five minutes. In SEGA community site “it-tells” this we made advantageous use of our know-how in arcade games, which have similarly short playing times. The second point was the unique feeling of exhilaration that people get from playing on a smartphone, where they use the touch panel. The third point was the way players develop feelings of Safety and Quality Assurance of Products and Services attachment to game characters that are friends rather than just cards, and this happens when the game relates a story about characters that develop bonds A Stronger Quality Assurance System feedback to various departments, where issues. SEGA labels all products in line with each other. These three elements combined in a classic RPG, in a way it is used to improve product and service with assessments conducted in countries Led by the independent Quality never before seen in smartphone games, and we succeeded in pleasing large Jun Matsunaga quality. We address after-sale service worldwide. In Japan, SEGA indicates the Assurance Department, SEGA is numbers of customers with it. We are planning on further heightening the fun through SEGA LOGISTICS SERVICE target age group of each game based MOBILE WORKS Team, R&D Div. #1 strengthening our system for centrally of the story line and refining the game system. We hope you will enjoy it. SEGA Corporation managing product and service safety (which is in charge of maintenance, on the ratings system established by and quality in keeping with our relevant repair, parts provision, and distribution) the Computer Entertainment Rating rules. To manage product safety in and associated business departments, Organization (CERO), and in addition which analyze quality problem trends, we label products according to our own Pursuing Customer Satisfaction particular, SEGA follows our own discuss paths to improvement, and voluntary standards. voluntary standards as well as industry guidelines established by JAMMA.* report to development, production, and SEGA Creates Unique Ways of Playing areas of entertainment. In the area of Gauging and Applying Customer sales staff to help make improvements. consumer games, we have produced Outside of Japan, we have quality SEGA Corporation believes that Needs new intellectual property with “HERO assurance systems in place suited to delivering our unique brand of innovative To increase customer satisfaction, local conditions. Product and Service Labeling “play,” in the spirit of our motto “Creation BANK,” “CHAIN CHRONICLE,” and other it is important to quickly and accurately * JAMMA: Japan Amusement Machinery Manufacturers SEGA labels our product packaging, is Our Life,” is the way to enhance games that have received very favorable gauge customers’ increasingly diverse Association user’s manuals, and other tools customer satisfaction. This is what reviews from customers. needs and use that information in our in keeping with relevant laws and Ryu ga Gotoku Ishin! guides our product development day product development and services. Disclosure and Response After Quality regulations (e.g., product liability laws), ©SEGA after day. SEGA’s development, marketing, and Incidents industry group guidelines, and internal Fiscal 2014 was notable for our sales teams work closely together to rules. By applying clear and appropriate If quality issues arise related to launch of “Puyopuyo!! Quest Arcade” as perform stronger marketing research. At labels we ensure that customers can CERO SEGA voluntary labeling of product products or services, we respond in noted for violence and horror the first such game in the amusement exhibitions, in-store events, or other times use our products and services with a prompt yet reliable way, according machine industry to offer basic play free of we meet our customers face to face, we confidence. We are also proactive about to the scope and nature of the issues, charge (some units may charge). Another convey the appeal of our products by specifying the range of users of each and we are stepping up our system for world first came in the amusement tailoring our promotions to the level and product and addressing any ethical Labeling of age of intended audience under permanently preventing issue recurrence. center business when we opened “Orbi interests of the customer. We actively CERO rating system and label based on SEGA’s We promptly disclose information by voluntary standards Yokohama” as a supercharged nature conduct questionnaire surveys and the means of direct mail, notices in industry experience museum. These are some like to get customer feedback we can publications, and so on. If necessary, a Mechanisms and Framework to Act on Customer Feedback of the ways in which we actively took use in product development. dedicated service center is established on the challenge of moving into new Customers Incorporated in products and services “Orbi Yokohama” further supercharged in July 2014 to minimize any impact on amusement Telephone/E-mail Internet Internet center operators or users. User Support Desk SEGA Website Internet Comments in A Stronger Customer Support System JMS* Customers consult by telephone Post opinions Response through official SEGA sites external SNS or and e-mail on content directly other such services Staff Comment SEGA responds comprehensively *JMS: Japan Multimedia Services Corporation to the many types of customer input (e.g., FAQ sites, community sites) we receive by working through our User SEGA Voice of Customer (VOC) Together with Our Customers, We are Nurturing the Game Support Desk. A specialized Voice of SEGA Business operations, sales, development, quality assurance, administrative layer, etc. The “WORLD CLUB Champion Football (WCCF),” series which we launched in 2002, is a sports card Customer (VOC) group is in place at • Customer comments received through our official sites or external SNS may be answered directly from JMS through VOC, game that many famous soccer players from clubs in European countries appear in. SEGA to forward customer inquiries and or the answer may be posted on an official SEGA site. In the case of WCCF, promotion and development were carried out in close coordination. By analyzing data clusters such as customer tastes and questionnaire survey results obtained using the SEGA ID as a starting point, the customer’s latent needs are identified and provided as feedback to the game. In this way we have nurtured the game together with our customers, and that is why WCCF is still continuing as PSO2 Update Bug Occurrence and Prevention of Recurrence a popular series even today. We want to continue making good use of feedback from our customers to pursue the kind of fun that can only be found in WCCF. On September 4, 2013, a bug in the Windows PC version of “Phantasy Star Online 2” caused partial deletion of data from the hard drives of customers who updated during a certain time period. We immediately disclosed the information and corrected the bug. We also addressed the problem by setting up a dedicated help desk for customers who were affected. Measures we took to prevent recurrence of the problem included upgrading our development and checking systems as well as Jun Koshimizu (left) Tomohiro Kashiwada (right) conducting operations with a safety-first policy. We are exerting our best efforts so that our customers can continue to enjoy SEGA Amusement Business Headquarters, AM Strategy Planning Div., AM Promotion Dept. AM R&E Dept., R&D Div. #1 products with peace of mind. SEGA Corporation SEGA Corporation With Customers 27 SEGA SAMMY GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 With Customers 28 SEGA SAMMY GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 With Customers —Initiatives at Sammy— Exclusive Customer Website Stepping Up Customer Response We launched a CS Improvement Pursuing Greater Customer Satisfaction “Sammy Plus” Opens Sammy has set up a Customer Project in fiscal 2013, created working We opened the new “Sammy Plus” Support Center to respond to the many groups on operator training, failure Setting Up a Framework for Providing Expert Manufacturing Powered by Developing New Services website exclusively for customers in types of customer input we receive. analysis, maintaining and enhancing Attractive Products Market Needs and Customer Input We are also developing new services order to deliver useful information to The center has partnered with Group response rates, and other such topics, Our greatest mission is to provide Everything we do is about our desire that more people can enjoy. One Pachislot and Pachinko Hall Operators company Japan Multimedia Services and have been continuously striving users with attractive products. In the to give our customers dreams and example of this is “Myslot,” a service in a timely manner (starting from April Corporation (JMS) to respond quickly to raise customer satisfaction even belief that this contributes also to the excitement through their game play. This that connects players to Pachislot 1, 2014). We provide comprehensive and conscientiously. We added weekend higher. The cumulative result of this satisfaction of Pachislot and Pachinko is what our development team, which through a mobile website. We have been on-line service at this site ranging and national holiday support service for steady effort is an annual improvement Hall Operators, we are reinforcing the has worked with originality and vision continuously expanding and improving from new model information and Hall Operators in December 2005, on achieved in customer satisfaction collaboration between our development, to produce many popular hit machines, the content since the service started, customer support information on our top of our established weekday service. surveys of Pachislot and Pachinko Hall sales, and production departments. At takes such pride in. and have earned the support of large products to consultation on machine We were the first in the industry to offer Operators. Going forward, the Customer the development stage, in particular, We are strengthening our methods for numbers of users. Now, as the service failure and other such matters. We weekend service. In April 2012, four Service Department will continue to we apply rigorous standards to each customer-driven market placement with enters its fifth year, we have 1,890,000 have added new functions, such as Sammy Group companies (Sammy, improve after-sale service and actively checkpoint of development, and we carry a positive grasp of diversifying market registered members (as of March 31, supporting smartphone access and TAIYO ELEC, RODEO, and GINZA) incorporate customer feedback into out round after uncompromising round environments and needs from the early 2014). allowing customers to change their combined their support service into one development. of refinement to pursue the development stages of planning and development. own registration information, as they offering Hall Operators even greater of products that incorporate market With regard to users, we hold group QR code have requested we do, among other convenience. perspectives to ensure that they will be interviews and conduct product steps we have taken to further heighten Mechanisms and Framework to Act on Results of Customer Support hits. evaluation surveys, while with regard to convenience. We plan to continue Custom Level “Koyaku” Customer Feedback Center User Satisfaction Survey On the production and distribution Pachislot and Pachinko Hall Operators, count adding new services from time to time side, we built a new factory in 2012 to we engage in active communication Customers Play results Ranking Standby and expanding the site’s functionality. Very satisfied Satisfied Neutral increase our production capacity and and periodically conduct Hall Operator Mobile Etc. Pachislot Unsatisfied Very unsatisfied terminal Corporate Customers enable us to respond more precisely to Surveys. Using methods like these, we (Pachislot and Pachislot and Response and information forwarding, Pachinko Players Response to inquiries game machine demand, which tends promptly grasp their needs. Pachinko Hall Operators) Password 2011 22% 48% 30% Incorporated in products and services to be more concentrated in the initial Telephone E-mail Internet E-mail Internet stage of sales. We have also placed 2% Topics Received MVP Prize in Pachinko/Pachislot Award 2013 Support Center Support Center a new distribution center next to the 2012 28% 52% 18% Customer Support Customer Support according to the nature of inquiries new factory to expand our storage The Pachinko/Pachislot Awards 2013* decided which Center (JMS) Center (JMS) capacity and centralize our inventory 1% of the Pachislot and Pachinko machines sold during the Sammy Sales Sammy Customer management, making our system for period from November 2012 to October 2013 were the Representatives Support Staff 2013 29% 54% 16% production and logistics more efficient. most popular or playable. “Pachinko CR Hokuto No Ken 5 Hasha” was selected MVP in the Pachinko category Opinions/Feedback from Customers and “Pachislot Hokuto No Ken Chapter of Resurrection” Strategy Meetings of the Customer Satisfaction Committee Exclusive customer website “Sammy Plus” was selected MVP in the Pachislot category. Both these Reporting to those in Management, machines were also awarded Special Manufacturer’s Development, Sales, and Production Prizes, which are given to machines evaluated from the perspective of people connected with manufacturers. These are some indicators of the acclaim our games have earned from large numbers of fans and from the industry. Safety and Quality Assurance of Products and Services * Pachinko/Pachislot Awards 2013: These are jointly organized by the four web media companies that specialize in Pachislot and Pachinko games (777@nifty, Pachinko Pachinko CR Hokuto No Ken 5 Hasha ©Buronson&Tetsuo Hara/NSP1983, Product Safety and Quality Assurance and Response to product reliability. At the production stage, we have established Village, Pachinko Vista, and Pachinko Club), and the MVP (most valuable Pachislot/ Approved No.YKA-105 Problems our own test criteria based on JIS standards, and we are making ©Sammy Pachinko) recipients are selected comprehensively by reader votes, editorial We are engaged in our thoroughgoing commitment to offer every effort not to release defective or inferior products onto the department votes from the different web media, and other such sources. safe, high-quality products and services in accordance with market. The new factory went operational in September 2012. the approach of earning customer satisfaction by means of Additionally, in the event that a quality problem occurs, quality assurance initiatives for proactive creativity and effective we report it to the departments concerned as well as to top improvement. At the development and design stages, we management in accordance with established rules. We respond Staff Comment It is Important for Manufacturing to Stay in Clear Focus so You Can repeatedly perform evaluation testing of component and unit promptly, putting the customer first, and disclose information Confidently Say the Product is Fun operation and durability from many perspectives to improve appropriately. What we do is keep our thinking focused on what kind of play would be fun to have, and what kind of machine would really be enjoyable. Then we go into development to figure out how to express that in the Pachislot framework without compromising anything. During planning, my head is always filled with Practicing Craftsmanship Complying with the Law ideas about various play scenarios, and I simulate things to figure out what is enjoyable about some When putting a product on sale, we are required to go through multiple approval processes according to the certain aspect, and what is fun about some element. When I have it pinned down to some particular Ordinance for Enforcement of the Law on Control and Improvement of Amusement Businesses (Amusement point, then we add sounds and other production values that will dramatically heighten enjoyment of the Businesses Law Enforcement Ordinance). First, an application for type testing must be submitted to the excitement factor, which you could express as what feels good to the brain. Sometimes we strip away Security Communications Association to obtain certification that such elements as materials, performance, everything superfluous and arrange it to be simple, or take other such steps to maintain a balance and gameplay, and other such qualities are in conformance with standards defined in the Amusement Businesses variety of pacing. At the same time, however, we place importance on manufacturing a product with a Law Enforcement Ordinance. Verification of the machine is then acquired from the Public Safety Commission focus that never diverges from the basic thrust of what we planned. I hope that I can keep on meeting in each prefecture concerned, after which we go on to the sales and production stages. our customers’ expectations by creating new ways to play that will astonish everyone, and beyond * Application to the Security Communications Association: The manufacture and sale of Pachislot and Pachinko machines involves verification by prefectural Public Safety Commissions. The Security Communications Association, acting on behalf of that, I hope to contribute to stimulation of the market and growth of the industry, as well. the prefectural Public Safety Commissions, conducts type tests to determine by comparison whether the performance of the machine model conforms with technical standards. Satoshi Sawada Anticipating vibration during product shipping, we use vibration * Verification application: Pachislot and Pachinko game machines are subject to technical standards set by the National Public PS Sec. 2, R&D Div. testing machines to check durability and other such aspects. Safety Commission, and machines that do not conform to these standards cannot be installed in Pachislot and Pachinko Halls. Sammy Corporation “Verification” is the process whereby a manufacturer applies to a prefectural Public Safety Commission for judgment as to Pachinko CR Bakemonogatari whether the machine type developed by that manufacturer conforms to standards. This procedure is absolutely essential ©Nisioisin/Kodansha, Aniplex Inc., SHAFT INC. when mass producing and marketing a Pachislot and Pachinko machine nationwide. Pachislot Hokuto No Ken Chapter of Resurrection ©Buronson&Tetsuo Hara/NSP1983, ©NSP2007 Approved No.YGL-126 ©Sammy ©Sammy With Customers 29 SEGA SAMMY GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 With Customers 30 SEGA SAMMY GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 With Customers With Customers —Group Company Initiatives— —Group Company Initiatives— Worry-Free Play Initiatives Through Various Organizations SEGA TOYS CO., LTD. Contributing to Sound Industry Measures Against Illegal Customer pamphlets, and other such media to Accessible and Educational Toys Development Behavior urge caution. At SEGA TOYS, which is a developer, manufacturer, and Sammy will only grow sustainably The Revised Amusement Businesses Initiatives pursued by means of seller of toys, the vision of “Creating new value for the next smile” if our industry develops soundly. Sadly, Law Enforcement Ordinance, which is organizations of various kinds include our inspires us to offer people new ways to play, unconstrained by gaming addiction and illicit behavior are aimed primarily at controlling excessive active participation in joint campaigns any previous limitations of toys. In addition to unique products problems faced by the Pachislot and gambling on amusement machines and by the Nichidenkyo*1 and KAIDOUthat apply electronics technology, such as our pet robot and Pachinko industry. Because these are preventing improper modifications, has YUSHO Cooperative*2 to eradicate illegal home planetarium, we are also actively promoting initiatives for not just Sammy’s problems, we feel it been in effect since July 2004. Acting slot games. We are also working with accessible toys* and educational toys. important for the entire industry to align in accordance with this ordinance, the Nichidenkyo to maintain machine * Accessible toys: Toys specially designed so that children with visual or hearing impairments can its efforts to solve them. Sammy will Sammy has established an office histories as a measure against illegal enjoy playing with them together with children who do not have such impairments. provide support and cooperation to the to help prevent users from illegally dumping and other abuses. “Yume Neko Celebrity” “Heart Energy Poochi” *1 Nichidenkyo: Japan Electrically-Operated Game Machine Product Safety and Quality Assurance ©2014Hasbro, All Rights Reserved. —The Communication Toy Award at the Organization for the Sound Development manipulating amusement machines for Industry Cooperative, an organization with the primary 2014 Japan Toy Association Awards— of the Pachinko and Pachislot Industry, their illicit benefit. We are continuing to purpose of stimulating and promoting the health of the SEGA TOYS takes focus on the customer and assurance ©SEGA TOYS which was founded in 2008 to function as collect market information and working Pachislot (rotating drum-type game machine) market. of product safety as its highest management priorities. We are *2 KAIDOU-YUSHO Cooperative: The Rotating Drum-Type a third party promoting the maintenance on building amusement machines that Game Machine Business Cooperative, an organization for establishing and promoting a voluntary action plan following our and health of the environment in are resistant to this abuse. There are the healthy operation and education of the game industry, basic product safety policies as we work to ensure both safety is made up of over 500 companies engaged primarily in Pachislot and Pachinko Halls so that groundless walk-throughs and strategy Pachislot sales. and quality. At the development and design stages, we are setting more customers could enjoy them with guides circulating in some parts of the up design inspection and validation checkpoints and working to confidence. We will also actively support market, and we are taking measures Initiatives Against Gaming Addiction ensure safety and prevent the occurrence of problems on the and participate in activities being against these by various means, Sammy supports various activities market. In addition, we are using prototypes prior to production promoted by other including use of the Sammy website, in the Pachinko industry to address to apply thoroughgoing quality testing of various kinds, including industry bodies in dependency on gaming. These include durability tests, overload tests, and drop tests, to make sure of an active campaign to survey the the product quality and safety. Considering that toys are used by order to resolve Durability tests, load tests, Static electricity tests issues that arise as actual extent of addictive gaming and a wide range of customers, we also set quality standards for the drop tests to raise awareness in order to prevent materials in these products based on the Food Sanitation Law Static electricity equivalent to that well as to contribute Switches and buttons are checked found on the human body is applied to the healthy dependency and excessive game play; and other such sources and we establish control requirements for durability in load tests, drop to the product to ensure it is safe development of the a campaign to eliminate the problem of and written pledges regarding the use of polyvinyl chloride (PVC). tests, etc. and does not fail. industry. adults leaving their children in parked cars, These are some of the stringent voluntary standards that we as occurs with addictive gaming; and the apply. We are also presenting preventive cautions against improper activity in the work of the Recovery Support Network, Pachinko addiction pamphlets providing details on machine the counseling service of a specified Product Labeling Initiatives models and advice on how to play. prevention poster non-profit corporation that helps people SEGA TOYS attaches warning labels and messages to Pachislot SOUTEN-NO-KEN 2 ©Tetsuo Hara&Buronson/NSP2001, Approved No.YKU-127 recover from dependency on gaming. our products and user’s manuals to avoid accidents resulting ©Sammy from carelessness or misuse and make sure products are used safely. Our user’s manuals and other documents are checked for SEGA Networks Co., Ltd. items determined by each department. Meanwhile, the Quality High-temperature, highX-ray ﬂuorescence Assurance Department makes sure that all warning labels Giving the World’s People an Exciting Experience Over Networks humidity chamber tests spectrometer comply with the Japan Toy Association’s toy safety standards By varying the temperature and SEGA Networks is deploying content and services for smartphones and tablet (ST Standards), and labels them accordingly. humidity, this chamber makes All products are checked to make mobile terminals. Our aim is to deliver exciting experiences to people by providing sure the product is sound and sure they do not contain harmful them with a diversity of high-quality digital entertainment content. continues to work under a variety substances like cadmium, lead, or “Puyopuyo!! Quest” and the “CHAIN CHRONICLE” (now at “CHAIN of environmental conditions. mercury. CHRONICLE—Kizuna no Shintairiku”), released in fiscal 2013, have been highly acclaimed by our customers, and the number of users is still growing. By providing the “Noah Pass” marketing support tool, we are also creating opportunities for SEGA LOGISTICS SERVICE CO., LTD. customers to encounter high-quality game content intended for play on smart devices. Making Good Use of Game Technology to Contribute to We intend to continue sharpening our sensitivity to the changing times and Education for Preventing Traffic Accidents undertaking bold new challenges. By doing so, we aim to be a “game changer” At SEGA LOGISTICS SERVICE, we have made good use of with the ability to change the games we play, as well as our industry and world, “Puyopuyo!! Quest” the content and technological capabilities we have built up in through the games themselves. ©SEGA ©SEGA Networks development of amusement arcade machines to develop the “CHAIN CHRONICLE—Kizuna no Shintairiku” “SLDS-3G” driving simulator for use at driving schools. With this ©SEGA / ©SEGA Networks product, we are contributing to education for the prevention of Topics Moving Toward More Appropriate Use of Services traffic accidents. In order to enable greater training effectiveness in these SEGA, SEGA Networks, and Sammy Networks provide content for smartphones and tablet mobile terminals, and in light of the products, which are installed at driving schools, they employ problems of excessive game use by minors and associated charges, we have instituted age authentication for certain titles that places realistic imaging. By allowing users to safely experience danger, limits on the monthly charges that can be accumulated for them. In connection with the game Gacha, in which players use points they can learn the importance of safe driving in a sensory manner, and other items that we sell for a price, we are also making every effort to keep players from having excessive expectations due to and retain what they learn in their memory. These are also the first ambiguous statements, as well as from consequently accumulating excessive charges. We have, for example, established in-house simulators in the industry to adopt tablet computers to achieve guidelines for clear statement of the “reality” of items that players can acquire or of the probability of their acquisition, item by item. readily understandable operation through the use of touch panel We intend to continue our efforts, not only by measures like these, but also by compliance with laws and regulations and in terms of “SLDS-3G” systems. They also enable guidance finely tuned to the learner consumer protection, so as to create a healthy environment for game playing where users can enjoy themselves with a sense of security. ©Sega Logistics Service through the use of handheld control terminals. With Customers 31 SEGA SAMMY GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 With Customers 32 SEGA SAMMY GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 With Customers —Group Company Initiatives— With SEGA ENTERTAINMENT CO.,LTD Partners Pursuing Customer Satisfaction Voice of Shops that Won Annual Excitement Awards Initiatives for the Sound Development SEGA ENTERTAINMENT, which of Young People operates amusement facilities and food In the amusement center business, and drink shops, is striving to enhance its we encourage our employees to get services and shops, in order to provide “AOU Youth Advisor” certification, in smiles and excitement to even more order to develop the industry and fulfill customers. Employees bounce ideas off healthy facility management. Many Extract From CSR Charter each other and roll out creative services employees have already done so and suited to the local characteristics and are working with their communities to We will maintain fair and impartial relationships with our suppliers and target customers at each shop. We have guide and foster youth. Our operating also established an “Excitement Award” manual moreover spells out restrictions work together as partners in providing entertainment filled with dreams system to commend these kinds of on minors’ entry to premises and ways and excitement. initiatives at each shop. This motivates of dealing with youth smoking, and employees and encourages initiatives employee training is very thorough. to make work improvements from the As a business serving alcohol, we Left: Sega World Kamiotai customer’s point of view. (amusement facilities division) take the responsibility to prohibit minors from entering any of our food and drink Our Stance Right: Bee Shinjuku Initiatives for Safety and Peace of (food and drink shops division) shops and to be thorough in checking Mind the age of customers who do enter. Good partnerships are about sharing goals to achieve mutual advancement. We have established In our amusement center business, Minors are allowed in on occasions such groupwide standards for choosing partners in terms of integrity, business efficiency, safety Customer Smiles Drive Growth we are careful to protect customer safety as reserved parties, but in those cases and quality, maintenance, technology, and the environment. We will continue to build fair and by inspecting our amusement machines What we place the most we provide wristbands to distinguish impartial relationships based on a platform of mutual trust. We aim to work with partners to and center facilities concerning customer importance on is making sure the minors from non-minors so that minors provide entertainment filled with dreams and excitement, drawing on broad information sources, safety once a year. We are also actively staff works together as a team. are not served alcohol. In addition, installing separate smoking areas among Cooperation among staff members we use a service manual to provide maintaining knowledge and judgment capabilities that are as good as those of our partners, and other measures so more customers and unified service are vital for thorough education to employees about exchanging the correct information with them. can enjoy themselves comfortably. customers to enjoy themselves appropriate drinking. SEGA ENTERTAINMENT will continue comfortably no matter where they to perform voluntary inspections of play in the center. Customer smiles, operations and management based after all, are the source of our on a list (“100 Check”) created by the job satisfaction and the driver of company. In this way, we endeavor growth. From here on we will keep to provide a safe and reassuring working together to bring smiles to 1 Ensuring Fair and Impartial Business Practices 2 Building Ties with Business Partners 3 Promoting CSR-based Transactions environment for our customers to enjoy. customers’ faces so that they enjoy themselves heartily. The SEGA SAMMY Group has clearly stated To provide entertainment filled with dreams As the economy and society become more in the Group Code of Conduct its commitment and excitement to people throughout the world, globalized and diversified, business operations to fair and impartial relationships with business SEGA must build partnerships with our business are having a broader scope of impact on society. Age wristband partners. The Group strives to ensure uncorrupt, partners in all aspects, including development, Given this context, companies are being required transparent, and fair business transactions. manufacturing and sales. The SEGA SAMMY to consciously fulfill their social responsibility We select and decide to continue transactions Group actively seeks opportunities to exchange throughout the entire supply chain. The SEGA with business partners based on fair and clear information and views with business partners in SAMMY Group promotes CSR-based transactions TMS ENTERTAINMENT Co., LTD. standards that give comprehensive consideration an effort to strengthen partnerships in ways that throughout the supply chain by notifying leading to matters such as creditworthiness, technical lead to better quality and work improvements. business partners of its commitment to following Better Medical and Dental Care topped 300 units in the first 12 months. competency, development capabilities, price, and and putting into practice the UN Global Compact's Experiences for Young Children It has received high ratings, with many responsiveness to the environment. 10 principles in the areas of human rights, labor, dentists providing feedback such as, We are committed to practicing fair and the environment, and anti-corruption, and by Through Animation “It has had a powerful effect, even on impartial business transactions. Toward that requesting their cooperation. TMS ENTERTAINMENT produces end, we have established a system in each young patients who had previously animated programs such as “Anpanman” group company to promote compliance with been uncooperative, which has made and “Detective Conan.” In 2010, it launched the Subcontractor Act and strengthen control it enormously well-received by their “Smiletouch,” a tool using animation to in respect to the law. We also provide ongoing parents and guardians.” Looking ahead, support preparation* of young children for “Smiletouch Dental” education to relevant departments and individuals. we will periodically update the selection medical treatment. The product has made The dental animation explains the flow of and the tools used of animations and enhance the products it easier for pediatric clinics by helping to in a visit to the dentist. Watching popular animated programs based on customer feedback, in order helps children feel less nervous and afraid in the waiting room care for their young patients. and during treatment. to help create medical environments In 2013, it released “Smiletouch and services that are more respectful of ©2014 Gullane (Thomas) Limited. Dental” to meet the desire expressed ©SANRIO CO.,LTD. ©Fujiko-Pro, Shogakukan, TV-Asahi, Shin-ei, and ADK children’s points of view. by many dentists for a similar tool ©ABC, TOEI ANIMATION ©baby toi ©1997 Nintendo, Creatures, GAME FREAK, TV Tokyo, ShoPro, JR Kikaku. for their clinics. Sales of the product ©Pokémon.©1998-2011 PIKACHU PROJECT. ©TAKASHI YANASE / Froebel-kan, TMS, NTV ©Gosho Aoyama / Shogakukan / YTV / TMS1996 ©Gosho Aoyama / Shogakukan・TMS “Jewelpet” * Preparation: The medical concept and practical techniques of getting children and their family members mentally ready for treatment. This includes promoting understanding by explaining the illness, ©'08,'14 SANRIO/SEGA TOYS S ･ S/W･TX･JLPC examination, or treatment in terms appropriate for the child’s age and comprehension level. One type of preparation is distraction. When children are crying loudly or refusing to accept treatment, a distraction can ease their anxieties and fears. Such techniques have rapidly spread to pediatric clinics as important elements of care in recent years. With Customers 33 SEGA SAMMY GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 With Partners 34 SEGA SAMMY GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 With Partners —Initiatives at SEGA— Initiatives with Retailers and Partner Topics Proper Management of Chemicals Ensuring Fairness in All Respects Manufacturers Because we consider retail stores In fiscal 2014, we formulated the “SEGA Standards for Fair and Impartial Business Practices in respect to the law. In fiscal 2014, we environmental protection, information to be a prime point of contact with held 11 briefings mainly for departments security and occupational health and Management of Chemicals in Machines and Products,” in order SEGA has established a cooperative customers, SEGA plans and holds inthat deal with subcontractors in their safety. to properly manage the chemicals contained in the products framework to maintain integrity with store sales promotions, events, and business. We also used a dedicated SEGA sells. We then asked all our suppliers to cooperate in the business partners. Consistent with the campaigns nationwide for our home page on our company intranet to establishment and operation of a system for the management Group Code of Conduct, we seek to game software. These appeals are help employees gain the necessary Amusement Material Procurement of chemicals contained in products and shared once again refrain from inappropriate formalities, Policy tailored to the specific characteristics knowledge and increase their awareness our commitment to ensuring legal compliance and to reducing excessive monetary or material gifts, and <Basic Stance> of the product and store, and are a of compliance. impact on the global environment. unnecessary business entertainment. 1. All employees engaged in amusement way of showing customers directly the From here on, we will require suppliers to report the results Partners are notified of our commitment materials procurement at SEGA will comply attractiveness of the product. to these principles in writing. Several Establishment of Procurement Policy with legal and social norms and conduct of a self-audit of the system for the management of chemicals In addition, we use our strong contained in products once a year. The content of the check sheet used in the selfdepartments participate in assessments The Amusement Machine Sales themselves with sound judgment in keeping nationwide sales network as we actively audits was designed to enable self-assessment of the status of achievement by of business partners, and with this Business established a “Procurement with the “SEGA SAMMY Group Code of Conduct” and internal rules. handle products from other game answering questions. We will continue to periodically visit suppliers’ manufacturing information, we continuously evaluate, Policy” in fiscal 2012. Our basic stance 2. SEGA amusement materials procurement manufacturers who do not have sales sites to confirm their status of establishment and operation of the system for the select and manage these partners in this policy is to aim for mutual success will be conducted with integrity and and logistics organizations. We view management of chemicals contained in products. By underlining the idea of not following internal rules. with our business partners as a result impartiality, and we will deal with our these manufacturers as our partners of fair and impartial business practices. allowing nonconforming products to be put into the production line, not made, and not business partners fairly and sincerely. too. We give them the same exacting Strengthening the Framework for the Under this policy, our standards for 3. We will endeavor to build trusting shipped out, we are striving to ensure the proper management of chemicals. sales support that we apply to our own Subcontract Act Compliance evaluating and choosing business relationships with our business partners by conducting fair trade, and we will work products so that customers always have A committee established in April partners incorporate ideas from the with our business partners to improve access to excellent game software. 2009 at SEGA to promote compliance Group Code of Conduct and state that technologies and product quality, pursue We will continue to build cooperative we shall strive to conduct trade with with the Subcontract Act works to economy and efficiency and achieve mutual relationships with partner manufacturers Cooperation with Production Partners Coordinating with Suppliers prevent violations of the law, raise due consideration for such factors as success. and retailers, particularly with in-store SEGA is a fabless manufacturer, To ensure product safety and awareness of it, and strengthen control compliance, quality, safety, reliability, events. meaning that we do not have our own quality throughout the supply chain, production plants, so cooperation with we strengthen our relationships with our production partners is of extreme suppliers by holding supplier meetings Ensuring Fair and Impartial Partnerships importance. Aside from working closely and using the BATON communication with our business partners as suppliers, system, which enables smooth we periodically audit their factories information sharing. Building Partnerships Based on Initiatives with Partners Running In fiscal 2014, we attracted families and women with “Puyopuyo!! Quest based on quality targets and give them Mutual Trust Amusement Centers Arcade,” the first in the industry to assembly instructions among other SEGA has a global development In the Amusement Machine efforts to boost quality and production and sales structure. In every situation, Sales Business, we have positioned offer basic play free of charge (some units charge), which helped expand the efficiency. ranging from development and revitalization of the amusement industry When we start working with a new production to marketing, we coordinate as a priority issue. Accordingly, we customer base. In fiscal 2015, we also operated the latest version of “CODE OF business partner, we require them to closely with business partners to have reinforced the detailed support undergo a new plant audit, and ongoing provide game content in diverse genres and suggestions offered to partners JOKER Ver.1.2 Re:BIRTH,” with basic “HERO BANK” in-store event play free of charge. This allowed even clients receive plant audits once a year worldwide. Looking ahead, we will strive that run amusement centers. In recent to ensure stable quality. We inform our to build lasting relationships of trust years, we have adopted a system for first-time players to enjoy a trading card game without reserve. Going forward, business partners of the results of the with business partners in the quest for updating content through downloadable Working with Partners Overseas audit, and if a production partner falls mutual prosperity by working together distribution and introduced a new we will continue working with partners that run amusement centers on the To do business outside Japan, it is short of our quality targets, we ask them in the pursuit of improved technology revenue-sharing business model important not only to comply with the to make improvements by, for example, A supplier meeting and quality as well as economy and whereby we sell machines at a lower unique measures that will enable centers to attract customers and increase local law but also pay attention to the issuing a countermeasures plan and efficiency. initial cost and then share proceeds from culture and its customs. For that reason, holding quality meetings. Such a scheme the machines’ operations with partners customer satisfaction. we try to build good partnerships with has now been in effect for many years, that run amusement centers. local enterprises knowledgeable of helping to raise production partner circumstances in their regions. awareness and maintain stable quality. Staff Comment After-sale maintenance and followAiming to be Trusted and Depended On up are particularly important in the case Every day we work with businesses that operate amusement centers, focusing on initiatives to of amusement machines, and so we keep increase customer satisfaction. When making proposals that will help customers have more fun with close ties with our local distributors and Topics Inspector Certification System crane game machines, for example, we actually make an on-site investigation of the amusement center form a reliable service arrangement with concerned, analyze points for improvement, and suggest methods for displaying prizes and ways of them. In recent years we have used such We have a system in place to certify inspectors who ensure operating the machines. We also installed models with basic play free of charge in the front of centers in an arrangement to sell non-Japanese that voluntary quality control mechanisms at our production an effort to get people who usually do not play amusement games to give them a try unreservedly and manufacturers’ machines, alongside our partners’ plants become firmly established. The production discover the unique fun of amusement centers. The thing that is important when proposing measures is own products, as their distributor. This to have a firm grasp of the situation in each center and to put our accumulated knowhow into practice department publishes the “SEGA Amusement Products Inspector gives the public a bigger selection of in the most suitable way. Going forward, we will keep amassing proposals and experience, aiming to Textbook,” with which students learn the knowledge and specific high-quality amusement machines. be trusted and depended on by businesses that operate amusement centers, which are our important inspection techniques that an inspector needs to know. Only those partners. who pass a test are allowed to conduct voluntary audits. In more recent years, SEGA has had some of its products manufactured Masaki Tsuchiya in China, and we have issued the textbook in Chinese for our production partners there. Domestic Sales Dept., Amusement Business Headquarters SEGA Corporation With Partners 35 SEGA SAMMY GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 With Partners 36 SEGA SAMMY GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 With Partners With —Initiatives at Sammy— Shareholders Ensuring Fairness in All Respects and Investors Fair and Impartial Business Practices Business Partner Selection Standards Strengthening the Framework for the and Establishment of Business and CSR-based Transactions Subcontract Act Compliance Partner Consultation Desk Sammy upholds internal rules For Sammy, building and operating including Internal Regulations on a system of compliance with the Sammy purchasing policies specify ongoing fairness and impartiality in Managing Outside Orders for Purchasing Subcontract Act and other regulations Extract From CSR Charter all purchasing activities in addition and Internal Regulations on Managing is of the utmost importance, and we are to building relationships of mutual Business Partner Accounts. Established stepping up internal training accordingly. We will view our business with a global perspective in our efforts to ensure cooperation and trust with business purchasing rules are applied for the In fiscal 2014, we gave three training partners. Also, an Internal Control Office evaluation and selection of business sessions to employees being promoted sustained growth and to maximize enterprise value. Additionally, we will enhance not directly involved with transactions partners. Several departments assess to positions that would give them management transparency and meet the expectations of our shareholders and monitors purchases as a third party to prospective business partners, analyzing a central role in personnel system ensure fairness. data from the candidates themselves operations. Thirty-seven individuals society through fair and timely disclosure and appropriate return of profit. We also have internal and external and from external research organizations took part. Sammy regularly publishes “Sammy Corporate Ethics Hotlines” as to evaluate suitability. Before starting information about the Subcontract Act contact points to ensure that transactions business with a new partner, our on “Subcontract Act Web,” a company are sound and based on integrity and managers talk directly to the partner intranet page dedicated to maintaining Our Stance mutual trust with our business partners, on the relevant content based on a awareness of the law. Work processes whom we ask to make the system well document entitled “On Integrity.” from ordering to making payments Fair and timely disclosure and appropriate return of profit to shareholders are top management priorities. We will known within their organizations and to Also, following the “Group CSR are systematized to prevent human look beyond near-term earnings to focus on innovating products, maintaining a production structure that enables use it if need be. If we are notified of Charter” and “Group Code of Conduct,” error from causing violations and to stable supplies, and formulating sales plans based on precision marketing. We will maintain a highly transparent such lapses in judgment, an officer at we practice purchasing that is mindful continuously comply with and raise corporate headquarters (positioned as of integrity, economy, safety, quality, awareness of the law. and credible administrative structure to build trust among shareholders and investors. We will engage with these a neutral party) will take steps to ensure maintenance needs, technology, the stakeholders, properly conveying management information while seeking their feedback. that partners are not subjected to this environment and more, and we also kind of treatment. work to ensure that trade throughout the supply chain reflects CSR. Main Investor Relations in Results Results Results Results Fiscal 2014 Annual Shareholder Announcement Meeting Announcement Announcement Announcement Stronger Partnerships with Business Partners Apr. May June July Aug. Sept. Oct. Nov. Dec. Jan. Feb. Mar. Times per year Strengthening Ties to Raise Quality instruct those with especially low scores Financial Results Briefing 2 and Improve Work Processes to make improvements to fulfill our Quarterly Financial Results Briefing (teleconference) 2 Sammy conducts periodic audits standards. of business partners and also actively Prompted by the Great East Japan Small Meeting 1 creates opportunities to exchange Earthquake, we revised the content Individual Meeting (domestic investors) 46 times 60 times 51 times 61 times 218 information with them in an effort to of our audits to reflect a focus on business continuity and product supply Individual Meeting (overseas investors) 20 times 26 times 30 times 45 times 121 strengthen ties, in order to improve quality and work processes based on stability. We continued taking surveys to learn the state of quality control and Facility Tour Orbi 1 actual conditions. As a measure to Staff Comment Yokohama eliminate nonconforming products, other matters at our business partners, we track the defect rates of business including secondary suppliers, in an Overseas Roadshow Asia, North 4 partners (parts suppliers) on a weekly, effort to strengthen our supply chain and Continually Making Improvements Europe America Asia semiannual, and annual basis, and business continuity plan (BCP). and Pursuing Mutual Growth Conference 2 times 4 In fiscal 2014, we held a briefing for Event for Individual Investors 1 about 120 business partners regarding Periodic Publications Topics Joint Quality Conferences a new estimation system that we will adopt in fiscal 2015. The new system will Business Report 2 lead to work improvements for us and Annual Report 1 We hold joint quality conferences our suppliers, including reduction in data twice a year for partner companies that entry mistakes and man-hours, paperless CSR Report 1 assemble Pachislot units. During the processes, and shorter procurement lead conferences we set goals for reducing the Timely Disclosure times. From here on we will continue to rejection rate, share examples of defects, emphasize dialogue with suppliers as TDnet (Tokyo Stock Exchange) Provide information throughout the year based on timely disclosure rules and exchange technology. Continuing this we strengthen partnerships in pursuit of Website Provide a wide variety of information throughout the year, including information based on kind of initiative has brought the rejection mutual growth. timely disclosure rules as well as management policies, business activities, and more rate down substantially, and has recently created ties between partner companies. A joint quality conference, held twice a year with partner Going forward, we will keep strengthening companies Mitsuteru Yaita ties aimed at improving quality and work Procurement Dept., Production Control Div. processes throughout the supply chain. Sammy Corporation “Sonic The 『ソニック ・ザ・ Hedgehog ™ ヘッジホッグ』 ” ©SEGA ©SEGA With Partners 37 SEGA SAMMY GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 With Shareholders and Investors 38 SEGA SAMMY GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 With Shareholders and Investors With Disclosing Information and Properly Distributing Profits to Shareholders and Investors Employees Basic Policy on Information Disclosure Accessible General Meetings of The SEGA SAMMY Group works Shareholders to earn the understanding and trust of The Holdings enables more of our shareholders and investors by disclosing shareholders to attend our regular information in keeping with the Financial general meeting of shareholders by Instruments and Exchange Act, other avoiding the busiest days of the year Extract From CSR Charter laws and the rules of the Tokyo Stock for such meetings and choosing Exchange for timely disclosure, and meeting sites with sufficient capacity. Our employees bring to us creativity and a spirit of challenge. in addition we provide a wide range of Our June 2014 meeting was attended information on management policies, by 1,600 shareholders. We have an They are our most cherished assets and the fuel for our growth. business activities and more. Also, if there is a chance it could ongoing commitment to make it easy for We will cultivate a corporate culture that allows them to fully exploit shareholders to submit their comments affect investors’ investment decisions, and questions and ensure that our their talents and enables us to grow together with our employees. we actively disclose voluntary information meetings run smoothly. that does not fall under legal and timely disclosure rules. Information disclosures Generating Shareholder Returns are made on the Tokyo Stock Exchange’s Distributing profits to shareholders is Staff Comment TDnet and our website. a key management priority, and it is our Our Stance policy to ensure proper returns based on earnings. Valuing Opportunities for Dialogue Our employees are our most cherished assets. Their creativity and spirit of challenge are the fuel to our growth. It is important to provide comfortable working environments so employees can In fiscal 2014, we exhibited at the Nikkei IR Fair 2013 STOCKWORLD. We gave realize their potential. Motivation comes from ensuring that employees respect each other and Better Communication with Shareholders and Investors mini-presentations in our booth to provide communicate as needed. We are bolstering internal communications so our people are mindful a summary of the Group and explain its of the needs of others during work, thereby improving personal and corporate performance. growth strategies. This helped individual Communication Policy and telephone conferences to discuss investors gain a deeper understanding We are striving to create a workplace environment that will maximize their unlimited potential Through two-way communication our quarterly results. We also participate of the SEGA SAMMY Group. Around and cultivate a corporate culture that allows them to perceive their own growth as well as that with our shareholders and investors, the in company information sessions and 17,000 people came to the two-day event of the Group. SEGA SAMMY Group offers accurate other events in an effort to communicate and many individual investors stopped by information about Group management actively with individual investors. our booth, which was a value opportunity while receiving valuable opinions on to exchange views. In the future we will management from our investors, which enhance our investor relations based on we then use as management feedback. the valuable opinions and questions from investors. Investor Relations The Holdings offers an IR Information 1 Basic Concept Regarding Human Resources 3 Realization of a Harmonious Working Environment Center that gives briefings to investors We, the SEGA SAMMY Group, consider that the creativity and adventurous The SEGA SAMMY Group respects individuality and will promote the in Japan and abroad and answers spirit of each of our respective employees are the source of our development realization of a culture in which each employee thinks for themself and Masahiro Kurosaki shareholder and investor inquiries. and that “employees are our most important assets (human resources).” We demonstrates their ability and creativity, thereby enabling each employee to Investor Relations Dept., Group Executive Office For institutional investors and security aim to realize the creation of an environment in which employees can enhance reach their full potential. We also offer a flexible working style that provides an SEGA SAMMY HOLDINGS INC. analysts in Japan and abroad, we provide their own value and work energetically with a sense of pride and satisfaction. appropriate work-life balance, taking into consideration the balance between results briefings once every six months At the Nikkei IR Fair each individual’s life and work, and, at the same time, promote the realization of a vibrant corporate culture such as through our promotion of diversity. 2 Basic Concept Regarding Occupational Health and Safety Topics Evaluation of Our Investor Relations Based on the concept that “the protection of health and safety is our utmost priority,” we, the SEGA SAMMY Group, act in compliance with relevant laws and regulations as well as with the voluntary management standards of each The SEGA SAMMY HOLDINGS Annual Report won an award at Nikkei Inc.’s “Nikkei Award company and make efforts, as a group, to create a secure, healthy and safe 2013.” It received praise for including management challenges pointed out by an outside work environment that is prepared to deal with potential accidents/disasters. director and a mediumto long-term strategy story that concisely summed up each business’s opportunities and risk as well as how the company is responding to them. Award officials also praised the report’s “A to Z” section containing basic information on the business lines of the “Puyopuyo” ©SEGA Group and the business conditions it faces. Our Group website, moreover, received an excellence award at the 2013 Internet IR Awards of Daiwa Investor Relations Co., Ltd. of the Daiwa Securities Group. This is the longest-running IR site evaluation and commendation program in Japan. Nikkei Award plaque Annual Report 2014 With Shareholders and Investors 39 SEGA SAMMY GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 With Employees 40 SEGA SAMMY GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 With Employees —Initiatives at SEGA— Cultivating Social Commitment Among Employees Staff Comment Expectations for the Growth and Active Participation of New Employees Personnel System and Treatment Better Educational Systems Being involved in the month-long training for new employees has been highly stimulating. We provide a dual-track career system to support the With the market environment changing rapidly nowadays, The training was divided into three major phases: mindset change (going from a student to a career development and professional attitude of employees, individuals need to acquire abilities and skills that are capable working adult), acquisition of abilities and skills, and enhancement of the ability to get things done. What impressed me in particular was the shop training in amusement centers. The aim who can choose between a management path if they wish to of meeting various environmental changes. Accordingly, in fiscal of this training is to go beyond the mere acquisition of knowledge and to enhance one’s ability be organizational leaders, or a specialist path if they wish to use 2014, we developed an environment in which all employees to get things done by putting what one has learned thus far into practice in a shop. On the final their own knowledge and technical skills. can receive education, in order to maximize the strength of our day, there were people who were so glad to have had the training that they were overcome with Since fair assessments are essential to the proper operation personnel through the ratcheting-up of company-wide power. emotion. It seems that all kinds of feelings welled up in them when, face to face with customers of this personnel system, all managers undergo evaluator We promote the development of employees’ abilities and careers they realized their own immaturity and felt the importance of gaining training. We also offer an internal recruiting system as part of through a combination of educational measures common to all real experience. Personally, I felt the achievement that what I had been steps to engender a corporate culture that encourages autonomy employees and those who reflect the characteristics of different teaching got across. Going forward, I want to continue increasing the for employees to tackle new challenges. ranks, vocations, and departments. These efforts are taken based level of our educational measures and create environments in which on our Basic Educational Policy, with the aim of encouraging individuals and organizations can grow together. Use and Employment of Diverse People employees to participate actively and in pursuit of the company’s We hire people without regard to labels like gender and long-term growth and development. Shuhei Fujiki nationality. We provide introductory training for new employees We have adopted an e-learning library system that can be Personnel Dept. New employees who participated in the and help them settle smoothly into their assignments. Three used to learn basic business and management skills, in order to SEGA Corporation shop training months after their joining, we interview regular employees and provide all employees with opportunities to learn knowledge and assess their performance, and we use the results as follow-up skills appropriate to their individual roles. We provide managers at their place of assignment and as useful information for later with evaluator training that underlines the importance of and hiring. enhances the application of evaluations as well as other training to reinforce management skills. In a month-long companyFinding Work-life Balance and Private Lives wide training program, new employees develop the change in mindset needed of working adults and SEGA employees, acquire ■ Basic Educational Policy More Support for Both Professional and Private Lives knowledge and skills, and enhance their ability to get things 1. We will develop an educational environment open to all We help employees balance their professional and private Childcare and Nursing Leave Programs done. We give questionnaires to participants after each training employees. lives through childcare and family care leave systems. Personnel 2. We will support the achievement of performance according program, which we use to follow up the training and to increase Can be used until child reaches age one. the level of subsequent measures. department staff members explain our programs and procedures to qualifications and roles. If both parents take childcare leave, can be used until child is In fiscal 2015, we adopted a coaching system that assigns a to employees and their supervisors before maternity or childcare Childcare 14 months old. 3. We will provide further educational support to persons who have made proactive efforts and have achieved results. coach to each and every new employee in an effort to support their leave. We maintain a childcare consultation desk and childcare leave If it is difficult to get into a childcare facility, parents can use information bulletin board for exchanging parenting information the system until the child begins attending a facility the first development throughout the workplace and to strengthen the April after turning 18 months old. development of young employees through coaching experience. as ways of disseminating and enhancing our policies. Up-to-date company information is posted on the intranet for employees to Childcare By providing further educational support to employees who Work time can be reduced up to two hours daily until the child Shorter demonstrate initiative through this training and who put what read while on leave, which helps smooth their subsequent return enters elementary school. After the child enters elementary working to the workplace. school, work time can be reduced up to one hour daily (at the they learned into practice in the workplace, we hope they will hours for One way that SEGA helps employees participate actively in end of the day) until the child finishes third grade. There are grow as human resources who will forge the future. childcare no salary reductions until the child reaches age three. Going forward, we will continue to provide environments in social initiatives is our volunteer leave program. We additionally which individuals and organizations can grow, based on each are endeavoring to reduce lengthy periods of work and increase Up to five days annually for one child (10 days for two or Child Company-wide Educational System the paid vacation usage rate. more children) until the child enters elementary school. If an employee’s potential and career aspirations. healthcare employee has unused paid holidays, they may be allocated leave for this purpose. Ability development SelfEmploying the Disabled and Seniors development We have staff in each department to advise disabled Nursing Up to 93 business days per family member requiring care. employees about their working lives, and regularly interview leave (Including period of shorter working hours for family care) Other education (e.g. selective education, business manners) these employees as part of creating a workplace that facilitates Shorter Evaluator their jobs. Qualification-specific working Work time can be reduced up to two hours daily for up to Managers Nursing Manager training We also rehire retirees according to the standards of their hours for 93 business days per family member requiring care. training nursing employment status up until mandatory retirement age. Correspondence education promotion support training New evaluator Up to five days annually for one person in need of care training Enhancing Employee Welfare Nursing (10 days for two or more). If an employee has unused paid e-learning leave TOEIC We have a variety of services to refresh employees’ minds holidays, they may be allocated for this purpose. Coach training and bodies and help them recharge their batteries. These include (for guidance/education leaders) the SEGA Mileage System that gives employees points each year General employees Third-year-employees training to spend on various services, and SEGA SAMMY Group resorts. We also offer programs to support employees’ livelihoods, such New-employee follow-up training as an asset-building plan to help them build their wealth. employees can consult with internal medicine practitioners, New-employee training Strengthening Health Maintenance Programs and Promoting psychiatrists and public health nurses. In these ways we help New-employee training Occupational Safety Initiatives employees maintain and improve their health. We provide regular health checkups, assistance with Our Health and Safety Committee meets monthly. Minutes complete physicals and offer an employee assistance program of committee meetings, along with all types of health and safety (EAP), which is also available to employees’ family members, to information, are made available to employees on an internal answer health questions. We employ a full-time industrial health website in an effort to encourage employees to be careful and staff and maintain a health management center through which stay informed. With Employees 41 SEGA SAMMY GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 With Employees 42 SEGA SAMMY GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 With Employees —Initiatives at Sammy— Our Basic Personnel Philosophy and Motivating Our Employees Creating a More Attractive Workplace A Personnel System That Gives All Employees a Professional Rank-Specific Training System Finding Work-life Balance Childcare and Nursing Leave Programs Attitude Rank For Contents Period Sammy’s program for childcare Can be used until child reaches age one. To promote a sense of professionalism and the will to take New New managers training (management skills, and family care goes beyond legal Childcare leave If both parents take childcare leave, can be used until child is 14 months old. managers New managers labor management, mental health, evaluation) 4 days (Can be extended to up to 30 months old if certain conditions met.) on challenges among our employees, one program offers them requirements prescribed in the Act on Childcare Next-generation leaders development training Shorter working Work time can be reduced up to two hours daily until child enters elementary school. different career paths and lets them choose independently. With Manager Manager (enhance business performance capacity and 2 days Advancement of Measures to Support candidates candidates hours for After the child enters elementary school, work time can be reduced up to one hour daily both management and specialist paths, we are fostering greater problem-solving skills) Raising Next-generation Children. After childcare (at the end of the day) until the child finishes third grade. expertise and more clearly defining job roles. We aim to clarify Career training (take stock of oneself and 1 day an employee has a child, for example, Leaders, from reaffirm one’s strengths) Child healthcare Up to five days annually for one child (10 days for two or more children) until child the role expected of each employee, treat employees properly Leaders he or she can take special leave and their first year Leadership awareness training (strengthen leave enters elementary school. If employee has unused paid holidays, they may be used. in accordance with their contribution to success in that role and 2 days additionally take advantage of our Hello inter-personal influence) Up to 93 business days per family member requiring care. draw out each employee’s best performance by recompensing Baby leave system (providing paid leave Nursing leave Career training (take stock of oneself and (Including period of shorter working hours for family care) Mid-level 1 day for up to four days) and our system of their motivation and results. reaffirm one’s strengths) employees, from Shorter working We conduct employee satisfaction surveys in order to realize Logical thinking training (strengthen problemshorter working hours for childcare Up to 93 business days per family member requiring care. Nursing Mid-level their third year 2 days hours for nursing a better working environment. In addition, a self-declaring system solving and inter-personal negotiation skills) (which has been expanded to cover employees for employees to state their preference for career challenges Mid-level Training to increase the ability to lead one’s parents of children through the third Short-term family care leave employees, in juniors (enhance listing skills and learn 3 days (Up to five days annually for one person in need of care. 10 days for two or more). (e.g., job transfers) has been established to elicit the ambition to grade of elementary school). Through Nursing leave their first year guidance methods) Long-term family care leave accept challenges. New employees, Presentation training (strengthen presentation such programs we help employees (If employee has unused paid holidays, they may be used within those limits.) 3 days balance work and parenting and offer a in their third year technique and persuasive power) Internal Commendation Program New employees, more attractive working environment. New after their first New-employee follow-up training 3 days We also offer “relax holidays” to (GLTD) in April 2011 to compensate for Promoting Mental Health Care and To motivate employees, Sammy runs an internal income lost if illness or injury prevents commendation program to honor those who have made employees year encourage employees to use their paid Strengthening Health Maintenance New employees, an employee from working. Because Programs exceptional accomplishments. The President’s Awards are given New-employee training and value chain 5 leave and make other efforts to shorten when they join training months employees are our greatest assets, we to employees who have done an excellent job of improving work the company staff working hours. This initiative We believe that prevention is the implemented a way for the company to processes, developing something new, making sales and so on. resulted in the government continuing most important form of mental health absorb part of the risk of being unable to In fiscal 2014, a total of 118 individuals involved in 16 projects to certify since 2007 that we comply care. This includes better self-check Topics Enhancing Training Content for New Employees with legal standards in accordance with work so that employees can work with functions with a web tool that helps received the President’s award. confidence. the Act on Advancement of Measures employees monitor their own stress In fiscal 2015, we extended the training for new employees Enhancement of Systematic Educational Systems from one month to five months. April is the same as before. to Support Raising Next-Generation Occupational Safety Initiatives levels. Furthermore, as a measure Following our personnel management policy that “the Children. to enhance line care, new managers The four months from May to August consist of value-chain Our Health and Safety Committee organization will take responsibility for fostering members Starting in fiscal 2015, we made it receive mental health management training, which enables new employees to understand the meets monthly to work for employee until they develop their full talents,” Sammy provides training possible for employees whose jobs are training to raise their awareness so that outline of each department’s work (or the chain of processes health and safety. The Kawagoe Factory programs for each rank of employee after they join the company confined to certain geographical areas they more quickly recognize changes until products are delivered to customers). This training has conducts what we call 6S patrols,* and offers opportunities for talent development. to take healthcare and family care leave in their subordinates’ conditions. various secondary aims, including helping new employees in which employees check for latent in half-day units instead of full-day Superiors seek to improve the working learn how to do their work in the risk factors around them and work for units. Going forward, we will continue to environment, and the company departments they are assigned improvements case by case, as part of revise our benefit provides a system for consulting with to from September based on an initiatives built around the unique working programs, taking an occupational physician or outside awareness of the roles of each characteristics and circumstances of into consideration medical organization so that illness can department and organization, each workplace. the diversification be detected and treated early on. Finally, and improving communication There was one occupational accident of working styles when employees return from leave, their across organizations. in fiscal 2014. We are taking measures and changes in the immediate supervisors, an occupational to investigate the cause and make age distribution of physician and the personnel department improvements in workplaces where this employees. collaborate to ensure they get all-round accident occurred while on duty. support. Promoting Employment of Persons We are also striving to reduce Staff Comment with Disabilities and Rehiring of long working hours so that employees Retirees remain mentally and physically healthy. Fiscal 2015: First Year for New Career Development Measures Sammy takes part in joint interviews Our approach to persons working at job fairs held for people with disabilities long hours is systematic. Specifically, In fiscal 2014, we reconsidered our past personnel measures and system, focusing on by public and private employment we distribute medical questionnaires increasing the capacity of each and every employee and revitalizing organizations. We pulled and provide doctor consultations, get agencies and actively hires from this in many department heads, whose opinions we incorporated as we prepared to implement managers to reduce long hours for staff population. Guided by the revised Act new career development measures. In fiscal 2015, we will implement specific measures based under their immediate supervision and for Stabilization of Employment of Older on four key concepts: job rotation, optimal placement, diverse career formation support, and encourage employees to take time off. Persons, we introduced a retiree rehiring our self-declaring system. The power of each and every employee is what underpins Sammy’s Sammy is improving its employee health growth. If their capacity can be increased, organizations and the company will grow, and their system in 2006. Since then we have rehired persons reaching the mandatory management program by providing power will rise manyfold. We are determined to build a firm foundation for employee growth, retirement age for up to five years if they health interviews as designated by an with a view toward achieving Sammy’s goal of acquiring the top share of the market for both so wished. occupational physician or nurse based Pachislot and Pachinko machines. Health and Safety Committee meets every month on the results of an annual medical exam. An Environment for Working with An occupational physician or nurse is Yoshii Asano Confidence * At the Kawagoe Factory, “6S” refers to “safety” plus five always available for consultation during Japanese terms (all starting with the letter S) relating to work hours (employees at branches and Personnel Dept., Corporate Div. Sammy introduced a group longorderliness, cleanliness and discipline. 6S patrols aim to Sammy Corporation promote a good working environment by looking at health sales offices can have health interviews term disability insurance program and safety issues. via online meetings, etc.). With Employees 43 SEGA SAMMY GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 With Employees 44 SEGA SAMMY GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 With Employees Personnel and [Scope] SEGA SAMMY HOLDINGS INC.; SEGA Corporation (including SEGA ENTERTAINMENT CO.,LTD; and SEGA Networks Co., Ltd.); Labor Data Sammy Corporation; Sammy Networks Co., Ltd.; SEGA TOYS CO., LTD.; TMS ENTERTAINMENT Co., LTD.; and PHOENIX RESORT CO.,LTD. —Group Company Initiatives— * The consolidated number of employees is given on the Group Overview page (page 6). * Personnel and labor data were disclosed for SEGA and Sammy until the fiscal 2013 report. From the fiscal 2014 report, five companies were added to the scope so that primary personnel and labor data are now disclosed for seven companies. Together SEGA TOYS CO., LTD. these seven companies cover approximately 70% of the entire Group (percentage of regular employees). Creating a Culture Where Employees established no-overtime days and are environment in which it is easy to return Can Play Active Roles Irrespective of making efforts to change employees’ to work after taking childcare leave, awareness and behavior, in order to have produced positive results. Looking Average length of service Average age Number and percentage of female managers Gender We support work-life balance so that all employees can engage in their work in reduce overtime work. The company has a relatively high percentage of female ahead, we will strive to create a culture where all employees are full of drive (Years) 9 7.9 (Y. O.) 60 38.2 (No.) 60 Number of female managers Percentage of female managers to all managers 41/4.6 6 (%) employees, which is a characteristic and energy and can play active roles 7.8 7.9 4.9 4.6 a state of mental and physical fulfillment. 7.2 of businesses that deal in toys. Given irrespective of gender. 44 44 We try to develop environments in 41 this context, various initiatives we have (Reference data: Percentage of female 6 40 38.2 38.5 38.2 40 4 which employees can continuously play 4.1 taken, such as increasing the number employees: 38%; percentage of female active roles in accordance with their of female managers and creating an managers: 24% *As of June 2014) diverse values and life stages. We also 3 20 20 2 Staff Comment Carving Out New Paths to Make It Easier for Female Employees to Play 0 ’12 ’13 ’14 (FY) 0 ’12 ’13 ’14 (FY) 0 ’12 ’13 ’14 (FY) 0 Active Roles The number of women working on the front lines has increased, including at SEGA TOYS. When I look back to the time I joined the company, there were few female managers and I remember worrying about trivial matters with no one to consult. From this April, the roles and expectations I am expected to fulfill have mounted, and I feel the pressure. However, I am determined to turn that pressure into energy and Number of new graduates Number of mid-career recruits Number of non-Japanese employees to achieve results while enjoying my work on the front. I hope to contribute to the company’s growth by showing that kind of attitude of continually embracing challenges to my juniors. (No.) 150 Male Female 111 (No.) 180 Male Female 126 (No.) 90 55 I also hope to serve as a bridge between the management team and female employees in the trenches 175 34 so as to support the creation of an environment where female employees can play even more active roles. 115 111 126 100 44 31 120 22 60 55 82 100 Naoko Miyazaki 11 41 47 Director 35 141 50 80 60 30 TOY MD Dept., TOY Business Div.. 89 71 104 SEGA TOYS CO., LTD. 47 0 0 0 ’12 ’13 ’14 (FY) ’12 ’13 ’14 (FY) ’12 ’13 ’14 (FY) TMS ENTERTAINMENT Co., LTD. Creating a Workplace Environment development for operations managers, have developed an environment where Number and percentage of persons with Number of persons taking childcare Number of persons taking volunteer that Maximizes Employees’ Potential and career planning and partnership motivated women can work on a longdisabilities leave leave communication for general employees. term basis and shine. At present, five TMS ENTERTAINMENT is aiming to transform into a multifunctional We also expanded employees’ learning women are playing active roles at the (No.) 150 Number of persons with disabilities Percentage of persons with disabilities 124/1.7 3 (%) (No.) 90 Male Female 65 (No.) 150 51 video entertainment company. Seeing opportunities, including training to section chief or higher level. 131 124 improve skills that are immediately useful We have adopted a goals 117 employee growth as an important step 65 and providing an environment where management system in our personnel 100 99 2 60 100 93 toward that end, we are promoting 1.7 1.7 1.5 49 49 the development of employees’ outside seminars are available. evaluation system. Employees have a abilities and careers. In fiscal 2014, With respect to our personnel system, feedback interview with their supervisors 61 51 we try to place the right people in the every six months with the aim of creating 50 1 30 43 48 50 we provided rank-specific training focusing on team building for business right jobs and fire-up human resources. an environment where they can engage managers, reform of awareness and Placing importance on women’s active in work with both sides being satisfied. 0 0 0 6 1 4 0 ’12 ’13 ’14 (FY) ’12 ’13 ’14 (FY) ’12 ’13 ’14 (FY) action as well as training in subordinate participation and career formation, we Staff Comment Corporate Growth Depends on Employee Growth The environment surrounding the animation production business is Annual paid vacation usage rate Number of occupational accidents growing increasingly severe, including a dwindling number of children and diversification of amusements. Given this situation, the roles and scope (%) 60 45.3 (No.) 120 108 of work employees must fulfill are also broadening, and the development 108 100 of human resources who can adapt to the new times is imperative. At TMS 44.4 44.0 45.3 86 ENTERTAINMENT we are focusing on rank-specific training, working to develop 40 80 as many human resources as possible who recognize the roles required by the organization and can reliably fulfill those roles. From here on we will continue improving the workplace environment and fostering a corporate culture that 20 40 enables employees to contribute to the maximum of their abilities, aiming to develop employees who will lead the next generation. 0 0 Chikako Arai ’12 ’13 ’14 (FY) ’12 ’13 ’14 (FY) Personnel Dept., Corporate Div. TMS ENTERTAINMENT Co., LTD. With Employees 45 SEGA SAMMY GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 With Employees 46 SEGA SAMMY GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 With Environmental Data [Scope] SEGA SAMMY HOLDINGS INC. (HD); SEGA Corporation (including SEGA ENTERTAINMENT CO.,LTD (SE); and SEGA Networks Co., Ltd.); Sammy Corporation; Sammy Networks Co., Ltd. (SNW); SEGA TOYS CO., LTD. (TOYS); Society TMS ENTERTAINMENT Co., LTD. (TMS); and PHOENIX RESORT CO.,LTD. (PSR) * From the fiscal 2014 report, a portion of SEGA, SNW, TOYS, and TMS were added to the scope so that primary data are now disclosed for seven companies. Some company names have been abbreviated as shown above in parentheses. * SEGA ENTERTAINMENT CO.,LTD, is composed of an Amusement (AM) Centers Division and a Food and Drink Shops Division (Environment) (Bee shops). Since the AM Centers Division was included in SEGA until fiscal 2013, the Bee shops portion of the Food and Drink Shops Division was added from fiscal 2014. Gross CO2 emissions Total energy input Electricity usage (t-CO2) (GJ) (MWh) 120,000 3,000,000 300,000 103,766 109,866 Extract From Group CSR Charter 76,873 1,929,988 2,120,221 2,262,136 203,358 80,000 2,000,000 200,000 182,733 164,867 With a full awareness of the fact that we are, as a corporate citizen, 1,000,000 a member of society, we will voluntarily and proactively put forward efforts 40,000 100,000 to provide a social contribution through our business activities, etc., our 0 0 0 ’12 ’13 ’14 (FY) ’12 ’13 ’14 (FY) ’12 ’13 ’14 (FY) support in the development of cultural activities including art and sport and the preservation of the global environment. Industrial waste discharged [Number of Facilities] (t) FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 9,000 Offices 58 70 58*1 Our Stance SEGA Directly operated by SEGA 191 194 — 5,965 Directly operated by SE 6,000 Global environmental problems such as global warming, depletion of natural resources and waste pollution Amusement SE (AM centers and Bee shops) — — 219*2 centers are becoming increasingly serious and the response toward environmental challenges is a top priority that 3,234 SEGA JOYPOLIS, Orbi 3 2 3 should be addressed by all corporations and individuals. 3,000 2,575 SEGA Spa facility 1 1 1 With the aim of achieving the “sustainable development of society,” we, the SEGA SAMMY Group, not only Leisure facilities PSR 1 1 1 comply with laws, regulations and rules concerning the environment, but also accumulate activities that 0 ’12 ’13 ’14 (FY) Production sites Sammy Kawagoe and old Kawagoe factories 1 2 2 exert a positive impact on the environment through such means as striving to conduct business activities *1 The breakdown of offices is: HD: 4, SEGA: 11, Sammy: 39, SNW: 1, TMS: 2, and TOYS: 1. *2 AM centers and Bee shops are disclosed as SE, a subsidiary of SEGA, from fiscal 2014. in harmony with the environment, engaging in energy-saving measures, recycling and reducing usage of consumable supplies. Water use [Number of Facilities] (m ) 3 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 1,500,000 1,377,158 1 Environmental Burden and Impact Offices 42 51 23*3 Directly operated by SE SE — — 219 The SEGA SAMMY Group conducts a range of businesses from product manufacturing to facility management. 970,742 (AM centers and Bee shops) 1,000,000 928,642 Amusement To reduce our environmental burden, it is essential first to determine the environmental impact of our business centers SEGA JOYPOLIS, Orbi — — 3 activities as a whole. Therefore, the SEGA SAMMY Group gathers basic environmental data for its major workplaces SEGA Spa facility — — 1 and facilities and evaluates the trends in environmental burdens. 500,000 Leisure facilities PSR 1 1 1 Going forward, we will strive to reduce our electric power usage by aggressively pursuing improvements such as more efficient use of lighting and air conditioning and switching to energy-saving equipment. Production sites Sammy Kawagoe and old Kawagoe factories 1 2 2 0 *3 The reduction from fiscal 2014 resulted from rented offices with fewer than 50 personnel being excluded. The breakdown of offices ’12 ’13 ’14 (FY) is: HD: 4, SEGA: 5, Sammy: 10, SNW: 1, TMS: 2, and TOYS: 1. 2 Compliance with Environmental Laws The SEGA SAMMY Group strives to prevent environmental pollution by complying with environmental laws Status of Eco-friendly Initiatives at Kawagoe Factory as well as the industry guidelines that each operating company has agreed to. There were no violations of environmental laws or any cases of pollution in fiscal 2014 in our Group. FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Amusement machine Recycling rate 97.76% 98.47% 96.58% recycling rate Amount of lumber used 3,145t 1,779t 2,400t*4 3 Environmental Education and Awareness Raising Amount of PEFC-certified lumber* 5 1,012t (32.2%) 468t (26.3%) 134t (5.6%)*6 Use of environmentally The SEGA SAMMY Group actively promotes environmental education to maintain and advance environmental friendly materials Adhesives used 2.7t 0.36t —*7 protection initiatives Group-wide. We enhance all employees’ awareness of environmental issues through our Water-based adhesives used 2.7t (100%) 0.36t (100%) — intranet as well as a separately produced environmental handbook used as a teaching tool. The environmental “ALIYAN” ©Sammy handbook has been edited in a straightforward way to encourage environmentally friendly action at the workplace *4 The increase is attributable to an increase in production of products that use plywood for board faces. *5 PEFC-certified lumber: Lumber procured properly from forests certified by a third-party organization under the Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification Schemes (PEFC) as as well as at home, based on knowledge and sensitivity regarding environmental problems. From here on, the being sustainably managed. As PEFC is a scheme to reduce the distribution of lumber and products resulting from environmentally destructive tree clearing, purchasing PEFC-certified entire Group will work at protecting the environment, based on the awareness that environmental protection is a lumber contributes to the encouragement of sustainable forest management. problem that must be addressed seriously by each and every member of society. *6 The decrease is attributable to a decrease in the production of products in which PEFC-certified lumber is usable. (PEFC-certified lumber is used only in Pachinko machines.) *7 Adhesives are not used as of fiscal 2014, as components now arrive already glued. Our suppliers use only environmentally friendly water-based adhesives. With Society 47 SEGA SAMMY GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 With Society 48 SEGA SAMMY GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 With Society (Environment) —Initiatives at SEGA— Continuous Efforts to Protect the Global Since electricity use is a given, CO2 is emitted indirectly throughout the entire process. Environment The use of electricity, which is an indirect source of CO2 emissions, is a given throughout SEGA’s business. Accordingly, we are making efforts to protect the global environment by reducing this effect in our operations and through offsetting, which makes use of schemes outside of business. SEGA Corporation Products / services Customers Power plant Sixth Year of Forest Sponsorship: “SEGA-no-Mori” Presenting us with a “Certificate Electricity use is a given throughout the entire process from offices to products / services, and customers. In April 2008, SEGA entered into a 10-year “Adopt-A-Forest” partnership of Amount of CO2 Sequestered by Forest,” Nagano Prefecture with the village of Minamiaiki in Minamisaku District, Nagano Prefecture. praised SEGA for sequestering The private forestlands that we adopted (about 3,633 ha or roughly 773 CO2 by maintaining “SEGAtimes the area of Tokyo Dome) are called “SEGA-no-Mori” (SEGA Forest). no-Mori” in fiscal 2014. The Environmental Protection Initiatives Through Business The amount of CO2 sequestered through the maintenance of “SEGAamount of CO2 sequestered in no-Mori” increased from an initial 122.6 t-CO2 to 1,754.8 t-CO2 in fiscal fiscal 2014 was 1,754.8 t-CO2. Making Products Energy Efficient lighting switch, and including an ecoRecycling Amusement Machines 2014. This offsets four years’ worth of indirect CO2 emissions from an The Production Engineering mode that reduces power consumption We try to extend the life of machines average amusement center. Department holds committee meetings during standby. through thorough maintenance in “SEGA-no-Mori” is also used as a place to foster an awareness of to work on improving convenience We included an eco-mode in amusement centers, but have no choice global environmental protection among employees. in operating amusement machines. “Hokuto No Ken BATTLE MEDAL,” but to discard some machines. SEGA Through this initiative, we have made which we started selling in fiscal 2014, LOGISTICS SERVICE CO., LTD., which efforts to commercialize energy-saving, and it has had a significant effect in handles distribution, disassembles those Learning highly energy-efficient amusement saving electricity. machines by hand and recycles all of About Nature Forest Maintenance machines by actively using low-energy the materials. By having intermediate components such as LED and liquid Efforts to Use Resources Effectively industrial waste processing firms come The SEGA Sammy Group hopes to Under the direction of local villagers crystal displays, providing a separate and Extend the Life of Products to our distribution centers, we have hand down to future generations who look after and maintain “SEGASEGA strives to reduce waste by established a nationwide recycling an attitude of cherishing no-Mori” on a routine basis, we designing components for current system that reduces the cost and fuel nature. In line with that hold an annual forest maintenance amusement machines so that they consumption for transporting discarded desire, it holds events for its experience, including pruning and can be reused in new products, such machines and prevents illegal dumping. employees and their families thinning, as an opportunity to learn as diversion from “StarHorse2 FINAL We have also eliminated disposal in to learn about nature together through one’s own experiences DESTINATION” to “StarHorse3” and landfills and by simple incineration. through experiences such as the importance and rigors of forest “StarBoat.” Furthermore, through clearing undergrowth, harvesting maintenance. design reviews that include the sales crops, catching fish, and other activities department, we design products with a view to daily maintenance and periodic that change every year. Hokuto No Ken BATTLE MEDAL inspections. We provide stores with This sign was set up in 2008, the year we adopted Interacting with ©Buronson&Tetsuo Hara/NSP1983, manuals that clearly describe those and created “SEGA-no-Mori.” Students in the first 20% energy savings ©NPS2007 Approved No.PGA-704 the Local Community to the sixth grade at Minamiaiki Elementary School ©Sammy ©SEGA steps, which helps extend the life of products. Located along the border with Gunma drew pictures for the sign on the theme of “the ideal effect attained In Minamiaiki, the villagers teach us things Prefecture in the southeast of Nagano forest.” In 2014, the year the last of these students with eco-mode that we cannot feel in everyday city graduated elementary school, the new group of first Prefecture, where gushing rivers flow life, such as the harshness and to sixth graders drew pictures depicting a “future Recycling through disassembly by hand as if stitching the valleys together, the village of Minamiaiki is richly importance of nature. They nurtured together with nature” for a new sign, impart these truths through which is the symbol of “SEGA-no-Mori.” endowed with nature. Mountains, forests, and fields cover 80% of its stories about village Other Environmental Protection Initiatives total area. history, hiking tips, how to • Minamiaiki website: enjoy oneself on a river, and Environmental Activities in Offices personal authentication when printing, 2007 we became a Y-Green Partner the difficulties of growing We take energy-saving measures we are also reducing paper resource of the Yokohama City Wind-Power http://www.minamiaiki.jp/ delicious vegetables. such as thinning out the number of lights use. We also upgraded and expanded Electricity Generation Project, whose and restricting air-conditioner use at our teleconferencing system to reduce main facility is the Hama Wing turbines the head office and other sites. We also the impact of the time needed to travel in Yokohama’s Kanagawa Ward. The promote various other initiatives that will back and forth between locations. facility generated 95,504 kilowatt-hours Stakeholder Comment translate into energy savings, resource From here on we will investigate the of power in fiscal 2014. conservation, and cost reductions. use of each system and make further Takehiko Kikuchi Sharing Each Other’s Merits Mayor of Minamiaiki Village We reduced the resources and improvements. Minamiaiki, Nagano Prefecture costs needed to lay network cables and telephone lines by installing such SEGA Green Power Certificates Green Power Certificates In Minamiaiki we are working together with residents to create a vibrant town, aiming to be a “village where people can live an System enriched life at ease” and a “village with a future.” Since we signed an adopt-a-forest contract with SEGA in 2008, the company has systems as voice-over IP together with a complete wireless LAN network. By SEGA has bought one million not only engaged in forest development; it has also sent us invitations to TOKYO JOYPOLIS and SEGA SAMMY Baseball Club games. using a document-sharing tool over kilowatt-hours’ worth of Green Power We are sincerely grateful for these and the many other opportunities for exchange provided by the company. I think that the creation of ties between companies and communities formed in this way—with deeper interaction and the sharing of each other’s merits—is the network, providing each floor and Certificates (micro-hydropower and very important for handing down an enriched society to future generations. I hope that SEGA will continue to deepen and broaden such conference room with projectors, biomass) annually since fiscal 2006 and using and optimally positioning based on a contract with Japan Natural MicroBiomass Wind-power connections, for the benefit of Japan and the world. hydropower Electricity multifunction peripherals that require Energy Co., Ltd. Additionally, in April Generation With Society 49 SEGA SAMMY GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 With Society 50 SEGA SAMMY GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 With Society (Environment) With —Initiatives at Sammy— Society Environmental Protection Initiatives in Factories (Serving Society) Promoting 3R Practices Making Amusement Machines Energy Efficient Since Pachislot and Pachinko machines are subject to Sammy provides amusement machines the Act on the Promotion of Effective Utilization of Resources, with eco-features that are uniform across Sammy thoroughly practices the 3Rs (reduce, reuse and recycle) the industry, in order to keep power with specific initiatives for each production process and product. consumption in amusement machines in In fiscal 2014, our recycling rate for amusement machines was check. These features include adjustable 96.58%. (This does not include thermal recycling.) settings for sound volume and turning off or Extract From Group CSR Charter dimming lighting during play and standby, A mark is displayed on [Initiatives at the design and development stage] which reduces power consumption without products that have ecofeatures. With a full awareness of the fact that we are, as a corporate citizen, At the design and development stage, we limit substrate hindering play. types and take other steps to enable their common use across a member of society, we will voluntarily and proactively put forward efforts the range of products in an effort to ensure that any excess components can be used in other products. We are making to provide a social contribution through our business activities, etc., our every effort to use resources effectively and reduce waste Topics Cutting Packaging Use during Delivery and Transport of Unit Items support in the development of cultural activities including art and sport and by aggressively shifting to common components across four Sammy Group companies (Sammy Corporation, TAIYO ELEC We have reduced packaging use during delivery and the preservation of the global environment. Co., Ltd., RODEO Co., Ltd., and GINZA Corporation). transport of unit items by adopting a form of packaging that does not use cardboard. Moreover, we increased load [Initiatives at the production and transportation stage] At the production stage, we actively recycle or properly efficiency in trucks transporting amusement machines by using shelving decks to double-stack. Our Stance dispose of waste material generated during production processes. We also strive to cut packaging use with reusable The SEGA SAMMY Group is keenly aware of the need to contribute to society as a good delivery boxes when transporting components and unit items. corporate citizen. In addition to a commitment to help build a prosperous society through our core In September 2012, we established a new distribution center entertainment business, the Group’s individual companies and workplaces maintain an active on land adjacent to a new factory. By establishing a distribution center at a manufacturing site, we were able to consolidate dialogue with members of the community and take initiatives to benefit society. Such initiatives the previously scattered function of parts warehousing, which also encourage each employee to grow and unify us in our aspiration for a stronger Group. translated into reduced energy use for transportation. It also helped us to streamline recycling and reuse. [Initiatives at the disposal stage] To ensure that used Pachislot and Pachinko machines Topics Participating in a Collection System for Used Amusement Machines are properly disposed of after being enjoyed by many people, we accept trade-ins of our products and also conduct proper Sammy participates in a collection system for used 1 Initiatives to Serve Society recycling through an industry group take-back system, among amusement machines organized by Nikkoso*. This is an other steps. We continue to support a wide range of activities throughout the year to contribute to society not only by prospering in business but also by contributing to the initiative to implement more advanced recycling (weight development of cultural activities including art and sport. In particular, we are putting effort into development of the next generation. Each group company makes use reduction and other appropriate treatment) by having of its resources to actively create places that give dreams and inspiration to children. Green Purchasing Initiatives manufacturers that have a thorough knowledge of the At the Pachislot and Pachinko machine design and characteristics and construction of the products process development stage, Sammy practices green purchasing, used machines in cooperation with game halls, transporters, procuring low-impact materials like lead-free soldered parts and and disposal companies. Nikkoso has received certification wood that has received forest certification, and by recommending from Japan’s Ministry of the Environment for this system. that suppliers use water-based adhesives. Sammy has participated in this initiative since 2010 to ensure proper handling of used amusement machines all Social Support the way until the completion of final disposal. * Nikkoso: The Nippon Yugikikogyo Kumiai (Japan Game Machine Industry Association) is an association of 35 companies that manufacture Pachinko and other amusement machines. It works on a daily basis to ensure that these machines can be enjoyed with peace of mind as familiar and easy popular entertainment. Sports, the Arts and Other Cultural Activities Environmental Protection Initiatives in Offices Energy-saving and Resource Conservation Initiatives in energy and resource conservation and cost reductions, including Community Offices using and optimally positioning new multifunction peripherals, Activities Thus far Sammy has been making steady and thorough providing meeting spaces with shared computers and projectors, efforts that translate into energy and resource conservation, switching from desktop to notebook computers, and adopting “THE ADVENTURE OF PANDA AND FRIENDS” such as managing air-conditioner temperature settings, reducing tablets. This has reduced energy and paper resource use and ©TMS the number of lights installed, setting PCs to go into sleep has also led to improved work efficiency. From here on we will mode when not in use, and undertaking zero-waste initiatives. continue investigating the effects and use of each system and * Group initiatives to support recovery from the Great East Japan Earthquake are reported on pages 15–16. In fiscal 2014, we took a variety of initiatives to promote further make further improvements. * Social contribution activities are also reported in the overviews of Group companies on pages 56–57. With Society 51 SEGA SAMMY GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 With Society 52 SEGA SAMMY GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 Sports, Sports, the Arts and SEGA SAMMY Cup Presents Community Flowers Planted Social Campaign to the Arts and Support for Japan Other Cultural Activities Junior Sports Festival Activities by Local Kindergarteners Support Other Cultural Deliver Picture Books Activities Cross-Country Skiing Team In conjunction with the Nagashima Shigeo Invitational Every spring we ask children from a kindergarten near Oasis As part of its international contributions, the SEGA SAMMY The Japan Cross-country Skiing Association for the Disabled SEGA SAMMY Cup Golf Tournament, the SEGA SAMMY Group Park in Kakamigahara, Gifu prefecture to help us plant flowers Group is associated with a campaign of the Shanti Volunteer makes efforts to open up cross-country skiing to persons with has continued to host sports clinics for elementary and middle in the park. After planting torenia, which bloom from June to Association to provide picture books to children. (This campaign disabilities and other relevant persons in Japan, to increase school students since 2006 with the goals of community sports October, in front of the aquarium, we finished off the day with provides Japanese picture books with stickers giving the words in competitive abilities, and to promote and popularize the sport. The promotion and regional development. The Junior Sports Festival a bird’s-eye view of the park from the Ferris wheel. We plan to the local language to Cambodia, Laos, Myanmar refugee camps, SEGA SAMMY Group provides continuous support to the national is growing year after year with the cooperation of Chitose, the city continue this activity, which allows kindergarteners, who usually and Afghanistan, which are places where hardly any books are team formed with the Association as its parent organization. We where the festival is held, as well as the nearby cities of Eniwa and do not handle greenery published for children, with the hope that the books will bring will continue to support athletes undertaking daily strenuous Tomakomai. In 2014, a total of 1,500 students took part in clinics and soil, to feel close to comfort and fun to children faced with anxiety and sorrow caused training with the hope of giving young people with disabilities the held in 16 different sports. Current and former athletes in each nature through flower by poverty and civil war.) We purchase picture books with the dream of making it to the Paralympics or other goals. sport conveyed the fun of competition to children while providing planting. money raised by collecting unwanted old books and other items broad instruction ranging from basics to practice and mindset. from Group employees, paste into them stickers with translations Instructors included Takeshi Matsuda (SEGA SAMMY Holdings), into the local languages, and then send them to those locations. In a medalist in swimming at the Beijing and London Olympics, fiscal 2014, the sixth year of this initiative, employees of 24 Group and Taichi Sasaki, a former companies took part. With the total funds raised (including 10-yen All Nippon Volleyball team donations collected through player. vending machines, which we started the previous year), we produced 220 picture books. A commendation received in July Community Thus far, the Group has sent a 2014 for organizations providing Activities North Welcome Flower Road Athletes visiting Holdings distinguished service to sports total of 838 books. SEGA SAMMY GOLF ENTERTAINMENT INC. set up 28 flower planters in Shinseicho and Rankoshicho and in front of the main Sports, entrance to the North Country Golf Club. This activity, which Social Donating and Disinfecting the Arts and Baseball Clinics and SEGA SAMMY Cup Children’s Sports, coincided with the opening of the Chitose Welcome Flower Road Support Other Cultural Toys in Collaboration with NPOs Activities Rubber Baseball Tournament the Arts and Other Cultural The 13th Tokyo Jazz Festival in the city of Chitose, has been continued since 2011 with the Activities cooperation of members of the local neighborhood associations. Wishing to remove social challenges as much as possible Since 2008, members of the We planted nearly 400 multicolored flowers to delight the eyes through our core business, we donate toys from SEGA TOYS CO., SEGA SAMMY Baseball Club have The SEGA SAMMY Group provides special support for one of tourists from outside LTD. to non-profit organizations (NPOs). This year was the fifth been participating as instructors in of Japan’s largest jazz festivals, held every summer at Tokyo Hokkaido and visitors to the time we engaged in this initiative, which we have continued since the Tokyo Kids Baseball Academy, International Forum. We have given continuous support to the club. fiscal 2010. The Group selects NPOs to receive donations together which is held to increase the level event since its founding with the Japan NPO Center. of children’s baseball in Tokyo. 12 years ago and we In fiscal 2014, we donated around 400 toys to the Specified Non They provided coaching on basic will keep contributing to Profit Organization Family House, which provides accommodation defense and batting practice as well as plays that are useful in the development of new support to the families of children undergoing treatment for cancer actual games to 13 teams (260 kids) from Edogawa in November culture in Tokyo. and other intractable diseases. Our staff members regularly visit 2013 and 17 teams (250 kids) from Hachioji in January 2014. the facility and work with general volunteers to disinfect and The SEGA SAMMY Cup Children’s Rubber Baseball Tournament, ©Hideo Nakajima repair toys and plush dolls. for which SEGA SAMMY provides the baseball field and supports the tournament administration, was held for the fifth time this Community year. The SEGA SAMMY Baseball Club will continue engaging in Activities Interaction with the Community baseball clinics and other activities to contribute to the formation of a bright and healthy society through sports. Sports, the Arts and Charity 12-Hour Endurance SEGA makes donations to the Haneda Shrine’s summer Other Cultural Activities Cycling Race festival in July and provides beverages from a rest station on our grounds for carriers of the “children’s portable shrine.” Our SEGA Europe, Ltd. provides on-going backing to a charity employees are also active participants in monthly litter pickups that supports people who were injured in sports. In 2013, led by the neighborhood association. eight employees from SEGA Europe participated in a 12-hour During an inter-city baseball tournament, the association Social Support Promoting the Pink Ribbon Campaign from the Bottom Up endurance cycling race held at Brands Hatch* in May. The charity gave the SEGA SAMMY Baseball Club their ardent support. We donations after this event topped $240,000. look forward to more * Brands Hatch: A motor racing circuit close interaction with Sammy’s Osaka branch has been participating in the Pink Ribbon Campaign since 2012. The campaign, in Kent, England. It hosted the British the community in the which is aimed at the eradication of breast cancer, started with calls from numerous employees. With the Grand Prix between 1964 and 1986. future. In 2012, it was used as the venue for cooperation of customers and suppliers, charity holes are set up in golf competitions held every spring bicycle road races and time trials in and autumn. Those funds are combined with donations put in a donation box permanently installed in the the London Paralympics. reception desk in the office and are donated to the Japan Pink-Ribbon of Smile and Happiness campaign. In fiscal 2014, we donated a total of ¥204,495. With Society 53 SEGA SAMMY GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 With Society 54 SEGA SAMMY GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 Overview of SEGA SAMMY Group Companies in Japan Community Activities Support for Koedo Kawagoe Marathon 2013 & Some CSR Initiatives *As of July 31, 2014 We are expanding our business as a versatile entertainment company group engaged in the production of toys, In the event held in November 2013, 10,016 runners ran in the marathon. Eighteen Sammy employees mobile phone content, and animation among other products, centered on game manufacturer SEGA and Pachislot/ joined volunteers handing out water to runners along the road while 74 Sammy and Group employees and Pachinko manufacturer Sammy. suppliers participated as runners. With over 10,000 runners and a great number of volunteers, it was a day for genial civic interaction. SEGA Corporation ATLUS. CO., LTD. • Canal Side-Bldg., 1-39-9, Higashi-Shinagawa, Shinagawa-ku, Tokyo 140-8583 • Sun Towers Center Bldg., 2-11-22 Sangenjaya, Setagaya-ku, • Development, production, and sales of amusement machines; development and Tokyo 154-0024 operation of amusement centers; development and sales of game software • Digital game business; development of consumer software →CSR initiatives are introduced throughout this report. ARUTEMATE Co., Ltd. Community Activities Showroom Opened to Senior Citizens Sammy Corporation • Ichikyudo Bldg. 5F, 1-9-5 Tsukiji, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 104-0045 • Production and sales of sound sources; production of music events, merchandise • Sunshine 60, 3-1-1 Higashi-Ikebukuro, Toshima-ku, Tokyo 170-6029 • Development, production, and sales of Pachislot and Pachinko machines Since June 2006, with the cooperation of the Toshima-Ward Council of Social Welfare in Tokyo, Sammy →CSR initiatives are introduced throughout this report. Index Corporation has been inviting senior citizens to its showroom, where they enjoy playing Pachislot and Pachinko. Thus • Carrot Tower, 4-1-1 Taishido, Setagaya-ku, Tokyo 154-0004 • Content and solutions business and related businesses far we have held this event 181 times with the participation of 1,359 people (as of March 31, 2014). During the event, care workers accompany the seniors, with whom we have amicably become better acquainted. Our branches in Sendai, Sapporo, and Sammy Networks Co., Ltd. Hiroshima also conduct this activity. • Izumi Garden Tower 8F, 1-6-1 Roppongi, Minato-ku, Tokyo 106-6008 WAVEMASTER, INC. • Provider of game-related content for mobile phones and PCs Additionally, in fiscal 2014, we participated in visits to geriatric health care institutions conducted by Nichidenkyo*1 in response to the results • Megurosumiya Bldg. 4F, 3-9-13 Shimomeguro, Meguro-ku, Tokyo 153-0064 of a demonstration study showing that playing Pachislot machines contributes to the prevention and improvement of cognitive function decline. We held joint Family Day for employees and • Production of music CDs and DVDs, music publishing Sammy supported this initiative by bringing Pachislot machines and giving seniors advice on how to play them. their families from three Group companies: Sammy NetWorks, SEGA Networks, and Butterfly. A large number of employees and f4samurai, Inc. • VORT Akihabara Bldg. 4F, 2-7-3 Kandasuda-chou, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 101-0041 their family members, from children to adults, • Planning and development of apps for SNS and smart devices; planning and Topics Cooperation in a Demonstration Study on Brain Activity Caused by Playing Pachislot Machines had fun touring the office. As a motivator development of web services underpinning employees’ drive, families are important stakeholders. From here Sammy participated as a committee member in a demonstration study on brain activity caused by playing Pachislot machines, on we will continue holding events that bring employees and their families OASIS PARK Co., Ltd. which was conducted by Nichidenkyo and KAIDOU-YUSHO Cooperative*2 in 2013. The growing numbers of people with dementia has together. • 1564-1 Kawashima Kasada-machi, Kagamihara City, Gifu 501-6021 become a major problem in Japan, where the population is aging. Given this situation, Nichidenkyo and KAIDOU-YUSHO Cooperative • Planning, development, operation and management of the Gifu asked Professor Kikunori Shinohara of Tokyo University of Science, Suwa, an expert in brain science and health science, to conduct Prefectural Freshwater Fish Park (Oasis Park); planning, development, operation a demonstration study on the potential of Pachislot playing in the field of brain activity. The results showed that Pachislot training SEGA TOYS CO., LTD. and management of commercial facilities at highway parking areas; consulting • Ebisu Prime Square 8F, 1-1-39 Hiroo, Shibuya-ku, Tokyo 150-0021 services for the aforementioned businesses stimulated brain activity in subjects aged 50 and older and contributes to prevention and improvement of cognitive function decline. • Planning and production, distribution of toys We were selected for the Carbon Offset Certification Acquisition Support We have participated every year as a special Project in fiscal 2014 as a result Stakeholder Comment Carbon Offset Certification sponsor of the Tohoku Child Expo since its first of using the local Gifu J-VER Some CO emissions associated with 2 running a large Ferris wheel Looking Forward to the Creation of New Value year (2011). In October 2013, we inspired and carbon offsetting scheme for Certification number: CO2-0100 Certified party: OASIS PARK Co., Ltd. brought smiles to the faces of children at this CO2 emissions associated with Acquired Carbon Offset certification label It had already been recognized that playing Pachislot stimulated brain function in the young-adult segment. The main from the Ministry of the Environment event by providing a lot of toys. electricity usage for the Ferris See the Ministry’s website on the Carbon purpose of this new study was to ascertain brain stimulation attributable to Pachislot playing in people aged 50 and older, Offset scheme for details. which is when cognitive function begins to fall. The results showed activation of the parietal lobe and left frontal lobe, which wheel that is a symbolic facility http://www.jcs.go.jp are involved in spatial cognition. One month of using a Pachislot machine showed the effect of increasing cognitive function. within the park. Research conducted at Harvard University in the U.S. has suggested that play and leisure rank alongside exercise and nutrition in TMS ENTERTAINMENT Co., LTD. helping prevent decline in cognitive function. I look forward to the time when game halls go beyond places for play and become places that also provide health service to senior citizens. • 3-31-1 Nakano, Nakano-ku, Tokyo 164-0001 GINZA Corporation • Planning and production, distribution, export of animation • Sunshine 60 28F, 3-1-1 Higashi-Ikebukuro, Toshima-ku, Kikunori Shinohara We hold a year-end Thank You Party as an Tokyo 170-6028 Professor, Faculty of Center • Development, production, and sales of Pachislot and Pachinko machines of Education annual event. We express our appreciation for Tokyo University of Science, the year and attempt to strengthen relationships Suwa, Japan with suppliers and customers whom we are JINNI’S Inc. indebted to on a routine basis. • 5-7-18-2F, Jingumae, Shibuya-ku, Tokyo 150-0001 • Designing, production of computer graphics Staff Comment Proactively Contributing to Society as a Responsible Industry Leader TAIYO ELEC Co., Ltd. SEGA ENTERTAINMENT CO.,LTD The Public Relations Department undertakes a variety of initiatives beyond Sammy’s individual affairs. For example, we • 1-11-12 Meiekiminami, Nakamura-ku, Nagoya City, Aichii 450-0003 • Canal Side-Bldg., 1-39-9, Higashi Shinagawa, Shinagawa-ku, Tokyo 140-8583 cooperate with industry organizations to which the company belongs, working on efforts aimed at restoration of the industry • Development, production, and sales of Pachislot and Pachinko machines • Establishment and operation of entertainment facilities and dining darts bars as well under the guidance of regulatory authorities and supporting activities that make use of business characteristics to contribute to as franchise operations, etc. society. In fiscal 2014, we participated and cooperated in such initiatives as a demonstration study on brain activity attributable Toshihide Yamazaki We have an ongoing volunteer blood donation program that started with Public Relations Dept. calls from employees. The program is implemented once every year with the As a business serving alcohol, we to playing Pachislot machines and visits to geriatric health care institutions conducted by Nichidenkyo. From here on we will Intellectual Property & take the responsibility to prohibit minors continue making efforts to contribute to the development of the industry and the development of society as a responsible cooperation of the Aichi Red Cross Blood Public Relations Div. industry leader. Center. This year was the fifth time, and 22 from entering any of our food and drink Sammy Corporation officers and employees working at the head shops and to be thorough in checking office participated. We will continue this effort, the age of customers who do enter so *1 Nichidenkyo: Japan Electric Game Machine Industry Cooperative. An organization that focuses mainly on facilitating revitalization and restoration of the Pachislot (slot machines) market. in order to contribute widely to society. that all customers can use our shops *2 KAIDOU-YUSHO Cooperative: Slot Machine Business Cooperative. A cooperative business association, organized by over 500 companies that mainly sell Pachislot, aiming for sound management of and comfortably and with peace of mind. awareness building in the Pachislot and Pachinko industry. With Society 55 SEGA SAMMY GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 Company Profile 56 SEGA SAMMY GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 SEGA SAMMY GOLF ENTERTAINMENT INC. TMS MUSIC, CO., LTD. ••The North Country Golf Club, 26 Rankoshi, Chitose, Hokkaido 066-0068 ••3-31-1 Nakano, Nakano-ku, Tokyo 164-0001 ••Management and operation of The North Country Golf Club in Hokkaido ••Production and management of animation music Third-party Comment on Reporting of Social Impacts by Business Activities On the other hand, there is no shortage of negative social We used part of the ticket revenue from the SEGA SAMMY Cup golf Japan Multimedia Services Corporation SEGA SAMMY Group CSR Report 2014 impacts being pointed out in regards to the entertainment ••Akihabara Business Center, 1-1 Akihabara, Taito-ku, Tokyo 110-0006 business. Social impacts incidental to entertainment services, tournament to donate two wheelchairs ••Information provider; call center outsourcing; temporary staffing such as the problem of dependence on Pachislot/Pachinko and to the Tomakomai Social Welfare billing problems from, for example, the selling of random in-game Council and to make donations to the We provide “Smile Call,” a directory assistance items in mobile games and the excessive use of smartphone local Shinseicho and Rankoshicho service for persons with disabilities. The service makes games by minors, are gradually becoming issues that cannot be neighborhood associations as well as 104 directory assistance charges and the associated ignored. the Tomakomai Minpo Volunteer Fund. call charges free for persons who use mobile phones The SEGA SAMMY Group is working actively to address from major communications carriers. The purpose is to Yoshinao Kozuma these problems and has expanded the scope of its information SEGA SAMMY CREATION INC. make mobile phones more convenient for persons with disclosure. The proactive corporate stance in this kind of ••Sunshine 60 39F, 3-1-1 Higashi-Ikebukuro, Toshima-ku, Tokyo 170-6039 disabilities. Professor, Faculty of Economics information disclosure has long been highly praised in the area ••Development, production, and sales of casino machines Sophia University, Japan of investor relations, as evidenced by the Internet IR Awards and HONEST Co.,LTD. the Nikkei Annual Report Awards that it has received many times. SEGA Networks Co., Ltd. ••OZAWA Bldg. 5F, 1-6-6 Jinnan, Shibuya-ku, Tokyo 150-0041 Now I would like to see SEGA SAMMY push the disclosure of ••Temporary staffing; human resource introduction business ••Izumi Garden Tower 9F, 1-6-1 Roppongi, Minato-ku, Tokyo 106-6009 The following description is the author’s subjective view CSR information relating to negative impacts forward, ensure ••Business involved in the planning, development, design, sales, delivery, management and operation of products and services that utilize the Internet and other means of communication on the SEGA SAMMY Group’s CSR Report 2014, particularly transparency in business operations, and further solidify social InfiniTalk Co.,Ltd. clarifying how the Group's CSR management has been improved trust in the Group. ••Akihabara Business Center, 1-1 Akihabara, Taito-ku, Tokyo 110-0006 during the reporting period and what challenges remain to be SEGA LOGISTICS SERVICE CO., LTD. ••Development and sales of software; system integration for call centers; establishing and consulting for communication networks addressed. Other Improvements and Challenges ••Toho Bldg., 2-1-18 Higashikojiya, Ohta-ku, Tokyo 144-0033 ••Logistics services; logistics management services; logistics system design; loading and installation Improvements seen in terms of initiatives include: becoming services; maintenance services; sales of packaging materials and packaging products; sales of On-going Support for Disaster-affected Areas the first in Japan’s games and Pachislot/Pachinko industry to sign electronic parts and OA supply parts; repair and maintenance of electronic equipment and machinery; patina Co., Ltd. Immediately after the Great East Japan Earthquake three the UN Global Compact; establishing a policy on the prohibition sales of reusable parts for amusement machines; rental and sales of amusement machines ••MEIEKI IMAI Bldg. 9F, 4-10-25 Meieki, Nakamura-ku, Nagoya City, Aichi 450-0002 years ago, the SEGA SAMMY Group began efforts in support of of bribery by the Group outside Japan; the establishment by Once again we exhibited free ••Temporary staffing; human resource introduction business areas affected by the disaster, which continue to this very day. Sammy of an information management committee; and the of charge at the Manufacturing This support consists of three kinds of activities: spirit-raising appointment of a female executive officer at SEGA TOYS. In Fiesta in the city of Sakura, Chiba events supporting the disaster-affected areas, Group employee terms of disclosure, whereas personnel and labor data used to Hivecreation Co,Ltd Prefecture. We have a high profile volunteer activities, and new employee training. The spirit-raising be aggregated for SEGA and Sammy separately, the disclosure of ••Kakyoin Bldg. 8F, 2-1-14 Kakyoin Aoba-ku, Sendai City, Miyagi 980-0013 locally, and city residents say that ••Rental of darts machines; retail and wholesale of dart supplies; event planning and events in particular make the most use of the SEGA SAMMY this information on a Group-wide basis has increased perspicuity they look forward to the exhibit every management Group’s business characteristics. considerably. Disclosure of the number of non-regular employees year. Going forward, we will continue The SEGA SAMMY Group’s management philosophy is: is another big step forward. striving to create a communityButterfly Corporation “By providing entertainment to people throughout the world, However, there are also areas where I would like to see based company. ••Izumi Garden Tower 8F, 1-6-1 Roppongi, Minato-ku, Tokyo 106-6008 we will strive to enrich our society and culture.” This philosophy improvements. Goals and performance management based on ••Planning, development, management, and consignment of game-related content for goes beyond merely adding spice to people’s lives; it is deeply key performance indicators (KPIs) in particular are an important mobile phones, PCs, and smart devices connected to the support of the heart that is necessary for issue for the effective execution of CSR management. This is DARTSLIVE Co., Ltd. humans to live with dignity. Food, clothing, and shelter are so because continual improvements based on the PDCA cycle ••Ebisu Bussiness Tower Bldg. 18F, 1-19-19 Ebisu, Shibuya-ku, Tokyo 150-0013 ••Planning, development and sales of game machines and game software; PHOENIX RESORT CO.,LTD. problems that must be solved first during rehabilitation and cannot be expected without the establishment of assessable management, operation, and maintenance of computer network systems; event ••3083 Aza Hamayama, O-Aza Shioji, Miyazaki City Miyazaki 880-8545 reconstruction after the Great Earthquake. In addition, care for goals. However, in the current table of Targets, Progress and planning, drafting, and management; information provider ••Development and operation of resort facilities, including hotels, golf courses and mental trauma is another important issue. The fact is, however, Results, issues are described qualitatively, making it difficult to international conference halls that it is very unclear who will take responsibility for that and in evaluate the degree of accomplishment based on the status of We provide on-going support for the We have prepared barrier-free rooms so that what way, including what responses the government will take. progress and results. The same is true for environmental data, activities of the University Darts League, anyone can have a comfortable stay, including I feel that the SEGA SAMMY Group’s initiatives, supported by for which no goals have been established. I hope the Group will a darts organization for students from guests with small children, persons with disabilities their goal of making people happy, are contributing greatly to the soon consider the adoption of KPI-based goals and performance about 60 universities, mainly in the or a temporary decline in physical function, creation of shared social value. management so that initiatives to tackle material issues produce Kanto region. From here on we will pregnant women, and senior citizens. more appropriate results. deepen collaboration with student darts organizations and darts clubs in an effort to further promote darts. MARZA ANIMATION PLANET INC. ••NYK Tennoz Bldg. 18F, 2-2-20 Higashi-Shinagawa, Shinagawa-ku, Tokyo 140-0002 Response to Third-party Comment D×L CREATION Co., Ltd. ••Production of CG animation, planning and production of animated movies for ••Ebis ST Bldg. 4F, 3-24-2 Higashi, Shibuya-ku, Tokyo 150-0011 theatrical release, licensing, etc. In this year’s report we focused on conveying how we are trying to bring the vitality of dreams ••Production of stage programs; performance and planning of related products, development, manufacture and sales and excitement to society through entertainment as a group overall and the ways in which we are We provide company tours for students working every day to fulfill the social responsibilities that are expected of us. who wish to tour an animation company. In Following the establishment of a “CSR Promotion Policy” in fiscal 2014, in fiscal 2015 we Telecom Animation Film Co., Ltd. fiscal 2014, a total of 109 students came worked at establishing a “Group Management Policy,” signed the UN Global Compact, improved ••3-31-1 Nakano, Nakano-ku, Tokyo 164-0001 and toured the company, and were filled our systems, and enhanced information disclosure on a Group-wide basis. ••Development and production of TV, video, commercial and full-length theatrical animation films with hopes for the future. We are continuing to provide support for earthquake recovery in northeast Japan while looking for ways to make use of the recovery phase and our special characteristics as entertainment TOCSIS INC. companies. ••Premium U-Zone 4F, 2-23-12 Higashi, Shibuya-ku, Tokyo 150-0011 RODEO Co., Ltd. As Professor Kozuma has pointed out since last year, we should and are determined to further ••Planning and production of video and digital content, including games, Pachislot ••Sunshine 60 28F, 3-1-1 Higashi-Ikebukuro, Toshima-ku, Tokyo 170-6028 and Pachinko machines, films, TV commercials and video packages ••Development, production, and sales of Pachislot machines extend CSR management into the supply chain and other areas, enhance information disclosure and Hiroshi Ishikura management of goals, and create greater trust with society by continuously making improvements. General Manager of Group CSR Promotion Office TMS PHOTO CO., LTD. Liverpool Co.,Ltd. Executive Officer ••3-31-1 Nakano, Nakano-ku, Tokyo 164-0001 ••Yoshida FG Bldg. 2F, 3-17 Kandajinbocho Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 101-0051 SEGA SAMMY HOLDINGS INC. ••Production of video animation ••Production and sales of entertainment products Company Profile 57 SEGA SAMMY GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 58 SEGA SAMMY GROUP CSR REPORT 2014
