UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Communication On Progress 2013 Contents 4. MAS Believes The Way We Work Message of Continued Support .......... 1 The UNGC Principles .......... 2 Changing with the Times ......... 5 Other UN Initiatives .......... 3 Compliance & Appendices ......... 64 Risk Management ......... 8 Safety & Health For All ......... 10 Employee Wellness and Lifestyle ......... 12 Caring for the Environment ......... 13 MAS Acts Agent of Change 33. Respecting Diversity ......... 65 Women Differently-abled and Disadvantaged Elderly MAS Aims The Journey Ahead Building Communities ......... 66 Sports Education Health Neighbourhood 61. COP 2013 Message of Continued Support W e are pleased to present to you the MAS Communication on Progress of for the 10th consecutive year. As an organisation that is continuously striving towards excellence, we are proud to benchmark our performance in adhering to, and complying with the Global Compact and its principles for a decade. Ours is a culture driven by change; building on our vision to inspire people to achieve their true potential, exploring the freedom for innovation, creating value for all our stakeholders, communities and the nation, and establishing an environment that respects humanity. For MAS, ‘Change is Courage’. This year, the Global Compact partnered initiative of the Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs) honoured us by recognizing MAS and our Chairman Deshamanya Mahesh Amalean, with the WEPs Cultural Change for Empowerment Award 2013 for the MAS Women Go Beyond Programme. As a pioneer signatory of the CEO commitment to the WEPs, we are committed to take our projects and activities to the next level. MAS also became a founding participant of the Business for Peace initiative of the Global Compact through our two plants Vaanavil and Vidiyal in Sri Lanka’s post-conflict area of Killinochchi, another testimony to our commitment to nurture sustainable futures for our people and communities. 2013 also saw significant advancements in terms of our Environmental Sustainability which centred around a newly formalised governance structure to co-ordinate and facilitate improvements across the group. Our report highlights the key policies which reflect our commitment to the four Global Compact areas; Human Rights, Labour Standards, Environment and Anti-corruption. Furthermore, we have detailed the specific projects and actions undertaken by our organisation which further the cause of the ten principles. As we review our progress of the past year, we reiterate our commitment to Global Compact and its principles for another decade to come. Dian Gomes Head, Group Branding and CSR MAS Holdings (Pvt) Ltd. 1 COP 2013 The UNGC Principles The UN Global Compact requires companies to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption: Human Rights P1 Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and P2 Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour P3 Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; P4 Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; P5 Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and P6 Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment P7 Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges P8 Principle 7: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility P9 Principle 7: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Anti-Corruption P10 Principle 7: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. The above icons appear in the document to indicate that the relevant principle is addressed by an activity mentioned in the page. As shown above, the colour of the icons indicate the broad area being addresssed. 2 COP 2013 Other UN Initiatives Caring for Climate Having taken part in the Caring for Climate initiative from August 2008, MAS is one of 400 companies from over 65 countries to be a part of this movement. The world’s largest global coalition, Caring for Climate is led by the UN Global Compact, the UNEP, and the UNFCCC. Based on the consensus that climate change will affect business and society in vital ways, consultants from the UNGC, UNEP, and WBCSD prepared a statement titled “Caring for Climate, The Business Leadership Platform”, and it is this statement which offers participants an opportunity to demonstrate climate leadership. MAS chooses to endorse and implement the Caring for Climate initiative through CEO support, tactical changes within the organisation, and on-going public communication. Women’s Empowerment Principles The Women’s Empowerment Principles are the end result of a collaboration between the UNGC, the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality (UN Women). The principles offer guidance to companies on how to empower women in the workplace, marketplace, and community. The seven principles are as follows: 1. Establish high-level corporate leadership for gender equality. 2. Treat all women and men fairly at work – respect and support human rights and non-discrimination. 3. Ensure the health, safety, and well-being of all women and men workers. 4. Promote education, training, and professional development for women. 5. Implement enterprise development, supply chain, and marketing practices that empower women. 6. Promote equality through community initiatives and advocacy. 7. Measure and publicly report on progress to achieve gender equality. MAS was involved in the consultation process when the seven principles were formulated. In November 2011, the Chairman of MAS signed the CEO Statement of Support for the Women’s Empowerment Principles. MAS Holdings (Sri Lanka) and Mr. Mahesh Amalean, Chairman of MAS Holdings, were awarded the Women’s Empowerment Principles Leadership Award 2013 Cultural Change for Empowerment Award 2013 for MAS Women Go Beyond, a distinctive programme established in 2003 that challenges the accepted norms of garment industry employment for women in Sri Lanka and the South Asia region. Business for Peace After a decade of researching the role of business and its contribution to peace, in September 2013 the UN Global Compact launched the Business for Peace initiative. The platform assists companies in implementing responsible business practices in conflict-affected and high-risk areas. MAS endorsed the initiative in September 2013, and is proud to be one of the founding participants of Business for Peace. 3 MAS Believes... The Way We Work Changing With The Times Compliance & Risk Management Safety & Health For All Employee Wellness and Lifestyle Caring for the Environment 4 COP 2013 Changing with the Times B ecoming a US$ 1 billion company in 2013, MAS is aware of the significant role it plays as a global benchmark and industry trend setter. While honesty and integrity are the building blocks of the MAS value framework, all activities of the organisation take place within this foundation. The MAS corporate culture is influenced positively by an open-door policy, which enables all employees to access senior personnel in each of our companies. While our ‘first name’ culture defies local norms, it also enables employees to interact directly with senior-level management. This we feel is an effective way to empower our people and allow them to reach their potential. We actively encourage certification and adherence to well-developed standards even among external providers and suppliers. This even applies to companies that provide us with security services, meals and healthcare etc. As a responsible employer, MAS verifies the details of prospective employees with authentic documentation including verified certification from their local government officer. As a significant move that reflects our ethos, the company lobbied with the government and trade unions to allow employees to embrace a 5-day work week although local law stipulated a five-and-a--half day work week. Since most of our associates indicated that they would like time off on Saturday and P1 Sunday to enjoy a full weekend with their families, MAS obtained signatures P2 from our employees and lobbied with the respective legislators and trade unions to successfully obtain an administrative relaxation from the Labour DeP3 partment. P4 We ensure that employees are granted leave as stipulated by local law while any overtime worked is also regulated as per local laws. P5 In the aftermath of the conflict that gripped our nation for nearly three decades, P6 MAS has initiated a drive towards setting up production plants in the North and East of the country. We believe that we can build a foundation for peace P10 and reconciliation in Sri Lanka by providing opportunities for youth in these areas, which were affected badly during the conflict. While now employing the largest workforce in Sri Lanka of any non-government entity with over 60,000 combined personnel, MAS is building its ethos on the societal values of caring for the elderly and educating the younger generation. Our policies and procedures address these values and have ensured that we have not had any complaints in this area. 5 COP 2013 Building the MAS Code of Conduct In 2013, MAS conducted research both induct associates into the company culture internally and externally to identify its and enable employees to gain a sound shortcomings in relation to its operations. understanding of their rights. As an outcome of this, a decision was made The MAS Code of Conduct is scheduled to create a set of norms for the company as to launch in 2014 and will be a significant a guideline for corporate conduct. milestone in the history of the company. In order to do this, MAS benchmarked some of the leading companies in the world to build a code of conduct that will help Some operational improvements proposed by the draft guideline include: • A helpline together with trained employment are other aspects human resource personnel to be expected to be covered in the code appointed at each unit to champion of conduct. the code and address any violations. • While honesty and integrity are • The code is expected to cover areas important aspects of the MAS value that are based on internationally framework, this will be addressed proclaimed human rights. comprehensively in the code. • All employees will be required to do • There will also be a specific policy P1 an annual assessment based on the on gift giving and receiving presents. code of conduct in order to ensure A gift registry will be maintained P2 sound understanding of human by each HR department in order to rights principles and company monitor and ensure all transactions P3 values. between employees, as well as P4 other stakeholders, are free from • Non-discrimination, sexual harbribery and corruption. P5 assment and equal opportunity P6 P10 6 COP 2013 Vaanavil and Vidiyal MAS has always had a strong passion to unite communities and assist in its development. In 2012, we decided to commence operations in two factories, Vaanavil and Vidiyal, in Killinochchi – an area that was ravaged by a full-scale war for over 30 years. The names of the facilities themselves, Vidiyal, meaning “dawn” and Vaanavil signifying “rainbow” aptly symbolize MAS’ philosophy behind this venture. Like the “rainbow” which is a collaboration of colours, MAS’ passion is to unite communities and work together in the area to herald a new dawn in the development of the region. MAS offers a an employee value proposition according to resource efficiency principles bringhoned through two and half decades, and the ing in MAS standards of Lean and green into the opportunity for professional as well as personal facility design, facilities management and its core development. The opportunity created through operations. It focuses on environmental sustainMAS was viewed by the community, not only as ability, and water and energy management elegiving them solutions to their financial situation in ments. Initiatives include a reverse osmosis (raw the short term, but also offering long term proswater treatment plant), recycling of solid wastes pects for their children to work and re-build lives. through a third party, waste water treatment for use in gardens, the discharge of storm water Whilst contributing positively to building liveliwithin the premises to recharge tube wells; as well hoods of employees and families; many indirect as, numerous energy conscious initiatives such as employment opportunities were created both motion sensors for lights in common areas and during the construction phase, and since the comfixed glass windows with large openings to obtain P1 mencement of operations. This impacts labour maximum natural lighting during daytime. market trends in the area. P2 Vaanavil is the MAS Active plant in the North. The MAS Intimates Vidiyal commenced its journey plant started as a training school in 2012 to build P3 in January 2012 with 30 trainees, as a temporary skills and provide employment to over 150 emP4 training and manufacturing facility in Killinochchi ployees between mid 2012 to early 2013. In 2013 town. At the end of 2013 Vidiyal had 500 emthe operations were relocated to the main site P5 ployees and over 100 trainees in its employment. which now houses a state-of-the-art apparel manUp-skilling consisted of technical training and ufacturing facility having been designed and built P6 operational awareness conducted at sister plants in accordance with resource efficiency principles. of MAS Intimates. Soft skills development for By the end of 2013 Vaanavil provided employment P10 personal and professional growth is a key tenet of opportunities to over 600 people. The employees MAS Intimates philosophy and team members are of Vaanavil are provided with training on their given the chance to attend computer and Engrequired job skills as well as life skills. lish classes, experiential team-building activities, motivational lectures and programmes aimed at Once fully operational both plants will provide grooming and personal hygiene. Vidiyal is built employment for 2000 people. 7 COP 2013 Compliance & Risk Management M AS applies audits to all of our factories and plants to monitor the efficiency of our systems and processes; an Key stakeholders who play an important role in the overall management of our social compliance activities include: example of this is displayed in the MAS Intimates Internal Audit Tool. This fully integrated internal audit tool used at Intimates Brands has been enhanced further to include the monitoring of on-site service providers, to Employer’s Federation of Ceylon align with the evolving requirements of our Federation of Chambers of Commerce and customers and the need to drive compliIndustry of Sri Lanka ance standards in the supply chain. Institute of Engineers, Sri Lanka MAS Intimates’ central compliance audit National Institute of Occupational Safety and team conducts audits integrating labour, Health health, safety, supply chain security, and Industrial Safety Division of the Department brand protections biannually. Customof Labor er audits were conducted throughout the District Factory Inspecting Engineer year, and MAS Intimates has an average rate of 94%, maintaining the standards we District Labor Department have created over the previous years. Our Board of Investment transparency, commitment, and the perCentral Environmental Authority of Sri Lanka sistent effort to maintain standards of exP1 ceptional performance has convinced the Regional Medical Officer / Public Health Inexternal Brands to empower us by training spector P2 our compliance team through joint audits International Labor Organization in order to do self-audits on their behalf in P3 Commercial Audit Companies the long-term. This is a landmark achievement for MAS in terms of trust, integrity, St. John Ambulance P4 and capacity for self-reliance, as perceived Sri Lanka Red Cross P6 by our customers. Fire Department P10 A web-based compliance share point is in The Air Force place and used by the Compliance Team as OSH Experts a platform to share the above information and other compliance related activities National Armed Forces and best practices. Security Agencies Fair Labor Association, USA BSCI (Business Social Compliance Initiative) Sustainable Apparel Coalition 8 COP 2013 Some of our Risk and Compliance related activities and achievements by MAS Intimates and MAS Active cluster for 2013: Selected Strategic Business Units (SBUs) of the With the purpose of evaluating environmental perMAS Intimates cluster participated as a supplier of formance which leads to improvement, we made the Fair Labor Association. the submission of Higg Index 1.0 – Facilities Module evaluations for four of our factory locations Oekotex 100 certification has been renewed to upand submitted to relevant brands. MAS was part a lift and sustain customer safety and high human of the committee created to formulate the Social & ecological standards. Labour tool for Higg 2.0 and for piloting the same on behalf of the Sustainable Apparel Coalition. MAS Intimates Slimtex was awarded the Plan A Ethical Excellence certificate by Marks & Spencer, The commissioning of MAS Intimates Sumbiri subsequent to a comprehensive assessment and plant on Indonesian soil to manufacture lingerie for audit of the superior labor standards sustained by leading brands meet all legal, customer, and MAS the plant. standards. MAS Intimates Slimtex conducted a Health and The MAS Intimates Bangladesh plant stepped up Safety Week to promote hygiene, hydration, and the training requirements for fire safety and emernutrition. The programme spanned over five days gency preparedness and commissioned a survey of and several events and clinics were organised for all electrical installations in the factory. the benefit of all of their employees. Continuous T&D of all compliance executives. Two of our factories were able to complete the implementation of the Nike E-SAT Minimum EnvironFor MAS Active, year 2013 was remarkable as 11 ment Sustainability Programmer out of 12 facilities were Platinum certified under WRAP. 10 out of 12 plants are ISO 14001: 2004 C –TPAT (Customs Trade Partnership Against Terand OHSAS 18001: 2007 certified. rorism) In continuing the work from year 2012, 2013 was further concentrated to enhance the seThe Gold Award at the National Cleaner production curity practices within MAS. Four MAS Active facAwards (2013) was won by MAS Active Asialine tories: Shadeline, Synergy, Asialine, and Linea AITC under the ‘Large scale Manufacturing’ category. conducted external audits for C-TPAT under NIKE This was awarded after 3 years, as no entity had in a successful manner obtained the required criteria for it. At the award ceremony the Bronze Award was won by MAS AcP1 A majority of our plants are WRAP (Worldwide tive Synergy. Responsible Accredited Production) standards cerP2 tified, whilst a selected few are BSCI (Business SoMAS Active Sustainable Business Quiz was held on P3 cial Compliance Initiative) Ethical Trading Initiative the 6th of December 2013 at Royal College Skills certified. Centre for the eighth consecutive year. The year’s P4 event witnessed the highest ever participation with Second tier suppliers (printers and embellishers) 13 teams competing for the Operations Center— P6 have been monitored for their sustenance of labor Inter Department Trophy while 11 teams were in standards and brand protection requirements, in a competition for the Inter SBU challenge. The main P10 drive to emphasize the importance of maintaining objective behind this initiative is to boost the spirit the same amongst the key stakeholders of the busiand enhance the knowledge on compliance standness. ards. 9 COP 2013 Safety & Health For All M AS is committed to achieving high standards of environmental quality and product safety while providing a safe and healthy workplace for our employees, contractors and other stakeholders. At the heart of our occupational culture is the understanding by all that safety and good health is a basic human need and a birthright. We exceed all applicable regulatory requirements and implement programmes and processes to achieve greater protection and develop innovative programmes that safeguards the community, the workplace, and the environment. Personal safety of employees have been prioritized with food and domestic water testing being done periodically by an internationally accredited testing laboratory. In addition Thermography survey of electrical installations in all the factories have been conducted by SGS Lanka. We seek a healthy and safe workplace, devoid of occupational injury and illness by emphasizing individual accountability for safety by all employees and at all levels of management. We firmly believe that “we cannot make a quality product with an unsafe process.” A high level of emphasis is laid on Ergonomics in order to ensure that the right working conditions are provided for the workers. Furthermore, health and safety committees are formed in all of our divisions to ensure that health and safety standards are not compromised and to enhance the quality of life at work of employees. All employees are trained on first aid and fire safety to ensure that they are prepared in case of emergencies. Training programmes are conducted on chemical safety and personal protective equipment to ensure that safety awareness levels are raised. To ensure that our health and safety management system is operating effectively and efficiently at all of our sites, we have devised a robust management system and a continuous improvement programme in partnership with the laP1 bour department and other authorities. P2 We continue to manage occupational safety risks based on OHSAS18001 standards (Organizational Health & Safety Assessment Series) with a view to managing risks efficiently and systematically adding more transparency to improve the company’s long term reputation as an ethical manufacturer, while at the same time providing an accident/ injury free environment. 10 COP 2013 Keeping in line with the national theme of ‘Prevention of Occupational Diseases and Injuries to EnOur framework of health and safety manhance Healthy Workforce’, to Commemorate the agement system comprehensively covers National Occupational Safety and Health (OSH) the following core elements: Week which falls in the second week of October, a number of initiatives were taken by the Divisional Sustainable Business Team such as: • Fire prevention training • Awareness Session was conducted on • Hazardous materials management Safety for undergraduates of Human systems Resources Management, University of Kelaniya. • Emergency preparedness and response systems • Factory Tour and awareness session was conducted on Safety Culture, Chemical • Occupational health systems Management, & PPE Usage for Undergrad• Environmental monitoring system uates of Facilities Management, University of Moratuwa. • Injury and illness systems, with a “zero accident” vision • Workshop was organised for Best ESH Committee Members of MAS ACTIVE • Personal safety and hygiene Division to further improve their knowledge systems / first aid and share the best practices among them. • Product Safety • Divisional Poster Competition and Divisional Crossword Puzzle Competition • Electrical Installations and was organised to raise the awareness and Equipment safety systems heighten interest among people. • Training and continuous improvement programmes • Contractor health and safety systems • Selfaudit Programmes • Internal and independent monitoring systems P1 P2 11 COP 2013 Employee Wellness and Lifestyle O ur worksite employee wellness and lifestyle programme has a multi-dimensional approach emphasizing the physical and psychological asA range of activities/sessions conducted by a pool of professional resource persons include: pects of a balanced lifestyle. It is one that is woven into the fabric of the organisation’s culture to ensure that employees at all levels inevitably reap the Dental clinic rewards by following the directions and guidance given. Eye clinic Full body check-up Awareness of work related risks/diseases Awareness in sexual & reproductive health Our wellness programme Video on health related topics includes: Promotion of healthy, nutritious, and balanced diet 1. Monthly awareness sessions on sexual and Usefulness of hydration reproductive health, HIV, AIDS, and family planning with the assistance of the Employers Federation and Labour Department. 2. Monthly clinics available for pregnant • An on-site medical facility is held with qualwomen by a general medical practitioner. ified doctors and nurses; special attention is given towards pregnancy, and AIDS/ Participants are given a medical check-up HIV programmes. and advice on essential vaccinations and nutrition. In addition they are also given a • Free counselling services are available special meal everyday. at certain MAS factories to promote the P1 psychological wellness of our employees. 3. Awareness programme on harassment, More than 50% of employees at MAS AcP2 healthy life-styles, nutritional foods, etc. is tive directly benefitted from this service in conducted monthly for all workers 2013. P6 • A fully equipped gymnasium is available in 4. Maintenance of injury, accident, and illness many MAS plants at no cost to employees, P10 records with an in depth analysis of the and they are also given the opportunity to same, which is fed back into the system participate in various sports. initiate preventive action. • At MAS we believe in a culture of perpetual improvement; we do not rest on our laurels 5. Health and Safety Week on nutrition, hyand strive for excellence in everything we giene, and hydration. do. 12 COP 2013 Caring for the Environment Our Achievements in 2013 Environmental Sustainability (ES) at MAS is focused on • Changed processes to reduce energy comprehensively and continuously evaluating our enviconsumption P7 ronmental footprint to identify key areas where we can • Incorporated renewable energy based attempt to achieve further positive impacts. Data is regP8 systems to diminish our carbon footprint ularly gathered at the factory level through an internally developed tool, the “Eco-Tracker” on areas such as energy, • Increased capacity to recycle and recover P9 water reducing our dependency on natuemissions, water and waste. This system produces an extensive analysis of our footprint fostering the development ral sources of a strategy targeted specifically at the areas where we • Recycled over 50% of our waste can make the greatest impact. • Contributed to biodiversity development 13 COP 2013 During the year 2013, a number of projects have Therefore, MAS’ ES approach has been strengthbeen carried out to reduce our environmental footened and fine-tuned to progress further from a print. Among these projects, several are highly inprecautionary approach and a promotion of envinovative processes designed by MAS employees ronmental sustainability to one that evaluates enthemselves. vironmental risks and develops long term solutions in collaboration with key stakeholders. Ultimately, A newly established group wide sustainability team the focus of the strategy at MAS is to continuously has provided the necessary support to implement upgrade current ES initiatives and technologies and and roll out the range of initiatives across the group develop and diffuse new alternatives across the as well as continually streamlining and maximising group and its wider stakeholder network. the environmental conservation effort. Governance and Strategy Be and be recognized, as a leading sustainable apparel company P7 • In 2013 several changes were made to the • The Environmental Sustainability Steering ES governing structure and policy develCommittee (ESSC) established in 2011 P8 opment and deployment to increase the is now headed by an executive Director focus and impact of the ES Initiative at for Environmental sustainability – Sharika P9 MAS. Senanayake – and continues to be responsible for overseeing the group’s application • The MAS Apparel and Textile Board of of precautionary, proactive and innovative Directors has developed several environapproaches to ES. mental policies as a guideline for consistent application throughout the company. • The ESSC is further supported by a group The ES initiative continues to receive wide Central Environmental Sustainabilrepresentation at the highest level through ity team (EST) which also reports to the Shirendra Lawrence, Director of the MAS Director for Environmental Sustainability. Apparel and Textile Board. 14 COP 2013 Board of Driectors represnted by Shirendra Lawarence Lawrence DirectorEnvironmental Sustainability Central Environmental Environmental Sustainability Steering Committee (ESSC includes 5 Sustainability team divisional leaders of the MAS Group and specialist ES work stream Heads) 5 Divisional Leaders Works tream Heads Energy Divisional Representatives Emissions Facility Representatives Chemicals Water The environmental sustainability strateWaste gy is predominantly focused on the areas outlined under work streams. Each work Eco product stream strives to improve performance in that specific area across the group in order to become more environmentally responsiCulture ble and sustainable. Given below is our strategic framework: Standards MAS Environmental Strategies 5 year Plan (Strategies based on expected results between 2010 2020) 2013 Plan to achieve annual KPIs P7 Making strategic Developing and P8 % reduction of Development Assessing and Implementing partnerships to Energy, Emissions, Standadizing design of Group RSL environmental P9 Waste and Water the facilities environmentally practices friendly products As the operations of the group are widely differtextile manufacturing has a measurement denomentiated, MAS has developed a method of evaluinator of fabric output. Other divisions (Silueta, Inating data for water, energy and emissions using timo, Prym) within the group run specialist operaa system of intensities. The Apparel Cut and Sew tions such as silicone garment, seamless garment sector which manufactures garments contains the and accessory manufacturing and are measured largest number of facilities and has a measurement accordingly with relevant denominators for intendenominator of sewing / work hours. The Fabric sity. division with more energy intensive processes for 15 COP 2013 Communications • Internal stakeholders are informed and updated on the group’s ES policies, strategies, initiatives and performance targets through a range of channels and forums. Customer and Market Updates Monthly Sharing Best Practices Communique's Update of the current status of our Quarterly Quaterly carbon footprint Update on special group initiatives such Special / Ad-Hoc as Earth Hour etc Quarterly Quaterly Energy Forum Forums Annually Group wide ES Forum Awareness days such as World Special Events Environment Day etc Twice a Month ESSC meeting Meetings Monthly Workstream meetings P7 P8 • The MAS ESSC is currently working towards producing an annual Sustainability Report in order to establish further transparency among stakeholders. P9 16 COP 2013 Energy and Emissions • A key challenge for MAS as a manufactur• These strategies were supported by idener is the high energy demand in the protifying ways to replace fossil fuel based duction process. With the awareness that systems with renewable energy such as emissions are greater when the energy solar power, biomass and bio-gas. sources are based on fossil fuels, our key strategies for 2013 aimed at reducing the overall energy consumption by 5% as well as the overall emissions by 5%. P7 RENEWABLE ENERGY INCREASE 35% P8 30% P9 25% Percentage Increase 20% 15% 10% 5% 0% 2010 2011 Year 2012 2013 17 COP 2013 ELECTRICITY INTENSITY 14 12.8 12 • The projects carried 10 out during the last few 8.8 INTENSITY 8 years have produced 6.2 6.6 7.0 a significant energy 6 4.6 intensity reduction that 2 2.4 can also be observed in 2 1.1 0.9 1.3 the current data. 0 Apparel Cut & Linea litimo MAS Fabrics Prym lntimates Silueta Sew 2010 2011 2012 2013 NON GRID ENERGY INTENSITY • Furthermore MAS has been investing 90 in training a num80 ber of employees 70 64.5 to become Energy 60 Auditors to supINTENSITY 50 36.1 port successful 40 implementation of 30 20 projects and invest10 9.0 ments to reduce 0.7 0.7 0 energy intensity. Apparel Cut & Linea litimo MAS Fabrics Prym lntimates Silueta Sew 2010 2011 2012 2013 • Following chart represents the emissions • An added advantage of increasing our reduction that has taken place since baseoff grid energy consumption has been line year of 2010. MAS currently measures the decrease in the number of suppliers scope 1 and 2 emissions. allowing us to monitor our footprint more accurately. P7 P8 EMISSIONS INTENSITY 12.0 P9 10.3 10.0 9.2 8.0 6.8 6.4 INTENSITY 6.0 5.0 3.6 4.0 2.4 1.7 2.0 0.8 0.7 0.0 Apparel Cut & Linea litimo MAS Fabrics Prym lntimates Silueta Sew 2010 2011 2012 2013 18 COP 2013 ENERGY MIX Non-renewable Energy 67% Renewable Energy 33% • The focus of MAS’ energy strategy therefore is to move the reliance on sources below from top to bottom. Some of the projects carried out by MAS facilities to diffuse environmentally friendly technology during 2013 in order to reduce energy consumption as well as the release of emissions are also shown below. Grid energy HFO LPG Kerosene Diesel Biogas Solar power Biomass • The following represents the types and number of projects MAS has been investing in during 2013 to embrace the best available technology to reduce our carbon footprint. Case Study: Making Systems Environmentally Friendly Slimline Chiller Installation Project Slimline was using air cooled package units: They were replaced by high efficient water cooled chillers. The replacement procedure: P7 1. Detailed study on factories’ cooling requirement was carried P8 out P9 2. This included how the load changes during the day and according to the seasons 3. Data was placed in simulation software and the chiller part load performance curves were used to identify the most efficient chiller and the optimum operating conditions. 4. Chiller was installed 5. Performance evaluation test to check if given performance parameters match with actual working conditions. 19 COP 2013 Water Clean water is a resource that is swiftly becoming scarce due to extensive over use and the release of chemicals into the environment. By nature of its position in the garment manufacturing industry, MAS is aware of its significant water consumption which is currently spread across the following sources: Water sources Inland Surface Ground water Treated City Water Rain water Recycled Water eg: Tube wells water eg: Rivers MAS has deployed a three-pronged strategy for reducing water consumption. P7 1. Improving Water Efficiency of Existing Facilities 3. New facilities are designed with the guidance P8 by; of MAS Factory Calibration Tool for incorporating P9 1.1. Replacing with Efficient Fittings. Sustainable best practices as a focus to preserve 1.2. In-house Water treatment and Innovanatural resources such as Water. tive-Waste Water Reclamation. 1.3. Rain Water Harvesting. For Human Consumption, MAS’ target for 2014 is to achieve overall 10% Reduction in Per Capita 2. Water released back into Nature is rigorously Water Intensity over 2012 base year while Fabric tested to ensure that the residual contaminants Manufacturing Plants have achieved 23% overare well within the parameters set by the National all reduction in Product Water Intensity over 2011 Environmental Act of Sri Lanka and MAS is in the base year. process of implementing an Accredited Quality Assurance Lab as per ISO17025, dedicated for Water and Waste Water Parameters. 20 COP 2013 WATER INTENSITY 700 600 Litres/ Production Unit 500 400 300 200 100 0 Linea litimo MAS Fabrics Prym lntimatesSilueta Silueta 2012 2013 Note: Some of our newer facilities in the cut and sew section only started recording water data from the year 2013. MAS has achieved this reduction in consumption of water by focusing on the following approaches for various uses and has invested in and diffused sustainable water resource technology where possible. Water Consumption Fabric dyeing/ Cooling Towers Human Consumption Gardening Processing Reduce through Reduce by use of Reuse and recycle the Use treated water process changes pedal taps, recycle by water where possible treating water Inserting Rainwater harvesting tanks Innovative waste water treatment technology P7 P8 Grey water gardening P9 Efficient water fittings 21 COP 2013 Case Study: Reducing the Footprint with Technology Membrane Filtration System at Kilinochchi Facility • This is a technology developed within our facilities to filter waste water and ground water with Salinity • The filtration membrane has a sieving system that separates micro level particles. • This water treatment system is ideal for dry zones where convenient water sources including rain and surface water are scarce. • Membrane Reject volume can be mixed with treated sewer for lowering the Salinity and send through a Wetland for Polishing. This SYSTEM can give out re-claimed water for Gardening and Flushing. We support the current waterless dyeing technology by sourcing fabrics these facilities as it has a better environmental performance than other suppliers. Water efficient fittings – Tap Aerators with low flow P7 P8 P9 22 COP 2013 Re-use of Dye machine Cooling Water with Waste Heat Recovery : MAS Fabrics have achieved a remarkable reduction of 23% in the Product Water KPI (liters/ kg of product) compared to the base year 2011 by incorporating Process / Utility changes to re-use Dye machine Cooling Water back in the Process for initial washing cycles and pre-heating cycles. Chemicals Managing the environmental impact of chemicals used in garment and textile manufacturing processes remains a significant challenge in the industry. In 2013 MAS made a significant commitment towards eliminating toxic chemicals from both its own operation and it’s supply chain by the year 2020. A specialist team was set up with the intention of creating both a policy framework and a chemical management system within the company as shown below. As a result, the first restricted substance list was created towards the latter part of 2013. In order to protect our people, our customers and our environment from the harmful effects of toxic chemicals, MAS will continue to refine and finalize its chemical management system and also commence dialog and engagement with our suppliers. Policy Chemical Representation & Development Management Disclosure Registration Innovation M-RSL (G-Chem, S-Proc) Service P7 Consumption Sustaninability P8 P-RSL Monitoring Report P9 Knowoedge Chemical Audit Toxic Management (HSRM, SA,RSL) Liability 23 COP 2013 Waste More than half of our waste is sent to be recycled Our sustainably disposed waste amount up to 70% A key issue for the industry which is one of the largest waste generators is the accumulation of waste and its disposal methods. MAS is currently focused on formalizing a zero waste to landfill policy in the near future. Identify types and quantities of waste generated Evaluate the waste diposal method Discover and develop susatainable waste disposal technologies Replicate technology and streamline waste disposal Achieve goal of zero waste to landfill Sustainable waste disposal methods at MAS include: Fabric Waste Disposal Method Food Waste Disposal Method P7 P8 P9 Recycle Reuse Reuse as Animal Feed Landfill Energy Recovery Energy Recovery Landfill Other 24 COP 2013 Waste Management Training Session • Types of waste • Methods of disposal • 6R's (Reuse, Recover, Recycle, Redesign, Reduce, Remanufacture) • Hazardous waste management The following are the achievements in 2013 Brick project Plastic reduced zone Streamling waste disposal Waste Accountability Case Study: Making Waste Useful No Plastics and Polythene WASTE SEPERATION MAS Holdings started sharing and replicating waste segregation systems carried out in some of our facilities. P7 The aim is to implement this system in all facMAS Intimates Unichela has saved P8 tories as a code of conduct in operations. Rs. 16,500 per month by eradicating P9 all PET bottles. Standard practiced at Unichela Thread Cones • No Plastic Water Bottles (PET) • No Plastic yogurt cups Thread cones are separately collect• No straws ed at our facilities in order to be able to reuse! • No plastic Nescafe cups 25 COP 2013 One of our facilities, Unichela, in the Biyagama BOI zone was successful in reducing plastic and polythene usage within the plant during 2013. We consider this to be an enormous contribution towards the environmental sustainability initiative as they have succeeded in removing a significant quantity of our landfill waste which is not biodegradable and it is a clear demonstration of the commitment of MAS towards initiating responsible environmental practices. Case Study: Chemical Sludge to Brick “We needed to find a solution that worked for us. We were spending millions sending our Effluent Treatment Plant sludge to a Cement Plant in PutThe team at MAS Fabric Park was given the green talam. To us, that was not the ideal solution. Challight by the Central Environmental Authority to lenging the way things were done was perhaps the implement their innovative sludge disposal mechbiggest step we took in a journey that has redefined anism, making MFP the only Industrial park in Sri how we view hazardous waste” Lanka to have zero waste solution for industrial waste water sludge. -Misver Deane Director at MFP Thulhiriya brick project is a highly innovative and zero landfill sludge disposal process designed by MAS Employees P7 P8 P9 26 COP 2013 Eco Product In an effort to promote environmental sustainability, MAS is committed to designing and offering products with lower carbon foot print to our customers. We also affiliate with other organizations to support research and design products with environmentally friendly life cycles. MAS Intimates worked together with the Munasinghe Institute of Development (MIND) on a research project based on the initial work carried out by MAS on the carbon foot print of a garment manufactured for a leading global retail brand. The carbon and energy footprint was assessed using the Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) approach and the objectives of the wider research project were as follows: Identify critical issues in the supply chain of the garment sector from the perspective of carbon/ energy use, environmental degradation and social issues Analyse opportunities and hotspots for the industry Make policy implications and suggestions on improvements • The findings of the study were included Manchester, on their website in 2013. in a research paper titled “Carbon and Energy Footprints and over all Sustainabili• MAS has produced a number of garments ty of Garment Manufacturing in Sri Lanka” made of organic cotton for key retail brand and was published by the Sustainable customers during 2013. Consumption Institute of the University of P7 P8 P9 27 COP 2013 Standards and Associations MAS Holdings has established that the most efficient method of controlling our Environmental footprint is to standardize our approach. We have been gradually establishing a standardized approach towards facility management through: 1. Joining the industry wide collaboration efforts to share knowledge on environmental issues how products and processes can be changed to address these issues. CDP Corporate Response This a platform for our stakeholders MAS Holdings reports to the CDP to asses our progress and provide Corporate Response annually feed back acting as a 2 way communication system. 2. Achieving Global operations standards and joining global initiatives on environmental sustainability • ISO 14001 certification of our facilities Year Number of factories with ISO 14001 Certification 2010 2 2013 30 • MAS uses the Nike assessment tool to regulate the product life cycle as required by our customers • MAS Holdings is a member of the Sustainable Apparel Coalition and have carried out assessments on our facilities to ensure we meet the required SAC standard 3. Gathering data regularly using our proprietary tool –Eco Tracker Data Established P7 Updated on a Data verified by consolidated by achievements Eco Tracker monthly basis the divisional the Central shared with the P8 by the Facility managers Sustainability facilities on a team quaterly basis P9 28 COP 2013 4. Sharing our current position and achievements on environmental sustainability with the global community and other stakeholders. • Reporting to the United Nations Global Compact Annually 5.Developing the internal measurement technique via the MAS Sustainability Calibration tool to build the performance standard of our facilities to beyond compliance with progression : • In 2013 the members of the Environmental Sustainability Steering Committee members began to develop the MAS Sustainability Calibration Tool in order to asses, benchmark, rate and improve existing infrastructure. • This tool is built to support the standardization and replication of best practices as well as to increase the efficiency in operations. • With the support of this tool, MAS hopes to work towards clearly establishing the methods of improvement from the baseline year and achieve an accurate measurement of our progress. Assess The Replicate Calibration Gather Tool Standardize P7 P8 P9 29 COP 2013 Communities and Culture Developing a culture of environmental conservation and preservation among our employees and communities is a major portion of our sustainability effort at MAS. 1. In 2013 MAS initiated the following programmes: Spreading awareness through celebrating world events • World Environmental Day • Earth hour • World Water Day 2. Reforestation projects to combat Climate change – Thuruwadula, Wewe Kele 3. Community environmental education programmes such as ‘Eco go beyond’ 4. P7 Designing process for an employee education programme on environmental sustainability and its importance P8 P9 5. Periodic awareness events held at facilities to promote sustainable practices such as recycling. 30 COP 2013 Case Study: World Environmental Day World Environment Day was celebrated enthusiastically this year by MAS employees with each facility carrying out unique programmes. These was established as an awareness programme for employees and the surrounding community members to gain a better understanding of the environment. During these programmes communities were educated about the importance of conserving and restoring the environment. Linea Aqua • Joined with Hiniduma reforestation and bundala initiative Asialine • Harith Middeniya project Synergy (Active) • Wewe kele forest conservation program MAS Holdings • Thuruwadula Project launch Bodyline • Forestry project aiming to plant 500 trees A campaign to protect and preserve Aiming to spread Environmental the environment… Awareness… At MAS Active Synergy: Asialine, one of our facilities organized: P7 • Joined together with the local council and • Debate on “Economic Development Vs neighbouring schools to launch ‘Wana AraEnvironmental Pollution” P8 na’ a programme dedicated to conserving the Wewe kele natural forest • Art competition on “Human Impact on P9 Environment” among community schools. • Organized a tree planting campaign at the facility and 2 nearby schools • Lectures for the senior management and team members • Carried out a knowledge sharing session for students at the facility • A cleaning campaign • Decorated the entrance to the facility with • A planting program in the indigenous posters to educate the public on the impormedicinal garden inside the premises : a tance of preserving nature. 1,000 trees were planted 31 COP 2013 Case Study: Thuruwadula (Translation ‘Tree Canopy’) Thuruwadula project was launched during 2013 in one of our facilities in Thulhiriya on World Environment Day. Concept: • Analog forestry project focused on restoration and reforestation in order to combat climate change • It is the first Analog forest completely owned by a private business in Sri Lanka and provides a home for a number of species • Analog Forestry is a system of forest management that combines the values of local forest biodiversity with organic crop cultivation • It uses plant species that provide food and marketaP7 ble products that sustain rural P8 Purpose: P9 • In Sri Lanka: Only 19% of original forests still exist • The forests are diminishing by 1% every year • Thuruwadula project aims to restore a degraded ecosystem using the Analog Forestry system. For more information visit: www.thuruwadula.com 32 MAS Acts... Agent of Change RESPECTING DIVERSITY Women Differently-abled and Disadvantaged Elderly BUILDING COMMUNITIES Sports Education Health Neighbourhood 33 33 34 T aking our role seriously as Sri Lanka’s single-largest corporate citizen, MAS has initiated numerous programmes aimed at the betterment of society. In the past year too, we participated in many projects through which were able to make a positive imRESPECTING pact on the community around us. DIVERSITY Honesty, equality, diversity and respecting the rights of each individual are among the values which define the MAS ethos. To ensure that these values also make an impact on society, we encourage employees to adopt and pass them on to their immediate sphere of influence. Empowering women in 1 The Women Go Beyond (WGB) prothe workplace and in the gramme has highlighted MAS as a company that goes beyond compliance. community The WGB programme is widely accepted as our platform to work towards the well-being and empowerment of our female associates, who constitute a majority of our workforce. While the 2 Uplifting the lives of unit being measured is the quality and quantum of work, we do not reward or differently abled or discriminate our associates based on their gender. disadvantaged people Our commitment to respecting diversity is embraced by every MAS employee, irrespective of their level of engagement. Considering the diversi3 Extending care for senior citizens ty of our associates, we have adopted procedures to retain people and ensure that they progress. Our non-discriminatory recruitment policy ensures that the MAS doors are open for everyone. By offering attractive remuneration, we engage the best people in our operations. Our training and development, as well as promotion-related policies and practices ensure that our people progress to reach their potential. COP 2013 Empowering 1 women in the workplace and in the community RESPECTING DIVERSITY W omen’s empowerment has been a key area of focus of MAS prior to the launch of our hallmark women’s empowerment programme, MAS Women Go Beyond (WGB), which is now progressing to its eleventh year. The programme initially began to exhibit the importance of empowering women in their place of employment, their homes, and their communities; over the years the initiative has included some in-depth training for the wellness and development of women which includes implementing career advancement P1 and skill development policies in the workplace. We aim to improve employee P2 livelihoods, while also sustaining and complementing the balance maintained between social and environmental spheres. P6 WGB takes the steps to increase awareness on gender sensitivity and gender equality issues through their many initiatives which include in-house training and conducting programmes . Taking our principles, programmes, and activities to the next level MAS decided to sign the CEO statement of Support for the Women’s Empowerment Principles in November 2011 which was jointly developed by UN Women and UN Global Compact. In order to embed the principles into the core of the company’s framework, mainstreaming gender equality was made a company-wide Human Resources policy, and was applied with programmes for both males and females so as to gain a better understanding and appreciation. 35 COP 2013 In 2013, Women Go Beyond introduced new programmes, made new partnerships, and continued changing the lives of women. Additional initiatives were introduced to diversify and refresh the programmes and topics such as violence against women, HIV/ AIDS awareness, stress management, and family planning were conducted with workshops and awareness campaigns carried out to educate employees on the subject. Many awards were instilled and participated in this past year to reward excellence and to give focus to women who have made a difference; the 10th annual EWY Awards ceremony was held on the 26th of November and 34 Empowered MAS Women from both our local and overseas plants were recognized for exceptional achievements both in their personal and work life. For the first time ever, all the award-winning empowered women of the past 10 years were felicitated at this grand event. RESPECTING DIVERSITY There were countless activities conducted in 2013 across the WGB network. These initiatives add value to the lives of employees and society at large by developing and enhancing In March 2013, the Chairman of MAS Holdings, skills which lead to greater empowerment, and Mahesh Amalean, was recognised with a UN Award an increased depth of awareness on work-life at the Inaugural Women’s Empowerment Principles balance, gender sensitivity, and gender equalAwards, saluting Leadership Commitment and Inity. novation to advance women’s empowerment. He is In 2013, SBUs of Women Go Beyond conductone of the five global business leaders recognised at ed 227 career advancement programmes which this inaugural Leadership Awards presentation, and impacted over 8,300 people. These included inreceived the award for “Cultural Change for Empowtroductory classes for English, IT, and machine erment” for pioneering the Women Go Beyond protraining, along with Team Building, Leadership gramme. The Leadership Awards were presented at Training, and Sign Language classes for hearthe 5th Annual Women’s Empowerment Principles ing-impaired team members. In embedding the Event, held on 6th March in New York in observance importance of work-life balance, over 650 proof International Women’s Day. The occasion was grammes were initiated, and combined. These graced by United Nations Secretary General Ban Kiinitiatives made an influence on over 217,000 employees. Some of our more prominent workmoon who delivered the closing address. life balance activities include the Healthy Mother & Healthy Baby programme, awareness on Some of the other events that occurred in women’s Legal Aid, and Stress Management. progression include • MAS sponsored the SWAN ( South Asia’s Other than career advancement and work-life P1 balance, WGB also has skill development and Women’s Network) Annual conference P2 rewarding excellence programmes. In 2013, under the theme “Gender equality for the impact of our programmes combined topeace and sustainability for women in talled to nearly 245,000 people; the impression P6 South Asia”. that WBG leaves has grown exponentially over the years and will do so for years to come. • Women Go Beyond launched the Empowered Women’s Alumni Network which brings together the Award winning For a more in-depth look at our activities, please refer Empowered Women of the past years to to the appendices on page 64. be role models and to give back to the community what we have learnt from MAS 36 COP 2013 in hope of further development. also a panelist on Guardian’s live web chat which was co-hosted by UN Global compact with Guardi• Women Go Beyond also launched two new an on “How businesses can create an enabling enviSBU’s at MAS Intimates-Rapid and at MAS ronment for women to lean-in.” MAS contributed to Active – Vaanavil in the North, bringing the the WEPs communications video by sending severtotal count of SBU’s where the Women Go al clips and footage of related activities conducted Beyond programme has been activated to by MAS. 32. In addition to many other changes that have been made, in 2013, MAS Director of Women’s Empowerment, Shanaaz Preena served in the WEPs leadership group and was a member of the WEPs awards committee for the 2013 awards. She was RESPECTING DIVERSITY The Impact of our Programmes in 2013 Number of Programmes (SBU Number of employees impacted by SBU wise) WGB programmes Career Advancement Programmes 227 8352 Skill Development Programmes 180 18134 Work-life Balance Programmes 654 217019 Rewarding Excellence Programmes 126 1892 Total 1187 245397 Corporate Level Programmes Number of Programmes Number of employees impacted by Summary (Corporate) Corporate WGB Programmes Leadership Training for Women 1 28 GMOL female programme 8 822 GMOL male programme 7 506 P1 Gender Sensitivity programme 1 20 P2 Alumni Network 1 111 P6 GBC Retreat 1 35 GMOL programme for Northern SBUs 2 200 Empowered Women of the Year 138 past winners + 34 current winners + 51 Awards 1 runners up + 92 raffle draw winners = 315 Total 22 2037 All numbers are to closest accuracy 37 COP 2013 Uplifting the lives 2 of differently abled or disadvantaged people RESPECTING DIVERSITY M AS believes in taking care of those in our community who have special needs. Many such people do not receive the physical and emotional support they need to function as an integral part of society. The MAS programmes in this area are aimed at giving a helping hand to differently abled and disadvantaged people by developing their skills, nurturing talents, and providing tools to help them become productive citizens of the nation. As a staunch upholder of human rights, MAS provides every opportunity for differently abled and disadvantaged people to join our workforce. A non-discriminative recruitment policy allows any member of our society to become a part of the MAS family and benefit from its membership. The support we provide goes a long way in improving the lives of those who have special needs or are differently abled in Sri Lanka. MAS takes initiatives to uplift their lives in numerous ways, and some of these are outlined in this section. P1 P2 P6 38 COP 2013 The Sweet Sound of Laughter A little girl in her pre-school struggled in her classes. She was a smart student and a good child, but she had difficulty in her lessons, and it was all because she couldn’t hear what the teacher was saying. RESPECTING DIVERSITY Why should a child not be given the same opportunities as everyone else in her class because she had a hearing difficulty and finances were low at home? Linea Aqua donated a hearing aid to this pre -school student, which helped her to get back her hearing. For the first time in the history of MAS, the Sustainable Business Team organised an Activity Based Training for MAS’ hearing and speech impaired employees on the 3rd of August 2013 at Linea Intimo Outbound Track. 34 employees from 8 divisions participated in this training. Mr. B. Gunewardhena, the internal trainer at Linea Intimo, conducted the training with the help of Mr. Kelum Samarasekara, the sign language translator, who gave his help in translating for the deaf and speech impaired employees. The objective was to provide opportunities to those persons with disabilities in the community to be gainfully employed by the organisation and to progress in their career. P1 For a more in-depth look at our activities, please refer to the appendices on pg page 64. P2 P6 39 COP 2013 Extending care for 3 senior citizens RESPECTING DIVERSITY A s an agent of change in Sri Lanka, MAS is a passionate about supporting the elderly and drives many programs with the objective of improving their state of mind and living conditions, while also providing means of livelihood to those who are able to work. We advocate the employment of abled elSri Lanka, as a community, is very ardent on derly individuals and actively seek ways to provide care for the elderly and this care is strongly work opportunities for them. embedded in Sri Lankans. Countless initiatives were taken by MAS in 2013 that is in line with Within the context of a fast-aging nation, MAS these traits such as the sponsoring of ‘eye clinP1 ics’ and the donation of eyeglasses. Bodyline, takes it’s responsibility of being the largest employan SBU under MAS, held a more distinctive P2 er in the country seriously. The nation’s cultural inprogramme which identified employees in the clination towards respecting and caring for the aged low-income brackets, whose parents required P6 is reflected in the many MAS activities related to eye surgery, and bore costs of the surgery and this area. consultation. Providing the elderly with required provisions, renovating and establishing elderly care facilities, as well as sponsoring eye-care projects, are some of the ways in which MAS contributes to this societal need. 40 COP 2013 Sri Lanka, as a community, is very ardent on care for the elderly and this care is strongly embedded in Sri Lankans. Countless initiatives were taken by MAS in 2013 that is in line with these traits such as the sponsoring of ‘eye clinics’ and the donation of eyeglasses. Bodyline, an SBU under MAS, held a more distinctive programme which identified employees in the low-income brackets, whose parents required eye surgery, and bore costs of the surgery and consultation. Furthering our support for senior citizens, Linea Aqua, in celebrating World Elders Day, provided a monthly consumption of tea, milk, sugar and biscuits to the Indanamulla Elders Home. A small RESPECTING DIVERSITY gift pack was also distributed to the elders on that day. MAS Intimates distributed spectacles to over 200 individuals above the age of 40 years in the village of Sandungama. This project was carried out in collaboration with the Lions Club of Sri Lanka. Following this, 15 people who required eye surgery were also identified and assisted. P1 For a more in-depth look at our activities, please refer to the appendices on page 64. P2 P6 41 42 BUILDING F irmly established in a nation that is now considered ‘newly developed,’ COMMUNITIES MAS is involved in nation building through a strong commitment towards community enhancement. Focused on strengthening relations and goodwill, this year too MAS has pursued a vibrant strategy of community building as a core aspect of its corporate susEncouraging participation in sports tainability programme. 1 on a local, national, and international level, and providing opportunities to outstanding athletes. MAS engages with key community stakeholders and is involved in a variety of activities that include infrastructure development, supporting local initiatives, and encouraging charitable and philanthropic ventures. 2 Providing educational advancement A wide variety of practices are utilised through programmes, training, by MAS, ranging from encouraging sports, enhancing education, enabling scholarship support, renovations, improved healthcare, and other acconstruction, and donations. tivities, to larger-scale efforts such as sponsoring local and national festivals and community development projects, which involve local participants rather Contributing towards the betterment 3 than outside contractors. of health by supporting hospitals, orThese activities are usually initiated in ganising medical aid, and providing response to specific requirements of other health aspects for the society. the communities in which we operate. All of our community building measures are aimed at creating vibrancy within society. While the significance Initiating and conducting projects of some of our initiatives can be seen 4 which better the neighbourhood, inimmediately, many are aimed at creating long-term impacts. cluding financial aid, building developments, and reconstruction COP 2013 Encouraging 1 participation in sports at a local, national, and BUILDING COMMUNITIES international level A s an important part of our community building efforts, MAS is involved in uplifting sports in Sri Lanka, while utilising sports as a platform for development – especially in rural areas of the island. We are famed for our strong sports culture as well as for nurturing national level sports men and women. Having identified the sports potential of many who come from the outskirts, MAS takes the initiative to provide these people with every opportunity to excel in their sports-related pursuits. With the experience of building national and champions in different sporting disciplines, MAS and its many extensions support the development of sports in the rural communities in which it is present. Our focus in relation to this area is mainly on aiding local talent, as well as improving sporting facilities and infrastructure in the communities that we are present. With scholarships, sports equipment, funding, etc., we enable athletes to shine at the national and international levels. Engaging in sports is encouraged amongst MAS employees. While being a recP1 reational activity that also leads to a healthier lifestyle, sports is widely accepted as an effective means to encourage teambuilding at MAS. We believe that P2 the confidence that our associates gain through their involvement in sports has a direct and positive influence on their performance at work. MAS has touched many lives at a national level through its health-related community outreach programmes, which range from providing over Rs. 300,000 worth medical assistance for MAS employees and their family members to renovations at the Biyagama Base Hospital. We are committed to building on these endeavours as the country develops. 43 COP 2013 Some of our sports-related infrastructure projects BUILDING COMMUNITIES • Linea Clothing and Linea Intimates spon• MAS Intimates Silueta conducted volleysored the T-shirts for both the boys’ and ball training for differently-abled women girls’ volleyball teams from the Mahasen together with Shapee Mohammad who is a Maha Vidyalaya in Katugastota. Both national-level volleyball coach in Sri Lanka. teams were declared winners of the They also held volleyball training sessions Under-15 Volleyball Tournament in the for the Ampara District at the Ampara Wattegama educational zone. Wavinna Maha Vidyalaya. The school team reached national level in 2013. S ports is such an immense segment of MAS’ activities and our support for national level athletes has promoted a sustainable livelihood for many sportspersons. We encourage athletes through our work/train programme, which appoints them as a MAS employee, while dedicating a majority of their work week toward training and improvement. Our support of sports in the workplace, through advanced training facilities and an P1 encouraging environment, create opportunities to highlight our nation’s finest in national and internaP2 tional competitions. The word ‘cricket’ is synonymous with the term ‘Sri Lankan’; for years, MAS has unceasingly supported the Sri Lankan national cricket team in its endeavours and will continue to do so by providing total solutions for the team’s game day attire. 44 COP 2013 M AS strongly believes in the importance of sports and extends sports-related opportunities to the community as well as the MAS family. Employees from all extensions of MAS are urged to participate in a number of sports including but not limited to cricket, tennis, boxing, and volley ball. Cricket plays a large part in the heart of all Sri Lankans, MAS employees or otherwise. In 2013 there BUILDING COMMUNITIES were a lot of accomplishments in the area of cricket, including: • MAS Intimates Unichela became Mercantile ‘A’ Division Champions as well as the League Champions of 2013. • MAS Intimates were also the Knockout Champions for the Mercantile ‘B’ Division Cricket. • MAS Intimates Bangladesh won the Annual SLAB Cricket Championship 2013. • MAS Intimates Slimtex Cricket Team emerged champions of the Victoria’s Secret Cricket Championship 2013, and was also placed 3rd in the all island Youth Meet Cricket Championships. Boxing has a big presence in the workplace and is promoted in a number of ways throughout the company. • Linea Clothing and Linea Intimates hosted the MAS Senior Boxing Championship together in 2013. • MAS Southern won the Women’s Championship at the ABA Nationals held in P1 December 2013, as well as the Clifford Cup Women’s Category. P2 • Malith Prabashwara from MAS Intimates Slimline and Kosala Nilmini from MAS Southern won bronze medals at the Third Taipei City Cup International Boxing Tournament 2013. • Currently 15 boxers are training in MAS Intimates Vidiyal, along with 20 seniors, 100 schoolboys, 78 schoolgirls in Mullaitivu, and 10 Boxers in Point Pedro. Three boxers from Mullaitivu and two from Jaffna won 45 COP 2013 bronze medals at the National Sports Athletics: Festival’s Boxing Tournament, with • Sujeewa Malkanthi from MAS Inone boxer from Vidiyal winning gold at timates Slimtex participated at the Nationals. Masters Athletic Meets, winning gold in the 400m relay and 3 bronze medTable Tennis: als in Thailand, twin gold medals in • MAS Intimates won the Mercantile 200m and 400m, a silver in long jump Table Tennis ‘A’ Division Knockout in Malaysia, and 3 silvers and a bronze Tournament for 2013 and the Men’s in Singapore. She was following up her Team won the Mercantile Table Tennis success at the Mercantile Athletics League Tournament for 2013. Meet where she won 5 gold medals in • Nirmala Jayasinghe of Linea Clothing the 200m, 400m, 100m and 400m maintained her title as Sri Lanka’s relays as well as long jump. National Table Tennis Champion, • Champika Balasooriya won 2 gold BUILDING COMMUNITIES representing Sri Lanka in the World medals for long jump and triple jump. Championship tournament in France, Commonwealth Championships in India, and Asian championship in Korea. Water Polo: • MAS Intimates Dhanushka Saram and Hashini Warnapura captained both the Sri Lankan men’s and women’s teams respectively at the 3rd Asian Water Polo Championships in October 2013. Volleyball: • MAS Intimates Casualline became all-island champions for the second consecutive year by winning the Mercantile Volleyball Tournament 2013, also qualifying for the finals of the Rupavahini Volleyball tournament. • MAS Intimates Slimtex volleyball team won the Masters Volleyball Meet 2013. Rugby: • Fazil Marija captained Sri Lanka Rugby 7’s Team, where Sri Lanka was ranked 3rd in Asian Rugby 7’s ranking for the P1 first time in history. The Sri Lankan P2 team became champions at the Asian Five Nations. Fencing: • MAS Intimates Slimline became National Fencing Champions in 2013, with Unichela being named runners-up. For a more in-depth look at our activities, please refer to the appendices on page 64. 46 COP 2013 Providing 2 Educational Advancement BUILDING COMMUNITIES M AS is focused on creating opportunities for people of all ages, educational qualifications, and skill. From nursery school students to the employed elderly, we put forward our support of educational advancement through training programmes, monetary support, building renovations of educational institutions, material donations, and reward programmes. P1 The workforce only grows stronger with improved skills and understanding of modern methods; MAS continues to provide such skill training and developP2 ment opportunities to their employees. Projects involving building construction and renovation have made significant impacts this past year. These contributions better the learning environment and the experience the students are given; they open up more opportunities and give the push that is needed for them to excel. Many of our projects are on-going; We have built relationships with schools and educational organisations around our many plants and offices. It is these relationships which MAS upholds year in and year out, whilst building new relationships to expand our impact on the future workforce. 47 COP 2013 The ‘Sisu Waruna’ Programme One of the main focus’ of MAS is in the area of education and one of the main ways we implement this is through our ‘Sisu Waruna’ programme. 2013 saw the continuation of this social innovation programme, which was established in 2012, and it continues its focus on capacity building in the next generation mostly in areas where MAS plants operate. This programme is aimed at providing information, skills, and expertise to students and youth to meet the challenges of the future, as well as encourage talented students to become youth leaders. Leadership training programmes for 16 to 25 year olds from youth clubs were conducted by Slimline, BUILDING COMMUNITIES Slimtex and Thurulie as a leadership camp for 154 school prefects representing 11 schools. The Year Five Scholarship Support Program is another extension of the ‘Sisu Waruna’ programme that provides support to students who are about to sit for their Year 5 Scholarship Examinations in Sri Lanka. These are optional exams conducted by the Ministry of Education for stu• Thurulie organised a seminar for Year 5 Scholarship Students as dents who hope to win eligibility part of the Sisu Waruna Programme. to transfer to prominent national schools. The exams are highly competitive and the workshops held consist of activities such as discussions, reviewing of mock-exam papers, and motivational • Unichela Koggala held speeches. Thurulie conducted a a prize giving for 32 seminar for Year 5 students from students who passed the Thulhiriya area, which resulted the Year 5 scholarship in better exam results and 27 stuexams. dents moving to better schools. P1 Slimline sponsored 18 students who sat the scholarship exams P2 through its ‘Slimline Punchi Hapan’ project to attend classes for extra help. They also gave out gift vouchers to the highest-scoring scholarship students in conjunction with Singer Finance. 48 COP 2013 • Another CSR project that was initiated aimed change in the attitude of the teachers having at grade five students of ten schools in the identified a need for such a programme in the vicinity of Bodyline, and participation in this present context considering the future of the programme included children of Bodyline younger generation. The main objective was employees sitting for the 2013 scholarto create a culture of positive thinking to faship exam. This revision programme was cilitate a happy and healthy environment for specially held to guide the students on how the students. Incidentally this training also to face this particular public exam and was equips teachers to work in harmony with the very helpful in improving their knowledge rest of the staff (those apart from the tutorial too. A total of 750 school children benefitted staff) as well. from this programme which was held at the Bodyline premises. The day included lunch • MAS Active Contourline was notably recand refreshments for the students. ognised for educational advancement for their Sisu Diriya Project; in November they • The Teacher’s Attitude Development Prowere presented with a Merit Award at the gramme was initiated by the Divisional Best Corporate Citizen Sustainability Awards Education Office in Horana who proposed which was organised by the Ceylon Chamber that Bodyline conduct a programme for the of Commerce. Junior School Teachers in the Horana Zonal BUILDING COMMUNITIES Educational Sector on “Attitude Change”. The programme was conducted to create a Express Learning is conducted in conjunction with Dr. Priyanga de Zoysa, who is a renowned Sri Lankan self-development guru and author. It is targeted at GCE Ordinary Level and Advanced Level students and the programme teaches students specific skills such as memory techniques, different learning styles, speed reading, quick note-taking and exam-taking methods that will enhance the effectiveness of their learning and produce better results. A number of plants ran programmes and held seminars dedicated to express learning. Slimtex conducted two seminars for students from Saranath Maha Vidyalaya and Central College Kuliyapitiya. Both seminars were attended by 500 students each and a 75% pass rate was achieved at exams in 2013 by the students. The seminar held by Casualline in the Hattharaliyadda area was attended by a total of 1100 O/Level and A/Level students in the Hattharaliyadda area. The pass rate achieved by these students for O/Levels was 60% and 70% for A/Levels in 2013. Linea Clothing and Linea Intimates ran a programme with Dr. de Zoysa P1 where 500 students participated. Unichela Koggala conducted a programme for students P2 from the Sariputhra College in Ahangama where 600 students benefited, and Unichela Panadura held a speed learning seminar in February 2013. Slimline also donated 40 express learning & Asia Foundation books to the Pannala National School, in an effort to introduce more English-language books. 49 COP 2013 Leadership and building team work MAS Active promotes a powerful interactive leadership and team-work building programme aimed at equipping today’s entrepreneurs with the tools and expertise they need to bring about lasting change in the workplace. Our aim is to provide workplace leaders and team members with the theoretical and practical skills required to lead teams towards a culture of safety, excellence, and to create positive behavioral changes. We implement strategies that turn random groups of people into teams that are able to interact with each other in a manner that BUILDING COMMUNITIES provides a positive outcome for the individuals and the group as a whole. Many of the skills and tactics learned can be applied in the workplace and the home. MAS Award for the Best Overall Student Many students’ awards are predominantly based on • Academic performance academic or athletic achievements. MAS formed • Team player the Best Overall Student Award in 2004 to rec• Attitude/ personality/ drive to do ognise undergraduate students who have excelled the best/ ambition P1 academically, but also display other essential attrib• Extra curricular activities (sports/ utes. community/ in the institution) P2 • Communication / interpersonal OBJECTIVE skills (spoken/ written English, presentation) • To expose undergraduates to the expecta• MAS to become a part of student’s lives & tions and standards of the corporate world build partnerships with the universities. right from the outset of receiving their degree. The Award committee comprises of HRM’s and Tech Experts from MAS alongside representatives • Encourage students to become wellfrom the University to ensure a credible, transparrounded individuals. ent, and impartial selection process. • Develop marketable degree holders: 50 COP 2013 METHODOLOGY AREA PERCENTAGE Step 1: A university nominates five 1. Academic Performance students to MAS based on Performance at Specific modules, Exams 25% overall capabilities through a conducted by the university formal selection process con2. Internship ducted internally. Internship report as specified by University 5% Step 2: MAS trains and develops 10% skills through soft skills proReport by Internship Training officer / Or5% grammes. ganization Step 3: The selected students submit 3. Presentation their projects. Performance on the Specific presentation 15% topic given 25% Step 4: Student presentations are conducted. Depth of knowledge gathered (discussion, 10% research, etc.) BUILDING COMMUNITIES Step 5: Winners are announced at the MAS awards. 4. Final Interview Personality / Disposition 20% Best Overall Student Award recipiInterpersonal skill ents are given a cash reward, a plaque, Attitute / Team player their names engraved on the “Wall 5. Participation in Extra curricular activities, of Fame” displayed in each universi10% comminity projects, etc. ty, and possible employment opportunities at MAS. Up to date, over 55 6. Any other academic / professional qualitfica10% tion acquired or reading students have been recipients of the MAS Awards, and 2/3 of all winners Total 100% are currently employed with MAS. MAS Ready to Unleash programme The Ready to Unleash programme is a two-day • To teach concepts of teamwork and workcompetency building programme for interns coming towards a common goal. mencing industrial training at MAS with the hope of providing skills, which would allow them to step METHODOLOGY P1 out from their educational institutions to the work • Two day programme at MIMT P2 environment, since there is a lack of exposure to the demands of corporate life. • Classroom Sessions • Experience Based Learning OBJECTIVE • To provide students with an understanding • Industry forum of expectations of trainees at MAS. • Guest lecturers from Industry and HR • To provide them with the necessary soft Experts skill training required in the corporate • Mini projects arena. • To teach business etiquette in order for stuThe Ready to Unleash Programme was initiated in dents to understand professional behavior 2006 and over 450 students have attended the in a work setting. programme. From this, approximately 350 of those students have joined MAS. 51 COP 2013 MAS Eco Go Beyond A Sustainable Development Education Programme 2011 – 2013 As seen from the 2011 COPs onwards, MAS In 2013, we celebrated the successful completion of planned a three year sustainable school programme the programme which included 29 schools spread modelled along the lines of the Environmental Manacross ten MAS operating localities. agement System which included the following: The end result shows that all of the participating schools are either completely polythene free zones • Increasing green cover by growing trees or striving towards it, compost their biodegradable and grass waste, and recycle their iron, glass, and plastics. The BUILDING COMMUNITIES participating schools have increased their green • Composting of biodegradable waste cover, and phased out the unhealthy food items in the canteens by introducing healthier alternatives • Recycling of non-biodegradable waste for the students and staff. There is a constant mon• Increasing nutrition through itoring of energy and water consumption and systhe growth of leafy vegeta2013 2012 2011for all 3 bles within school premises years New trees Planted 739 3472 987 5198 • Reduction of energy conIncreased grassy areas (mXm) 4168 21537.3 4162.55 29867.91 sumption 6 Compost (KG) 10126 2411 1674.4 14211.4 • Reduction of water consumpCultivated Area for Nutrition (mXm) 8700 23306.2 22722.7 54729 tion 4 6 5 S Programmes 64 105 67 236 • Promoting eco-friendly lifestyles, healthy eating, and eco-friendly tems have been placed to promote further reducdecorations tion. • Increasing productivity through the impleThe overall winners were chosen in 2013 with mentation of 5S Dharmasiri Senanayake Maha Vidyalaya Thulhiriya emerging as the champions, while St. Mary’s Tamil • Biodiversity Conservation with the incluMaha Vidyalaya Yatiyanthota and Siyane National sion of butterfly gardens and the identificaSchool Dompe were awarded 2nd and 3rd place retion of birds spectively. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 MAS Communities P1 involved with 5 8 8 9 10 10 10 P2 the programme P8 Number of Participant 20 29 27 29 30 29 29 Schools Schools which successfully 18 29 26 28 30 29 29 completed the projects 52 COP 2013 This programme has impacted over 29,500 students; launched in 2006, the programme has been operational for 7 years, and a new three-year programme will be instilled in 2014. The upcoming programme will include 30 new schools and the programme will be fortified to incorporate current sustainable development education trends. The project is conducted in partnership with the Ministry of Education, and while their role is to pave access for MAS in relevant schools, it is MAS who has total ownership of the project and wholeheartedly executes it. Programme methodology includes workshops, audio–visual presentations, activation in schools by projects designed and executed by students, the monitoring of these by the specialists, BUILDING COMMUNITIES and finally the rewarding of the best performers annually. Programme Participation 2007-2013 40 30 20 10 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 MAS Communities Number of Participant Schools Schools which successfully completed the projects MAS Strategic Business Number of Unit Area Schools Bodyline 1 Horana 6 P1 Bodyline 2 Pimbura 3 Linea Aqua Hanwella 3 P2 Slimline Pannala 2 P8 Slimtex Kuliyapitiya 2 Linea Clothing Pallekelle 2 Synergy Awissawella 2 MAS Fabric Park Thulhiriya 3 Unichela Koggala Koggala 4 Asialine Embilipitiya 2 53 COP 2013 Environmental awareness projects conducted by MAS in 2013 include: Conducting a leadership development • Linea Clothing and Linea Intimates distributed 1,350 tree programme for 60 school children saplings amongst employees and youth in order to raise with the Eco Go Beyond Project at the awareness about environmental protection and sustainBodyline premises. ability. BUILDING COMMUNITIES MAS Intimates Casualline conducted a tree-planting project for 120 students to each plant their own tree. This taught them the importance of environmental sustainability and protection. P1 P2 P8 For a more in-depth look at our activities, please refer to the appendices on page 64. 54 COP 2013 Contributing 3 towards the betterment of health BUILDING COMMUNITIES M AS has been heavily involved in the improvement of national healthcare and development of the medical industry in Sri Lanka. The local healthcare industry faces multiple challenges such as labour shortages, the inability to bear the cost of technological advancements, and the inaccessibility of medical treatments for everyone. MAS addresses these issues through donations, structural developments, and local clinics placed for the disadvantaged, while constantly looking for other approaches to make a positive impact on society. Since we realise that community health infrastructure plays a crucial role in uplifting the quality of life of our employees and their communities, MAS plants focus on improving healthcare facilities, equipping local health service providers, and connecting these services to people. In the past year, we have continued with many of our former health-related projects while adding several new projects as opportunities arose to be inP1 volved in this vital area. P2 55 COP 2013 In 2013 MAS Intimates Silueta, together with other entities in the Biyagama Zone, embarked on a major project to renovate the Biyagama Base Hospital. As a part of the Doug Adams Leadership Challenge Programme, a number of improvements were made to the hospital. The entrance to the Outpatient Department was refurbished and the pavilion was tiled. The OPD room was painted and the retention wall at the back was re-constructed. Proper doors and windows were installed in the maternity clinic, while many walls were also rebuilt. Unichela Biyagama also contributed to this project, by helping renovations in the maternity clinic such BUILDING COMMUNITIES as repainting. In addition, the children’s playground was revamped and cleaned up. A proper packing system was introduced to the hospital pharmacy and drugstore as well. This immense project impacted many of our employees who frequently use the hospital, but also benefited the wider community significantly. P1 P2 MAS won 3 prizes of the 4 prizes awarded at the poster competition organized by the Lanka business Coalition under the theme “Let us join hands to prevent stigma and discrimination for People living with HIV”. 56 COP 2013 Fighting Cancer… One Step at a Time Coconut water is proven to have desirable medical qualities and is under study for its cancer fighting properties. MAS Intimates Silueta held a “King Coconut” almsgiving for cancer patients at the Maharagama Cancer Hospital. This is one of the primary hospitals in the country solely dedicated to the detection and treatment of cancer, and treatments are provided at absolutely no cost to the patient. MAS is proud to work on this and other projects with the hospital and will continue to do in the future. BUILDING COMMUNITIES In continuing our support for the cancer hospital, MAS Intimates held a blood drive for cancer patients, where over 200 employees donated blood. Over 3000 Linea Clothing and Linea Intimates employees took part in a ‘Cancer Walk’ to raise funds for the new cancer unit in the Kandy hospital. P1 P2 57 COP 2013 In line with the Company’s 20th Anniversary celebrations, a contribution was made by Bodyline to the Horana Base Hospital by way of donating a Pediatric Unit comprising an emergency treatment unit, an infectious disease unit, a Doctor’s room, as well as a Nurse’s Station totaling an area of 1,600 sq. ft. An additional sum of Rs. 10,000/= was contributed to the hospital towards their Musical Show, which was organised to raise funds for the welfare project of upgrading the patient & staff canteen. Thurulie also donated to the Kurunegala General Hospital in 2013. The hospital has its own ThalBUILDING COMMUNITIES assemia unit, which is a genetic blood disorder that is prevalent in the North Western Province of Sri Lanka. The unit was in need of medical instruments and beds; the number of patients was in large contrast to the number of beds available in the unit, which resulted in many patients undergoing blood transfusions in the hospital corridors or the garden. Other than that, we also organised for the entire unit to be cleaned and colour-washed in hopes of creating a more pleasant and peaceful atmosphere. P1 P2 For a more in-depth look at our activities, please refer to the appendices on page 64. 58 COP 2013 Initiating and 4 conducting projects which improve BUILDING COMMUNITIES neighbourhoods M AS continues to be a moral cornerstone in many Sri Lankan towns and villages; a majority of our projects, whether related to the rebuilding of schools, planting of trees, or providing financial aid to hospitals, are geared towards the betterment of our immediate neighbourhoods and providing improved opportunities for people from surrounding areas. Our on-going projects include the development of schools, hospitals, and government offices in the vicinity of MAS offices and plants. This visible assistance towards our neighbourhoods have resulted in a strong bond of friendship and a positive view of our operations among the community. P1 Every activity – though small or varied – has been carried out due to our corporate emphasis of making a positive impact on society, P2 59 COP 2013 An example of our actions toward the community: In 2013 MAS Intimates Casualline sponsored the MAS Active Linea Intimo partnered with Luceremony at the Mathulana Temple on Vesak Poya lulemon Athletica in “Elevating the world from day, which is attended by over 500,000 people. We mediocrity to greatness” by constructing a also support other ceremonies held at this temple COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT CENTRE throughout the year. through the funds that were donated by Lululemon Athletica. Objectives of the Project: • Work in close collaboration with the community and enhance community relations. • Providing access to recreational BUILDING COMMUNITIES and sports facilities to promote healthy living within the community. • To create awareness of the importance of the good health and psychological well-being. • Enhance educational needs for preschool children. • To provide a Day care facility for working parents. The plan is to create this in two phases; the first one including a pre-school, library, and counselling centre, and the second phase including a yoga centre, volleyball courts, and a gymnasium. P1 P2 For a more in-depth look at our activities, please refer to the appendices on page 64 60 The Journey Ahead MAS Aims... 61 COP 2013 M AS has emphasised the importance of a strong sense of sustainability throughout our 26 years of progress. Our sense of responsibility for the environment we operate in and the instinct to do the right thing for our employees has been in the foundation of our sustainability strategies. Creating opportunities, nurturing people and communities, as well as mutual respect with our stakeholders both make us proud as a company and are highly appreciated by our partners. MAS ensures adherence to human rights through following the rules dictated by the appropriate external parties and via self-governance. The external parties are, namely, the judicial system of the host country, the appropriate laws, and customer audits. The self-governance system comprises of internal standards, policies and procedures. We have always strived to include moral principles in the company policies. What this means in practice is that we aim to create an atmosphere within the organisation by empowering women, encouraging sports and creating positive attitudes that will encourage the employees, business partners and other stakeholders to adopt the prominent MAS attitude of “doing the right thing”. We want to foster a positive outlook on life and encourage good ethics and therefore this attitude of “doing the right thing” has become a core principle at MAS and it can be found at the essence of all the business relationships and employee transactions. We have also established an Environmental Sustainability Steering Team for MAS which is responsible for strategy, reviewing actions and KPIs for the entire group. This will ensure the entire group moves in the same direction when it comes to CSR activities. With 90% of the employees being women, MAS places high emphasis on recognising and training women. In 2013, MAS’ programme Women Go Beyond (WGB), celebrated its 10th year of empowering women in their place of employment, their homes and their communities. Some of the important aspects of the programme have been training for the development of well-being, career advancement opportunities and skill development. In 2013 new partnerships and initiatives were introduced and programmes and topics such as violence against women, HIV/AIDS awareness, stress management and family planning were introduced to refresh and diversify the programme. 62 COP 2013 M AS encourages both men and women to be active participants in their homes and communities and therefore have a controlled work-life renewable energy sources such as solar power, biomass or bio-gas. In 2013 about 33% of our energy came from renewable sources. balance. Continuing programmes such as “Getting MAS is also working to train internal Energy Audimore out of life” aims to increase the knowledge of tors who will be responsible for supporting policy both men and women about reproductive and genimplementations to successfully reduce the energy eral health as well as of the importance of being an intensity of the group. active participant not only at the place of employment but also at home. Clean water has become very scarce on the planet Earth and MAS recognises the threats this poses MAS has started and carried out many programmes to life on the Earth. Therefore we constantly monfor children in the past and this year has not been itor and record our water consumption, sources of an exception. In fact, this year there were new prowater and how it is treated and released back after grammes with especially the children with special it has been used. Currently MAS uses five different needs in mind. MAS has partnered with other instiwater sources: recycled water, treated city water, tutes to reach those in need. rain water, ground water and inland surface water. All the water released back to the environment is The environmental challenges the world is facing treated and constantly tested to ensure compliance have been growing more and more significant over with the National Environmental Act of Sri Lanka. the years. The environmental sustainability has been integrated into MAS’ policy since 2007 and MAS is currently working on achieving zero waste we have initiated and continued various projects to landfills by 2017, an initiative that was started in since. 2012. We collaborate with recyclers and other partners to achieve this and currently more than half of MAS has been sourcing organic cotton and initiated the waste generated is recycled. MAS is also collabthe first line of zero-carbon footprint line of lingerie orating with the local municipal council to work on in 2011 to the UK market. During 2013 we have contheir disposal methods to minimise the landfills in tinued our commitment to design and provide prodthe areas where MAS facilities are located. ucts with a lower carbon footprint to our customers and we are actively working with our partners to We have also worked hard to reduce the consumpdesign products with environmentally friendly life tion of objects that generate waste; MAS Intimates cycles. Unichela Biyagama has eradicated all the PET bottles from the facility. They have also implemented When it comes to energy, MAS aims to reduce enpractices to not use plastic Nescafe cups, plastic ergy consumption and to increase the use of renewyoghurt cups or straws. able energy sources. This is especially challenging as manufacturing generally has very high levels of MAS has taken further steps in 2013 to reach the demand for energy. We are constantly looking for ambitious goals that have been set earlier and conways to reduce our energy intake and wherever tinues to implement and improve the programmes possible, replace emission-dense fossil fuels with that have been started before. 63 COP 2013 Appendices 64 COP 2013 Respecting Diversity Women WGB: Career Advancement • Basic IT Classes • English Classes • Machine Training • Sign language Classes • Team Building • Leadership Training WGB: Work-life Balance • Eye Clinic • In-house salon • Awareness for Pregnant Employees • Awareness on Reproductive Health • Healthy Mother & Healthy Baby Programme • Awareness on Family Planning & STDs • Awareness on HIV/ AIDS • Domestic Violence Awareness Programme • Counselling Programme • Awareness on Legal Aid • Screening for Anaemia • Personality Development • Stress Management WGB: Skill Development • Sewing, Pottery, and Sari Painting Project • Dancing Classes • Beauty Culture • Dress Making • Cake and Cookery • Ribbon Embroidery • Bridal Dressing WGB: Reward Excellence • Women’s Day Celebrations • Employee Recognition Day 65 COP 2013 Differently abled trical work at the Navodya Special Children’s School by the assistance of voland Disadvantaged unteered employees. • MAS Intimates sponsored canes and stationery to 25 visually-handicapped Elderly students. • Slimline donated clothes to 15 children • Shramadanaya held at the Indanamulla for New Year’s celebrations at ShripaElders Home by Linea Aqua. ti Balaka Lama Niwasaya orphanage in • Linea Aqua joined hands with the Diyakalamulla. Women Go Beyond team in tiling a • Slimline made a financial contribution room at the Women’s Elders’ home at towards gift packs given to differentMithirigala. ly-abled children during New Year cel• Silueta sent a team to clear overgrown ebrations. land and spend some time with the el• Two computers were given to the Nikaders at the Sanda Sewana Elders’ Home. weratiya-Aranyaya Orphanage by SlimThere was also a donation of daily raline. They are currently being used by tions. over 50 children now. • An eye camp was held sponsored by • Bodyline conducted a ‘flag week’ withLinea Aqua on December 7th 2013 and in its premises to raise funds for the Sri over 200 pairs of spectacles were doLanka Federation for the Visually Handnated to retired persons in the vicinity. icapped. • Linea Aqua assisted in painting & elecBuilding Communities in Ahangama. Sports • Speed learning conducted by Unichela • Unichela Koggala sponsored the annual Panadura. inter-house sports meet at the Abaya • Visipavura 2015 A residential training Dana College in Habaraduwa. programme was held for 2015 A/L stu• Cricketing gear was donated to the Didents; fabric was donated by Bodyline visional Secretariat Millaniya by Bodyto stitch uniforms for all participating line for the cricket team of the Divisional students. Secretariat Officers. • Slimtex sponsored a student to partic• Cricket supplies were also donated to ipate in the 7th International Earth Scithe Kirindiwela Madya Maha Vidyalaya ence Olympiad Competition; the stuby Linea Aqua. dent went on to win the bronze medal. • Slimline provided financial support for • A financial contribution and food was A.M. Saumi Thathsarani from Dhamgiven to the Udubaddawa Divisionmissara Madya Maha Vidyalaya al Secretariat’s Literature Festival for Naththandiya and R. P. Paboda Adithi school children by Slimline. Randeniya from Ananda National • Casualline held a training programme School in Chilaw to take part in a Mafor 120 new job holders at the Malaysian karate tournament. Both were wathagama Divisional Secretarial Ofplaced in the Top 15 of the tournament. fice. The programme taught individuals • Linea Aqua sponsored air tickets for two how to implement the 6S system and students who were selected to take part best practices in the private sector. in the Asian School Athletic Meet held • Implementation of 5S at Ovitigama in Malaysia. Primary School –education fair held for year 5 scholarship students. A separate class room was allocated for 5S, Education here students from outside schools are • Unichela Koggala organised an express briefed on 5S. The briefings are done by learning seminar for 600 students who 6S team leaders from the production participated from the Sariputhra College floor of Linea Aqua. 66 COP 2013 • Linea Clothing and Line Intimates held of constructing a three story building a 5S awareness project at the Risikala which will hold a laboratory/science and Aesthetic College and the Mawilmada computer room. Linea Aqua donated 50 Kandy Sports Club staff, which introflorescent tube lights to be fixed in the duced the concept and educated indinew building as well as in classrooms. viduals about how to increase organiza• Slimtex donated books to 3 schools in tional efficiency. Kuliyapitiya to improve the school librar• MAS Active continued our Athwela proies. gramme, which translates to ‘Helping • Linea Clothing and Linea Intimates sponHand’ – the objective of this programme sored the printing of 2750 English-lanis to assist employees’ children who guage activity books for the Wattegama have excelled in their Grade 5 scholareducational zone. They also helped renship exams and are limited by financovate and donate books to the Wegalla es to further their education. All MAS Maha Vidyalaya. Active employees are eligible, and over • Slimline donated computers to the thirty students have benefitted from this Keenadeniya Primary School in Ambprogramme. epussa, and the donations are used by • Slimline built a water line for the Haover 50 students daily. Computers were mangalla Maha Vidyalaya so that over also donated to the Hammalawa Kanitu 500 students could have access to clean Viduhala and the Horawadunna Kanishwater. They also built a water tank at ta Vidyalaya schools in 2013. Central College Kuliyapitiya. • Unichela Koggala donated musical in• Casualline renovated the stage in the struments to a less-privileged school in main hall of the Hattharaliyadda School Kalutara so that students could start a which benefited a total of 1200 students. band. The dancing team from the school, • Slimline donated over forty meters of which needed the hall for practice, went curtain material to the Daraluwa Kanon to win 1st place in an all-island dancishta Vidyalaya. They plan to host the ing competition. prize giving ceremony in 2014. • MAS Intimates refurbished the Sand• Gifts were donated by Linea Aqua to the ungama Montessori and stationery Dangalle school to be distributed at their and uniforms were distributed to 20 annual sports festival. These gift packs underprivileged students of the school consisted of school stationery that stuwho were affected by the tsunami. The dents needed. teachers-in-charge were sponsored for 6 months and 70% of the children were • Gifts were donated to the Devi Balika able to gain admission to well-reputed School to be distributed amongst the schools. children by Linea Aqua. • Linea Aqua and Linea Intimates donated • 210 Pairs of schools boys/ girls shoes cupboards to the Dumbara Royal Colwere donated to the students of the lege to upgrade the library and encourThitharapathara & Sri Bodhi School by age reading amongst the younger genLinea Aqua. eration. • The Tarala school has approximately • Linea Aqua donated school bags to 100 300 students with limited resources. pre school children for the 3rd consecuBooks, crayons, and stationery were dotive year. nated to them by Linea Aqua. • Vidiyal In Killinochchi donated furniture • Costumes were donated to Meethirigila requirements to Sivapada Kalayagam Maha Vidyalaya and Devi Balika Maha School and renovated a much needed Vidyalaya (Dompe) by Linea Aqua. The kitchen facility in Annai Sarathadevi Vidschools took part in an all island school iyalayam. We also sponsored prizes at drama and dancing competition. the Bharathi Pre School prize giving as a • Bodyline donated wall racks to the Porumeans of motivating the preschool kids. wadanda Kalupahan Vidyalaya (school). • Sangamiththa Balika Maha Vidyalaya Kirindiwela has approximately 1200 students. The school is in the process 67 COP 2013 Health Neighbourhood • Slimtex renovated the walkway of the • Financial contributions were made by Base Hospital in Kuliyapitiya. This renSlimline to the Pannala United Merovation provided a more convenient and chant Association for the annual gencomfortable environment and impacted eral meeting and to the musical show, all patients of the hospital. the “Ridi Gi Wassak” which is held at • MDS conducted an employee wellthe Pannala Town Hall and is attended ness and lifestyle programme with the by over 1,000 people. College of Community Physicians of • Slimline donated a computer to the PanSri Lanka which focused on promoting nala Grama Sevaka’s office. eight health targets that will empower • A fax machine was contributed to the individuals, communities and organisaPannala police station by Slimline. tions in leading healthier lifestyles. • Financial donations were made towards • Thurulie organised an eye clinic for its the refurbishment of the Secretarial Ofteam members to identify any vision fice in Habaraduwa by Unichela Koggaproblems. 60% of team members parla. ticipates and the programme was ben• 10 roof sheets were donated by Slimline eficial for all. to the Divisional Secretariat in Udu• Linea Clothing and Linea Intimates conbaddawa to construct a shelter for moducted a 2-day dental camp for its emtorbikes in the area. ployees which raised awareness about • 150 T-shirts and 200 briefs were donatthe importance of dental hygiene for a ed by Slimline to the Methsevana State healthier lifestyle. 250 employees parHouse of Detention. ticipates in the clinic and over 500 employees participated in the awareness • Plastic chairs were donated by Linea campaign. Aqua to the Pugoda Post Office/ Kiriniwela Young Fellow Members Associa• A sum of Rs. 25,000/= was donated tion. to purchase a scaling machine for the Preventive Oral Health unit at the Insti• Packs of dry rations were gifted to tute of Oral Health in Maharagama by pensioners by Linea Aqua at the openBodyline. ing ceremony of the new post office in Dompe. • Unichela Koggala assisted in colour-washing the walls of the Kalugala • 150 T-shirts were donated by Slimline Hospital and donated benches to them. to the National Catholic Youth Federation committee members for a national • The Meewanapalana Maternity & Chilmeeting that involved over 5000 youth. dren’s Clinic is in close proximity to the Bodyline plant. They voiced the diffi• Unichela Koggala sponsored the Poson culties they were having and we took it Perahera celebration at the Habaraduupon ourselves to repair the roof, perimwa temple. They also made a monetary eter fence, and gate, as well as replacing donation to the temple when its chief their mesh separations with windows. priest passed away. A financial conThe clinic was also in need of a new fan tribution was also given to the Lanuand chairs, while the front and rear vemodara Temple. randahs were also extended. • MAS Intimates donated furniture to the • Upon request, 100 m of material was Daham Pasala at the Pannala Temple. donated to the Ministry of Health in Ko• Slimline donated books and stationery tadeniyawa to be used for bedding and to over 50 students a Sunday school furnishing needs in numerous hospitals prize-giving in a local church, and to by Slimline. over 70 students during a prize-giving • Thurulie provided financial assistance at the Eeriyagolla temple. The plant has to a team member who was diagnosed a very good relationship with the temwith a hole in his heart and required surple, which is in close vicinity and makes gery. This particular sector has provided this donation annually. assistance totaling Rs.300,000/on • Financial contributions were made by emergency health requirements for asSlimline towards building the Walakulu sociates and their families. Bamma at the Sri Bodhiwansaramaya temple in Yakwila. • A donation of desks and benches were made to the Sunday Schools of seven 68 COP 2013 temples by Bodyline. They were in ur• Bodyline participated in a special cergent need of these items to continue emony during “Vas” season at Resvetheir lessons. hera, Anuradhapura. Clothes and books • A Vesak Dansala and Bakthi Gee were were donated to the Daham Pasal chilheld at Bodyline premises to give emdren and mugs and umbrellas were ployees and their families an opportudonated to the teachers, totalling over nity to participate in this festival. Many Rs. 200,000/=. All funds towards this people from the immediate vicinity worthy cause were contributed solely joined in as well. by Bodyline employee. • Bodyline held a Sago Dansala for its em• A donation was made toward construcployees and the community. tion work at the Girideela temple by Linea Aqua. • A Kirivehera Poojawa was held in Kataragama by Bodyline. 69
