Daiwa Securities Group What we can do What will the world be like in 20 years from now, CSR Report 2014 when these babies are adults? Imagine a society where people live happily in harmony with our Earth’s abundant nature. At the Daiwa Securities Group, we are determined to fulfill our responsibilities as individuals and as a company to create a sustainable society. Contributing to Sustainable Development The smiles of these infants—all children of Daiwa Securities Group employees—express our hopes for a bright future. Shigeharu Suzuki Takashi Hibino Chairman of the Board President and CEO Daiwa Securities Group Inc. Daiwa Securities Group Inc. To Our Stakeholders The Daiwa Securities Group recognizes its responsibility, as a generate attractive returns while also making a positive social corporate member of society, to contribute to the sustainable or societal contribution, such as alleviating poverty or elevating development of society as well as the economy through its the status of women in developing countries. In this way, activities in financial and capital markets. Under our current Japanese investors can make a meaningful contribution to the Medium-Term Management Plan, “Passion for the Best” 2014, resolution of global issues. The Daiwa Securities Group will our transitional process from “Growth” phase in FY2013 to continue its efforts to develop innovative financial products “Expansion” phase in FY2014 is positioned as a milestone for and services that seek to use investment activity as a means to us to fulfill this responsibility. address social concerns. The balance of household financial assets in Japan is In FY2014 – the final year of our current Medium-Term currently estimated at some ¥1,600 trillion, and these assets Management Plan – the Daiwa Securities Group will continue are gradually being shifted “from savings to investment.” The its efforts to expand client-based high-quality earnings in order Daiwa Securities Group aims to facilitate this shift by cultivating not only to secure sustainable growth, but also to contribute to and expanding its client base. By helping growth-oriented vibrant sustainable economic and social conditions. We believe companies and public-sector organizations to tap into the that the Group can enhance its corporate value by promoting vast supply of capital formerly tied up in savings deposits, the a society of sustainable growth. All executives and employees Group hopes to invigorate the Japanese economy while also of the Group are united in their passion to realize a future in establishing a customer base that can support the Group’s own which everyone can take pride. long-term growth. As we work toward achieving this goal, we kindly request The Group is also developing and marketing new financial the continued support and understanding of all stakeholders. products, such as “impact investment bonds,” which can Daiwa Securities Group 1 CSR REPORT 2014 Message from the CEO Earnings at the Daiwa Securities Group rose sharply in equity markets on the back of expectations for ending the FY2013, and while the Group received benefits from deflationary cycle by the government’s economic policies (often favorable market conditions during the period, the referred to as “Abenomics”) and the strong US economy. strong performance was also a testament to the steady Against this backdrop, net operating revenues at the Daiwa progress that the Group has made in implementing the Securities Group rose 29.9% year on year, to ¥541.9 billion, current Medium-Term Management Plan. The stated ordinary income more than doubled, to ¥197.0 billion, and goal of our strategy is “to establish a robust business net income grew 132.4%, to ¥169.4 billion. Net income thus structure capable of securing profit even under stressful reached its highest level in 24 years, and ordinary income economic conditions.” FY2014 is the final year of the far surpassed the ¥120 billion target set for FY2014, the current Medium-Term Management Plan. By taking the final year of the current Medium-Term Management Plan. lead in the dynamic shift of Japanese household assets While favorable market conditions contributed to earnings “from savings to investment,” which is set as a core growth, much of the improvement was a result of factors management strategy, the Group will move into a new specific to the Daiwa Securities Group. Changes made to phase of the Medium-Term Management Plan: “Expansion the Group’s organizational structure and business strategy for Sustainable Growth.” with the launch of the “new Daiwa Securities” began to take effect even before the positive boost provided by Abenomics. In April 2012, the Daiwa Securities Group merged its two main These measures reduced expenses and placed priority on the subsidiaries, which formerly exercised separate control over the development of client-based high-quality earnings. Earnings Group’s Retail securities business and its Wholesale securities results for FY2013 clearly illustrate the success of Group business, to establish a unified “new Daiwa Securities.” The efforts to “establish a robust business structure.” Indeed, the Group also launched its Medium-Term Management Plan Group’s fixed cost coverage ratio reached 52%, surpassing the covering the period from FY2012 to FY2014 at the same time. 50% target level, a year ahead of schedule. This ratio is the Based on the outline of the Medium-Term Management Plan, most important key performance indicator set in the current we have been making efforts to “establish a robust business Management Plan. structure capable of securing profit even under stressful In FY2014, the Group has moved into the “Expansion” economic conditions.” In FY2012, the Group returned to phase of its current Medium-Term Management Plan. The new profitability in line with the “Turnaround” phase of the plan. In tax exemption scheme for investments by individuals, NISA (the FY2013, we took the next step by introducing strategies aimed Nippon Individual Savings Account) launched in January 2014, at “Growth.” is expected to have a positive impact on the shift “from savings Business conditions in FY2013 got off to a positive start, as to investment.” The Daiwa Securities Group as a whole will the Bank of Japan introduced both quantitative and qualitative step forward to accomplish sustainable growth with its primary monetary easing policies from April 2013 which led to a focus on both expanding its client base and increasing clientweak yen and higher stock prices. Although there have been based high-quality earnings occasional periods of instability in the Japanese equity market, there was a sharp increase in trading activity in Japanese Takashi Hibino President and CEO Daiwa Securities Group Inc. Daiwa Securities Group 2 CSR REPORT 2014 Message from the Chairman The Daiwa Securities Group is rooted in the four corporate After a prolonged slump, the Japanese stock market principles of “building trust,” “placing importance on finally started to undergo a massive transformation when the personnel,” “contributing to society,” and “securing sound Abe administration came to power in December 2012. This profits.” As the foundation from which we conduct business, transformation brings not only business opportunities for the these corporate principles express our deeply engraved spirit Daiwa Securities Group to achieve sustainable growth, but also and core business values that allow us to participate in financial opportunities to contribute to the realization of a sustainable and capital markets with pride and integrity. society through our core business activities. To lead the Under these principles, we have spared no effort to create transition “from savings to investment,” the Daiwa Securities an organization where each member of the Group can feel a Group has set a goal for all of its managers and employees sense of high job satisfaction, by promoting a higher dimension to be the most reliable partner in the formation of assets for of work-life balance and thorough compliance education, in customers, as it accelerates management initiatives centered our aim of being a highly sustainable company that does not on its corporate principles. succumb to chasing near-term profits. The greatest competitive advantages we have are the sense of unity and trust across the entire Daiwa Securities Group, as well as the high level Shigeharu Suzuki of loyalty and professionalism among management and Chairman of the Board employees regardless of gender. Daiwa Securities Group Inc. Daiwa Securities Group 3 CSR REPORT 2014 Editorial Policy Intended Readership This report is intended for the broad range of the Daiwa Securities We at the Daiwa Securities Group have commenced Group’s stakeholders defined by ISO 26000, including customers, publishing CSR report annually since 2002 for the following shareholders and investors, employees, business partners and local communities. two objectives: to disclose our CSR activities supporting the Reporting Boundary creation of a sustainable society and to evaluate current state This report generally discusses the principal companies of the Daiwa of affairs and the challenges we face. Securities Group. It does not, however, include all data from the Group’s principal companies on items reported. The information is In CSR Report 2014, we intend to disclose information for our selected based on the respective companies’ size and type of business. stakeholders proactively together with our Annual Report, with Each set of the data specifies the scope of coverage. which we envisage our CSR report evolves to be integrated in Period Covered by Report Fiscal 2013 (April 1, 2013 to March 31, 2014) the future. The report, however, also includes some information on events and Our CSR Report 2014 is only released on our website, as we activities carried out prior to the beginning of or after the end of fiscal 2013, or scheduled to take place during fiscal 2014. believe our Annual Report 2014 contains the essential parts Date of Publication of our ESG activities. It is produced referring the guidelines October 2014 of the global reporting initiative (GRI) and ISO 26000. As for (The previous report was published in October 2013; the next report is GRI Guidelines, we refer to its version 3.1, while taking into planned for October 2015.) Inquiries consideration of adopting version 4 of the guidelines. We aim Daiwa Securities Group Inc. to the report more accessible utilizing the concept of Color Corporate Communication Department, CSR Group Universal Design in selecting the colors of the document. Tel: +81-3-5555-1111 (main) E-mail: daiwacsr@daiwa.co.jp Website: http://www.daiwa-grp.jp/english/csr/ C o n t e n t s To Our Stakeholders 1 Social Report Message from the CEO 2 Relationship with Customers 25 Message from the Chairman 3 Relationship with Shareholders and Other Investors 27 Editorial Policy 4 Relationship with Employees 28 Daiwa Securities Group Profile 5 Human Rights Initiative 31 Daiwa Securities Group Corporate Principles Relationship with Society 32 6 and Key Issues Verification of CSR Key Issues and Responses 7 to Changing Social Requirements Environmental Report Environmental Initiatives 38 Management Report Initiatives through Business Activities 8 Third-party Opinion / Response to Third-party Opinion 40 CSR Management 13 Third-party Evaluations 41 Corporate Governance 18 GRI/ISO 26000 Content Index 42 Compliance 20 CSR Related Data 50 Risk Management 22 Glossary 54 IT Strategy, Information Security, and Disclosure 24 Independent Assurance Report 55 Daiwa Securities Group 4 CSR REPORT 2014 Daiwa Securities Group Profile Corporate Data Description of the Daiwa Securities Group’s Businesses ●Name The Daiwa Securities Group is a financial services group and operates in such Daiwa Securities Group Inc. fields as Retail, Global Markets, Global Investment Banking, Asset Management and Proprietary Investment as its core businesses. Underpinned by the strong ●Head Office unity of the group, we provide a broad range of services. GranTokyo North Tower 9-1, Marunouchi 1-chome, Chiyoda-ku, 1. Retail Division Tokyo 100-6751, Japan Through its domestic network of 135 branches,* contact centers and the Internet, ●Tel Daiwa Securities offers two retail services, Daiwa Consulting and Daiwa Direct, +81-3-5555-1111 (main) which provide a wide range of financial products and services as well as support for customer asset management, mainly for individuals and unlisted companies. ●Established 2. Global Markets Division December 27, 1943 (Founded 1902) It provides brokerage and trading services of securities and other financial products ●President and CEO mainly to institutional investors. Takashi Hibino 3. Global Investment Banking Division ●Capital Through capital raising, it supports industrial corporations, financial institutions and ¥247.3 billion others in their business expansion and making and carrying out their financial and capital strategies. ●Number of employees (consolidated) 13,317 4. Asset Management Division It creates and manages stock, bond, and private investment trusts, and provides ●Number of consolidated subsidiaries other investment management services for real estate investment trusts, pensions, 49 and other funds. ●Number of equity-method affiliates 5. Investment Division 8 It invests in areas such as private equity, venture capital opportunities, business regeneration, monetary receivables, and real estate using its own funds or through ●Shares issued and outstanding the formation of investment funds. 1,749,378,772 6. Other (As of March 31, 2014) The Group provides information via research reports, consulting, IT services, and other services to institutional investors, industrial corporations, financial institutions, and public organizations in Japan and overseas. * As of June 30, 2014 Daiwa Securities Group Inc. Wholesale Retail Asset Management Investment Other Global Markets Global IB Daiwa Next Bank, Daiwa Asset Ltd. Daiwa Corporate Daiwa Securities Co. Ltd. Management Co. Investment Co., Ltd. Daiwa Institute of Research Ltd. Holdings Ltd. Daiwa Institute Daiwa Capital Markets Europe Limited Daiwa Securities of Research Ltd. Daiwa SB SMBC Principal Investments Ltd. Daiwa Institute of Research Investments Co. Ltd. Business Innovation Ltd. Daiwa Capital Markets Asia Holding B.V. Daiwa Securities Business Daiwa Real Estate Center Co. Ltd. Daiwa PI Partners Asset Management Co. Ltd. Daiwa Property Co., Daiwa Capital Markets America Holdings Inc. Co. Ltd. Ltd. Daiwa Securities Group 5 CSR REPORT 2014 Daiwa Securities Group Corporate Principles and Key Issues We at the Daiwa Securities Group believe that our business activities like providing financial advices and investment banking play important functions in development of society and economy, and regard them as our mission. To continue to fulfill them whilst expanding our business, we trust that it is essential maintaining close ties with our stakeholders. Corporate Principles of the Daiwa Securities Group Key Issues for the Daiwa Securities Group Building trust To achieve its corporate principles and realize a sustainable society, The trust and approval of customers form the very foundation the Group has addressed the following two key issues based on the of the Daiwa Securities Group. The Group will always place the inputs we have received from our stakeholders. needs of customers first, and strive to develop the advanced, specialized skills to offer them the most attractive products and services of any securities group. 1. Leveraging financial capabilities to Placing importance on personnel contribute to a sustainable society The source of the Group’s competitiveness lies in the capabilities of its employees. The Group will promote the creativity of employees by offering them a challenging and self-directed working environment that encourages their 2. Developing sound financial and capital abilities and appropriately rewards their contributions. markets for the next generation Contributing to society The Daiwa Securities Group will seek to benefit the economy and society through the development of sound We believe keeping each of our employees motivated and proud of financial markets. In addition to scrupulously observing his/her work is essential for tackling these key issues. both regulations and internal policies, the Group will strive to maintain a high sense of morality and duty, endeavoring to continue contributing to the sustainable growth of the societies in which we operate. Thus in addition to these two key issues, the Maintaining robust earnings results Group strives to create a rewarding workplace The Group will always seek to develop sound business in which our employees can take pride. operations and to increase corporate value for the benefit of shareholders. By providing customers with attractive products and services, the Daiwa Securities Group will seek to generate To achieve its corporate principles, the Daiwa Securities strong profits and robust returns for shareholders. Group anchors its CSR activities in these goals. Daiwa Securities Group Stakeholders ●Investors Customers ●Issuers We are committed to improving customer For private corporations, public institutions and other satisfaction by offering products and entities seeking to raise funds through equity, debt, or services that meet the needs of retail other sources, we propose optimal solutions from a investors, institutional investors, and wide range of financing options and provide full-scale potential investors who are considering Investors Issuers support, from planning to execution. investing in the future. Shareholders ●Business Partners We maintain fair relationships with and others all our business partners and work ●Shareholders and Others* Shareholders Business together to create a sustainable society. To earn the confidence of our shareholders, we aim to provide fully and Others Daiwa Partners transparent information disclosure, Securities ●Government and meet their expectations by We fulfill our tax obligations and offer continually creating value. Group Government policy suggestions to create a better society. * Including investors holding bonds issued by the Daiwa Securities Group ye e s’ F a m p lo i Em li e s NPOs/ Society Employees NGOs ●Employees ●NPO/NGO We are endeavoring to create a Local We collaborate with NPOs and NGOs in such workplace where our employees, Communities fields as financial and economic education and who create added value for all disaster relief. We reflect social values in our other stakeholders, are fully management through active dialogue. motivated and can find satisfaction Employees in their work and lives. Our ●Local Communities employees’ families are also As a member of their local communities, our branches important stakeholders. and overseas offices support community-based initiatives. Daiwa Securities Group 6 CSR REPORT 2014 Verification of CSR Key Issues and Responses to Changing Social Requirements The Daiwa Securities Group recognizes that we are responsible, as a member of society, to various stakeholders when selecting CSR key issues. Meanwhile, social requirements for companies may change over time, and we need to constantly verify whether significant changes are occurring and whether our key issues accommodate these changes. We believe social requirements for corporations from a wide range of stakeholders have become increasingly diversified and thus more complex to reconcile and that it has become more important than ever to take a balanced approach considering these diverse demands. In light of these circumstances, the Daiwa Securities Group has actively participated in external CSR initiatives in Japan and overseas and promoted activities that use various codes in order to identify properly and respond to corporate CSR trends. The following are the ones that we place a special emphasis on among such codes: Important external initiatives for the Daiwa Securities Group ●The United Nations Global Compact (the Daiwa Securities Group signed the Compact in 2010) Human Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Rights Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Labour Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Environment responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Anti-Corruption including extortion and bribery. ● ISO 26000 ● The Charter of Corporate Behavior of the Nippon Keidanren (Japan Business Federation) Given their global importance, we also plan to implement the following principles and guidelines, giving consideration to their relationship to the business activities of our Group. ● The United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights ● The OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises Communication with Daiwa Securities Group stakeholders Moreover, we have adopted the following basic policy, considering that communication with stakeholders plays an important role in identifying social demands, which change over time. ● The Daiwa Securities Group will strive to maintain two-way communication with a broad range of stakeholders based on ISO 26000 and the Charter of Corporate Behavior of the Nippon Keidanren. ● The Group will strive to deepen communication with stakeholders already known to us, including customers, shareholders and other investors, business partners, employees and local communities. ● The Group will strive to communicate actively with third-parties in order to identify other stakeholders. Daiwa Securities Group 7 CSR REPORT 2014 Management Report Initiatives through Business Activities Approach and Basic Stance The Daiwa Securities Group’s mission is to contribute to the development of society and the economy through business operations, including wealth management for investors and support for the financial strategies and other aspects of corporations and public institutions. Deepening the bond of trust we share with our stakeholders is essential to the perpetual accomplishment of our mission and achievement of growth. ● Role and Social Responsibilities of On the basis of this belief, the Daiwa Securities Group has joined the Financial Services the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) and the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) to fulfill our role as a member of the The securities business, the core business of the Daiwa Securities international community. Group, plays a key role in society, by building a bridge between the In January 2010, the Daiwa Securities Group became the first needs of investors to manage assets and those of private and public Japanese financial services group whose staple is securities business sectors to raise funds. to be a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact (GC), a On the fund-raising side through issuing equities, bonds, and platform to help companies that have committed to sustainable and other securities products, the Group provides advice and assistance responsible business practices shape their policies. Further, in line to companies in their efforts to raise money for equipment with the United Nations Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), investment or R&D, as well as for national governments, local the Group is endeavoring to formulate and market products and governments, international institutions, and public corporations services that help resolve social issues. seeking to raise funds for public works projects. On the asset management side, the Group provides appropriate Principles for Financial Action toward a Sustainable investment information and advice, as well as a comprehensive and diverse lineup of financial products and services to meet the various Society (Principles for Financial Action for the needs of individuals, companies, institutional investors, and pension 21st Century) funds. In these ways, the securities business facilitates the smooth The Principles for Financial Action for the 21st Century were drawn flow of money by matching demand and supply through financial up by a committee comprising representatives from a range of and capital markets. The Group fulfills an important role and Japanese financial institutions. They were tasked with drafting a responsibility in society by contributing to sustainable development Japanese version of Principles for Environmental Financial Action. through the channeling of funds into businesses that solve social This was based on a recommendation issued by Japanese Ministry issues and create new technologies, for example. of Environment’s Central Environment Council with the objective On investing in corporate shares, the Daiwa Securities Group of promoting environmental finance. Each signatory institution is promotes methods of investing that take into account a company’s expected to endeavor reflecting ESG (environment, society and social responsibility (CSR), such as its environmental and social governance) issues and concerns to its own business practices. The initiatives, in addition to financial information. In recent years, Group was instrumental in the establishment of the principles from the Group has concentrated on the composition and sale of the drafting stage to the final framework. Both Daiwa Securities financial products based on an investment strategy called “Impact Group Inc. and Daiwa Asset Management became signatories in Investment,” where investments are directly made in organizations November 2011. that use the funds to solve social problems. From its position as a financial institution, the Daiwa Securities Group is endeavoring to contribute to society by developing and ● Promotion of Impact Investment marketing these products. In addition to pursuing economic gain, Impact Investment bonds the Group is dedicated to resolving a host of social issues. Compared to typical forms of SRI, Impact Investment focuses more ● Mission for Financial Institutions toward on investments that have direct impacts on society, addressing Solving the Global Social Issues environmental destruction on a global scale, poverty in developing countries, and other issues. It is a method that not only pursues The business sector’s role in endeavoring to create a sustainable economic benefits, but is also a way to allocate assets solely to society has become more important than ever. For financial activities targeted at resolving social issues, such as poverty and institutions, materialization of such a society through finance, their climate change. core capability, is a social mission. At the Daiwa Securities Group, As a financial institution, we have supported the alleviation we believe that our role is not only to maintain and develop an of problems in society by underwriting various types of Impact fair and dynamic financial market, but also to incorporate a social Investment bonds. perspective in finance and to facilitate the flow of money to build In FY2013, Daiwa Securities sold Impact Investment bonds worth sustainable society. ¥115.2 billion in issues for nine transactions. Cumulative offerings in Daiwa Securities Group 8 CSR REPORT 2014 Japan totaled ¥957.8 billion as of March 31, 2014, of which Daiwa In FY2013, we held seminars jointly with JICA at multiple branch Securities has placed ¥565.4 billion in Impact Investment bonds, for offices coinciding with the issuance of new JICA Bonds, giving a share of 59% (Source: Daiwa Securities). presentations about the current status of Impact Investment bonds and JICA’s activities. Lead manager for JICA Bonds sold to individual investors for three consecutive years / Joint First-ever sale of IFC Banking on Women Bonds seminars In November 2013, we underwrote and placed to retail investors Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) Bonds for individual the Banking on Women Bonds, issued by the International Finance investors are Impact Investment bonds available from only a Corporation (IFC). Proceeds of the bonds are used by the IFC to provide few issuers in Japan. They mainly provide retail investors with financing for female entrepreneurs in emerging countries. These bonds an opportunity to invest in international cooperative activities were the first of their kind in Japan. undertaken by JICA. In June 2013, before the Banking on Women Bonds were issued, Since December 2011, JICA has issued bonds for individual the IFC, Daiwa Securities Co. Ltd. and Japan Sustainable Investment investors every year, and did so again in December 2013. Daiwa Forum (JSIF) jointly sponsored a seminar about supporting the Securities has been one of the lead managers for JICA Bonds for empowerment of women in Africa and impact investment. At the three years straight, ever since the initial issuance, helping promote seminar, panel discussions and lectures introduced examples of BOP awareness of and the sale of the bonds. businesses in Africa and businesses managed by women, both of which are relatively unknown in Japan. Daiwa Securities Group’s History of SRI Funds and Impact Investment Bonds Market share of SRI funds Daiwa Securities cumulative sales Independent ¥55.4 billion*1 Assurance ●Daiwa New SmartGrid Fund ●Daiwa Nippon Support Fund Vol. 3 ●Daiwa Microfinance Fund 18% ● 2014 ●Daiwa/Blackrock Green New ●Green Bonds ● 2013 Energy Fund ●Next-Generation Environmental ●Water Bonds (2 times) ●Daiwa Energy Technology Fund Business Fund (limited open-type fund) ●“Eco Business Japan Stocks Open” Total ¥301.7 billion*2 ●Russell Global Environment Technology Fund ● 2012 ●JICA Bonds ●Ecology Bonds ● 2011 ●Banking on Women Bonds ●Agri Bonds (2 times) ●Global ●Six Asset Balance Fund ●Water Bond (KEXIM) Environment (distribution type) ●Microfinance Bonds ●Six Asset Balance Fund Equity Fund ●Global ● 2010 ●Vaccine Bonds (growth type) Environment ●Daiwa Eco Fund Foreign Bond Balance Fund ● 2009 ●JICA Bonds ●Microfinance Bonds ●Green Bonds ●Global Eco Growth ●Daiwa SRI ●Agri Bonds Fund Course A Fund ● 2008 ●Water Bonds ●Global Eco Growth ●DC Daiwa SRI Fund Course B Fund ●JICA Bonds ● 2007 ●Ecology Bonds ●Vaccine Bonds ●Poverty Reduction Bonds for ● 2006 Latin America and the Caribbean ●Ecology Bonds (2 times) Market share of Impact ● 2004 ●Microfinance Bonds (IFC) ●Education Bonds for Africa Investment bonds ●Poverty Reduction Bonds for Latin Daiwa Securities America and the Caribbean cumulative sale Independent ● ¥565.4 billion*1 Assurance 2001 ●Microfinance Bonds (EBRD) ●World CO2L Bonds ●Water Bonds ●Vaccine Bonds ●Vaccine Bonds ●Green World Bank Bonds 59% ●Microfinance Bonds (IFC) ●CO2L Bonds ●Vaccine Bonds *1 Source: Daiwa Securities *2 Source: Daiwa Fund Consulting Co. Ltd. Total ¥957.8 billion*1 (As of the end of March 2014) Daiwa Securities Group 9 CSR REPORT 2014 Independent Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) Funds Assurance Initiatives for ESG investment SRI funds are managed by evaluating and selecting stocks and ■Daiwa Asset Management and ESG investment bonds for their issuers’ social and environmental efforts, business Daiwa Asset Management has placed personnel in charge of ESG ethics, and other nonfinancial performance aspects, as well as within the Fund Management Division to promote ESG investment their level of sales and profit. These include eco-funds, for which in an organized manner as a signatory member of both PRI and the nonfinancial criteria used in evaluation are limited to environmental Principles for Financial Action for the 21st Century. In addition, in performance or which invest exclusively in companies operating engagement with investees through, inter alia, meetings with their environment-related businesses. Investing in such funds enables management and voting at their AGMs, we encourage them to be investors to indirectly support countries and firms actively engaged aware more of ESG issues and concerns and to adapt themselves in environmental conservation efforts and CSR activities via the appropriately. Meanwhile, we have been providing training and financial market. seminars within the company in order to raise understanding and Total net assets held in the Daiwa Securities Group’s SRI funds awareness of ESG investment among executives and employees. stood at ¥55.4 billion at the end of March 2014 (Source: Daiwa Moreover, we have introduced appropriate topics regarding ESG Securities). investment at the training sessions for companies marketing our investment trusts. Daiwa Microfinance Fund: As recent initiatives, coinciding with the introduction of JPXLending to microfinance institutions (MFIs) Nikkei Index 400, a new stock index on January 6, 2014, Daiwa Asset Management set up Daiwa JPX-Nikkei 400 Fund on January The Daiwa Microfinance Fund was launched on March 1, 2011 in 6, Daiwa Index Select JPX-Nikkei 400 on January 31 and Daiwa ETF order to support MFIs in developing countries financially by direct JPX-Nikkei 400 on March 26. These new funds were launched to lending and other measures. DWM Asset Management Inc., which track the new index. The selection criteria of the index constituents specializes in the microfinancing, provides portfolio management include ROE levels, corporate governance and information advisory services to the Fund. The Fund is lending to six MFIs as of disclosure. Thus, through management of these new investment March 2014. trusts, we expect to be able to help improve the capital efficiency of Japanese companies and the level of their corporate governance ● As a Responsible Institutional Investor cumulating into sustainable improvement of corporate value and bolstering the stock market. Adoption of “Japan’s Stewardship Code” In February 2014, Japan’s Financial Services Agency (FSA) ■Daiwa SB Investments and ESG Daiwa SB Investments signed PRI in 2012. Whilst we have been announced the “Principles for Responsible Institutional Investors, keen to ensure that we fulfill our “duty to maximize profit with also known as “Japan’s Stewardship Code.” The code was drawn a long-term perspective for the beneficiaries,” meaning that up to promote sustainable growth of businesses, in response we endeavor to improve our investment performance, we have to “The Japan Revitalization Strategy,” which was approved by concluded that utilizing the framework of PRI would contribute to Cabinet on June 14, 2013, through constructive dialogue between our efforts to ameliorate our investment decisions. We set up the businesses and various types of institutional investors whilst the ESG committee and rules to enhance our capacity to evaluate and latters dully fulfilling their fiduciary duties. The stewardship for analyze ESG issues of companies. institutional investors signifies careful management of assets for the maximum benefit of clients and beneficiaries and taking action to promote sustainable growth of companies invested in. Daiwa Asset Management and Cluster Munitions The Chief Investment Officer (CIO) of Daiwa Asset Management Keeping up with the implementation of the Oslo Convention on participated in the process of drawing up the Code as a member Cluster Munitions in August 2010, Daiwa Asset Management, as of the “Council of Experts Concerning the Japanese Version of an asset management company operating in a signatory country, the Stewardship Code” established by the FSA, and the company has introduced the principles outlined below when investing in or announced its adoption of the Code in May 2014. otherwise dealing with cluster munitions producers. Daiwa Securities and Daiwa SB Investments also declared compliance with the Code, striving to take initiatives to fulfill 1. Do not include the securities of cluster munitions producers in their stewardship responsibilities, such as further engagement in actively managed funds. Promptly sell those already included. dialogue with investees. 2. In exercising voting rights associated with shares issued by cluster munitions producers, vote in favor of any shareholder proposals to withdraw from, or scale down, cluster munitions production. Daiwa Securities Group 10 CSR REPORT 2014 investment fund manager with experience in real estate investment ● Support for the creation of our future society in healthcare and nursing care facilities. The REIT’s initial size of assets under management was approximately ¥9 billion, including Support for Cultivating a Capital Market in paid retirement housing, serviced residential facilities for the elderly, Myanmar hospitals and comprehensive outpatient facilities. The REIT launched Daiwa Institute of Research Ltd. (DIR), Tokyo Stock Exchange operations in March 2014 and is looking to be listed on the Tokyo Group, Inc. (currently, the Japan Exchange Group), and the Central Stock Exchange. Bank of Myanmar signed a memorandum of understanding pertaining to cooperation toward establishing a securities exchange Initiatives for the “Data Health Plan” and supporting the development of a capital market in Myanmar Due to a rapidly aging population combined with a falling in May 2012. A major component of the memorandum is the birthrate, Japan’s medical costs have been surging and insurance establishment of a securities exchange in 2015. The bourse premium revenues have been falling in recent years, leading to is expected to provide companies in Myanmar fund-raising a serious deterioration in the finances of the country’s health opportunities while facilitating investors’ wealth creation. In the insurance programs. Under such circumstances,“The Japan ensuing period, DIR has put in place a variety of measures, such Revitalization Strategy,” which was approved by Cabinet in June as providing recommendations to government officials, holding 2013, incorporated the goal of “extending the nation’s healthy seminars in Myanmar, and accepting trainees. life expectancy.” The government states that “it will require all the On April 8, 2013, DIR and ACE Data Systems Ltd. (ACE), one health insurance associations followings: to analyze data such as of a small number of leading IT companies in Myanmar, jointly medical information on health insurance claims and medical checkestablished DIR-ACE Technology Ltd. to provide IT services in ups of their members, and, utilizing such analysis, to develop, Myanmar. ACE offers services related to banking systems in announce, implement and evaluate a project program called “Data Myanmar. DIR has been building a cooperative relationship with Health Plan” to maintain and improve their members’ welfare. ACE since December 2010, primarily through the outsourcing of Meanwhile, Daiwa Institute of Research Business Innovation systems development in securities operations. provides data processing systems to more than 400 of Japan’s On May 31, 2013, DIR signed a Memorandum of Understanding roughly 1,400 health insurance associations. It has built and started (MOU) with the Central Bank of Myanmar regarding IT support, offering information analyzing systems based on a database and DIR has provided PCs and a cloud computing environment of medical information on approximately 7.5 million people to the central bank. DIR plans to provide an additional 1,000 PCs accumulated from the business. or more, enough for almost every employee at the central bank. Daiwa Institute of Research Business Innovation’s medical Moreover, an agreement has been reached for deploying a stateinformation database plays a crucial role for the promotion of this of-the-art modular data center in Yangon City, Myanmar. Data Health Plan because data analysis is essential for the plan. We The Daiwa Securities Group will continue to harness its collective will utilize the business base and medical information database it strengths to help cultivate a capital market in Myanmar going has built by providing data processing systems to these associations, forward. thereby helping facilitate their making of Data Health Plans. We will continue to carry out initiatives of social significance, such as presenting the government with measures to improve welfare and to reduce medical expenses. Fund Established to Support Unlisted Companies in Disaster-Stricken Areas Daiwa Corporate Investment Co., Ltd., along with the Organization for Small & Medium Enterprises and Regional Innovation, JAPAN, The 77 Bank, Ltd., Bank of Iwate, Ltd., Toho Bank, Ltd., Aomori Bank, Ltd., and other institutions financed the creation of the East Signing ceremony held on May 31, 2013 Japan Earthquake SME Reconstruction Support Fund. Targeting unlisted private companies, the fund aims to expeditiously provide Establishment of Nippon Healthcare Investment risk finance mainly in the form of equity. By supplying finance for Corporation, Japan’s First Investment Corporation a variety of purposes, including restoration and reconstruction following the earthquake disaster, new business development, the (REIT) Specializing in Healthcare Facilities shift to a new industry or line of business, business reorganization In January 2014, in response to the progressive aging of society, and succession, and business incubation, the goal is to actively Daiwa Real Estate Asset Management Co. Ltd. established Nippon support companies in their efforts to secure renewed growth and Healthcare Investment Corporation as the first REIT in Japan development. Daiwa Corporate Investment established a new specializing in healthcare facilities. The advisor is AIP-Japan GK, an branch office in Tohoku to administer the Fund, and supports Daiwa Securities Group 11 CSR REPORT 2014 growth in the companies targeted by the Fund by leveraging the ESG IR events and ESG seminars Daiwa Securities Group’s far-reaching network and by working In response to growing awareness of ESG among issuers and closely with the Organization for Small & Medium Enterprises and investors, Daiwa Securities continued to present IR events focusing Regional Innovation and regional financial institutions. the issues and have started to arrange ESG seminars in FY2013. We Investments have already been made for rebuilding companies arranged and sponsored three seminars during the year, targeting affected by the natural disaster in the seafood processing and both issuers and investors commencing with “Transformation of shipbuilding industries, as well as for venture companies spun off Corporate Governance in Japan” in September. from universities in the fields of completely artificial lighting plant nurseries and the development of new next-generation materials for hard wiring. We convey to local governments and the Tohoku Photovoltaic power generation projects branches of central government agencies the opinions and requests participation in Saitama Eco-Town project of companies invested in by the Fund as well as investment candidate companies. We focus on accelerating growth at venture Refer to “Environmental Initiatives” on page 39 companies and the rebuilding of companies affected by the natural disaster by explaining to investees ways to utilize business matching schemes and expert assistance systems provided by the national government, as well as the policies of public institutions and their various forms of assistance. Shipbuilding plant under repair work Dock reopened after repair work Daiwa Securities Group 12 CSR REPORT 2014 Management Report CSR Management Approach and Basic Stance The Daiwa Securities Group Management Vision is to become one of Asia’s leading financial services firms leveraging our solid business platform in Japan. In order to achieve this vision, we will continue to strengthen our ability to respond to our CSR key issues by maintaining a high level of employee awareness concerning ESG issues and striving for vigorous dialogue with stakeholders. issues. For example, information on CSR is taught to Group’s newly ● CSR Promotion System hired employees. The CSR group promotes and raises awareness of CSR issues throughout branches and departments across Japan For materialization of a sustainable society and our vision, our and major overseas sites and builds a network of cooperation. The officers and employees endeavor to implement our corporate CSR group has also organized dialogues on various CSR issues with principles through their business operations. experts of various fields and posted them on our CSR website as We are promoting the PDCA (Plan, Do, Check and Act) cycle “CSR Dialogue” where each department reviews its challenges and achievements * Starting in April every year, recognizes issues of its own and then set targets for the following year. CSR Dialogue Specifically the CSR Group of the Corporate Communication Department at Daiwa Securities Group Inc. under the Corporate Since 2004, the Daiwa Securities Group has held dialogues Communication Officer, an executive officer,* actively seeks with experts in relevant fields on CSR issues associated with information and holds dialogues at external and internal meetings. the economy and finance as well as environment, society and CSR issues and our progress are shared regularly with the governance (ESG) information. We have had 49 dialogues thus far Executive officer at numerous meetings and are disseminated to with four conducted in fiscal 2013 on current issues. the members of the Group depending on the importance of the Web CSR Dialogue CSR Promotion System Daiwa Securities Group Inc. Foundations President and CEO Stakeholders Daiwa Securities Health Dialogue Executive officers Customers Foundation Shareholders Daiwa Securities Foundation Business partners Daiwa Anglo-Japanese Direction and order Reporting Dialogue Foundation (UK) Government Daiwa Myanmar-Japan CSR Group, Corporate NPOs / NGOs Foundation (Myanmar) Communication Department Local communities Communication of information and Consulting and Employees Group companies Dialogue development of reporting awareness Departments within Daiwa Securities Group Inc. Daiwa Securities Group 13 CSR REPORT 2014 For example, as a member of the responsible institutional investor ● Value Chain Management community, the Group actively participated in various initiatives like the discussions upon introducing Japan's version of the UK Approach, basic stance and promotion system Stewardship Code, the Principles for Financial Action for the 21st For the Daiwa Securities Group, securities such as stocks and bonds Century in Japan and Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI). are core financial products, thus companies and organizations Thus, we have established an appropriate promotion system issuing these securities as well as investors investing in them are that enables us to provide investors with better quality financial our important customers. We believe that we are responsible for products and services with consideration to environment, society building and maintaining a transparent and fair value chain which and governance. also contributes to the development of a sustainable society; and Meanwhile, in order to ensure that we do not have any thus have established the necessary systems. Asset management relationships with anti-social forces, we have established a set of and sales of investment products are also part of the Group’s core rules and a database among Group companies and eradicated antioperations. We have established a system that gives consideration social forces from our supply chain. to environment, society and governance when making investments. Value Chain Management Dialogue under “Japan‘s Stewardship Code”* Issuers Investors Corporate Finance Financial Investment Capital expenditure Capital Markets Research and Equities development Equities bonds Institutional Business firms Issuance Return M&As, etc. bonds investors Investment trust Public works, National/local etc. governments Proceeds Securitized Investment assets Derivatives Individual retail Securities company International investors organizations securitized products Public corporations Funding needs Asset management needs * Refer to “As a responsible institutional investor“ on page 10 Daiwa Securities Group 14 CSR REPORT 2014 CSR Issues: Performance and Targets Self-evaluation of fiscal 2013 results: Degree of achievement of the mid-term goal and realization of the ideal: ◎ : success (significant) ○ : success (moderate) △ : little success × : not attempted or failed Key Issue 1 Leveraging Financial Capabilities to Contribute to a Sustainable Society Targets for fiscal 2013 Results for Fiscal 2013 SelfTargets for Fiscal 2014 evaluation Promote of SRI and Impact = Sold ¥115.2 billion of Impact Investment bonds (nine transactions) ◎ Promote of SRI and Impact Investments Investments = Hosted a seminar on the Banking on Woman bonds issued by the International Provide of expanded CSR and SRI Finance Corporation (IFC) Implement of CSR initiatives through ○ information = Disseminated ESG reports (Daiwa Institute of Research) business across the Group = Held ESG IR meetings = Continued offering grants through the Daiwa Securities Phoenix Japan program Provide assistance for = Continued providing funds through Great East Japan Earthquake Small and Mid-Sized Continue of reconstruction support for reconstruction from the Great East Enterprise Reconstruction Support Fund ◎ the Great East Japan Earthquake Japan Earthquake = Hosted a seminar reporting on reconstruction support for areas devastated by the 2004 Indian Ocean Earthquake and Tsunami and 2011 Great East Japan Earthquake. Key Issue 2 Developing Sound Financial and Capital Markets for the Next Generation SelfTargets for fiscal 2013 Results for Fiscal 2013 Targets for Fiscal 2014 evaluation = University lectures (including at Keio Business School) Contribute to support improving = Welcomed students and teachers from junior and senior high schools for corporate Contribute to support improving ○ economic and financial education study (eleven groups) economic and financial education = Decided to set up a booth at Finance Park in Iwaki City and Sendai City Hold seminars and forums (at least Host forums and seminars on more three) for customers and general = Offered Finance Classroom for Beginners (with sign language and closed captioning) ◎ defined subjects public CSR Management Targets for fiscal 2013 Results for Fiscal 2013 SelfTargets for Fiscal 2014 evaluation Seek to review the boundaries of Hold dialogues with specialists of = Presented four “Understanding CSR through Dialogues” discussions ○ stakeholders by grasping wide range of various fields social issues through dialogues Strengthen coordination between Build stronger internal bonds between related departments and sections = Group companies cooperated in CSR initiatives through business ○ the Group's related departments within the Group Risk Management Targets for fiscal 2013 Results for Fiscal 2013 SelfTargets for Fiscal 2014 evaluation = Conducted business continuity exercise in cooperation with Group companies Strengthen crisis management in Strengthen crisis management system = Continued to conduct post-disaster safety confirmation exercises and reinforced ○ disasters for disasters Group awareness of crisis management and readiness Daiwa Securities Group 15 CSR REPORT 2014 Compliance Targets for fiscal 2013 Results for Fiscal 2013 SelfTargets for Fiscal 2014 evaluation = Implemented internal control systems in step with expansion of the business = Strengthened self-monitoring of ethics at headquarter departments and sections Provide and reinforce of = Strengthened internal controls by improving cooperation with Daiwa Next Bank and corporation-wide internal controls; the relevant departments in light of expanded bank agency operations Reinforce corporation-wide internal building awareness of high ◎ = Substantially increased the frequency of on-site visits by compliance officers and controls standards of professional ethics and strengthened cooperation with line managers and internal control officers. Held compliance monthly compliance meetings at several departments and sections, thereby providing support to strengthen their self-monitoring and improving capabilities = Conducted appropriate marketing and provided adequate explanations according to customer characteristics = Strengthened the customer management system at the corporate sales division = Tightened policy for sales of private bonds and took initiatives toward eliminating unnecessary product switching; as a result, the number of problematic transactions Further increase in sales service fell and sales service quality improved. Moreover, reduced clerical work to be quality; continuing implementation performed by sales staff and thereby achieved an improvement in sales efficiency Thoroughly emphasize on adoption of ◎ of business from the customer's = Revised rules for older customers based on guidelines set by the Japan Securities sales from the customer’s perspective perspective Dealers Association and reinforced awareness by conducting training for line group heads at all sales branches = Strengthened the customer management system at the corporate sales division by ensuring, especially for corporate clients classified as non-institutional investors, that rules for selecting their representatives with power were followed and that discussions were arranged with customers investing in high-risk products = Introduced and implemented policy for management of confidential corporate information Management of confidential corporate information: Continued to require approval by superiors at relevant departments and sections and conducted the verification of registration of confidential corporate information by compliance officers. No problems have been found occurred thus far. Establish of robust information Establish of sound information security = Raised awareness of information security security policy and systems to ◎ policy and systems to exclude antiInformation security: Focused on ensuring that employees do not use their exclude anti-social forces social forces personal cellphones for business purposes. We will continue our efforts to decrease such use. = Strengthened the screening system by expanding a database of criminal syndicates Measures against anti-social forces: Strengthened systems to exclude anti-social forces by organizing a database and implementing a change in rules for checks at head office Reinforce group companies efforts — — — against anti-social forces Information Disclosure Targets for fiscal 2013 Results for Fiscal 2013 SelfTargets for Fiscal 2014 evaluation = Provided information on steady progress of the Group Medium-Term Management Plan at earnings announcements and management strategy briefing sessions as well Increase the provision of Implement of strict information as in annual reports and business reports. Explained our growth strategy to take ◎ information in the “Growth” phase management the lead in the flow of money from savings to investments whilst expanding our customer base = Continued to design annual reports in a way suitable for web browsing. As a result, Improve website functionality the number of copies of annual reports sent to overseas investors fell 30% year-on◎ — year. = Increased opportunities to meet with investors, especially those who had never had meetings with us before. The number of meetings with investors for fiscal 2013 rose to approximately 300 from about 250 for fiscal 2012. = Held two IR events and 32 meetings in North America, two IR events and 25 meetings in Europe and two IR events and 26 meetings in Asia. IR events in Asia included our first visits to investors in South Korea and Malaysia as our efforts to target sovereign wealth funds in the region. Expand of briefings about the group for Implement effective IR activities = Started distributing audio files of presentations simultaneously interpreted in English ◎ individual investors that suit each investor base on Daiwa Securities Group Inc.’s website from the telephone conference held after Examine new formats of IR events the first quarter earnings announcement in order to make our communications even more accessible for overseas investors = Held briefings for individual investors for the first time in five years at 10 sites. Attracted a total of roughly 1,000 participants by tying up with investment seminars and investor meetings of other companies in cooperation with our Sales Offices and the Retail Marketing Strategy Dept. Daiwa Securities Group 16 CSR REPORT 2014 Relationship with Customers Targets for fiscal 2013 Results for Fiscal 2013 SelfTargets for Fiscal 2014 evaluation = Continually organized seminars on national and international market conditions at each sales branch on the fifth day of every month; in addition, held inheritancerelated seminars to meet growing demand seen in recent years, seminars on NISA, which was introduced in January 2014, and a variety of other information seminars Strengthen post-sales service ◎ Active post-sale follow up = Organized large-scale seminars to provide information, including “Daiwa New Year’s Lectures for 2014” held at eight sites—Tokyo, Osaka, Nagoya, Kyoto, Kobe, Sapporo, Fukuoka and Yokohama = Continued to present day-to-day market reports, fund reports, and other information on our websites in a timely manner Relationship with Employees Targets for fiscal 2013 Results for Fiscal 2013 SelfTargets for Fiscal 2014 evaluation = Continued to improve internal training systems for younger employees Introduced an Annex Learning system: expanded the tutoring system; expanded training for managerial skills further Develop human resource = Expantion of training for managerial skills Develop human resource through through strategic promotion and ◎ = Increased number of female employees at management levels (221 as of the end of strategic promotion and appointments appointments March 2014) = Increased the number of female employees seeking improved career paths (850 employees transferred to career-track positions in the five years from fiscal 2009 to fiscal 2013) = Professional global talent training 555 employees hold CFP (Certified Financial Planner) 1,461 employees hold the CMA® (Chartered Member of the Securities Analysts Association of Japan) Pursue of a high standard of Pursue of a high standard of 929 employees sat for the TOEIC (Test of English for International Communication) held professional competence to meet the ◎ professional competence to meet the internally; 1,470 of our employees hold TOEIC scores of 730 or higher trust of our customers trust of our customers Introduced a global trainee course and an expert course Introduced five practical training courses that are designed to improve employees’ expertise (including courses on inheritance and business succession, securities analysis, and investment banking advisory) = Worked to change employee awareness through promotion of family-friendly measures, including family visits to the workplace (4,476 families visited) and encouragement to leave the office before 7 p.m. = Achieved a high standard of work-life balance Establish environment where all Distributed a questionnaire on support for balancing work and child care to all employees Establish environment where all Implemented measures to encourage employees to use our programs and take employees can continue to work with ◎ employees can continue to work with annual leave in light of the results of the questionnaire high motivation high motivation Set up a WLB (Work-Life Balance) advisory committee = Increased the number of employees who took advantage of our workplace relocation program (136 people as of the end of March 2014) = Expanded our Senior Advisors program to encourage senior employees Offered re-employment of Senior Advisors up to the age of 70 Relationship with Society Targets for fiscal 2013 Results for Fiscal 2013 SelfTargets for Fiscal 2014 evaluation Build consciousness for volunteering Build consciousness for volunteering among among employees and improved = Posted opportunities for volunteering and other events on our internal website (56 ○ employees and improving communication communication of volunteering in total) of volunteering information opportunities = Introduced the “Table for Two Program” subsidizing school meals in developing Promote group-wide action programs ◎ Promote of cross-Group programs countries and won a “Gold Supporter” award from the organizer Bolster an environment that helps — — — employees take advantage of opportunities for volunteering. Environmental Initiatives Targets for fiscal 2013 Results for Fiscal 2013 SelfTargets for Fiscal 2014 evaluation CO2 emissions reduction by 1% compared with the previous year Expand of the introduction of eco-cars (domestic consolidated basis) as a part = Achieved the goal of reducing CO2 emissions by 1% from the previous year of the Group’s ongoing compliance Continued to take energy saving initiatives including the implementation of the Initiatives for the reduction of electricity with the Law Concerning the ◎ “Cool Biz” program consumption (reducing consumption Rational Use of Energy, and Tokyo’s environmental protection ordinances = Carried out energy savings measures through on and off-peak periods per unit area in fiscal 2020 by at least Continuation of the Cool Biz program 10% from the level of fiscal 2009) as part of energy saving initiatives Improve the accumulation of — — — environment-related data and honing skills to analyze those data Purchase products certified under the — — — Top Runner standards Daiwa Securities Group 17 CSR REPORT 2014 Management Report Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Approach and Basic Stance The Daiwa Securities Group clearly separates the oversight and executive functions of management to create a highly transparent and objective corporate governance system. The Group is pursuing a management structure that improves the efficiency of head office operations at the Daiwa Securities Group, our holding company, and maximizes synergies between Group companies. For this end, the holding company‘s employees responsible for head office functions also perform roles for securities subsidiaries. ● Features System of the Corporate Governance The Nomination Committee met three times in FY2013 to discuss the composition of the Board of Directors and its effect on In 1999, the Daiwa Securities Group became the first listed corporate governance, the basic policy for nominating candidates Japanese company to adopt a holding company structure. Since for directorships, and the selection of these candidates. The then, we have been pursuing a highly transparent and objective Nomination Committee selects candidates for directorships in light corporate governance system that maximizes synergies between of the Group’s selection standards for the appointment of directors. Group companies while valuing the independence and unique These standards include criteria that ensure the independence of expertise of each Group member. outside directors. In June 2004, Daiwa Securities Group Inc. made the transition to The Audit Committee met 12 times in FY2013. The committee a “Committee System” of corporate governance and accelerated evaluated the activities of directors and corporate executive officers, the decision-making process by transferring a substantial portion audited documentation including financial statements and business of authority from the Board of Directors to corporate executive reports, and prepared an audit report for the period under review. officers. In addition, we strengthened the management oversight The Compensation Committee met five times in FY2013 to by increasing the number of outside directors and establishing the discuss the compensation policy and determine the compensation Nominating Committee, Audit Committee, and Compensation of each director, and also studied a Group-wide incentive plan Committee. aimed at improving consolidated earnings results. The representative directors of major Group companies also serve The Board of Directors met 10 times in FY2013, and outside as corporate executive officers of the holding company, thereby directors had a 100% record of attendance. allowing them to efficiently implement individual business strategies based on Group strategies. Corporate Governance System at Daiwa Securities Group Shareholders’ Meeting Board of Directors, Nomination Committee, Audit Committee, 4 members Compensation Committee, 6 members 5 members 13 members (including (including 4 outside directors) (including 3 outside directors) (including 3 outside directors) 5 outside directors) Audits the activities of directors Sets policy for compensation Nominates directors for and corporate executive of directors and corporate Basic management policy selection, or recommends officers, audits business reports executive officers, and dismissal and financial statements, and determines compensation prepares audit reports amount for each Executive Management Group Risk Management Overseas Management Committee, 13 members Disclosure Committee Group IT Strategy Committee Committee Committee Gathers information on the Determines scope of Makes decisions on issues Group-wide business strategy system and current situation consolidated financial reports, Prepares original IT investment related to the management and management issues, of risk management, and sets scope of evaluation of internal budget, evaluates and monitors of overseas offices and other important financial matters policy and strategy regarding control reports and disclosure of IT investments operations abroad risk management important information Group Internal Audit Committee Representative Executive Makes decisions on issues Officer relating to the internal audit system and the verification of internal control activities (As of June 30, 2014) Daiwa Securities Group 18 CSR REPORT 2014 ● Executive Compensation More Closely Linked to Performance ● Internal Internal Audit Control System and Compensation for directors and corporate executive officers is In recognition that management is responsible for maintaining an determined by the Compensation Committee. It generally has effective internal control system to ensure the sound and proper three components: basic compensation, performance-based execution of business, the Group, under the main initiative of Daiwa compensation, and stock-price-linked compensation. Securities Group Inc., has established a system for managing the Comprehensive criteria used in calculating performance-based Group’s major business risks. The Group also maintains this internal compensation include consolidated ordinary income and ROE, as control system for ensuring “business effectiveness and efficiency,” well as other factors including which of the management goals “reliable financial reporting,” “compliance with laws related to outlined in the Medium-Term Management Plan have been met. business activities,” and “asset preservation.” The Internal Audit Department verifies the internal control ● Supervisory Function system. The department, established independently from all other departments and reporting to a dedicated corporate executive The Board of Directors consists of 13*1 directors, including five officer, ensures internal audits to act as an important function of outside directors*2 and two female directors. The Board of Directors raising Group value through the creation of sound and efficient determines key management policy and oversees executive internal controls. The department’s internal auditing plans and duties. In order to perform this supervisory role from multiple the results of internal audits are reported to and approved by the viewpoints in accordance with the demands of society, the policy Group Internal Audit Committee, which is directly under the control for selecting new board members states that candidates must of the CEO of Daiwa Securities Group Inc. Plans and results are also have a strong sense of ethics and demonstrate initiative and reported to the Audit Committee. leadership. Additionally, outside directors are experts in such fields Daiwa Securities Group Inc. seeks to raise corporate value by as management and accounting. In addition, the supervisory effectively conducting internal audits, and implements risk-based function of Daiwa Securities Group Inc. is reinforced by the Audit internal audits primarily through its Internal Audit Department. Committee and the Office of the Audit Committee. The Audit The Internal Audit Department pays special attention to certain Committee, which consists of a majority of outside directors,*2 aspects of Group internal auditing activities, including the internal plays a pivotal role in the supervision of executive duties. The Audit control systems at Daiwa Securities Co. Ltd. and the Group’s Committee is assisted by the Office of the Audit Committee, which overseas business offices as a global financial services group, the is a department independent of execution of business. internal control systems at Daiwa Next Bank, Ltd. as a bank, the *1 As of June 30, 2014 status of Group-related businesses, and the status of controls over *2 Outside directors as defined by Article 2-15 of Japan’s Companies Act Group companies at the parent company. The Internal Audit Department collaborates with the internal ● Preventing Conflict-of-Interest Transactions between Group Companies auditing section of each Group company within the context of holding periodic meetings, monitoring activities, and performing Conflict-of-interest transactions between Group companies can audits. It also formulates policies that apply to all Group internal occur in situations such as intra-Group trading. The Daiwa Securities audits, plans risk-based audits, and monitors these activities. Group applies rules regarding conflicts of interest stipulated by The Internal Audit Department maintains communications with Japan’s Companies Act to Executive Committees as well as Board the Audit Committee and External Auditor, making any necessary meetings. Conflicts of interest within the Group are prevented adjustments to ensure that audits are performed efficiently. through a rule prohibiting an executive officer from voting when he The Audit Committee on occasionally asks the Internal Audit or she is also the director of an interested Group company. Department to conduct an audit. Internal Audit System of the Daiwa Securities Group Daiwa Securities Group Inc. CEO Board of Directors Exchange of opinions Group Internal Audit Committee Executive officer in charge of internal audit Group Internal (chaired by the CEO) (Global Internal Audit Line Head) Audit Committee Accounting auditor Deliberation, decision making and reporting Overseeing and reporting Delegation of audit work and reporting Internal Audit Department Communication and Internal audit staff member adjustment works at the Internal Audit Department of both Direct auditing Monitoring/collaboration/direct auditing companies Domestic Group companies without Domestic Group companies with Daiwa Securities Internal Audit Department an internal auditing section an internal auditing section Monitoring/collaboration/direct auditing Global Internal Audit Line Regional Heads (Asia and Oceania region, Europe and Middle East region, and Americas region) Overseas Group companies Daiwa Securities Group 19 CSR REPORT 2014 Management Report Corporate Governance Compliance Approach and Basic Stance The Daiwa Securities Group’s corporate principles identify “building trust,” “placing importance on personnel,” “contributing to society,” and “maintaining robust earnings results” as among the most important goals of our business operations. We believe that compliance is essential to realize these corporate principles. The goal of the Group’s compliance activities is not merely to “comply with laws and regulations,” but to earn the trust of customers, the market, society, and shareholders. ● The Daiwa Securities Group’s Approach to Compliance Compliance Training Improving compliance awareness Daiwa Securities Group companies provide regular training and In order to make our executives and employees contribute to testing to improve compliance awareness and ensure that all sustainable growth of the society with elevated ethical mindset, employees embrace Daiwa’s Corporate Principles and that selfwe always take steps to educate and train them to uphold external discipline is exercised under any circumstance. regulations, exercise self-discipline and appropriate conducts. These Daiwa Securities holds numerous compliance training sessions, compliance training programs commence as soon as employees join making full use of e-learning technologies. the Group and continue through regularly scheduled training sessions Every year, we provide compliance training for all employees. We encompassing their careers, thus ensuring that every employee is aware also have a wide range of training emphasizing practical aspects, of, and thoroughly understands, compliance related issues. As the including compliance education and awareness activities for new Group pursues new business ventures in areas where the regulatory hires and newly appointed managers, group training programs, and structure is still incomplete, employees are trained to approach all training on the firewall regulation. matters with strong self-discipline and legal awareness, refer to existing legal precedents whenever possible, and always adhere to accepted Countermeasures to Anti-social Forces social norms of proper behavior. Initiatives the Group has taken to eliminate any and all relations with corporate racketeers and other anti-social forces involve Measures for Maintaining Information Security collecting information on their increasingly sophisticated methods In FY2013, Group companies continued to implement training by working closely with the police and other relevant organization, and spread knowledge about insider trading as a part of efforts and legal experts, and by enhancing the Group’s various outward to prevent insider trading. In order to fulfill its social responsibility procedures for scrupulously severing contact with such groups. as an active participant in the financial and capital markets, as In addition, Group companies share relevant information and well as gain the trust of customers, the Group has adopted a full take other unified steps to eliminate any and all relations with antispectrum of information security policies at companies throughout social forces. the Group to ensure that important personal information received from customers and all other information resources are managed in a secure and appropriate manner. ● Basic Policy on Avoiding Any Involvement with Anti-social Forces The Security Group Minimum Standard is a basic policy for To ensure fairness and the sound development of the securities market and information security Group-wide. Following this basic policy, Group protect our customers and employees, the Daiwa Securities Group has created companies maintain related rules for information security. These a framework to eliminate the influence of organized anti-social forces, gang rules about information security are made available on the corporate members, corporate extortionists, and other criminal elements and takes intranet to ensure all employees and executives adhere to the rules. systematic measures to avoid all ties with such elements. Using e-learning and other resources, training, education and an 1. The Daiwa Securities Group will not carry out any transactions whatsoever aptitude test about information security are implemented on a periodic with anti-social forces. basis. 2. If it is determined that parties already having transactions with the Daiwa Refer to “IT Governance, Disclosure, and Information Security” on page 24 Securities Group are anti-social forces, we will swiftly take appropriate measures to terminate dealings with them. 3. The Daiwa Securities Group will provide no funds to anti-social forces. Anti-Corruption Initiatives 4. The Daiwa Securities Group will accept no unfair demands from anti-social forces. If it is determined that an unfair demand has been made by anti-social In line with the principles of the United Nations Global Compact, forces, we will take legal action in the civil or criminal court against the party the Daiwa Securities Group has established an anti-corruption making the demand. system that requires each of our Group companies in and outside 5. The Daiwa Securities Group establishes close cooperative relationships with of Japan to implement rules appropriate for its operations and outside parties such as the police force, the National Center for the Elimination applicable laws and regulations, while reinforcing awareness of Boryokudan (anti-social forces), legal experts, and others. through measures like e-learning. We will take initiatives to further improve our anti-corruption system. 20 Daiwa Securities Group 20 CSR REPORT 2014 Structure and Achievement of Whistle-Blowing Compliance Initiatives at Daiwa Securities Co. Ltd. System (Corporate Ethics Hotline) Daiwa Securities Co. Ltd. is taking measures in line with the Since January 2003, the Daiwa Securities Group has been operating compliance program to ensure the effective operation of our a Corporate Ethics Hotline, through which employees can report internal control system and strict compliance of our sales activities problems in the workplace directly to a corporate ethics officer of with laws and regulations. Daiwa Securities Group Inc. or an outside lawyer. When the Hotline In FY2013, Daiwa Securities Co. Ltd. upgraded and reinforced is contacted, the corporate ethics officer, in cooperation with the company-wide internal management systems and foster better internal control officers at each Group company, carries out a factawareness of professional ethics and compliance issues; to further finding investigation, while taking steps to protect the caller. The improve quality of its marketing and firmly establish customerCorporate Ethics Hotline was contacted 29 times in fiscal 2013, up oriented sales; and to build robust information management 12 from the previous fiscal year. systems and system for eradicating anti-social forces. The Group is working to make the Corporate Ethics Hotline well For FY2014, the Company decided to create the following known to all employees, including staff at affiliated companies three compliance programs to reinforce the initiatives taken in and temporary workers, in order to ensure that anyone can use the previous year. It will strive to bolster its internal management it without hesitation. We are also making efforts to respond as systems further. quickly as possible when calls are received. The Group is taking 1. Greater emphasis on sales from the customer’s perspective steps to improve the Hotline so that it can work effectively as a 2. Reinforcement of company-wide internal controls deterrent to prevent problems before they occur, not just as a 3. Establishment of sound information security policy and measure to solve problems. systems to exclude anti-social forces Daiwa Securities’ Compliance Framework Customers Person in charge of compliance (Head of Internal Administration Supervisors) Compliance Section Sales branches Education and support Internal administration Sales supervisor supervisor Compliance Control Department Verification, guidance and oversight Consultations and reports Compliance Department Inspection Sales branch employees Headquarters ● Calling alert to prevent fraudulent sale of unlisted stocks Daiwa Securities Co. Ltd. has been warning its customers of fraudulent solicitations by showing a reminder message “Watch out for solicitation of investment in unlisted stocks or bonds by swindlers who call themselves Daiwa Securities” on a prominent part of the top page of its website and improving the website’s contents. Similar measures have been implemented by Daiwa Securities Group Inc., Daiwa Asset Management, and Daiwa SB Investments Ltd. Daiwa Securities Group 21 CSR REPORT 2014 Management Report Corporate Governance Risk Management Approach and Basic Stance While the Daiwa Securities Group pursues profitability and growth, we also recognize the importance of identifying and evaluating the various risks associated with our business operations accurately, and controlling them effectively. Our objective is to improve corporate value steadily by maintaining a sound financial base and profit structure by properly balancing risks and returns and by implementing effective risk control and management. ● Risk Management Policy ● Type of Risks Daiwa Securities Group Inc. has established “The Rules of Risk We face various risks in the course of our business activities and Management” governing all activities by Group companies to thus believe it is important to properly identify, evaluate, and manage risk in order to ensure that they conform to the following manage these risks in order to maintain robust financial and basic policies: earnings structures. Daiwa Securities Group Inc. engages in risk 1. Management’s proactive involvement in risk management. management to clearly identify risks based on the respective Group 2. Implementing a risk management system commensurate with company’s business characteristics and risk profile. The types of the nature of such risks in the Group’s management. risks that have been deemed important to manage include market 3. Understanding comprehensive risk based on integrated risk risk, credit risk, liquidity risk, operational risk, and reputational risk. management and strengthening capital. 4. Clarifying the risk management process. Limits are set for each type of risk so as to control risk within an amount suitable for the management strength of the Group. Risk Management System Daiwa Securities Group Inc. Group companies Nomination Committee Daiwa Securities Board of Directors Audit Committee Policy formulation Daiwa Capital Markets Europe and Executive Management Compensation Committee instruction Committee Daiwa Capital Markets Hong Kong Representative Group Internal Audit Committee Executive Officer Daiwa Capital Markets America Group Risk Management Committee Daiwa Asset Management Reporting Daiwa Office Investment Corporation CRO * Discussion Daiwa Corporate Investment and reporting Comprehensive risk management structure Daiwa PI Partners Risk Management Department Daiwa Securities SMBC Principal Investments Operational risk Market Credit Liquidity risk risk risk Operations Systems Information Compliance Legal Human Physical Daiwa Next Bank security resources assets risk risk risk risk risk risk risk Other Group companies * Chief Risk Officer Daiwa Securities Group 22 CSR REPORT 2014 ● Risk Management System ● Business Continuity Plan The Board of Directors of Daiwa Securities Group Inc. has approved To be prepared for emergencies, we have drawn up a business “The Rules of Risk Management.” This rule defines basic policies continuity plan (BCP) prioritizing important operations* to be related to risk management, the types of risks that are necessary restored and continued in order to keep the financial markets to be managed, and the executive and department for each major open and to protect customers’ economic activities. Envisioned risk. Each subsidiary conducts risk management suitable for the risk emergencies which might make our head office functions, branches profile and size of each business in accordance with these basic and data centers or other important facilities inoperative include: policies related to risk management. earthquakes, fires, storms, floods, other extraordinary weather Daiwa Securities Group Inc. monitors the system and situation of its conditions, terrorism, serious outbreaks of infectious diseases, subsidiaries’ risk management. Also, the Group Risk Management such as new strains of influenza, and serious disruptions of social Committee, as a sub-committee of the Executive Management infrastructures and services due to such events. Committee of Daiwa Securities Group Inc., receives reports about In accordance with this plan, we will not only ensure the safety risk exposures obtained via the aforementioned monitoring of of customers, our employees, and protection of our assets but will subsidiaries and themes concerning their risk management system strive to continue our vital operations in the financial markets where and discusses and resolves hose issues. In addition, major Group our business serves public interests. companies regularly hold risk management committee meetings in For example, we have begun operating Japan’s highest-level order to strengthen their risk management. backup center, which enables us to easily switch to the alternate system in case of an emergency at headquarters. We can thereby continue vital operations through a substitute office location. * Prioritized operations to be restored or continued: 1. Carrying out securities transactions traded in the markets and yet to be settled 2. Payment to our customers 3. New orders from customers to sell, cancel or withdraw for the products below: ○ Domestic listed shares, including closing long positions on margin transactions ○ MRF (money reserve funds), MMF (money market funds), medium-term government bond funds ○ Japanese government bonds for individual investors ○ Cash deposits Initiatives on impact of climate change A significant rise in sea levels and the occurrence of extremely large typhoons due to global warming have raised concerns over potential large-scale flood damage. Some of the Daiwa Securities Group’s important business bases are located in places not very far from the seashore or rivers and may be affected should floods occur. We are not just taking general precautions against flood damage, but promoting such measures as setting up key equipment and facilities at different sites and moving machinery to the upper stories of our office buildings, in order to mitigate the impact of disasters on our business operations as much as possible. Daiwa Securities Group 23 CSR REPORT 2014 Management Report Corporate Governance IT Strategy, Information Security and Disclosure Approach and Basic Stance The Daiwa Securities Group aims to provide customers with high-value-added products and services quickly, precisely, and at a reasonable price. To this end, it uses IT strategically. As an active participant in the financial and capital markets, the Group possesses information resources, including personal information. In order to protect these information resources from outside threats, the Group is working to maintain and improve the level of its information security. ● IT Strategy ● Information Security IT Governance System Information Security The Group has established the Group IT Strategy Committee as a The Daiwa Securities Group is proactively strengthening subcommittee of the Executive Management Committee. This information security measures and pursuing measures to protect committee deliberates and makes decisions on such issues as information assets, including personal customer information, from budgets for IT investment and the allocation of IT functions. IT a variety of threats while keeping pace with the latest technological investment budgets are drawn up in accordance with management trends. Cyber-attacks and other external threats have become strategies while weighing the importance of unifying IT strategies, more serious over the past few years, making it more important and funds are prioritized for investment budgets that contribute than ever to detect and defend against these attacks. The Group to the achievement of Group management targets and business makes every effort to ensure security and data accuracy by rapidly strategies. deploying appropriate information security measures from both The Group IT Management Committee, which serves as a prior a technological and physical perspective. The Group aims to consultation mechanism for the Group IT Strategy Committee, was improve the sophistication of its information asset management established as a venue for executive officers to discuss investment by preventing problematic behavior before it occurs and quickly themes common to all Group companies. detecting it when it does occur, through systematic monitoring and management of information system user IDs and access privileges. IT Strategy Malfunction Countermeasures With the aim of achieving sustainable growth, the Daiwa Securities The Daiwa Securities Group appropriately monitors information Group has been promoting the two IT strategies (basic IT policies) systems in terms of their operational status, capacity, and of “rebuilding business infrastructure” and “strengthening IT malfunctions. Data about malfunctions is shared among Group governance” under its Medium-Term Management Plan, “Passion companies to be used as references in the creation of measures to for the Best” 2014, which commenced in FY2012. prevent reccurrences and to prevent new problems from arising. The Group plans and implements mediumand long-term IT In order to shorten recovery times, the Group creates procedures strategies on a global basis based on its business strategy. The and automate processes for recovering from system malfunctions, Group provides its customers with reliable services by developing by analyzing patterns in previous malfunctions. rock-solid systems in a timely manner in order to support marketing staff on all fronts, from both quantitative and qualitative standpoints. ● Disclosure System In FY2013, the Group has started offering services for the Nippon The Daiwa Securities Group has formulated the Disclosure Individual Savings Accounts (NISA) with a broad lineup of products Policy, which outlines the Group’s basic approach to information launched at the same time NISA started. Daiwa Securities focused disclosure and strives to provide information that is fair, prompt, on improving customer service and increasing the efficiency of and appropriate. marketing activities by reinforcing associated functions at marketing branches and contact centers. Web Daiwa Securities Group Disclosure Policy In FY2014, while responding to the global trend toward tighter financial regulations, the Group is working to improve efficiency and quality in NISA offerings and overall marketing, and concentrating resources in fields that enhance customer convenience. In this way, the Group is creating a platform from which the Group can play a leadership role in the shift “from savings to investment” in Japan. Daiwa Securities Group 24 CSR REPORT 2014 Social Report Relationship with Customers Approach and Basic Stance The Daiwa Securities Group understands that customer trust is the foundation of our business, and our focus is always on finding ways to deliver genuine customer satisfaction. We have adopted the idea of “hospitality” to enhance our existing concept of customer service. We aim to have the most satisfied customers in the financial services industry. ● Building Customers Deeper, Stronger Trust with ● Follow Up Services for Impact Investment Products Daiwa Securities provides customers who purchase Vaccine Bonds Appropriate Explanations for Customers with activity reports released by the issuer, IFFIm. We believe that it is important to provide information on how customers are contributing We aim to build customer satisfaction through quality services, to society by providing information on how the money invested in Impact Investment products is used to tackle social issues. built on understanding customer needs quickly and proposing the best solutions for each customer. Providing faithful and appropriate explanations is paramount for us. ● Daiwa’s Point Program Japan’s Financial Instruments and Exchange Law prohibits Daiwa’s Point Program awards customers with points based on their “solicitation that is improper in light of a customer’s knowledge, transactions. These points can be exchanged for products or used experience, financial situation and objectives.” Daiwa Securities’ to make a variety of charitable donations using a conversion rate of one point for 1 yen. As of April 2014, customers were offered an approach is rooted in this law, but as a part of our hospitalityopportunity to make donations to UNICEF, Medecins Sans Frontieres based service, we work to deliver explanations that go beyond legal Japan Association, WWF Japan, World Food Programme (WFP), Japan requirements when explaining the financial products we offer. Platform and New Japan Philharmonic under the program, where contributions are used to support the activities of these organizations. When selling Impact Investment products aimed at addressing social issues, including Vaccine Bonds and Water Bonds, Daiwa Securities explains to our customers how their investments contribute to society, deepening their understanding of these Improving In-Branch Customer Service Quality Impact Investments. Our employees interacting with a great variety of customers need not only specialized knowledge of the markets and financial Active Post-Sale Follow Up products, but polished service skills with an emphasis on customer Completing the sale of a product is only the beginning of a attentiveness as well. securities company’s relationship with the customer. Follow up is a At Daiwa Securities, our goal is to provide quality customer key element in building the relationship of trust with the customer. services with a spirit of hospitality. In addition to group training, This is especially true when the value of a product declines after we require regular check-up tests on an ongoing basis using its purchase and customers feel dissatisfied and apprehensive. Daiwa internal e-learning system. Staff from our head office perform onSecurities works to reinforce trust in its customer relations and to site checks to provide guidance to drive greater improvements in alleviate customer apprehension through appropriate explanations quality. and proposals. Daiwa Securities has conducted customer satisfaction surveys via mail on an ad hoc basis. In addition, we continue to ask customers visiting sales branches to answer surveys to further improve our ● Informing Customers through Seminars and through Our Website service quality, solve the issues raised by customers and enhance Daiwa Securities holds investor seminars on the 5th of every month at each sales branch and continues providing information on Japanese and overseas markets. We customer convenience and comfort. In June 2014, we also also hold a variety of seminars to offer information, including inheritance-related announced our commitment to provide enhanced services and seminars to meet the growing demand seen in recent years and seminars on NISA, explanations to customers and since then, have stepped up our which was introduced in January 2014. Across all branches, over 97,000 people attended more than 7,700 seminars held in 2013. efforts to improve hospitality. We also arrange large-scale seminar events, in addition to those held at each sales branch. In August 2013, We held seminars entitled “The Current State and Outlook Accessible Services for Diverse Customers of the U.S. Economy” in Tokyo, Yokohama, Osaka, Nagoya and Kobe, attracting over 1,300 people. We also held “Daiwa New Year’s Lectures for 2014” in January When Daiwa Securities renovates existing sales branches or plans and February 2014 in Tokyo, Osaka, Nagoya, Kyoto, Kobe, Sapporo, Fukuoka and Yokohama, attracting over 4,500 people and receiving positive responses from those new branches, we work to ensure that our branches are accessible participants. to a wide range of customers, including measures such as reducing The Information Box for users of the online steps of the floor and installing bigger counters. trading section of Daiwa‘s website presents The company also provides necessary explanations through videos on portfolio management as well as trends and forecasts for trust funds and written communication and introduces its Internet banking services exchange rates. to customers with hearing difficulties. Daiwa Securities Group 25 CSR REPORT 2014 Strengthening Contact Center Functions center operations to meet the demand for high-quality service, we provide training and regular level checks for all Telephone Service On April 1, 2014, Daiwa Securities’ Call Center was renamed the Representatives (TSR). Contact Center. The new Contact Center has taken on more The Contact Center uses questions and other input from functions, taking all calls made to sales branches. In July, we also customers to analyze data and identify the causes of any issues expanded the scale of the two sites where contact center functions raised. The Contact Center provides feedback and information are located. Of our 620 service points, 500 are now located in to our head office and sales branches as part of our work on Tokyo and 120 are located in Osaka. The expansion of the service improved services and customer interaction and increased customer points enables us to further improve our ability to accept orders in satisfaction. the event of an emergency and decentralize operational risks by splitting our contact center functions between two sites. The center Daiwa Securities’ Systems for Utilizing Customer Feedback has been one of the main channels of transactions, sustaining the company’s business model whose cornerstones are Daiwa Customers Consulting and Daiwa Direct transaction courses. The center now Telephone Questionnaire handles calls coming in to sales E-mail Opinions, comments and requests postcards branches and executes some of available at the transactions. Thus it plays branches a role as our comprehensive Customer Support remote contact center for Contact Center customers. Efforts to Improve Telephone Customer Service Departments Sales branches Management in charge Quality Improvement Improvement Improvement Daiwa Securities’ Contact Center participates in a telephone customer service competition* organized by the Japan Telecom Users Association, a Public Interest Incorporated Foundation. The purpose of the participation is to improve Contact Center Calls Received at the Customer Support Center service quality significantly by receiving quality evaluations from a third-party. In pursuit of high marks in the competition, we Daiwa Securities’ Customer Support Center also handles customer encourage our staff at the Contact Center to work constantly to feedback directly. The Center works to respond promptly and improve customer service and verbal skills; we believe this will help appropriately to customer complaints and shares this input with strengthen the capabilities and motivation of our telephone service Daiwa Securities’ sales branches and head office to avoid repeat representatives. Improving the level of remote service provided by problems. service representatives also helps bring about increased customer In FY2013, the Center received 6,289 calls—roughly 850 more satisfaction. than the preceding fiscal year. This rise was due to an increase in * Japan Telecom Users Association Telephone Customer calls to confirm the status of accounts, inquiries associated with Service Competition: the introduction of the NISA system and tax revisions, as well as This competition is a forum for companies to compare their complaints about customer services such as inadequate post-sale telephone customer service with others and to increase customer follow-up and lack of communication. satisfaction by improving the verbal quality of their customer The Center employees appreciate the value of customer feedback handling. At the yearly competition, participating companies and will continue to work on improving customer service. test the results of their many hours of accumulated telephone Calls Received at customer-service training and preparation as a part of efforts the Customer Support Center ■ Inquiries ■ Complaints to improve customer service and verbal skills. Nationwide, over FY 10,000 people compete in this well-recognized event. 2009 77% 23% 4,144 ● Working Customer Voices to Incorporate 2010 80% 20% 4,224 Contact Center Initiatives 2011 82% 18% 5,119 Employees at the Contact Center, which serves as our 2012 83% 17% 5,436 comprehensive remote contact point, has direct contact with customers and will play an increasingly crucial role not only as a 2013 82% 18% 6,289 transaction channel but also in customer support and marketing. Its role gives it access to direct customer feedback that can lead 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 7,000 calls to improved operations. In order to maintain and improve contact Daiwa Securities Group 26 CSR REPORT 2014 Social Report Relationship with Shareholders and Other Investors Approach and Basic Stance The Daiwa Securities Group works hard to advance communication with shareholders and other investors. Amid a major shift from savings to investments in Japan, we believe that increasing the number of individual investors is a part of our social responsibility as a company engaged in the securities business, and we will work hard to provide stockholders and investors with improved communications and information that are easy to understand. opportunities, including telephone conferences on the days ● Breakdown of Shareholders of earnings announcements, briefings about the company for As of March 31, 2014, 46.2% of the Daiwa Securities Group’s individual investors, management strategy briefing sessions, shareholders were foreign investors, up 5.1 points from the one-on-one meetings with analysts and investors, and by end of the previous fiscal year. The percentage of individual participation in Daiwa Investment Conferences (in Tokyo, Hong investors decreased 3.5 points over the same period to 18.9%. Kong and New York). In addition, we are further developing information disclosure on our IR websites and publishing annual reports and business Breakdown by Investor Type (as of March 31, 2014) reports for shareholders. We will continue to strive to make Total number of shares outstanding: 1,749,378,772 our communications even more accessible and precise for shareholders. Other Individuals in (4.5%) Japan (18.9%) Questionnaire for Shareholders We distribute a questionnaire to shareholders coinciding with the distribution of rewards under our Shareholder Rewards Program at the half-year end, to gather and incorporate their views into management and IR activities. The findings of these questionnaires are utilized for improving our business Financial operations while leading to improvements such as higher institutions in Japan satisfaction with the shareholder reward program. Foreign investors (26.5%) (46.2%) Other corporations ● September 2013 Shareholder Rewards Questionnaire Contents in Japan Q. When did you first purchase our shares? (3.9%) Q. Why did you choose to buy the stock of Daiwa Securities? (multiple answers allowed) Web Web Stock Information Q. What types of disclosure and corporate communication would you like to see enhanced in the future? (multiple ● Dividend Policy answers allowed) Daiwa Securities Group Inc. aims to continuously provide Q. Are there any products you would like for the improved value for shareholders, including distribution of shareholder reward program? (multiple answers allowed) profits. In principle, dividends are paid semiannually (interim and year-end dividends) at a payout ratio of approximately ● Shareholder Reward Program 30% based on consolidated financial performance. We also actively seek ways to increase returns to our shareholders, In September 2010, we improved our shareholder reward including share buybacks when we have sufficient accumulated program while retaining the catalog format. Shareholders who capital to pursue further growth. qualify for rewards at the end of March and September have multiple reward options to choose from such as charitable donations, quarterly journals on investment and Daiwa’s Point Program, in addition to regional specialties already available ● Communication with Shareholders and Investors through our shareholder reward program. For those qualified The general meeting of shareholders is an opportunity for at the end of each March, they are also offered an opportunity direct interaction with shareholders, and we have many to choose a calendar. shareholders attend it. 2,113 shareholders attended the 77th regular general meeting of shareholders, held on June 26, Web Web Investor Relations Information 2014. We are also working to create new communication Daiwa Securities Group 27 CSR REPORT 2014 Social Report Relationship with Employees Approach and Basic Stance The Daiwa Securities Group believes that maximizing the motivation of our employees will lead to improved customer satisfaction and consequently enhance shareholder value. We take a range of measures to ensure that all of our employees feel a sense of job satisfaction and that their families and partners share their pride to be part of the Group. We have our corporate culture nurtured since foundation of our business, and we regard it as the core of Daiwa’s identity. We have taken steps to crystallize the basic philosophy and mindset of the Group inherent of our culture to be manifested as the “Daiwa Spirit.” We hope that the “Daiwa Spirit” will enhance employees’ sense of unity and togetherness and thus the Group’s overall strength. ● Hiring Initiatives with the local communities. We have Daiwa Master Program which supports the success Hiring Approaches and Trends of highly motivated and skilled employees after their stated The Daiwa Securities Group would like all of its employees to retirement age. Under the program our senior advisors can be highly motivated and to stay with the Group from hiring to work up to the age of 70. Leading the initiatives expected to retirement. All new college graduates recruited by the Group, be introduced in Japan due to its aging society, our scheme including those with disabilities, are brought on as full and with extended retirement age lets our experienced personnel regular employees aiming to encourage newly hired to have a continue to make contributions at their work place through sense of trust and pride in the Group, and a sense of solidarity better customer services with their attention to details and with their colleagues. On April 1, 2014, 610 new employees helping younger colleagues by letting emulate them. joined the Group. By providing an environment where diverse people can Employment of People with Disabilities perform to their full potential, we hope to be able to retain The Daiwa Securities Group has around 170 employees with highly skilled people. Endeavoring to be one of Asia’s leading disabilities working for a wide range of responsibilities in our financial services firms, we also focus on attracting people head office, sales branches and contact centers. capable of excelling globally. We had started recruiting new graduates with disabilities as regular employees (general office staff) in FY2008, and in Fairness in Hiring FY2011 broadened the scheme to the career-track employee, The Daiwa Securities Group has published its Guidelines for Fair regional career-track employee, and employee for customer Hiring, composed of three fundamental principles for ensuring services. We have also vigorously increased recruitment fair hiring practices. opportunities by holding briefings about the company for new graduates, participating in career expos, and implementing ● Guidelines for Fair Hiring job placement support programs for university students with 1. Utmost respect for the rights of the applicants. disabilities. 2. Eligibility for all individuals who meet the hiring criteria. Once people with disabilities are hired, we provide 3. Making all hiring decisions based on a fair and support for their career advancement, for example, creating objective evaluation of the applicants’ ability, aptitude opportunities for them to enter the career-track and regional and motivation. career-track employment opportunities. Recruitment of University Graduates ● Human Resource Development and Skill Enhancement In FY2011, we began hiring recent university graduates who Employee Training Approaches and Trends had obtained their diploma within the preceding three years The Daiwa Securities Group’s competitiveness derives from with or without any work experience during the period as part our employees. We have a management vision to become of our efforts to build a diverse workforce. These recruits one of Asia’s leading financial services groups possessing and receive the same training as new graduates. leveraging a solid business platform in Japan. To materialize this vision, we focus on human resource development with the Support for the Success of Veteran Employees aim of creating clusters of professionals. We offer extensive The Daiwa Securities Group has introduced Senior Advisors training programs to newly hired employees as we believe Scheme in which senior employees with a wealth of experience that the moment their joining us is a critical period for their work actively in the workplace alongside with their younger training. The program ensures that they acquire not only the colleagues. Our senior advisors work in region of their choice basic knowledge and skills, but understanding of our corporate and engage in consultation-oriented sales activities with a philosophy and commitment to CSR. long-term investment perspective while keeping their close ties We also believe that our employees must have a firm Daiwa Securities Group 28 CSR REPORT 2014 understanding of corporate ethics and compliance in order performances into account. to ensure the development of sound financial and capital In addition, we endeavor to create a personnel evaluation markets—a key issue for the Daiwa Securities Group. system that motivates all employees, regardless of years they Accordingly, we offer regular training on information security are with us, whether they are young, middle of their careers, and compliance. or experienced veterans, to challenge the next stage of their careers and to work in positions with bigger responsibilities. Education and Training System The Daiwa Securities Group trains employees based on our ● Striving to Create a Pleasant Working Environment Group-wide policy using programs tailored to their skill levels. We would like to foster a sense of solidarity and networking Encouraging Work-Life Balance among employees of Group companies thus offer joint training One of the Daiwa Securities Group’s targets is to achieve an opportunities. advanced level of work-life balance. We are committed to We help employees raise their skills to higher levels, and have pursuing working styles that enable employees to achieve set up new programs that aim to improve their capabilities a balance between their private and professional lives, and in specialized fields starting second half of FY2013. We have make efforts to create an environment in which both men and also expanded training programs for those with managerial women can work in various ways. responsibilities to improve our productivity further. Not only do we seek to establish systems that enable diverse From FY2013, the Annex Education Program, a program for work styles, but we also work to change employees’ mindset newly hired and carried out by dedicated instructors, has been by ensuring employees to leave their offices by 7 p.m., by expanded to our regional career-track employees, while our encouraging them to take all their paid holidays, and by setting Mentor System now covers employees entering their second a day of welcoming their family members to our offices. year of employment. These are examples of our initiatives to We have adopted systems aimed at supporting our improve and expand our educational and training systems for employees raising their children or caring other family younger staff, and to maintain environment that is conducive members that exceed legal requirements. Since FY2012, a to learning. survey concerning the Group’s efforts to support both career and child-raising needs of our employees has been conducted Supporting Employees Trying to Earn Credentials annually to solicit inputs from all Group employees. The survey The Daiwa Securities Group encourages employees to improve is designed to grasp how they are using the Group’s systems their English skills in light of globalization and our corporate and to collect feedbacks particularly on their needs. Based on strategies of focusing on Asia. the results of the survey, we are contemplating on making We consider Financial Planner (AFP and CFP) and Securities further improvements in working conditions and environment Analyst qualifications as core requirements for our securities for all employees. Prior to an employee returning to work after business. In particular we aim to have the highest number taking childcare leave, interviews are conducted with the head of employees in the industry accredited as Certified Financial of relevant department or branch to facilitate his/her return to Planners (CFPs). In addition, the company provides supports work. Even during childcare leave, employees are still eligible like subsidizing certification costs to facilitate our employees to for promotions and raises based on their contributions prior to enhance their professional skills of their fields of specialty. their leaves. We will continue to introduce initiatives designed to attract Intra-Group Job Postings and the Career Path Change System superior and diversified employees for our better performances. Daiwa Securities has instituted a Career Path Change System that enables non-career-track employees to transfer to careerEncouraging Women to Succeed track and regional career-track positions. In the five years from The Daiwa Securities Group promotes talented employees FY2009 to FY2013, 850 people moved to other positions regardless of their gender. Promotions are based on fair through the system. evaluations, and we believe creating a work environment We have also instituted a system of intra-Group job postings where people from diverse backgrounds can exercise their for employees with skills and the desire to realize their potential abilities fully will lead to improved corporate value. to open new career paths. Since the year 2000, 904 employees In order to promote more female employees to managerial have applied and 146 have succeeded. positions, we introduce noteworthy female employees in our internal publication to be role models and also provide Evaluation System opportunities for cross-company networking. At the Daiwa Securities Group, we believe that a fair and wellA career consultation service has been set up in our intranet’s accepted evaluation system is crucial to keep all employees Initiatives for Work-Life Balance site. Female executives as highly motivated. For this purpose, we have implemented a well as heads of our departments and branches give advice multifaceted evaluation system for managers. This involves regarding the concerns and inquiries of female employees. subordinates and related departments assessing each There are a total of six women in top management positions manager’s job performances in carrying our duties and the across the Daiwa Securities Group, including two female results being fed back to the manager. With the scheme we directors at Daiwa Securities Group Inc. The number of women intend to improve assessees’ managerial skills and improve in management positions has increased every year, totaling our overall productivity. We also take their compliance-related 221 women at Group companies as of March 31, 2014. The Daiwa Securities Group 29 CSR REPORT 2014 ratio of women in management positions has risen from 2.2% Mental Health (at the end of FY2004) to 5.4% over the past ten years at the The Daiwa Securities Group’s Health Support Promotion Group, and from 2.3% to 6.3% at Daiwa Securities Co. Ltd. Department was established in August 2006 to help employees By increasing the number of role models, we make it easier maintain and manage their mental and physical health. The for our female staff to envision their career paths with positive Health Support Promotion Department has two certified clinical results. For example, there has been a sharp increase of female psychologists on its staff to provide consultations to support employees aspiring to advance their careers by switching to Group employees, as well as to their families. We have also career-track and regional career-track positions in recent years. established arrangements with outside specialists so that they From FY2009 to FY2013, about 850 female employees have can receive prompt attention. chosen to convert to career-track positions. Over the past We also arrange for occasional talks in all branches and few years, an increasing number of employees have taken departments to broaden awareness of mental health issues as advantage of our Professional Return Plan, a plan for exa part of our strong support for employees’ mental health. employees, who have left us to raise their children or to care their family members. It allows them to restart their careers ● Communication with the same level of compensation when they left. The scheme helps us attract talented personnel who underpin our Communication with Employees business. We believe that good communication with employees is We will continue to increase the number of female vital for better workplace environment. Our communications managers, hoping to bear female leaders who would lead the programs include regular interviews by the Personnel future of Japan’s financial industry. Department and semi-annual self-assessment questionnaires. We also regularly conduct a questionnaire on work-life balance. Initiatives to Improve Employee Health This unfiltered input from our employees helps us re-examine The Daiwa Securities Group considers employee health an our programs and enhance ongoing improvement efforts. indispensable capital for both the company and society. Our Personnel Departments, Health Insurance Association, and Communication among Employees occupational health staff work closely to improve employees’ In October 2007, Daiwa Securities introduced a program for health. supporting club activities. This program was created to help Specifically, the Group has set up a website which employees enjoy their time off and to deepen their friendships enables employees to track the past results of regular health with colleagues, building more opportunities to share a sense checkups whenever they want to. The Group also uses of camaraderie and solidarity. It is also intended to support internal communications to raise employees’ awareness of work-life balance and facilitate a fuller social life for employees. health issues. Company wellness programs include a walking The program was expanded and enhanced in FY2009. Under program, action to promote countermeasures against cancer, this program, employee groups that meet certain conditions a quit-smoking campaign, a program to promote moderate are recognized as Daiwa Clubs or Daiwa Circles, which receive meal portions, a health campaign for female employees, breast subsidies to cover some of their activity costs. As of March cancer and cervical cancer exams, and measures for those with 2014, 18 clubs and 4 circles are active in the Group. severe diseases. The Group has introduced a system that uses a follow-up confirmation form (known as a “yellow paper”) Relationship with Employee Unions to urge employees with problematic data to see doctors after The questionnaires conducted by the employee’s union among their regular health checkups. Employees receiving this form its members have been an important opportunity for the Group are required to obtain a doctor’s comment within two weeks, as a whole to learn the opinions of its employees and a tool for and submit it to us. As a result, the majority of employees better mutual understanding. Employee union membership as receiving the notice now visit medical institutions. of the end of March 2014 was 6,406. Occupational health staff work at General Health Development Centers. The Daiwa Securities Group has Initiatives for Families established the Centers at the main Group offices. Doctors We work to ensure that members of employees’ families share at the in-house Centers provide medical services, while staff their pride to be part of the Group. industrial physicians and health nurses provide general health Since FY2008, we welcome employees’ families to the consultation services. There are also psychiatrists and clinical workplace on Family Visit Day to give family members a better psychotherapists available to offer mental health consultations. understanding of our company and the employee’s jobs. In These efforts to promote employees’ health have FY2013, 4,476 family members participated in this program. substantially raised their health awareness and favorably Other initiatives for supporting our employees’ families affected the test results of regular health checkups. Thanks to include family day leave and the extension of mental health these successes, in November 2013, we received an excellence support to employee’s families. award from the Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare in the ministry sponsored “2nd Smart Life Project Award (Let’s extend healthy life expectancy!),” the highest award in the corporate division. Our initiatives have attracted much attention from other companies and local governments. Daiwa Securities Group 30 CSR REPORT 2014 Social Report Human Rights Initiative Approach and Basic Stance The Daiwa Securities Group is strengthening efforts based on its corporate principles, the Act on Promotion of Education and Enlightenment of Human Rights, the United Nations Global Compact and ISO 26000, to educate its employees about human rights with the aim of improving a corporate culture rooted in the basic principles of human rights. 1998. The Federation is composed of 126 companies ● Basic Policy for Initiatives Addressing Human Rights (mostly headquartered in Tokyo) with a combined total of and Social Integration Issues approximately one million employees (as of April 2014). (1) Daiwa Securities Group Inc. supports and complies with the protection of human rights as advocated internationally and does Federation members work together to improve their human not infringe on human rights within the limits of its influence. rights and awareness through research and communication. (2) The Daiwa Securities Group educates and instructs Group employees with accurate information on human rights and social integration issues. ● Initiatives in FY2013 (3) At the same time, the Group views human rights and social integration issues as our own problem, not somebody else’s Immediately after the company induction ceremony on April problem, and fosters a sensitivity that enables empathy with the 1, the 523 new Group employees underwent group training suffering of others. that included human rights training intended to provide (4) We provide an equitable working environment that values people and is free of discrimination. basic knowledge concerning human rights and to raise (5) Each employee is a member of society unburdened by prejudice. understanding and awareness of the Group’s fundamental ● Specific Efforts principles concerning respect for human rights. In addition, (1) We highly value the human rights of every stakeholder and our 46 general managers, 186 managers, and 323 associate staff will always address clients, local communities and their managers underwent training in July to provide the knowledge members with great awareness of human rights. (2) We work to ensure that our hiring and recruiting, personnel and awareness concerning human rights required for their evaluations and labor management practices are always fair. respective positions. In November, as part of a new initiative, (3) The Group is continually improving internal human rights Group managers and higher-level personnel watched an education and awareness programs, including regular training and feedback and response loops. educational video regarding power harassment. An annual contest for executives and employees held May 18, 2011: Human Rights Awareness Promotion Committee from October to December was extended to include family members this year—participants created and submitted Human Rights Awareness Slogans to promote broader and ● Human Rights Education and Awareness deeper understanding of human rights issues, and the winning In 1984, the Daiwa Securities Group set up a Human Rights entries were presented in an internal newsletter. Human Awareness Promotion Committee with the objective of Rights Awareness Workshops are conducted each year to promoting activities and training for raising human rights address various issues, and in February 2014, the video Honto awareness to encourage better understanding and appreciation no Sora (The True Sky) was used as an educational resource of social integration and other human rights issues including and a discussion was held regarding awareness of prejudices but not limited to so called Dowa–mondai in Japan, which common to issues such as exclusion and detrimental treatment generally refers to centuries-old discrimination and ostracism of seniors and foreign nationals, assimilation, and harm caused against a specific group in Japanese society. The committee by rumors regarding recent nuclear accidents. is currently chaired by our director in charge of HR, with the deputy human resources officer and the head of HR as deputy chairs, along with five division leaders including the heads of the Compliance Control Division, the Communications Division and the General Affairs Department—all active in pursing the committee’s goals. Besides the committee, all Group managers (at the office, division or branch level) act in a promotional role, using education and awareness activities to ensure that employees correctly understand and acknowledge human rights and social integration issues. The committee revised and released the Group’s Basic Policy for Initiatives Addressing Human Rights and Social Integration Issues in May 2011. The Daiwa Securities Group has been a member of the Industrial Federation for Human Rights, Tokyo, since New Employee Training Daiwa Securities Group 31 CSR REPORT 2014 Social Report Relationship with Society Approach and Basic Stance The Daiwa Securities Group considers it important to work together with NPOs and NGOs as a good corporate citizen and to engage in consistent collaboration with the local community to foster sustainable development. To this end, we group our diverse corporate citizenship initiatives into the following four key categories: 1. Education and research activities in economics and finance 2. Assistance to communities inside and outside of Japan through foundations and NPOs 3. Support for culture and the arts 4. Encouraging volunteerism among employees ⇒Refer to “CSR Related Data” on page 52 for “Corporate Citizenship the workings of a company, the importance of finance, and the Initiatives and Expenditures” functions that a financial services company fulfills, thus improving ● 1. Education and Research Activities their financial literacy. in Economics and Finance Finance Park Capitalizing on accumulated financial and economic expertise to make public contributions, the Daiwa Securities Group engages in Junior Achievement Japan has established Finance Parks in business-academia collaborations and supports programs for junior Shinagawa, Tokyo and another in Kyoto with the goal of providing and senior high school students as well as teachers. We believe that a space where junior high school students can learn to develop and economic and financial education is important in helping young practice life-planning skills where we have set up pseudo-branches. people develop the capacity to build their own lives and shape the We have decided to participate in their new project to open facilities future world. in Iwaki, Fukushima in May 2014 and in Sendai, Miyagi in August ⇒Refer to “CSR Related Data” on page 52 for “Results in Economic and 2014. As a special sponsor, we support operation of our branchlets Financial Education” there. To date, a total of 47,323 students have participated. Figures for FY2013: Economic and Financial Education 8,138 participants (2,742 in Shinagawa; 5,396 in Kyoto) Sustainable Development of the Japanese Economy in the 21st Century (Figures provided by JA Japan) Educational Research institutions institutions Understanding Improve Disclose Commercial Develop of social and economic research results and business financial economic and financial Create practical application of specialists principles knowledge applications research results Elementary/ junior/ Undergraduate Graduate Intellectual Researchers property (IP)/ high school students students students patents Finance Park, Shinagawa Support Provide or Provide or Universityteachers Joint research launched endow classes endow classes Participate in Research ventures and IP Dispatch Dispatch classes support headquarters instructors instructors Student Company Program Group Employee Cooperation (Hands-on Company Management Program) We cooperate with the Student Company Program operated by Junior Achievement Japan. The program teaches high school KidZania students about corporate management and organization by allowing them to run a real company. The Daiwa Securities Group is a supporter of KidZania, a theme In FY2013, students from a Tokyo metropolitan high school park designed to provide children from the age of three through incorporated a company as part of their extracurricular activities. to junior high school Initially, the students showed some confusion about corporate students with work management and business operations, but they got on track experiences and has through self-management. Ultimately, they were able to generate established securities a profit by selling smart phone covers and paid dividends to consulting pavilions shareholders within their school. Group employees served as at their facilities in outside directors for six months and provided advice concerning Tokyo and Koshien company management. (near Osaka). Children gain an insight into KidZania Daiwa Securities Group 32 CSR REPORT 2014 Council for Economic Education Japan (CEE-Japan) Assistance to Communities Inside CEE-Japan was established in January 2009 to provide economic ● 2. and Outside of Japan through education training for school teachers. The Daiwa Securities Group Foundations and NPOs is CEE-Japan’s main sponsor, providing both the inaugural funding Daiwa Securities Health Foundation and ongoing support. (Public Interest Incorporated Foundation) Under a partnership with the Council for Economic Education The Daiwa Securities Health Foundation was established in (CEE) of the US, CEE-Japan seeks to implement programs tailored 1972, in commemoration of the Group’s 30th anniversary, to for Japanese schools. support medical research. Since 1973, the Daiwa Securities Health As of the end of March 2014, a total of 3,090 teachers had Foundation has supported outstanding research projects focusing participated in training and workshops using materials provided by on improving health, medical care and welfare for middle-aged and CEE, including the trial run in 2009, according to JA Japan. elderly people. Since being founded, Daiwa Securities has disbursed a total of ¥30 million every year, composed of 30 separate grants of Financial Planning Classroom for Beginners ¥1 million each. FY2013 marked the 40th year of this program. We have held financial lectures for those with limited knowledge in Cumulative contributions through FY2013: finance that cover a wide range finance related topics at our head A cumulative total of ¥1,087 million to 1,102 recipients Independent Assurance office and on our website. These encompass financial planning, basic knowledge in finance and economy. To cater to the needs of Web Daiwa Securities Health Foundation (available only in Japanese) a broad audience, these lectures are presented with sign language and simultaneous captioning. Intended as part of our engagement for a sustainable society, the program was scheduled to take place Daiwa Securities Foundation on a quarterly basis between 2013 and 2014 with different themes each time. (Public Interest Incorporated Foundation) The Daiwa Securities Foundation was established in 1994 to Seminar Themes commemorate the 50th anniversary of the Group’s foundation to ● 1st seminar (March 18, 2013) make contributions to society out of our profits. The Foundation “Japanese and money—from savings to investments: provides grants to organizations and groups doing volunteer work discover the reality through Japanese history” in welfare and medicine. ● 2nd seminar (June 7, 2013) Since FY2011, the Foundation has focused primarily on “Simple ideas and tips for family budget management and organizations and groups involved in volunteer work responding to life planning” the Great East Japan Earthquake. ● 3rd seminar (September 18, 2013) Cumulative contributions through FY2013: “Changing ideas of home buying and financial planning” Volunteer Activities Grants ● 4th seminar (December 17, 2013) A cumulative total of ¥620 million to 2,699 organizations Independent Assurance “Asset management to prepare for tax hikes and inflation— Disaster Volunteer Activities Grants interest rates, currency exchange, and investment” A cumulative total of ¥72.28 million to 162 organizations Independent ● 5th seminar (March 5, 2014) Assurance “Outlook for reform of the social security system—public pension and nursing care insurance” Presentation ceremony Web Daiwa Securities Foundation (available only in Japanese) Financial Planning Daiwa Anglo-Japanese Foundation Classroom for Beginners (Chartered in the UK) The Daiwa Anglo-Japanese Foundation is a UK charity established Web Financial Planning Classroom for Beginners (available only in Japanese) in 1988 in part with contributions from Daiwa Securities, for fostering closer ties between UK and Japan. Daiwa Securities Group 33 CSR REPORT 2014 Principal activities include: opportunities for children, sharing and disseminating tsunami (1) Awarding grants to individuals, institutions, and organizations disaster prevention knowledge, and exchange and cooperation working to promote ties between the UK and Japan activities among those who suffered. The Fund’s attributes include (2) Enabling British and Japanese students and academics to provision of long-term recovery inducing measures rather than further their education by providing opportunities for joint temporary assistance, utilization of financial mechanisms like research and supporting exchanges and other bilateral initiatives charitable trusts and microfinance, and scrupulous monitoring by (3) Awarding Daiwa Scholarships for British graduates to study ACC 21. Japanese and undertake work assignments in Japan Designated areas: Indonesia, India, and Sri Lanka (4) Organizing a year-round calendar of events to improve Designated fields: mental health care and education for understanding of Japan in the UK. children and people with disabilities, microfinancing, interaction The Foundation’s Tokyo office provides local assistance to Daiwa through disaster prevention education, and promotion of Scholars (students from the UK), administers grant applications from information sharing Japan and collaborates with other institutions promoting AngloWeb Daiwa Securities Group Tsunami Reconstruction Fund (available only in Japanese) Japanese relations. Cumulative contributions through FY2013: A total of 152 accepted under the Daiwa Scholars program and Flow of funds ACT Flow of reports 2,623 projects receiving grants Custody of funds Overall funding equivalent to around ¥2,215 million Independent Assurance Trust bank (at the exchange rate at the end of each fiscal year) Donations Self-reliance of Advice and approval disaster victims Daiwa Securities ACT Local NPOs Group Steering committee Discovery of deals and monitoring ACC21 (Executive office for ACT) Activities of Daiwa Scholars Web Daiwa Securities Phoenix Japan Program The Daiwa Anglo-Japanese Foundation In May 2012, the Daiwa Securities Group established the Great East Daiwa Myanmar-Japan Foundation Japan Earthquake Relief Assistance program. The program donates a portion of management fees from the Daiwa Nippon Support On April 1, 2013, the Daiwa Securities Group established the Daiwa Fund Vol. 3—Phoenix Japan and continues providing assistance Myanmar-Japan Foundation to improve lives of the citizens of to local NPOs through the Japan Earthquake Local NPO Support Myanmar and to develop human capital necessary for its sustainable Fund (specified aid), which was set up by Japan NPO Center, a economic growth. The foundation has been focusing on providing certified NPO. The program supports local NPOs’ human resources opportunities to train people who would carry key responsibilities in development. Their activities include educational assistance and its future capital markets. Examples include scholarships for junior reconstructing communities in the disaster-affected areas. staff of the central government to study in Japan. On December 2, FY2013 second-term results: 2013, we signed a memorandum of understanding with Myanmar Assistance totaling ¥35.03 million provided for nine projects Independent Institute of Certified Public Accountants concerning cooperation in Assurance (including ¥1.5 million for joint research assistance). human resources development. Web Daiwa Securities Phoenix Japan Program (available only in Japanese) Daiwa Securities Group Independent Tsunami Reconstruction Fund Assurance Flow of funds Japan NPO Center Flow of reports Japan Earthquake Local NPO The Daiwa Securities Group established the Daiwa Securities Group Support Fund (special aid) Tsunami Reconstruction Fund to provide recovery assistance to regions affected by the December 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake Selection and advice Development “Special aid” of human and tsunami. Beginning in FY2005, this fund has provided longDonations Selection committee resources term support for recovery, disbursing ¥10 million annually for a tenDaiwa NPO Securities year period for a total of ¥100 million. The Daiwa Securities Group Tsunami Reconstruction Fund provides grants to local NPOs in the Operation and grant three hardest hit countries: Indonesia, Sri Lanka and India. The Civil Society Initiative Fund Japan NPO Center program offers assistance across four fields: mental health care for children, utilization of microfinancing, provision of educational Daiwa Securities Group 34 CSR REPORT 2014 ● Events held to report on earthquake reconstruction 3keys Program activities In 2012, the Daiwa Securities Group began offering support to the In August 2013, the Daiwa Securities Group sponsored a forum 3keys Program, a designated NPO working to improve learning to bring together people helping two regions struck by natural disasters—2004 Indian Ocean earthquake and tsunami and the opportunities in group homes. The program, which also receives 2011 Great East Japan Earthquake for both of which we have been funding relating to the Daiwa SRI Fund, helps to foster greater supporting reconstruction activities. Panel discussions were held with confidence and ambition in children. leaders from reconstruction agencies and support groups, and action reports were presented by program managers of Daiwa Securities Donations made during FY2013: Group Tsunami Reconstruction Fund and Daiwa Securities Phoenix A total of ¥1.09 million Independent Assurance Japan Program. The forum was attended by 104 people interested in disaster assistance “Daiwa SRI Fund” Grant Program from businesses and international cooperation, The Daiwa SRI Fund Grant Program had provided grants to who shared ideas and discussed future support Japanese NPOs working in fields involving human security since plans. 2006. The program supports human resources development at NPOs by subsidizing personnel and training program costs. The Disaster reconstruction events program is operated in collaboration with designated NPO, Civil Society Initiative Fund, and sponsored by donations from the management fees of the Daiwa SRI Fund. From FY2012 through Kopernik Program the end of July 2013, the fund continued its support for the Big Kopernik is a US-based NPO established in 2009 with the goal Issue Foundation, a designated NPO, but has now ended its of improving quality of life and reducing poverty in developing donations. countries; it began operations in Japan in 2010. Kopernik has Grants Awarded: developed a program to enable contributors in developed countries 26 projects (new grants for 16 projects and continued grants for to go online and donate to NPOs/NGOs in developing countries 10 projects) or areas of their own choosing by selecting needed products such A total of 35 staff across 16 groups, totaling ¥45.8 million Independent Assurance as simple water purifiers and solar lamps. Kopernik shares details (grants were completed at the end of July 2013) of recipient NPO/NGO activities supported by donations on its website to ensure transparency. Donations originated from our Web Daiwa SRI Fund Grant Program (available only in Japanese) revenue from the Daiwa Eco Fund and Russell Global Environmental Technology Fund are granted to products and recipients selected in light of their consistency with the principles of these funds. Disaster Assistance Independent Assurance Donations made during FY2013: A total of ¥4.54 million Independent The Daiwa Securities Group contributed ¥10 million to Japan Assurance Platform, a certified NPO, as donations for typhoon victims in the Philippines in November 2013. Solar Light Project ● 3. Support for Culture and the Arts The Daiwa Securities Group provides ongoing support for a wide range of cultural and artistic activities. For example we have been the special sponsor of the Mainichi Shimbun Central Contest for Book Review Painting for 20 years, a tradition that began with the sixth year of the event. The contest aims to encourage reading and Cooking Stove Project Web Kopernik Program (available only in Japanese) Awarded paintings exhibited at one of our branches Daiwa Securities Group 35 CSR REPORT 2014 improve children’s reading skills by awarding prizes for paintings as an initiative that can be easily participated in by employees. based on their impression and images from books they have read. Books already read and unusable postcards are donated to three Prizes are awarded to elementary pupils, junior and senior high groups—JEN BOOK MAGIC, Japan Committee “Vaccines for school students. The winning paintings for FY2013 were exhibited the World’s Children,” and Live with Friends on the Earth. Items at 10 Daiwa Securities branches. collected are sold by them to fund their activities, including support Since 2005, the Group has also been supporting traditional for education, medical services and assistance to the disabled in Japanese activities, including sponsorship of title matches of both developing countries. Shogi and Go (Japanese board games): Meijin Title Match (Shogi) We will continue the activity as it is quite popular among our and the Honinbo Tournament (Go). employees for its accessibility. Contributions made in fiscal 2013: ● 4. Encouraging Volunteerism among Independent Worth ¥36,426 to JEN BOOK MAGIC Assurance Employees Worth ¥67,273 to Japan Committee “Vaccines for the Independent Assurance The Daiwa Securities Group believes that participation in volunteer World’s Children” programs and other community actions by employees helps Worth ¥54,232 to Live with Friends on the Earth IndependentAssurance broaden their perspectives and familiarize them with different values. We consider that this, in turn, has a good influence on both their work and their lives. Through our intranet, we provide ■ TABLE FOR TWO (TFT) Program information on volunteer opportunities for projects planned by The Daiwa Securities Group contributes to the TFT Program, which ourselves, other businesses and NPOs/NGOs as well as events is organized by TABLE FOR TWO, an internationally designated NPO. that help educate employees and raise their awareness. We also The program aims at eradicating starvation in developing countries strive to create an environment that makes it easy for employees and reducing the occurrence of lifestyle diseases in developed to volunteer by setting up a recognition program, the Volunteer countries. We have set up 23 vending machines in our Tokyo Head Award, among other incentives. In our work to encourage as Office since the spring of 2013, making an automatic donation many of our people as possible to participate in volunteer activities, of ¥10 to the charity from each purchase of healthy drinks. Our we will seek ongoing collaborations with external organizations, Toyocho Center Building’s employee cafeteria also participated in strengthen internal communications on volunteering and volunteer the program, making a ¥20 donation each time a healthy menu opportunities and continue to pursue increased opportunities for item is chosen. The donations are used to pay for school lunches in employees to engage. developing countries. In March 2014, we won a “Gold Supporter” award for our contributions. We aim to encourage participation and further expand our activities in the future. Volunteer Activities by Employees Contributions made February–December, 2013: ■ Tree-thinning activity on Mount Takao Independent Worth around 38,000 school lunches in developing Assurance On April 13, 2013, 34 employees and their families joined the countries (calculated on the assumption that one meal costs ¥20) Hands-on Forest Experience in Odaira National Forest (Tokyo's Mount Takao). The participants learned about Japan’s natural forests and nurturing plantation forests, under the guidance of Takao Forest Center, a department of the Kanto Regional Forest Office. They later thinned out trees to experience the importance of forest preservation and maintenance, and made stakes to create pathways, using lumber of their earlier works. In FY2014, we will use these stakes to carry out maintenance work for pathways for Won a Gold Supporter elementary school children coming to Mount Takao for nature award observation. Initiatives Taken by the Group’s Hong Kong Operational Base Daiwa Securities Capital Markets Hong Kong opperates “First Class,” a CSR program that was established in FY2012 by voluntary members. The panel running the program has been engaged in CSR activities with its focus on “Children and Education,” as the Tree-thining experience members want to contribute toward addressing educational issues faced by many Asian countries, such as poor access to formal ■ International cooperation through a collection drive education and a lack of teachers and school facilities. The Daiwa Securities Group has been running a collection drive In FY2013, we decided to provide support to two schools in Daiwa Securities Group 36 CSR REPORT 2014 Hong Kong in collaboration with an intermediary support group. Volunteers from Daiwa Securities Capital Markets Hong Kong have been giving a wide range of advice to upper-grade students at South Island School since September 2013. In December 2013, we invited many students from TKL School to our workplace visit program for families, giving an office tour and offering an opportunity to interact with employees and their families. We have also supported the construction of a new library for TKL School and provided desks, PCs, and other supplies for the library. Representatives from the company attended the opening ceremony of the library in March 2014. Daiwa Securities Capital Markets Hong Kong will continue planning a variety of CSR activities involving the participation of employees. Workplace visit program for families in Hong Kong Initiatives to Promote Volunteer Activities ■ Volunteer Award Daiwa Securities has the President’s Awards program to recognize outstanding achievements by employees. As part of the program we introduced the Volunteer Award in FY2007, which is given twice a year to employees and groups involved in volunteer initiatives and activities that provide ongoing support to communities. Volunteer Award ■ Dissemination of Information through the Internal Network The Daiwa Securities Group provides a wide range of information on volunteer programs within the Group through our intranet, believing that volunteer activities help broaden the perspectives of employees and provide benefits by making them aware of various social issues. We introduce the best practice among such volunteer work, through our in-house magazine and internal TV broadcasts. Daiwa Securities Group 37 CSR REPORT 2014 Environmental Report Environmental Initiatives Approach and Basic Stance Protecting the global environment, the basis of our livelihoods, is essential for a sustainable society. Through our business activities, the Daiwa Securities Group strives to help resolve environmental issues by promoting products that can help reduce the environmental burden, and also by introducing investments that help to make environmental technologies and infrastructure more widely available. At the same time, we are working to establish a system that efficiently collects data on Daiwa’s environmental load. We are also focusing on raising employees’ environmental awareness to empower them to reduce the environmental burden in daily business operations. Environmental Management ● Environmental Vision / Environmental Principles / The Daiwa Securities Group holds a meeting of its Basic Environmental Policies Environmental Management Council every half year. A Environmental Vision representative from each Group company attends the meeting The Group is dedicated to protecting the precious global to share data and exchange information. In addition, 10 environment and preserving it for future generations by leveraging financial capabilities. Group companies based at the Headquarters building attend a meeting of the CO2 Reduction Promotion Committee hosted Environmental Principles by the management company of the building every half year, The Group recognizes the importance of environmental principles such as the effort to combat global warming, recycling and reuse working together to reduce the overall CO2 emissions of the of raw materials, and preserving biodiversity, in order to create building. a sustainable society for the 21st century. The Group pledges to contribute to solving environmental issues through its business as The Group compiles and reports quantitative data on its a financial service company and to constantly seek new ways to environmental impact each year, including details such as reduce its environmental impact as a responsible corporate citizen. energy and water consumption, CO2 emissions, paper usage, Basic Environmental Policies waste disposal and recycling volume. We also consider how to 1. Make positive environmental contributions through our build a sustainable environment management system. core business activities We shall seek to develop and provide financial products and services that promote a low-carbon, recycling-oriented and Initiatives to Reduce Environmental ● Impact symbiotic society. of Business Activities Initiatives at Branch Offices 2. Implement an environmental management system We shall implement an environmental management system and When installing new equipment at branch offices, Daiwa constantly seek new ways to improve environmental activities. In Securities Co. Ltd. has a requirement that the equipment must addition, we shall support environmental education and publicity be certified under Top Runner standards. We have also decided efforts, while promoting environmental protection efforts by employees. to replace the approximately 900 passenger vehicles at branch offices with eco-cars and hybrid vehicles over the next few 3. Take steps to save natural resources, reduce energy years. consumption, and promote biodiversity We shall continue to progress in our efforts to reduce the use of natural resources and energy, and seek ways to improve materials Offering Environmentally Friendly Services and energy efficiency (including efforts to improve business efficiency). We shall also take steps to reduce water use and Daiwa Securities Co. Ltd. provides an online service that allows reduce, reuse and recycle other materials to contribute to a more customers to request a wide range of electronic reports. environmentally friendly society. Furthermore, considering the Reports cover such areas as each transaction or balance and importance of biodiversity, we shall seek a symbiotic relationship with the environment and use safe, clean methods of materials other pertinent details as a substitute for written notifications procurement. (hardcopy reports). Reports received in an electronic format can, in principle, be accessed and confirmed as and when 4. Promote environmental communication required, saved to personal computers, and printed for five Working in concert with business partners, the local community, NGOs and NPOs, we shall actively disseminate information about years after initial receipt. environmental issues, and communicate our concern for the environment to customers and society at large. Launch of the Sustainability Committee 5. Strictly observe environmental regulations Daiwa Real Estate Asset Management launched a Sustainability We shall always endeavor in environmental assurance, observing Committee in FY2013 as part of its efforts to address a variety environmental laws and regulations in addition to the Group’s environment policies. of CSR-related challenges systematically. The Committee, (May 22, 2012) comprising the president and full-time executives, draw up Takashi Hibino policy on sustainability and discuss challenges and activities on Daiwa Securities Group Inc. a monthly basis. President and CEO Daiwa Securities Group 38 CSR REPORT 2014 Environmental Initiatives at Shinjuku Maynds Tower Financing for Projects to Combat Climate Change The following environmental initiatives have been implemented in Developing Countries since 2012 at the Shinjuku Maynds Tower building, which is The Daiwa Securities Group provides financing for projects owned by Daiwa Office Investment Corporation and operated to counter climate change in developing countries. Through by Daiwa Real Estate Asset Management: underwriting and sale of Green Bonds and other financial ■ Installation of Building Specific Heat Sources (in 2012) products, we supply risk money of Japanese investors to The building started to produce a portion of its air-conditioning renewable energy and other projects in developing countries. cooling water, which is otherwise provided by the district heating and cooling company. It has thereby reduced annual Investment in Companies Providing Environmental CO2 emissions by around 833 tons (equivalent to emissions Technologies and Services from a single tower with over 7,000 m2 of floor area). The Daiwa Securities Group markets environmental products ■ Adoption of LED Lighting (2012–present) that invest in stocks of Japanese and foreign companies Since 2012, the building has continued to introduce LED focusing on improvement of the global environment as their lighting systems for its common-use space. By adopting LED main business. Such products include the Daiwa Eco Fund and lighting for its underground parking lot, first basement level, the Russell Global Environmental Technology Fund. and entrance on the first floor, it has reduced annual CO2 emissions by about 147.2 tons. Participation in Saitama Eco-Town Project ■ Adoption of BEMS for the Central Control System Daiwa Institute of Research Business Innovation Ltd. was (to be completed in 2015) involved in an “Eco-town” project in Saitama Prefecture, Building energy management system (BEMS) functions will providing the systems support to operate the “Home Energy be added to the new central control system, allowing for Management System” (HEMS) installed in residences. With elaborate energy monitoring and control of the entire building. HEMS installed in each home, the company provides energy ■ Introduction of Automated Electronic Air Conditioning management and efficient administrative services while Control System (to be completed in 2015) analyzing energy usage by each family. The use of HEMS The replacement of the current self-contained control system allows urban planning projects to reduce their environmental with an electronic system is expected to help optimize impact. the efficiency of air conditioning systems and curb energy consumption. Photovoltaic Power Generation Projects Since the launch of the renewable energy feed-in tariff (FIT) Carbon Dioxide Emissions system in July 2012, Daiwa PI Partners Co., Ltd. has leveraged Energy consumption at the Daiwa Securities Group’s domestic the Group’s network to identify investment projects in the offices (on a carbon dioxide emissions basis) fell by 5.3% energy investment business, and is currently involved in in FY2013 compared with the previous year as a result of multiple photovoltaic power generation projects. In April 2014, initiatives to conserve energy. Electricity consumption at a photovoltaic power generation facility that the company overseas offices fell by 7.2% from the previous fiscal year. funded in Kan-onji City, Kagawa Prefecture, began generating ⇒ Refer to “CSR Related Data” on page 53 for details and supplying electric power to the local power utility. Construction work for two additional photovoltaic power Volume of Copy Paper / Forms Used generation projects in Kushiro City, Hokkaido is in progress. We facilitated the transition to a paperless office by promoting paperless meetings. In spite of these endeavors at Group companies, the volume of copy paper increased by 12.8% ● Information Dissemination from the previous fiscal year due to the reasons such as the Dissemination of ESG Reports increase of business. Overall, 10.2% (based on monetary The Daiwa Institute of Research carries out research in areas value) of the copy paper used consisted of Green Procurement such as local revitalization efforts, SRI, corporate governance, Network (GPN) compatible products. renewable energy and other environmental issues. It publishes ⇒ Refer to “CSR Related Data” on page 53 for details the findings on its website or in its quarterly research review. In FY2013, the Daiwa Institute of Research published 113 reports ● Climate Change Initiatives and commentary articles on keywords concerning ESG. Web In every facet of its business activities, the Daiwa Securities DIR>Research>ESG (available only in Japanese) Group is promoting collaboration between the public and private sectors in an effort to mitigate the effects attributable to climate change, while implementing various initiatives and developing services. ⇒ Refer to “Initiatives on Impact of Climate Change” on page 23 for details Daiwa Securities Group 39 CSR REPORT 2014 Sachiko Kishimoto Executive Director Third-Party Opinion Public Resources Foundation (Public Interest Incorporated Foundation) The Daiwa Securities Group discloses information the recognition that ESG factors comprehensively and faithfully in a PDF version of its CSR significantly affect the long-term report in accordance with the GRI’s Sustainability Reporting growth and investment performance Guidelines and ISO 26000. The Group also states in messages of a business. Moreover, it is from top executives that it aims to take the lead in the shift impossible for a third party to know “from savings to investments,” with the aim of being a highly how far and to what extent the sustainable company that does not succumb to chasing nearGroup will apply its view on ESG in specific business activities term profit and using investment activity as a means to address such as conducting due diligence as a security company and social concerns. I consider the statement to be a clear and making investment choices. I agree with the Group’s efforts strong commitment concerning what the Group should be. to deepen dialogues under the Stewardship Code and hope Through its business activities, the Group has taken an that the Group will clearly present specific policies, including its active lead in increasing impact investment in Japan. More opinion on ESG factors, and show a roadmap to apply the view. specifically, the Group has arranged 59% of cumulative In the “Relationship with Customers” section of the report, offerings of impact investment bonds in Japan and marketed the Group states that its conventional “Call Center” was IFC’s “Banking on Woman Bonds” for the first time in the renamed “Contact Center” and has started receiving calls country. I find these efforts highly commendable and would coming in to sales branches as the company’s representative. I like to see the Group continue and expand initiatives to direct am happy to know that the Group has expanded its customer its financial capacities into contributions toward a sustainable service amid the shift from savings to investments, hoping society. that it will continue to sincerely respond to the needs of retail In the CSR management, the Group sorts and lists the investors. I also consider it necessary to have a third party initiatives that it especially focuses on in order to properly evaluate social achievements gained from investment in impact identify and respond to the trends of corporate social investment products, which are quintessential to the Group, responsibility. The Group also participated in the process of and communicate the results of such evaluation to investors. drawing up the Japanese version of the Stewardship Code In the “Relationship with Employees” section, the Group and became one of the first institutional investors announcing described how it has been proactive in the promotion of the adoption of the Code. I find these efforts worthy of women to management levels. Daiwa Securities Group Inc., praise, while empathizing with its statement that the building for example, has recently appointed a “female” executive with of a transparent and fair value chain which extends from a long career at Daiwa to be a board member for the first companies and organizations issuing securities to investors is an time ever. I would like to praise the Group for making steady important CSR issue to be addressed by securities companies. progress and hope that it will continue such efforts and create With these efforts in mind, I would like to respectfully a cycle where a diverse range of human resources boost the propose that the Group improve the following points. The Group’s competitiveness. Group has thus far signed PRI and actively adopted Japan’s It is worthy of praise that the Group signed the Global version of the Stewardship Code. These efforts are part of Compact as described in Human Rights Initiatives, but its the social responsibility of institutional investors. Meanwhile, specific activities seem limited to social integration issues the Group has not fully incorporated its view on ESG. In the in Japan and problems that could arise in the Group’s own chart illustrating value chain management included in this working environment. I believe that the Group should review CSR report, the Group features dialogues under the Japanese human rights issues again in today’s context or in the Group’s version of the Stewardship Code. However, it is unclear from broader business activities. the chart whether the Group places at the core of its activities Response to our products and services to help solve social challenges without being satisfied with the status quo. We will also strengthen Third-Party Opinion our initiatives under the Japanese version of the Stewardship Code as a major institutional investor, and continue to enhance Yoshihisa Kaneko customer services and actively promote female employees to Executive Officer management positions. We are grateful to receive your valuable Concerning your suggestion on our ESG investment, we opinion for this fiscal year again. will consider measures to live up to the expectations of a wide We believe it is becoming increasingly important for range of stakeholders, while taking into account materiality companies to respond to requests from a variety of and our business characteristics as a financial group. Since stakeholders in a balanced manner. our establishment over 110 years ago, the Group has From this viewpoint, we will incorporate your opinion to constantly adapted to changes that have occurred with the achieve a better balanced approach. development of the global financial and capital markets. We Our impact investment initiative and other business activities will continue to identify changing social requirements with have received high praise, but we will further strive to improve sincerity and provide our services accordingly. Daiwa Securities Group 40 CSR REPORT 2014 Third-Party Evaluations Name Evaluation Dow Jones Sustainability Asia Indexes The Dow Jones Sustainability Asia Pacific Index (DJSI Asia Pacific) is a stock index of companies In Collaboration with RobecoSAM with sustainable practices selected by Dow Jones & Company, Inc. of the United States and RobecoSAM AG of Switzerland. Daiwa Securities Group Inc. has been included in DJSI Asia Pacific for five consecutive years. Since DJSI World was launched in 1999, it has continually been included in both DJSI World and DJSI Asia Pacific. FTSE4Good Index FTSE4Good Index FTSE is a subsidiary of the UK’s Financial Times and the London Stock Exchange. It develops global indexes and provides data for investment. Daiwa Securities Group Inc. has been included in the FTSE4Good, an index of socially responsible companies compiled by FTSE, for eight consecutive periods since September 2006. Certified Family-friendly Employer shown left is the certification symbol for family-friendly Certified Family-friendly Employer employers provided by Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare based on the Act on Advancement of Measures to Support Raising the Next Generation of Children. In addition to Daiwa Securities Group Inc. obtaining certification as a family-friendly employer on June 9, 2008. Daiwa Securities, Daiwa Securities Capital Markets, Daiwa Institute of Research Holdings, Daiwa Institute of Research, Daiwa Institute of Research Business Innovation and Daiwa Securities Business Center also received this certification. The Daiwa Securities Group has earned high praise from a range of external organizations for Work-Life Balance its initiatives to provide employees with a more supportive work environment that is conducive to work-life balance. ・Ranked 7th in the “Best 100 Companies for Women to Play an Active Role” and 1st in the “Utilization of Women” division according to Nikkei WOMAN (May 2013 issue) ・Recipient of the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare sponsored “Award for Companies Providing Career Support in 2013—for companies committed to human resources development” (October 2013) ・Recognized in the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry sponsored “Diversity Management Selection 100” (March 2014) Daiwa Securities Group Inc. received an excellence award from the Minister of Health, Labour Healthy Management and Welfare in the ministry sponsored “2nd Smart Life Project Award (Let’s extend healthy life expectancy!).” (November 2013) GRESB 2013“Green Star” The Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark (GRESB) awarded its highest recognition, a Green Star, to Daiwa Real Estate Asset Management Co. Ltd. subsidiary Daiwa Office Investment Corporation for two consecutive years. Daiwa Securities Group 41 CSR REPORT 2014 GRI/ISO 26000 Content Index GRI Application Levels In compiling the Daiwa Securities Group Sustainability Report 2014, reference was made to Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines (3.1 Edition) and the Financial Services Sector Supplement (2008). The guidelines set out a series of standard levels (GRI application levels) based on regulations outlined therein that companies compiling reports may apply to ensure that their reports are compliant with GRI guidelines. We believe that the Daiwa Securities Group Sustainability Report 2014 meets the reporting standards for GRI Report Application Level B+. GRI/ISO 26000 Content Index ISO 26000 Indicator Link Core Social Responsibility Subjects & Themes Clauses 1. Strategy and Analysis Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (e.g., CEO, chair, or Message from the CEO/Message from the 1.1 equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its Chairman strategy. Organizational governance 6.2 Message from the CEO/Message from the Chairman 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Initiatives through Business Activities CSR Management: Performance and Targets 2. Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization. Daiwa Securities Group Profile Daiwa Securities Group Profile 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Initiatives through Business Activities Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, 2.3 Daiwa Securities Group Profile Organizational governance 6.2 subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. Daiwa Securities Group Profile Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major 2.5 Daiwa Securities Group Profile operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Daiwa Securities Group Profile 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). Daiwa Securities Group Profile Scale of the reporting organization, including: · Number of employees; · Number of operations; 2.8 · Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector organizations); Daiwa Securities Group Profile · Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations); and · Quantity of products or services provided. Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership including: · The location of, or changes in operations, including facility openings, closings, and 2.9 expansions; and Daiwa Securities Group Profile · Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organizations). 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Third-Party Evaluations 3. Report Parameters Report Profile 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. Contents/Editorial Policy 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Contents/Editorial Policy 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.). Contents/Editorial Policy 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Contents/Editorial Policy Report Scope and Boundary Process for defining report content, including: · Determining materiality; Daiwa Securities Group Corporate Principles 3.5 · Prioritizing topics within the report; and and Key Issues · Identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use the report. 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). Contents/Editorial Policy 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. Contents/Editorial Policy Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and 3.8 other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between CSR Related Data organizations. Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and 3.9 techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other CSR Related Data information in the report. Explanation of the effect of any restatements of information provided in earlier reports, and the 3.10 reasons for such restatement (e.g., mergers/ acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature Not applicable of business, measurement methods). Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement Not applicable, because there have been no 3.11 methods applied in the report. significant changes since the previous report Daiwa Securities Group 42 CSR REPORT 2014 GRI Content Index 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. This table references GRI content Assurance Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, explain the Third-Party Opinion 3.13 Verification 7.5.3 scope and basis of any external assurance provided. Also explain the relationship between the Independent Assurance Report reporting organization and the assurance provider(s). 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Governance Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance 4.1 Corporate Governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, if 4.2 Corporate Governance so, their function within the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement). For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of members 4.3 Corporate Governance of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the Corporate Governance 4.4 highest governance body. Relationship with Employees (Communication) Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, 4.5 and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization’s performance Corporate Governance (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. Corporate Governance Organizational governance 6.2 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the 4.7 highest governance body and its committees, including any consideration of gender and other Corporate Governance indicators of diversity. Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant Daiwa Securities Group Corporate Principles 4.8 to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. and Key Issues Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and 4.9 CSR Management (CSR Promotion System) opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with 4.10 Corporate Governance respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. Commitments to External Initiatives Compliance Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the 4.11 Risk Management organization. IT Strategy, Information Security, and Disclosure Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives 4.12 Initiatives through Business Activities to which the organization subscribes or endorses. Principal Member Qualifications · Nippon Keidanren · Japan Securities Dealers Association Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international · Work-Life Balance Promotion Model advocacy organizations in which the organization: Project by the Ministry of Health, Labour · Has positions in governance bodies; and Welfare 4.13 · Participates in projects or committees; · The Multi-Stakeholder Forum on Social · Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or Responsibility for a Sustainable Future · Views membership as strategic. · PRI · CDP · Global Compact Japan Network Etc. Stakeholder Engagement List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. · Civil society; · Customers; Daiwa Securities Group Corporate Principles 4.14 · Employees, other workers, and their trade unions; and Key Issues · Local communities; · Shareholders and providers of capital; and · Suppliers. Daiwa Securities Group Corporate Principles 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. and Key Issues Daiwa Securities Group Corporate Principles and Key Issues Relationship with Customers Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by 4.16 Relationship with Shareholders and Other stakeholder group. Investors Relationship with Employees Relationship with Society Relationship with Customers Relationship with Shareholders and Other Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the 4.17 Investors organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Relationship with Employees Relationship with Society Daiwa Securities Group 43 CSR REPORT 2014 5. Management Approach and Performance Indicators Economic Message from the CEO/ Organizational governance 6.2 Disclosure on Management Approach Message from the Chairman Community involvement and development 6.8 Economic Performance Economic Performance Community involvement and development 6.8 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee 6.8.3 CSR Related Data Community involvement EC1. CORE compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments Annual Report 2014 Wealth and income creation 6.8.7 to capital providers and governments. Social investment 6.8.9 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to EC2. CORE Initiatives through Business Activities Climate change mitigation and action 6.5.5 climate change. EC3. CORE Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. Annual Report 2014 EC4. CORE Significant financial assistance received from government. Impact is insignificant Market Presence Discrimination and vulnerable groups 6.3.7 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at Impact is insignificant, due to the nature of EC5. ADD Conditions of work and social protection 6.4.4 significant locations of operation. our business Community involvement and development 6.8 Promoting social responsibility in the value 6.6.6 chain 6.8 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations Impact is insignificant, due to the nature of EC6. CORE Community involvement and development of operation. our business 6.8.5 Employment creation and skills development Wealth and income creation 6.8.7 Community involvement and development 6.8 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local EC7. CORE Not reported Employment creation and skills development 6.8.5 community at locations of significant operation. Wealth and income creation 6.8.7 Indirect Economic Impacts Economic, social and cultural rights 6.3.9 Community involvement and development 6.8 Community involvement 6.8.3 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public Initiatives through Business Activities Education and culture 6.8.4 EC8. CORE benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. Relationship with Society Employment creation and skills development 6.8.5 Technology development and access 6.8.6 Wealth and income creation 6.8.7 Social investment 6.8.9 Economic, social and cultural rights 6.3.9 Promoting social responsibility in the value 6.6.6 chain 6.6.7 Respect for property rights 6.7.8 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of Access to essential services EC9. ADD Not applicable 6.8 impacts. Community involvement and development Employment creation and skills development 6.8.5 Technology development and access 6.8.6 Wealth and income creation 6.8.7 Social investment 6.8.9 Environmental Environmental Initiatives (Approach and Basic Stance) Organizational governance 6.2 Disclosure on Management Approach Environmental Initiatives The environment 6.5 (Environmental Management) Performance Indicators Materials EN1. CORE Materials used by weight or volume. Not applicable EN2. CORE Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. Not applicable Energy EN3. CORE Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. CSR Related Data EN4. CORE Indirect energy consumption by primary source. CSR Related Data EN5. ADD Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. CSR Related Data The environment 6.5 Sustainable resource use 6.5.4 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and EN6. ADD CSR Related Data reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. EN7. ADD Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. CSR Related Data Water EN8. CORE Total water withdrawal by source. CSR Related Data EN9. ADD Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. Impact is insignificant EN10. ADD Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. Not reported Daiwa Securities Group 44 CSR REPORT 2014 Biodiversity Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas EN11. CORE Not applicable of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. The environment The environment protection of the 6.5 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected EN12. CORE Not applicable environment & biodiversity, and restoration of 6.5.6 areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. natural habitats EN13. ADD Habitats protected or restored. Not applicable The environment The environment protection of the 6.5 EN14. ADD Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. Not applicable environment & biodiversity, and restoration of 6.5.6 natural habitats 6.8.3 Community involvement The environment Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas The environment protection of the 6.5 EN15. ADD Not applicable affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. environment & biodiversity, and restoration of 6.5.6 natural habitats Emissions, Effluents, and Waste EN16. CORE Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. CSR Related Data The environment 6.5 EN17. CORE Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. CSR Related Data Climate change mitigation and action 6.5.5 EN18. ADD Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. CSR Related Data EN19. CORE Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. Impact is insignificant EN20. CORE NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. Impact is insignificant EN21. CORE Total water discharge by quality and destination. Impact is insignificant EN22. CORE Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. CSR Related Data The environment 6.5 Prevention of pollution 6.5.3 EN23. CORE Total number and volume of significant spills. Not applicable Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms EN24. ADD of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped Not applicable internationally. The environment Prevention of pollution 6.5 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats Sustainable resource use 6.5.3 EN25. ADD Not applicable significantly affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff. The environment protection of the 6.5.4 environment & biodiversity, and restoration of 6.5.6 natural habitats Products and Services The Environment 6.5 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact Sustainable resource use 6.5.4 EN26. CORE Environmental Initiatives (Initiatives to Reduce) mitigation. Promoting social responsibility in the value chain 6.6.6 Sustainable consumption 6.7.5 The Environment 6.5 Prevention of pollution 6.5.3 EN27. CORE Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. Not applicable Sustainable resource use 6.5.4 Sustainable consumption 6.7.5 Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for EN28. CORE Not applicable The environment 6.5 noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations. Transport The environment 6.5 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used EN29. ADD Not reported Sustainable resource use 6.5.4 for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce. Promoting social responsibility in the value chain 6.6.6 Overall EN30. ADD Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. Not reported The environment 6.5 Society Labor Practices and Decent Work Organizational governance 6.2 Disclosure on Management Approach Relationship with Employees Labour practices 6.4 Fundamental principles and rights at work 6.3.10 Performance Indicators Employment Daiwa Securities Group Profile LA1. CORE Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender. CSR Related Data Labour practices 6.4 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and Employment and employment relationships 6.4.3 LA2. CORE CSR Related Data region. Relationship with Employees Labour practices 6.4 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time LA3. ADD (Stiving to Create a Pleasant Working Employment and employment relationships 6.4.3 employees, by significant locations of operation. Environment) Conditions of work and social protection 6.4.4 Relationship with Employees 6.4 Labour practices LA15. CORE Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. (Stiving to Create a Pleasant Working Conditions of work and social protection 6.4.4 Environment Daiwa Securities Group 45 CSR REPORT 2014 Labor/Management Relations Labour practices 6.4 Employment and employment relationships 6.4.3 Relationship with Employees LA4. CORE Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Conditions of work and social protection 6.4.4 (Relationship with Employee Unions) Social dialogue 6.4.5 Fundamental principles and rights at work 6.3.10 Labour practices 6.4 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including whether it is specified in Employment and employment relationships 6.4.3 LA5. CORE Not reported collective agreements. Conditions of work and social protection 6.4.4 Social dialogue 6.4.5 Occupational Health and Safety Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety LA6. ADD Not reported committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. Labour practices 6.4 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of workHealth and safety at work 6.4.6 LA7. CORE Not reported related fatalities, by region and by gender. Labour practices 6.4 Health and safety at work 6.4.6 Relationship with Employees Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist Community involvement and development 6.8 LA8. CORE (Stiving to Create a Pleasant Working workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. Community involvement 6.8.3 Environment) Education and culture 6.8.4 Health 6.8.8 Labour practices 6.4 LA9. ADD Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. Not reported Health and safety at work 6.4.6 Training and Education Labour practices 6.4 LA10. CORE Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category. Not reported Human development and training in the 6.4.7 workplace Labour practices Relationship with Employees 6.4 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability Human development and training in the LA11. ADD (Human Resource Development and Skill 6.4.7 of employees and assist them in managing career endings. workplace Enhancement) 6.8.5 Employment creation and skills development Relationship with Employees Labour practices Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by 6.4 LA12. ADD (Human Resource Development and Skill Human development and training in the gender. 6.4.7 Enhancement) workplace Diversity and Equal Opportunity Discrimination and vulnerable groups 6.3.7 Fundamental principles and rights at work Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category 6.3.10 LA13. CORE CSR Related Data Labour practices according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. 6.4 Employment and employment relationships 6.4.3 Conditions of work and social protection Equal Remuneration for Women and Men Discrimination and vulnerable groups 6.3.7 Fundamental principles and rights at work 6.3.10 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant LA14. CORE Not reported Labour practices 6.4 locations of operation. Employment and employment relationships 6.4.3 Conditions of work and social protection 6.4.4 Human Rights Organizational governance 6.2 Human rights 6.3 Due diligence 6.3.3 Human Rights Initiative (Approach and Basic Disclosure on Management Approach Human rights risk situations Stance) 6.3.4 Resolving grievances Promoting social responsibility in the value 6.3.6 chain 6.6.6 Performance Indicators Investment and Procurement Practices Human rights 6.3 We have no operations in areas where there Due diligence Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include 6.3.3 HR1. CORE are special concerns about protection of Avoidance of complicity clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening. 6.3.5 human rights Promoting social responsibility in the value 6.6.6 chain Human rights 6.3 Due diligence We have no operations in areas where there 6.3.3 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors, and other business partners that have Avoidance of complicity HR2. CORE are special concerns about protection of 6.3.5 undergone human rights screening, and actions taken. Employment and employment relationships human rights 6.4.3 Promoting social responsibility in the value 6.6.6 chain Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human Human rights 6.3 HR3. CORE Human Rights Initiative rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. Avoidance of complicity 6.3.5 Non-Discrimination Human rights 6.3 Resolving grievances 6.3.6 HR4. CORE Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. Not applicable Discrimination and vulnerable groups 6.3.7 Fundamental principles and rights at work 6.3.10 Employment and employment relationships 6.4.3 Daiwa Securities Group 46 CSR REPORT 2014 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Human rights 6.3 Due diligence 6.3.3 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of Human rights risk situations 6.3.4 association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to Not applicable, due to the nature of our Avoidance of complicity 6.3.5 HR5. CORE support these rights. business Civil and political rights 6.3.8 Fundamental principles and rights at work 6.3.10 Employment and employment relationships 6.4.3 Social dialogue 6.4.5 Child Labor Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child HR6. CORE Our business entails no risk of using child labor Human rights 6.3 labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. Due diligence 6.3.3 Human rights risk situations 6.3.4 Forced and Compulsory Labor Avoidance of complicity 6.3.5 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced Discrimination and vulnerable groups 6.3.7 HR7. CORE or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or Our business entails no risk of using forced labor Fundamental principles and rights at work 6.3.10 compulsory labor. Promoting social responsibility in the value chain 6.6.6 Security Practices Human rights 6.3 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or procedures concerning Impact is insignificant, due to the nature of Avoidance of complicity 6.3.5 HR8. ADD aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. our business Employment and employment relationships 6.4.3 Promoting social responsibility in the value chain 6.6.6 Indigenous Rights Human rights 6.3 Resolving grievances 6.3.6 HR9. ADD Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. Not applicable Discrimination and vulnerable groups 6.3.7 Civil and political rights 6.3.8 Respect for property rights 6.6.7 Assessment Human rights 6.3 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews Due diligence 6.3.3 HR10. CORE Not reported and/ or impact assessments. Human rights risk situations 6.3.4 Avoidance of complicity 6.3.5 Remediation Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal Human Rights 6.3 HR11. CORE Not reported grievance mechanisms. Resolving grievances 6.3.6 Society Relationship with Society (Approach and Basic Organizational governance 6.2 Disclosure on Management Approach Stance) Fair operating practices 6.6 Compliance Community involvement and development 6.8 Performance Indicators Local Communities Economic, social and cultural rights 6.3.9 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, Impact is insignificant, due to the nature of Community involvement and development 6.8 SO1. CORE and development programs. our business Community involvement 6.8.3 Social Investment 6.8.9 SO9. CORE Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. Not applicable Economic, social and cultural rights 6.3.9 Prevention of pollution 6.5.3 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or Protection of the environment & biodiversity, SO10. CORE Not applicable 6.5.6 actual negative impacts on local communities. and restoration of natural habitats 6.8 Community Involvement and development Corruption Risk Management SO2. CORE Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. IT Strategy, Information Security, and Disclosure Fair operating practices 6.6 SO3. CORE Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures. Compliance Anti-corruption 6.6.3 SO4. CORE Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Not applicable Public Policy SO5. CORE Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. Not reported Fair operating practices 6.6 Responsible political involvement 6.6.4 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related Community involvement 6.8.3 SO6. ADD Not reported institutions by country. Anti-Competitive Behavior Fair operating practices 6.6 Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices SO7. ADD Not applicable Fair competition 6.6.5 and their outcomes. Respect for property rights 6.6.7 Compliance Fair operating practices 6.6 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for Anti-corruption 6.6.3 SO8. CORE Not applicable noncompliance with laws and regulations. Respect for property rights 6.6.7 Wealth and income creation 6.8.7 Daiwa Securities Group 47 CSR REPORT 2014 Product Responsibility IT Strategy, Information Security and Disclosure Organizational governance 6.2 Disclosure on Management Approach Relationship with Customers (Approach and Fair operating practices 6.6 Basic Stance) Consumer Issues 6.7 Performance Indicators Customer Health and Safety Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for Economic, social and cultural rights 6.3.9 Not applicable, due to the nature of our PR1. CORE improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such Promoting social responsibility in the value 6.6.6 business procedures. chain 6.7 Consumer issues Total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning Not applicable, due to the nature of our Protecting consumers’ health & safety 6.7.4 PR2. ADD 6.7.5 health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. business Sustainable consumption Product and Service Labeling Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant Relationship with Customers (Building Deeper, Consumer issues PR3. CORE 6.7 products and services subject to such information requirements. Stronger Trust with Customers) Fair marketing, factual and unbiased information and fair contractual practices 6.7.3 Protecting consumers’ health & safety 6.7.4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning Sustainable consumption 6.7.5 PR4. ADD Not applicable Consumer service, support and complaint and 6.7.6 product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. dispute resolution 6.7.9 Education and awareness Consumer issues 6.7 Protecting consumers’ health & safety 6.7.4 Sustainable consumption 6.7.5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer Relationship with Customers (Working to PR5. ADD Consumer service, support and complaint and satisfaction. Incorporate Customer Voices) 6.7.6 dispute resolution Access to essential services 6.7.8 Education and awareness 6.7.9 Marketing Communications Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing Relationship with Customers (Building Deeper, Consumer issues PR6. CORE 6.7 communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. Stronger Trust with Customers) Fair marketing, factual and unbiased information and fair contractual practices 6.7.3 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning Consumer service, support and complaint and 6.7.6 PR7. ADD marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of Not applicable dispute resolution 6.7.9 outcomes. Education and awareness Customer Privacy Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of Consumer issues 6.7 PR8. ADD Not applicable customer data. Consumer data protection and privacy 6.7.7 Compliance Consumer Issues 6.7 Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the PR9. CORE Not applicable Consumer service, support and complaint and provision and use of products and services. 6.7.6 dispute resolution Daiwa Securities Group 48 CSR REPORT 2014 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines & Financial Services Sector Supplement (2008) Indicator Link Product and Service Impact (Financial Services Sector Specific Disclosure on Management Approach) FS1. CORE Policies with specific environmental and social components applied to business lines. CSR Management (CSR Promotion System) FS2. CORE Procedures for assessing and screening environmental and social risks in business lines. Not reported Processes for monitoring clients’ implementation of and compliance with environmental and FS3. CORE Compliance social requirements included in agreements or transactions. CSR Management (CSR Promotion System) Process(es) for improving staff competency to implement the environmental and social policies Relationship with Employees FS4. CORE and procedures as applied to business lines. (Human Resource Development and Skill Enhancement) Relationship with Customers (Building Deeper, Interactions with clients/investees/business partners regarding environmental and social risks Stronger Trust with Customers) FS5. CORE and opportunities. Relationship with Shareholders and Other Investors Product and Service Impact (Performance Indicators) Product Portfolio Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific region, size (e.g. micro/SME/large) and Daiwa Securities Group Profile FS6. CORE by sector. Initiatives through Business Activities Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific social benefit for each FS7. CORE Initiatives through Business Activities business line broken down by purpose. Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific environmental benefit for FS8. CORE Initiatives through Business Activities each business line broken down by purpose. Audit Coverage and frequency of audits to assess implementation of environmental and social FS9. CORE Corporate Governance policies and risk assessment procedures. Active Ownership Percentage and number of companies held in the institution’s portfolio with which the reporting FS10. CORE Not reported organization has interacted on environmental or social issues. FS11. CORE Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental or social screening. Initiatives through Business Activities Voting policy(ies) applied to environmental or social issues for shares over which the reporting FS12. CORE Initiatives through Business Activities organization holds the right to vote shares or advises on voting. Society (Performance Indicators) Community FS13. CORE Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas by type. Not applicable Relationship with Customers (Building Deeper, Stronger Trust with Customers) FS14. CORE Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged people. Relationship with Society (2. Assistance to Inside and Outside of Japan through Foundations and NPOs) Product Responsibility (Performance Indicators) Relationship with Customers (Building Deeper, FS15. CORE Policies for the fair design and sale of financial products and services. Stronger Trust with Customers) Product Responsibility (Performance Indicators) Product and Service Labeling CSR Management (CSR Issues: Performance and Targets) FS16. CORE Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by type of beneficiary. Relationship with Society (1. Education and Research Activities in Economics and Finance) Daiwa Securities Group 49 CSR REPORT 2014 =CSR Related Data= Management Report Compensation Paid to Directors and Corporate Executive Officers of Daiwa Securities Group Inc. in FY2013 Directors Corporate Executive Officers Total Recipients Amount Recipients Amount Recipients Amount Amounts based on resolution of the Compensation Committee 8 persons ¥113 million 14 persons ¥1,159 million 22 persons ¥1,273 million Notes: 1. The above amounts include performance-based compensation paid in this fiscal year 2. The above compensation amounts include a total of ¥95 million in stock acquisition rights granted as stock options to directors and corporate executive officers 3. Compensation paid to the six outside directors totaled ¥85 million 4. Seven directors also served as corporate executive officers; their total compensation is included in the “Corporate Executive Officers” category Social Report Companies covered by data Consolidated: Entire Group (except for equity-method affiliates) 10 Group companies: Daiwa Securities Group Inc., Daiwa Securities Co. Ltd., Daiwa Asset Management Co. Ltd., Daiwa Institute of Research Holdings Ltd., Daiwa Institute of Research Ltd., Daiwa Institute of Research Business Innovation Ltd., Daiwa SB Investments Ltd., Daiwa Securities Business Center Co. Ltd., Daiwa Property Co., Ltd., and Daiwa Corporate Investment Co., Ltd. Eight Group companies: Daiwa Securities Group Inc., Daiwa Securities Co. Ltd., Daiwa Asset Management Co. Ltd., Daiwa Institute of Research Ltd., Daiwa Institute of Research Business Innovation Ltd., Daiwa SB Investments Ltd., Daiwa Securities Business Center Co. Ltd., and Daiwa Corporate Investment Co., Ltd. Two Group companies: Daiwa Securities Group Inc., Daiwa Securities Co. Ltd., Employees at the Daiwa Securities Group (Consolidated) (Unit: persons) As of March 31, 2013 As of March 31, 2014 Temporary Temporary Employees FA*1 Employees FA*1 employees employees Male 7,452 71 — 7,478 65 — (Career track ) *2 7,011 — — 7,029 — — (Managers) 3,773 — — 3,835 — — Japan Female 4,117 122 — 4,125 102 — (Career track ) *2 2,360 — — 2,486 — — (Managers) 190 — — 221 — — Japan total 11,569 193 391 11,603 167 563 Overseas 1,664 — 88 1,547 − 103 Total 13,233 193 479 13,150 167 666 *1 Financial advisors *2 Includes regional career-track employees and specialist positions Number of New Graduates Recruited by the Daiwa Securities Group (Unit: persons) April 2012 April 2013 April 2014 Career-track employees/regional career-track Male 186 296 345 employees Female 168 227 265 Total 354 523 610 This data pertains to eight Group companies Workforce Statistics FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 Average annual salary*1 (in ten thousand yen) 811 888 1,153 Average age (years old) 39.9 40.5 41.2 Average number of years of service (years) 13.7 14.3 14.8 This data pertains to Daiwa Securities Group Inc. only (numbers include those who simultaneously work for Daiwa Securities) *1 Average annual salary includes bonuses and other remuneration Re-Employment under the Daiwa Master System (Unit: persons) FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 No. of employees hired under the Daiwa Master System 63 61 59 This data pertains to two Group companies Daiwa Securities Group 50 CSR REPORT 2014 Employment Rate for Persons with Disabilities (Unit: %) As of March 31, 2012 As of March 31, 2013 As of March 31, 2014 Employment rate for persons with disabilities 2.09 2.08 2.04 This data pertains to 10 Group companies Achievements of Selected Participants in Management Training (Unit: persons) Daiwa Management Academy: Targeting department managers FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 Number finishing program (cumulative) 269 291 314 Daiwa Leadership Program: Targeting deputy general managers FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 Number finishing program (cumulative) 599 631 671 This data pertains to 10 Group companies Participants in Business Skill Training (Unit: persons) FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 Number finishing program (cumulative)*1 2,469 2,862 3,468 This data pertains to eight Group companies *1 The number of people completing training courses in presentation, coaching, negotiation skills, communication, logical thinking and facilitation Persons Earning Credentials (Unit: persons) Credentials As of March 31, 2012 As of March 31, 2013 As of March 31, 2014 Affiliated Financial Planner (AFP) 5,255 5,183 5,191 Certified Financial Planner (CFP)*1 439 497 555 Chartered Member of the Securities Analysts Association of Japan 1,440 1,446 1,461 (CMA) Chartered Financial Analyst (USA credential) 41 42 44 TOEIC (730–990)*2 1,249 1,383 1,470 Overseas MBA program graduate, etc. 158 154 164 This data pertains to 10 Group companies *1 This data represents numbers at Daiwa Securities *2 Data as of March 31, 2012 includes some group companies that did not conduct summary count Successful Applicants in Internal Recruiting System (Unit: persons) No. of No. of Held Positions offered successful applicants applicants M&A, SMA consultants, analysts, internal wholesalers, compliance, dealers, derivatives, traders, fund managers, principal finance specialists, venture capitalists, money managers, research, underwriting, Cumulative from FY2000 904 146 sale, overseas, management consultant, individual and corporate sales, product development, proposals and planning, investment advisors, investment information, pension consultants, etc. This data pertains to 10 Group companies Working Hours and Paid Vacation Usage Rate FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 Annual regular working hours (hours) 1822.5 1837.5 1837.5 Average monthly overtime hours (hours) *1 25.1 25.7 27.2 Paid vacation usage rate (%) *2 54 52 50 This data pertains to two Group companies *1 Figures indicate employees at the two companies who are members of the Daiwa Securities Group Employees’ Union *2 In addition to annual paid vacation, the Daiwa Securities Group offers three days of special summer vacation. These figures show usage rates for annual paid vacation when the special summer vacation is included Daiwa Securities Group 51 CSR REPORT 2014 Employee Welfare System Usage (Unit: persons) FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 *1 Female 396 436 486 Number of employees taking childcare leave Male 12 17 19 Female 8 8 10 Number of employees taking nursing care leave Male 0 0 0 This data pertains to all consolidated Group companies* *1 Employees eligible for childcare leave include non-regular employees (contract workers, part-timers, etc.) Main Initiatives for Work-Life Balance and Female Employee Support Plan Program name Program description Professional return plan (rehiring of sales staff) Offers opportunities for re-employment to former full-time employees who left their jobs after marriage or childbirth. Job location change system*1 Offers a position in a new location when an employee must relocate after marriage or spouse’s job transfer. Childcare leave Employees can take childcare leave until their child’s third birthday. Employees can apply for an exemption from overtime work until their child completes the third grade of elementary school. Exemption from or restricted overtime work Employees can also apply for restricted overtime work until their child completes elementary school. Daycare subsidy The company offers subsidies for daycare expenses until the employee’s child begins elementary school. The company encourages employees to take paid vacation and has introduced leave for marriage preparations or family day Expanded leave system leave to give employees a chance to spend quality time with their families. The Personnel Department keeps track of individual employees’ childcare-related schedules and notifies them of programs Follow-up on program use available at the appropriate time. Enables employees to return to work after a period of childcare leave. The return to work guidelines were revised in FY2011. Support after returning to work Daiwa WLB Station, a work-life balance promotion website that focuses on various support systems related to childrearing and nursing care, provides information for employees on childcare leave and helps facilitate their smooth return to the workplace. *1 Number of employees using the program at Daiwa Securities as of the end of March 2014, 136 (cumulative) Female Employees and Managers at the Daiwa Securities Group (Unit: %) As of March 31, 2012 As of March 31, 2013 As of March 31, 2014 Percent of employees who are female 36.2 35.6 35.6 Percent of managers who are female 4.3 4.8 5.4 This data pertains to all consolidated Group companies Number of Employees’ Union Members (Unit: persons) As of March 31, 2012 As of March 31, 2013 As of March 31, 2014 Employees’ union membership 6,907 6,490 6,406 Of the eight Group companies (nine companies until end of March 2012) this does not include Daiwa Asset Management Co., Ltd., which has its own employees’ union, and Daiwa Property Co., Ltd., which has no employee union Independent Corporate Citizenship Initiatives and Expenditures Assurance (Unit: ¥ million) Type of Activity FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 1. Education and research activities in economics and finance 65.435 63.525 49.694 2. Assistance to communities inside and outside of Japan through foundations and 133.457 165.851 179.937 NPOs 3. Support for culture and the arts 269.869 272.500 231.900 4. Encouraging volunteerism among employees 31.053 2.328 1.790 Total 499.814 504.204 463.321 Results in Economic and Financial Education Program Duration Participants Support for Finance Park June 2005–March 2014 47,323 persons Support for Japan Council for Economic Education (CEE-Japan) January 2009–March 2014 3,090 persons Sponsorship of JA’s mainstay Global Leadership Forum for elementary and junior and July 2001–March 2014 3,182 persons senior high school teachers Support for thee Student Company Program September 2003–March 2014 204 persons Daiwa Securities Group 52 CSR REPORT 2014 Environmental Report Energy Consumption FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 Electricity (thousand kWh) 93,402 76,247 72,813 Natural gas (thousand m3) 582 503 456 Domestic offices Gasoline (kl)*1 1,117 1,111 1,088 Heavy oil (kl) 7.9 10.8 2.0 Diesel fuel (kl) 0.1 0.1 0.1 Overseas offices Electricity (thousand kWh) 15,991*2 13,716 *2 12,586 This data pertains to all consolidated Group companies (including equity-method affiliates) At overseas offices, only electricity consumption was calculated *1 Leased vehicles are used as company cars *2 Data has been restated CO2 Emissions (Unit: t-CO2) FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 Electricity 51,838 42,317 40,047 Natural gas 1,327*1 1,147 1,040 Domestic offices Gasoline*2 2,593 2,579 2,525 Heavy oil 23.7 32.2 5.9 Diesel fuel 0.2 0.2 0.2 Total for domestic offices 55,782*1 46,075 43,619 Overseas offices*3 Electricity 8,792 7,529 6,985 Total for domestic and overseas 64,574*1 53,604 50,604 offices *1 Data has been restated *2 Leased vehicles are used as company cars *3 Figures for overseas offices are calculated as references using the emission factor for Japanese offices CO2 Emissions per Employee (Domestic) FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 Per employee (t-CO2) 4.6*1 3.9 3.7 Number of employees in Japan (persons) 12,257 11,762 11,770 *1 Data has been restated Clean Water Consumption (Unit: thousand kl) FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 Consumption volume 162.0 129.6 119.5 This data pertains to all consolidated Group companies (including equity-method affiliates; domestic offices only) Volume of Copy Paper/Forms Used (Unit: t) Company name FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 Daiwa Securities Group Inc. 24 28 32 Daiwa Securities*1 303 374 417 Daiwa Securities Capital Markets*1 95 − — Daiwa Institute of Research Group 84 59 62 Daiwa Asset Management 35 23 34 Daiwa Securities Business Center 31 36 40 Daiwa SB Investments 28 28 30 Daiwa Property 3 3 4 Daiwa Office Management*2 3 1 3 Daiwa Corporate Investment 6 7 6 Others total 16 20 24 Total for domestic offices 629 578 652 This data pertains to all consolidated Group companies (including equity-method affiliates; domestic offices only) *1 Daiwa Securities Capital Markets is integrated in Daiwa Securities in April 2012 *2 Daiwa Sanko was renamed Daiwa Office Management Co., Ltd. in January 2014 Waste Generated and Recycling Volume FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 Amount generated (t) 601.0 361.9 377.8 Paper waste Recycling rate (%) 88 88 89 Amount generated (t) 390.4 276.0 214.3 Non-paper waste Recycling rate (%) 37 43 82 This data pertains to all consolidated Group companies (including equity-method affiliates; domestic offices only) Calculated based on the Reuse Plan for Large-Scale Buildings used for business, as specified by each local government Daiwa Securities Group 53 CSR REPORT 2014 Glossary n Active fund/Actively managed funds n Low carbon society In contrast to passive funds, which are managed to mirror certain indexes, active funds are investment A society where carbon dioxide emissions is less trusts and other funds managed by a fund manager who makes decisions concerning the stocks, bonds, and other assets to invest in and the investment ratios based on investment policies n Microfinance A form of financial services for the poor entrepreneurs and small businesses n Base of the pyramid (BOP) business In many countries, the poorest of the poor make up a large portion of the lower segment of the n Nippon Individual Savings Account (NISA) population pyramid distributed by wealth, but these are undeveloped markets, and this business Dividends and capital gains from stocks, investment trusts, and other investments are subject to focuses on the potential of such markets to become major markets and seeks to solve social issues and ordinary income tax and local taxes, but this program exempts dividends and capital gains from new raise the quality of life by providing sustainable products and services. purchases up to 1 million yen for a maximum of five years n Carbon Disclosure Project n NPO/NGO This project is an affiliation of institutional investors concerned about climate change who demand Non profit organization/non governmental organization that companies disclose information about their stance on environmental problems and initiatives addressing such problems n Principles for Financial Action toward a Sustainable Society (Principles for Financial Action for the 21st Century) n Cluster bomb/Cluster munitions Aims to expand investment and financing with the environment in mind, formulated as voluntary A bomb that contains multiple bomblets within a large shell that serves as a container. Explosions efforts of financial institutions in Japan occur over a wide area from a single attack, expanding the scope of damage. It has also been pointed out that cluster bombs pose the difficult problem of dealing with multiple unexploded bomblets. n Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) PRI is a set of six principles launched by the UNEP Finance Initiative and the UN Global Compact in n Color universal design April 2006. This initiative asks corporate investors to incorporate ESG into their investment decisionA method of design that takes into consideration the use of color so that information can be conveyed making practices. to more people, keeping in mind people with varied color perception n Recycle n Compliance To process waste for reuse afterwards as a new product Confirming to standards, regulations and other requirements n SRI n Corporate governance Investment strategy where both financial return and social good are sought The mechanism that allows for sound and efficient corporate management n Stakeholders n CSR A person, group or organization that has interest or concern in an organization Corporate social responsibility n TSR n ESG Telephone service representative—Telephone Operator with the expertise Environment/social/governance n UN Global Compact n Green procurement/Clean methods of materials procurement The UN Global Compact was established in 2000 under the UN secretariat after an initiative launched To buy environmentally-friendly products for reducing environment load of producers in 1999 by then-Secretary General Kofi Annan. The membership consists of global corporate leaders who are expected to align their business practices with ten principles in the fields of human rights, n GRI labor, environment, and anti-corruption in their business activities, in partnership with UN agencies, Global Reporting Initiative—An organization dedicated to proposing and promoting common labor, and civil society. Signatory members are required to implement these principles with a top international guidelines for sustainability reports management commitment. n HEMS/BEMS n United Nations Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) Energy management systems (EMS) for electricity, gas, and so on that use information technology. The MDGs consist of eight goals that 189 representatives from UN Member States, including 147 BEMS (Building EMS) are for commercial buildings, and HEMS (Home EMS) are for homes heads of state, participating in the UN Millennium Summit held in New York in September 2000, designated as 21st century goals for the international community. It aims to achieve numerical goals in eight fields such as poverty alleviation, education and public healthcare and so on by 2015. n IFFIm International Finance Facility for Immunisation n Value chain Interlinked value-adding activities that convert inputs into outputs which, in turn, add to the bottom n Impact investment line and help create competitive advantage A method of investment that in addition to producing economic benefit, invests in assets with the intention of addressing social issues such as poverty and environmental problems n Work-Life balance Balance between an individual's work and personal life n IR Investor relations n ISO 26000 A worldwide standard that provides guidance for social responsibility of organizations Daiwa Securities Group 54 CSR REPORT 2014 Independent Assurance Report Daiwa Securities Group 55 CSR REPORT 2014
