COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT Awareness about the importance of Corporate Sustainability has been recently on a steep rise. Companies through their executives understand more and more that the long term financial viability of their own enterprise depends critically on the wellbeing of the communities and environment around them. As an attempt to uplift the status of the triple bottom line for sustainability in Lebanon, BISC Group remains committed to embedding CSR as a strategic component in its daily operations. By dedicating time, effort and resources, we promote green business practices that are in line with the preservation of the environment and the society since we understand that through our dynamic relationship, we achieve our sustainability. Working in media, communications is embedded in our nature. We are constantly interacting with various organizations from major sectors in the Lebanese market while concentrating our focus and influence on a large part of the private sector. At BISC Group we integrate CSR into all arms of our operations making sure we commit our core competencies and capabilities to spread the CSR knowledge among all segments of society; through our consultancy work, networking activities, studies and reports, workshops or events on Corporate Social Responsibility. We strongly believe that even with the small size of our operations, we have a significant responsibility towards our stakeholders and especially the improvement of the well‐being of our country, therefore we insist on extending the knowledge and experience we have gained of CSR to business figures, business associations, governmental institutions, academics, media, CSOs, and international organizations as a means to improving relationships between corporations and the society. Through this document, we intend to reflect our commitment to the UN Global Compact and its 10 principles. A review of our policies, practices, achievements, and future plans make evident our never‐ ending support and the ways in which we apply our core competencies and commitment to social and environmental responsibility. Khaled Kassar Founder & CEO COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 2 ABOUT BISC GROUP Who We Are BISC Group was founded in 1995 as Beirut Information and Studies Center, offering business information, daily banking and financial news monitoring and specialized corporate publishing in the Lebanese Market. All through the last 18 years, BISC Group has been steadily growing and expanding in the Arab region, becoming one of the leading research firms providing country reports, business intelligence, strategic communications and publishing. Headquartered in Beirut, BISC Group is active in the Middle East with a GCC office based in Dubai since 2003. We have also undertaken projects in the South East Asia region and have a representative office in Singapore. Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), based on years of belief, research and experience, is an essential part of BISC Group’s core business and consultancy services. Financial & business books, corporate publishing, specialized monitoring reports, as well as daily and weekly business insights, are also an integral part of our business. Our competitive advantage is our dedicated Team. We have worked hard to attract, train and retain the best economists, researchers, business analysts, communication strategists, journalists, financial & business writers, creative artists and copywriters who are highly recognized in their respective fields. Our Approach to CSR Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), based on years of belief, research and experience, is an essential part of BISC Group’s core business and consultancy services. We organize country CSR awareness campaigns and advise companies on complying with best practices, embedding CSR strategies and implement new ideas, initiatives and social project development. Our Vision To develop our community by leading the field in business intelligence and corporate citizenship Our Mission By advocating universal values, standards and Business Ethics, BISC’s mission is to provide the most useful, accurate and highest quality information and raising awareness about CSR. Our Values We believe that good ethics and good business go together naturally to produce the best long‐ term results for all our stakeholders. Integrity, transparency, human capital and ethical business have always been at the heart of BISC Group. They are part of who we are, our values, and our heritage. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 3 SPREADING THE WORD Since most of our work is in research, media, and communications, we continually work to capitalize on our existing tools in order to effectively reach our stakeholders and the wider audience. Among our main objectives is to spread the CSR message: BISC GROUP WEBSITE Our website (www.biscgroup.com) portrays our special interest in CSR as well as our commitment and activities in the field. The BISC CSR page also lists the ten principles of the UNGC to help spread more awareness among website visitors, especially the local and regional ones. Our website also contains a News portal handling different business‐related news and articles from around the world, with special focus on topics related to responsible business, sustainability and ethics. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 4 BUSINESS NEWSFLASH BISC Group issues, on a daily basis, a concise, informative and insightful time‐saving daily business news digest tailored to the information needs of Arab, regional and international business readers. Business NewsFlash also dedicates its last page to CSR, in order to further educate its readers on the matter as well as promote CSR initiatives locally and in the region. BISC GROUP PUBLICATIONS & CONSULTING SERVICES BISC Group offers consultancy, networking, studies and reports, workshops and events on Corporate Social Responsibility. BISC also issues books and publications, with the latest book “What’s CSR”, a knowledge‐based guide aimed at raising awareness about and ensuring the proper understanding of CSR. We make sure all BISC publications emphasize business responsibility while aiming to raise awareness on CSR and promoting ethical performance in the business environment. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 5 COMMITTING TO THE 10 PRINCIPLES OF THE UNGC Herewith the additional ways in which BISC Group supports and promotes the UN Global Compact Principles: HUMAN RIGHTS • Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights • Principle 2: Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Approach Practice Measurement By advocating business ‐“Human Rights” is a major topic tackled ‐252 of our published ethics, BISC Group focuses throughout our publications and other Newsflash issues had at on the values of diversity, media outlets. We work relentlessly to least an essay articulated on teamwork, and change private and public behavior towards the importance of the community impact, and society by using our website and daily preservation of human strives to be a catalyst in newsletter to shed light on untapped rights in the current the community and a matters and raising public debate on issues Lebanese circumstances. brand synonymous with related to human rights violations in commitment to long‐term particular. ‐None of our employees had goals and solutions. ‐We provide a healthy work environment workplace health related syndromes. BISC Group builds and ‐Due to our firm belief in the role of the ‐The program’s exposure maintains strong media in promoting human rights, we has reached 100’s of relationships with cooperate on a national and regional level University students who are corporations, with various media outlets on publishing the primary representatives organizations and articles promoting human rights. We have of the upcoming generation. institutions in various worked with a local University and an fields. international organization on developing a Financial Literacy Program aimed at educating youth and employees on best practice in money saving and spending ‐We also worked with a regional company on ‐The book was distributed to developing an investment literacy book hundreds of employees and followed by a workshop for employees on university students during how to plan their investment with respect to the workshop. ethics, responsibility towards their families and wealth conservation. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 6 LABOUR • Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. • Principle 4: Business should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. • Principle 5: Business should support the effective abolition of child labour. • Principle 6: Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Approach Practice BISC Group provides fair consideration, ‐ Processes of remuneration are agreed upon and remuneration, reward and incentive to all implemented with complete transparency, in personnel at the company, and constantly accordance with appropriate levels of works on developing and improving confidentiality. appropriate remuneration, reward and ‐ BISC Group encourages and rewards outstanding incentive mechanisms and frameworks. performance and contribution to organizational success. Methods of encouragement vary from financial incentives to any kind of status empowerment. BISC Group enforces Labor Laws of the ‐ In addition to home practice, BISC Group strongly Lebanese Government prohibiting encourages anti‐discrimination policies, activities, employment discrimination. and projects through its consulting services and media platform. We promote nondiscrimination practices towards people with special needs. BISC Group is against child labor and ‐BISC Group tends to offer job opportunities to complies with the minimum age provisions of graduates based on the belief that every person Lebanese Labor law and regulations. has to complete his/her studies and following the rule of fair opportunities for all. BISC Group also advocates against child labor and all forms of child abuses. ENVIRONMENT • Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. • Principle 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. • Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 7 Approach Practice Measurement Internal operations at BISC ‐ Daily practices at the company ‐ Our monthly consumption of paper Group are usually premises are performed while has decreased by 30% compared to undergone with an taking into consideration issues last year. environmental friendly such as energy saving, waste approach. management, recycling material ‐ Although recycled paper costs 1.5 when possible, among others. times the regular paper, the extreme majority of our paper consumption ‐ BISC Group publications are was in the form of recycled material. mostly done with certified and recyclable material. Books and ‐ Hundreds of articles were published guides are printed on 100% using double sided printing. recyclable material. ‐ Almost 80% of our communications ‐Efficient usage of paper is with third parties take place through promoted through the emails as a substitute for Printouts. encouragement of double‐side printing, reusing of material, etc. BISC Group promotes BISC Group encourages Through its daily newsletter, BISC environmental innovations environmental friendly products, Group published a minimum of 100 and eco‐friendly projects, and technologies articles on environmental challenges, technologies and solutions. through its different media innovations, technologies, outlets. protection, etc. in 2014. ANTI‐CORRUPTION • Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Approach Practice Measurements BISC Group is against all ‐ BISC Group is committed to ethical ‐No complaints were forms of corruption. behavior, accuracy and transparency. submitted on ethical malpractices accuracy and transparency. BISC Group’s media outlet ‐ Through its different media outlets, BISC None of our employees works in favor of anti‐ Group condemns and discourages corporate were ever a participant corruption behavior. and public corruption acts, and encourages in any corrupt behavior. transparent and ethical practices. BISC Group policy that ‐ BISC group conducts due diligence about 2 suppliers were prevents collaboration with suppliers (like stationary, printing, shipping, dropped in year 2014. unethical or corrupt office, etc.) we chose our suppliers suppliers selectively based on ethical and professional reputation, not price. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 8 CONTACT US For any inquiry, feedback or comment, please do not hesitate to contact us. Headquarter Beirut Information & Studies Center ‐ BISC rd 3 Floor, Monte Marina Center, Concord Area, Verdun Beirut – Lebanon I P.O.Box 13‐6600I Tel: +961‐1‐355111 I Fax: +961‐1‐355110 I Email: bisc@bisc.com.lb COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 9
