SELF-ASSESSMENT  Includes an explicit statement of continued support for the UN Global Compact and its ten principles  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Human Rights  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Labour  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Environment  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Anti-Corruption  Includes a measurement of outcomes  Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer  Statement of the company's chief executive (CEO or equivalent) expressing continued support for the Global Compact and renewing the company's ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. 8th October 2014 To our stakeholders: MAKA Engineering Sdn Bhd joined the UN Global Compact in 2009. Since then we have made an effort to ensure that the ten principles are an integral part of our business strategy. The principles constitute the structure for our policies on environmental and social responsibility. We have continuously worked on developing the way we monitor and report on good corporate citizenship. In this annual report, describes the initiatives MAKA Engineering Sdn Bhd has taken during the last year and the result of our work with Global Compact. MAKA Engineering Sdn Bhd continues to support the UN Global Compact initiatives and the ten principles. Sincerely Yours, Wong Ken General Manager. HUMAN RIGHTS  Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. MAKA supports all human and legal rights, at a national level and within international law and only accept partners who do the same.  Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. We shall respect all people regardless of nationality, race, religion, class or political opinions. MAKA finds that social interaction between people and cultures are the most inspiring and valuable assets in life and aim at a mix organizational culture.  Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. MAKA makes annual donations of equipment or contributions to humanitarian organizations who work for the improvement of life quality. LABOUR  Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rightsrelated risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights. MAKA is upholding such a policy for all employees. All contracts with employees are based on agreements.  Implementation Description of concrete actions taken by the company to implement labour policies, address labour risks and respond to labour violations. MAKA actively promotes the respect and recoignition of the right to collective bargaining for all employees.  Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. MAKA monitors the outcome of the company’s implementation through regular and extended employee talks. ENVIRONMENT  Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection. MAKA gives lot of importance to environmental issues. We integrate environmental procedure and progress in our supply chain as an essential element of responsible management  Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents. We only deal with the suppliers who plan and operate facilities in compliance with applicable international environmental laws and regulations. We also encourage research and development related to environmental-control technologies and more efficient utilization of natural resources, materials and energy.  Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance. We always try to educate and motivate our suppliers and employees to conduct their jobs in an environmentally responsible and safe manner. ANTI-CORRUPTION  Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anticorruption risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti-corruption. We are committed to the highest standards of integrity, honesty and fairness in all internal and external relationships. Employees must not directly or indirectly accept, solicit or offer to pay bribes, kickbacks or other amounts, even under unlawful pressure. This prohibition also applies to areas where such activity may not violate local law. We also have guidelines for giving and receiving gifts, including maximum amounts.  Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anti-corruption risks and respond to incidents. We must obey applicable rules and laws, and employees must follow ethical guidelines – in-house, in business relations and in society. This requires special attention from employees who represent the company abroad where the ethical guidelines of each country must be obeyed to the extent they do not overstep the employee’s own boundaries and morals. These rules also apply to entertainment expenses. The employee is responsible for keeping these expenses to a minimum, but at an acceptable level according to the situation. It is the responsibility of the respective manager to approve any expenses in connection with business activity.  Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance. We continually work to improve internal processes including employee training. We have initiated an internal campaign where we for example present and discuss our code of conduct and ethical profile. It is important to stress that employees must be alert and vigilant when acting in the international market.
