Communication on Progress 2012 United Nations Global Compact www.forensic-pathways.com www.forensic-pathways.com.au Statement of Support I am delighted to continue to reinstate our commitment to the UN Global Compact and to further reinstate my commitment as Deputy Director of the UK Global Compact Network. DEBORAH LEARY, OBE, FRSA Chief Executive Officer 2012 was a year of tangible optimism. The London Olympics and Para Olympics, Her Majesty The Queen’s 50th Jubilee highlighted the power of positive thinking or collaboration and celebration of new ideas and respect for history and the past. 2012 highlighted that together anything was possible and that inclusion and diversity is central to that. The success of a company relies on the same core belief that positive thinking, diversity and inclusion; of team, of respect for the individual, with respect for the past and a commitment to achieve still further into the future. All these elements create the ultimate recipe for ‘good business’. Throughout 2012 as with all previous years in Forensic Pathways 13 year history, we have endeavoured to ensure all those elements are found and are a part of the heartbeat of the Company. We have continued to invest on behalf of all our stakeholders, our employees, our clients, our suppliers and our wider community. We know that investment such as this will continue to bring rewards which will ensure we can continue to invest and grow. As ever people, planet, principles and profit remain at the heart of Forensic Pathways’ business practice as it is investment in these four elements that will ensure growth and sustainability. We will continue to promote the Compact via our website, though our induction programme, through to our supply chain and to the wider community, proactively demonstrating that responsible business is ‘good business’ Principle 1 & 2 Protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Ensure non-complicity of human rights abuses THE COMPANY Since its incorporation Forensic Pathways (FPL) has been at the forefront of innovation in the forensic field and its continued success has been highlighted through the awards it has won throughout its 11 year history and its international expansion, with offices in the UK and Australia. Forensic Pathways continues to maintain its client base and continues to grow based not only on the quality of the product and services it provides, but also based on company mindset and therefore its clients remain loyal to the brand and have continued to do so since 2001. Forensic Pathways’ commitment is to providing ground-breaking technologies, providing the latest criminal and business intelligence software and services dedicated to protecting both individuals and organisations. As a consequence our clients are international and diverse and include, law enforcement, security services, governments, emergency services, lawyers, private clients, universities and multi-nationals. Our work is focused on the protection of rights of the individual as well as the organisations that we serve. PRODUCTS, SERVICES & PROJECTS 2012 saw Forensic Pathways continued commitment to the development of products and services in the area of anti-terrorism and the abuse of human rights, combined with the development of unique techniques for the advanced management and analysis of data. Feedback on Targets set in 2011 Communication on Progress Targets 1. Ensure the roll out of Forensic Phone Analyser (FPL) and Forensic Image Analyser (FIA) and to continue to develop these technologies to fulfil client need 2. Continue to find opportunities for further integration between FPL technologies and Videntifier Forensics. Feedback 2012 Both technologies have developed significantly. Forensic Phone Analyser Forensic Phone Analyser (FPA) is now operating within a number of police forces in the UK and the development of this technology has led to the development of a new complimentary technology – FDX (Forensic Digital Exchange) a digital evidence management system. Forensic Phone Analyser is an automated technology enabling law enforcement to use Telecoms and Mobile Phone Data to identify suspected criminal organised groups without engaging in collateral intrusion on the privacy of law abiding citizens. Many law enforcement agencies globally extract data from mobile phones confiscated from suspected criminals, but have been unable to quickly analyse that data to make critical decisions due to the sheer volume of data. Using FPA this inability to make time critical decisions has now been eliminated, at the same time as protecting the rights of the innocent. Research and Development in this area is ongoing, keeping ahead of new developments at every point. Forensic Image Analyser Forensic Pathways is currently in negotiation with Interpol to assist in the management and investigation of their digital image database. The Company would provide technology and research ie further development of Forensic Image Analyser in order to enable to compare one image against 20 million images within their child exploitation database in 3 seconds. This forms part of a wider project taking 3 years to complete, in collaboration with industry partners Videntifier Technologies, based in Iceland. Forensic Image Analyser allows investigators to identify which camera or mobile phone took a particular image, particularly critical for paedophile, terrorism, and industrial espionage cases. Forensic Image Analyser (FIA) is also part of the DIVEFor Project: Digital Imaging and Video Forensics Project working with the University of Warwick, University of Rome and XLab in Slovenia. This is a European funded project. The purpose of the project is to build on current technologies in signal processing, both of which are subject to international patent applications, namely:A. Forensic Image Analyser FIA (Identifies images to cameras/mobile phones etc) B. Forensic Image Classifier FIC (Identifies images with other images). This technology is a world first in the ability to uniquely identify which camera or device took an image and whether two or more images were taken by the same source. Centaur Ballistics Analysis Technology. Crime involving the use of firearms is a major problem facing many countries and Member States in Europe and beyond. Gun crime is not limited to a particular type of crime or type of criminal. Crime involving guns occurs in many types of crimes ranging from terrorism, robbery, homicide, assaults, theft of property and many more. The impact of gun crime is not only on the direct victims injured or killed but also on their dependants and relatives who may suffer the loss of a family member supporting the family economically. There are additional impacts on society at large where gangs use guns to intimidate sections of society to gain control of communities. Law and order can break down with communities left living in unsafe surroundings or in near law-less communities. Forensic Pathways has been undertaking research across the European Union to develop a better understanding of crime involving guns. This involved examining crime trends, availability of guns, technology used to investigate gun crime and gun crime policy across EU Member States. This project was backed by the European Union. The results of the research are available directly from Forensic Pathways. Forensic Pathways decided to develop a new technology to assist the investigation of gun crime. The technology is concerned with the use of super-sensitive sensing technologies to record, store and compare nano-scale evidence/marks on bullets and cartridge cases. ‘Centaur’ generates true 3D images of bullets and cartridge cases and enables the investigator or forensic expert to examine the objects or compare these objects with other objects under extremely high levels of resolution. The technology is the latest state of the art technology cost effective technology, available globally for forensic ballistics work. The technology has an ‘open architecture’ in that it can be integrated with other technologies. The technology can also ‘read’ data from other ballistics technologies making it the first ‘interoperable’ ballistics system globally. Furthermore, the technology allows investigators and forensic ballistics experts to have direct access to the data generated for other purposes and examinations. Centaur allows the user to develop or integrate new algorithms for use in the examination of bullets and cartridge cases so that examiners are not limited to a set array of algorithms. The system can thus develop capability over time as new understanding is developed in the state of the art. Centaur is currently being deployed in countries where gun-crime has been creating major challenges for public safety and law enforcement helping to make society safer, detect gun crime more speedily and allow investigators and forensic ballistics experts access to the latest state of the art technology. SUPPORTING OUR STAKEHOLDERS Forensic Pathways not had an incident where it is found to be complicit in abuse of human rights. FPL has a rigorous, proactive and sophisticated internal due diligence process which is applied to all stakeholders. Stakeholders are monitored to ensure that there are no breaches reported and this is achieved via web alerts. We acknowledge that we have a duty to ensure that all stakeholders are informed of our stance on the protection of human rights and that should any instances be found that they are reported immediately. As a signatory to the Compact and to the 60 th Anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights all stakeholders are made aware of FPL’s reporting policy. The policy is reviewed annually and is promoted to stakeholders in a variety of formats:  Interview and induction process  Employee Handbook  Contracts of Employment/Contracts for Service/Distributor & Agent Agreements/Partnership Agreements  ISO9001 Documentation  Communication on Progress  People Invest Programme (see Principle 6) Sponsorship of Advanced Research Forensic Pathways has continued to sponsor members of staff in undertaking advanced research and development. The following employees continue to be supported:  Ben Leary, Sales Director – undertaking an MBA at Liverpool University  Ryad Soobhany Ryad is in the final stages of a PhD in Computer Forensics and Digital Imagery and will submit in 2013. He along with his fellow colleague from University of Warwick, support Forensic Pathways research and development of Forensic Image Analyser technology  Ruizhe Li – undertaking PhD in Computer Science at University of Warwick. NATIONAL & INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY PROJECTS/SPONSORSHIP Forensic Pathways’ CEO and MD are both committed to a variety of unpaid Board Memberships in order to support a range of organisations, particularly those focussed on diversity. This is covered under Principle 6. Principle 3 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining All employees have the right to undertake collective bargaining and may join a Trade Union of their choice. They are actively encouraged to join Professional Organisations as part of their professional and personal development and membership fees are covered by the Company if the area is directly related to the employee’s employment or if the Company considers that it is of value to their personal professional development. Employees are also encouraged to develop social media networks and join professional groups within social media such as LinkedIn. This can provide opportunities for learning, mentoring, developing strategic business connections. Target for 2012 To continue to build on employees external communication via social media both from a company and professional development viewpoint. PERSONNEL PROVIDER Forensic Pathways Personnel and Health & Safety Providers continue to be Citation. All employee contracts include full information on policies procedures relating to FPL’s commitment to ethical stance, including its commitment to the UN Global Compact, and its range of related policies including Freedom of Association, Bribery & Corruption and Environmental Policies. Principle 4 Forced and Compulsory Labour Forensic Pathways operates a full Due Diligence/Business Intelligence service for its clients, both nationally and internationally and as experts in this area our techniques and technologies are applied to our own activities. Full Due Diligence is completed on every company with which we engage. Web alerts are set against our suppliers and clients in order that we can track any changes or issues which might affect the credibility of our supply chain or our clients. We are pleased to report that we have been unaware of any issues connected with our business that relates to forced labour, however, we recognise that this monitoring is ongoing and the company cannot be complacent. We have continued to promote the principles of the Compact to our new employers, our suppliers, clients, and our agents/distributors and have been clear that these principles lie at the heart of the company and must be respected. Should anyone or any company connected with Forensic Pathways be found to be breaching these principles it is viewed as immediate gross misconduct with regards to employees and in terms of suppliers, agents/distributors, clients, contracts would be terminated with immediate effect and those responsible reported appropriately. Principle 5 Support Abolition of Child Labour As with Principle 4, Forensic Pathways Ltd monitors its employees, clients, supply chain, agents and distributors in order to ensure compliance. In the event of an incident being reported, a full investigation would be undertaken and if found to be substantiated appropriate action would be taken, which ultimately would lead to the rescinding of contracts. All stakeholders are made fully aware of FPL’s commitment to the Global Compact Principles via Induction material, employee contracts, handbooks, distributor/agency agreements, partnership agreements and contract for services, as well as though the company website and other media. Any employee that is expected through their job role to travel internationally is briefed concerning any new market they may be visiting. WORK EXPERIENCE We continue to support local and European Work Experience Programmes. These programmes are fully supported by local schools, colleges, universities and European Community organisations. FPL never commits to a work placement unless we receive contact from the school or placement organisation, or by the parent/guardian. Any child or young person coming for work experience goes through a formal interview where all necessary documentation is completed including health and safety and insurance. They are also made aware of Forensic Pathways commitment to the UN Global Compact and what that means for their experience whilst with the company. No child is allowed to undertake work experience without evidence from the school or college. Students are only allowed to work between 9 am and 5 pm and must take regular breaks. Holmfirth High School Holmfirth High School is a locally based school focussed on Mathematics, Computing and Applied Learning. Forensic Pathways regularly takes students on Work Experience from this organisation and the scheme has proved very successful both for the Company and for the student as they are provided with ‘real work’ and are trusted to make decisions and take action and are mentored by a number of team members during their time within the Company. Principle 6 Support the Elimination of Discrimination Forensic Pathways continues to be a fully accredited ISO9001 company ensuring continued improvement in process and standards across the company and demonstrating an overall commitment to ethical behaviour. We recognise that success lies in ensuring our colleagues are respected, included, encouraged and motivated. We recognise that our success lies in not only the diversity of what we offer to clients, but the diversity of our people and our ability to invest in their ongoing development. People Invest Programme FPL’s People Invest Programme continues to be a success, providing continuous professional and academic development to its employees, as well as the opportunity for knowledge transfer. As mentioned in Principle 2 2011 saw FPL’s first employee to complete their Phd as part of Forensic Pathways People Invest Programme – Sponsorship of Advanced Research. Dr Jennifer Thomas qualified in September 2011 from Huddersfield University. In addition Forensic Pathways has continued its work in the provision of support to students and graduates by providing:  Financial Support to national and international students to undertake Research & Development;  Doctoral Research Program provided by Forensic Pathways;  Support to University Researchers in seeking public and private funding for research;  Provision of mentoring to private members of the community involved in business activities and start-ups. In addition the Company supports a number of Charities and Organisations and Schools, focussing on diversity in the workplace. Each year Forensic Pathways commits to taking a number of students on Work Experience Placements. These students are from a variety of backgrounds and at various stages of their academic careers. Forensic Pathways Investment in Business Exchange www.businessxchange.co.uk BusinessXchange: An Overview Businessxchange is designed to foster economic growth by stimulating and engaging with a dynamic self-sustainable network of businesses across 26 sectors and giving those involved an opportunity to partner and work with businesses that match their business ethos and social reporting. www.businessxchange.co.uk The BusinessXchange project collects information – contact details and information concerning products and services offered – about participating organisations, aspects of diversity, and levels of internationalisation, and makes that information available to other participating organisations as well as the general public. The initial data set comes from importing existing data, but it is expected that organisations keep their data up to date themselves through the BusinessXchange web interface. Unregistered (anonymous) users are able to search for key words and will be shown a list of matching organisations as a result. Access to organisation data will be very limited. Registered (logged-in) users can perform the same search tasks but they will be able to see more data, especially contact details. Benefits include:  visibility of the local and regional business community across the global stage  a virtual B2B trading environment  commercial opportunities across the UK  access to 100 tender websites across 40 European countries  sources of partners for collaboration  visibility on diversity  access to EU funded IP and innovation  access to investors and financial advice  routes to market for public initiatives  an infrastructure to support sector/market related initiatives British Association of Women Entrepreneurs FPL’s CEO Deborah Leary continues to hold the position as National President for the Organisation until 2013, the 60th Anniversary of the Association. The Association primarily supports women who have been in business for three years plus, but also takes 10% of its membership from start-up businesses and 10% of women in Corporates. It is a recognised source of information on entrepreneurship and British women in business, with members speaking and representing women entrepreneurs at conferences all over the world. Deborah has been committed to ensuring the Association continues to develop its international profile and to work closely with other networks. This has resulted in the formation of the Commonwealth Businesswomen’s Network in collaboration with the Commonwealth Business Council and Business & Professional Women’s Association. Through her role as CEO of Forensic Pathways and commitment to the additional Board positions she holds with regards to women entrepreneurship, Deborah regularly speaks internationally on the subject of entrepreneurship, diversity and CSR. Commonwealth Businesswomen Forensic Pathways has continued to help develop and promote CBW providing strategic input alongside fellow stakeholders, speaking at events, promoting the proposition of the network to an international audience (See Community Presentations and Events) Forensic Pathways, through its CEO is actively assisting in the development of a digital platform to go live in 2014. The aim of the platform will be to:  Provide an overarching international strategy for women in business, building on business and financial intelligence.  Provide an Academy providing training, mentoring and awards  Provide an international investment fund  Provide opportunities for international trade, help shape strategic partnerships  Target and communicate key messages to policy-makers within government  Act as a beacon for global business excellence Women in Leadership (WIL) was formed to provide executive women a platform to network, to get support and identify opportunities. WIL’s ultimate objective is ‘to promote gender equality and the advancement of women in Europe.’ Forensic Pathways is actively involved in the continued development of the Network including the ‘Women’s Talent Pool Program’ which provides a mentoring program to young women across Europe. The organisation holds two biannual meetings with top level European political and business leaders and focussed events for members in their respective regions. Full details of WIL can be found at www.wileurope.org The Company also supports ‘Funny Women’ an organisation that helps women find their voice and use humour in all aspects of their lives. It aims to challenge stereotypes and help build confidence. As part of International Women’s Day, FPL’s CEO, Deborah Leary took part in Funny Women’s Charity Challenge, which annually challenges 10 high profile women from the world of business, media, politics and academia to perform stand-up comedy for the very first time in order to fund raise for chosen charities. Forensic Pathways chosen charity was the Family Planning Association FPA help parents talk to their children about growing up, support health professionals, campaign for better sexual health services and fight for the rights of all young people to have appropriate relationships and sex education. Forensic Pathways’ Community Presentations and Events Commonwealth Economic Forum City of London FPL CEO awarded an Honorary Doctorate from Birmingham City University Inaugural speech focused on ‘Doing Good Business’ Birmingham City University Business Critical: CSR Summit Aston University, Birmingham To examine critical issues affecting the future of business to community relations and agree key actions to take this forward in the 21st century. Funny Women 10th Anniversary Comedy Charity Challenge Thursday 8th March 2012 International Women’s Day Venue: Grange Tower Bridge Hotel, London Speaking at Global Entrepreneurship Conference 2012 Speech on the importance of international trade and ‘Doing Good Business’ Liverpool Arena and Conference Centre Principle 7 & 8 Precautionary Approach to Environmental Challenges and Initiatives to Promote Environmental responsibility FAIRTRADE CONSUMABLES Forensic Pathways is committed to continuing to develop its green procurement process. It is the duty of the purchasing team to ensure wherever possible the purchase of fair-trade products and to take into consideration packaging and delivery when making all purchasing decisions. In promoting the Global Compact to our suppliers, we seek to encourage them to enhance their own environmental practices and to consider opportunities to reduce waste. FPL is committed to only purchasing recycled paper products for general office use and recycle glass bottles, cans and all cardboard and paper waste. Waste services are provided by Green Plan-It and Biffa Waste Management. CARBON FOOTPRINT Skype continues to be used as a method of communication in order to reduce the need for travel, including full teleconferences. In addition, FPL has now introduced web-based technologies to allow it to demonstrate its products (technologies) via the web rather than travel to initial client meetings nationally and internationally. (See Principle 9) Other initiatives put in place for 2011 were acted upon in 2012 and as a result Forensic Pathways now  Fully utilising electronic banking.  Undertakes webinars and promotes web based technologies as opposed to excessive use of brochures and hard copy materials.  Uses energy efficient light bulbs where possible  Ensure computers are switched off when not in use  Provides information on local public transport arrangements  Regularly reviews energy consumption and costs, and where possible finds alternatives Carbon off-setting remains a target Principle 9 Encourage Environmentally Friendly INTERNAL SOLUTIONS We have continued to use technology as a mechanism to reduce travel for our Sales team. Webinars are now a permanent feature of demonstrations, thus reducing local as well as international travel. Webinars are used alongside Skype technology for project meetings and collaborations. As one of the early adopters of cloud based technologies for the management of office technologies we have de-commissioned a number of high energy intensive servers. EXTERNAL SOLUTIONS As reported in the Company’s previous Communication on Progress, many of Forensic Pathways’ solutions focus on the ability to share information and data that would ordinarily have required extensive personal collaboration requiring clients to travel extensively to ensure security. This ability to share disparate data and to communicate it effectively has a significant impact in reducing cost to client and also contributes to reducing the client’s carbon footprint. By using data sharing techniques there is also a significant reduction in paper. Digital Forensic Gateway Project (Awarded by the Technology Strategy Board) In the latter half of 2010 Forensic Pathways was successful in being awarded a Technology Strategy Board project in collaboration with two other partners, D2NA (leaders in Virtualisation and Cloud technologies and Staffordshire University. This R&D project over a 30 month period seeks to look at the potential of a ‘cloud based’ communication system using hardware and software for the delivery of products, services, training & meetings for the Forensic market (though this is not exclusive). At the moment there are restrictions on what can be reported due to the protection of intellectual property rights and market opportunities. However a full report will form part of FPL’s Communication on Progress on completion of the project. Suffice to say the aim of this project is to globally promote and actively demonstrate the ability to perform Forensic operations via a cloud based platform, the benefits of sharing data, and the financial and environmental benefits of working within a cloud based technology. This project will be completed in March 2013 and the results of which will be presented in Forensic Pathways’ 2013 Communication on Progress. Principle 10 Anti-Corruption and Bribery INTERNAL COMMUNICATION All stakeholders are informed that it is viewed as a fundamental breach of trust if they align themselves and therefore FPL with organisations who engage in corrupt or improper procurement practices. FPL’s policy clearly outlines responsibilities under the Bribery Act, our commitment to the UN Global Compact and seeks to highlight to its employees potential scenarios they may encounter. FPL policy explains the reporting rules and legislations and makes the procedure clear should a violation take place. This policy is made clear to all Stakeholders including employers, contractors, suppliers, distributors/agents and strategic partners. Breaches are seen as an immediate termination of contract. Initial training is provided to new employees as part of their induction and to those who are new to international travel. Refresher information is also provided to bring employees up to date with the latest legislation. All potential breaches must be reported to the CEO. EXTERNAL COMMUNICATION Forensic Pathways provides Due Diligence services to its clients internationally. This service allows clients to undertake Due Diligence on the credibility and integrity of third parties they are considering doing business with. The business practices, operational policies and other indicators of integrity can be checked via a database operated by Forensic Pathways. The Company offers both covert and overt Due Diligence investigations for clients. The process enables a client to investigate the appropriateness of mergers and acquisitions, procurement opportunities, request for business negotiations. Communication on Progress 2012 United Nations Global Compact This Communication on Progress is available on www.unglobalcompact.org, along with Forensic Pathways Ltd own website www.forensic-pathways.com and Forensic Pathways Australasia www.forensic-pathways.com.au In addition it will be communicated to all stakeholders directly ie employees, clients, suppliers, agents and distributors and all networks directly associated with Forensic Pathways Ltd. It will also form part of all presentations undertaken by the company in the course of its day to day operations. Unit 3 Ninian Park Ninian Way Tamworth Staffs B77 5ES Tel: +44 (0)1827 255170 Fax: +44 (0)1827 261022 Email: enquiries@forensic-pathways.com www.forensic-pathways.com Twitter @forensicpathway LinkedIn: http://www.linkedin.com/company/forensic-pathways NB: Where Forensic Pathways Ltd is mentioned this also encompasses Forensic Pathways Australasia. All images not directly related to Forensic Pathways Ltd are attributed to ‘Dreamstime’
